Indonesian Sustainability Report 2010 Sustain bility At APRIL, we are focused on development of abilities to ensure that sustainability is fully integrated with our business. 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Contents President Director’s Statement 14 Water consumption 37 Case study: Bringing it all together – monitoring, Creating a continuous improvement mindset 71 Effluent levels 38 reporting and verification 55 Winners of 2010 Excellence Event 72 Sustainability Overview 17 Steps to reduce effluents 38 Indicators for monitoring sustainable management Ensuring health and safety in the workplace 73 About this Sustainability Report 19 Solid waste levels 40 of peat forest areas on Kampar Peninsula 55 Occupational safety 73 Scope of this report 19 Energy efficiency 42 Forest certification 56 Occupational health 74 Our sustainability reporting approach 19 Case study: Clean Development Mechanism projects 43 Existing certifications 56 Improvements to OHS management 74 Corporate governance 20 Ministry of Forestry’s Sustainable Production Contributing through community development 77 Board of Directors 20 Responsible Forest Management 45 Forest Management and Timber Legality Verification 56 Education 78 Access to information 20 Optimising forest land use 47 PEFC Certification 57 Integrated farming system 79 Ethical business practices 20 Sustainable plantation fibre supply 48 Forest Stewardship Council Certification 57 Social infrastructure development 80 APRIL Indonesia at a glance 21 Building community partnerships 49 Conservation and biodiversity 58 Case study: Preserving Pelawan’s historical and cultural heritage 81 APRIL Indonesia companies 24 Case study: Community partnership in Lubuk Jering 50 Healthcare 82 APRIL Indonesia sustainability charter 25 Case study: Community partnerships in the Teluk Meranti block 50 Our Responsibility to People 61 Social activities 82 Major certifications and awards 26 Responsible peatland management 51 Our Responsibility to People 63 Small and Medium Enterprise development 83 Our commitment principles 27 Monitoring carbon dioxide 51 Enhancing employee satisfaction 64 World Business Council for Sustainable Development 27 Best practice forestry 52 Growing a diverse and inclusive workplace 65 Appendix 85 United Nations Global Compact 27 Mechanisation of harvesting operations to improve efficiency 52 Attracting and retaining talent 66 Glossary 86 FAO Fire Management Actions Alliance 27 Reducing chemical use in our plantations 52 Protecting employee rights 67 GRI Indicators 90 APRIL Indonesia sustainability challenges 28 Forest fire management 53 Building talent through training and development 68 Bureau Veritas’ Independent Assurance Statement 92 Implementing the “No-Burn Policy” 53 Training programmes 68 Mill Environment 31 Preparedness and response 53 Sponsoring young talent 69 Efficient usage of raw materials 33 Reaching out through international forums 53 Case study: Realising dreams through APRIL Indonesia’s Emission levels 34 Integrating high conservation values into our land-use planning 54 scholarship programme 70 Steps to reduce emissions 36 Investing in environmental-responsible operations 36 bility to Understand the complexity involved in achieving the right balance in social, environmental, and economic development. bility to Manage processes that enable us to meet the demands of the present market while protecting resources for the future. bility to Empower people to become active partners in social and economic development. bility to Drive a united purpose where achievements are measured beyond profit. bility to Sustain a relentless pursuit of business excellence with social and environmental responsibility. 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report President Director’s Statement unavailable within cities and rural communities, forest lands may be settled and degraded values on peatland and contribute to the effective management of carbon emissions over Reflecting many of these commitments, APRIL maintains a number of Indonesia national and through ‘slash-and-burn’ methods for agricultural the long term. international certifications that provide evidence APRIL Indonesia’s vision is to be one of the largest, The context of where we operate is important development. This land is often on peat soils best-managed and sustainable pulp and paper to understanding the initiatives we undertake where open drainage and practices associated APRIL Indonesia also makes a significant ongoing of our commitment to continuous improvement, companies in the world, the preferred supplier and our priorities. Active and responsible with forest encroachment lead to forest and land contribution to local employment and community wood legality and sustainability. APRIL to customers, and the employer of choice to forest management practices provide the fires, smoke pollution, biodiversity loss and rapid empowerment, investing substantial sums in our Indonesia’s plantation forestry operations in Riau, our people. To realise our vision, it is clear we most effective means of conserving natural release of greenhouse gases (GHG). community development programmes over the Indonesia, are certified by ISO 14001:2004, must bring diligent and innovative solutions to the forests in the developing country context of past three years, creating thousands of jobs OHSAS 18001:2007 and Lembaga Ekolabel challenging and complex environment in which Indonesia. Alternative solutions have proven The reality of these complexities means one of and enabling improved health and education Indonesia (LEI) for Sustainable Forest Plantation we operate. ineffective. Natural forests left unmanaged result Riau’s biggest sustainability challenges is the outcomes for people in local communities. Management. Our paper manufactured from in deforestation and forest degradation from responsible management of its forest lands. The plantation wood pulp is certified as coming from Since the last report in 2008, APRIL Indonesia ‘business as usual’ land use activities that include Indonesian government is responding to the goal Another area of enormous focus for APRIL Indonesia non-controversial sources as defined by the PEFC has continued its ongoing commitment to develop illegal logging, forest encroachment and ‘slash of carbon emissions reduction with a national is achieving continued improvement in health and Chain of Custody Standard, with certification sustainable forest management and progress and burn’ practices for agricultural conversion. strategy to, over the next 10 years, reduce safety management. The pulp and paper industry from Bureau Veritas. social investment programmes. This year’s report provincial, district and village-level governments carbon emissions from deforestation and forest often involves work in remote and difficult areas, illustrates the follow up and enhancement of A majority of our fibre plantation area is with new authority to govern and pursue economic degradation by at least 26% while maintaining the use of industrial processes and manual labour As the President Director of the company, I am activities in those areas and provides an update on Sumatra Island primarily focused in Riau development This requires that APRIL Indonesia 7% annual economic growth. practices. We are deeply saddened that 11 the Executive Sponsor of our internal sustainability on corporate initiatives including active support province. Riau is home to over 5.5 million people must work closely with multiple local stakeholders fatalities occurred in our operations during this team. I am grateful to the team and to all who for High Conservation Value – Network Indonesia and the country’s 3rd largest provincial economy. to ensure that nationally–issued forestry licenses At APRIL Indonesia, we believe we are also part three-year reporting period. The loss of even one have worked to develop our sustainability (HCV-NI). Poverty alleviation, job creation, the improvement are in alignment with local level aspirations. of the solution to these complex challenges. life in our operations is unacceptable and we programmes which are critical for our continued of health and better education outcomes are are committed to continuous improvement of our business success. We take an all-encompassing approach to important priorities. Riau has an economy Achieving that alignment often requires flexibility We contribute through careful management policies, procedures and work culture towards sustainability. For us, this means addressing based on oil and gas and cash crops (palm in our operational implementation timelines. We of our concession lands, maintaining High achieving a zero-accident record in our operations. In closing, I would like to reiterate that at APRIL environmental imperatives, enhancing opportunities oil and rubber), supported by export-oriented must allow for sometimes lengthy negotiations Conservation Value Forests (HCVF), using scienceIndonesia, sustainability is everyone’s priority – for people in the communities where we operate manufacturing and service industries**. Forestry and administration to achieve clarity for all based land and water management practices to Following our membership in the World Business starting with me. We are proud of the progress we and contributing to economic development. and the pulp and paper sector have vital roles parties, minimise potential disputes and work minimise GHG emissions from peatlands, and Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) have made, but acutely aware that there is more to We firmly believe each of these contributions is to play in the economic advancement of Riau actively to resolve any disputes which do occur. providing community development programmes since 2007, APRIL Indonesia initiated the do. I look forward to addressing our sustainability consistent with running a successful pulp and paper province and of Indonesia, as part of the nation’s Between January 2007 and March 2009, for and employment for local people. establishment of its Indonesian chapter termed challenges aggressively, transparently, and with business. This Sustainability Report, which follows overall development strategy. example, our plantation development and wood Indonesia Business Council for Sustainable constructive stakeholder involvement. Global Reporting InitiativeTM (GRI)* guidelines and supply plans were temporarily interrupted due Areas of HCVF that APRIL Indonesia conserves Development (IBCSD). On 27 April 2011, incorporates the UN Global Compact principles, Based on a 2006 CIFOR report (Barr et al to varying provincial interpretations of national and areas set aside for use by local communities we became one of the founding members. is a comprehensive summary of our commitments 2006)*** and 2009 ITTO report (Sukadri forestry regulations that needed to be resolved. account for more than 40% of the concessions The objective of IBCSD is to promote business and progress in these areas. It outlines some of et al, 2009)****, Indonesia’s transition to a from which we get our wood supply. innovation for sustainable development, balancing our ongoing initiatives and provides us with a decentralised democracy with a rapidly growing Extensive migration from overcrowded areas to economic growth with ecological balance and benchmark as APRIL Indonesia goes forward and mobile population has resulted in complex developing provinces such as Riau has occurred Recognising that peatlands are sensitive areas, social benefits to ensure responsible contribution guided by our continued commitment to the UN socio-economic, political and environmental as people seek to improve their livelihoods and APRIL Indonesia has designed and implemented of business to the growth of Indonesian society. Global Compact and its principles. dynamics in Riau. District autonomy has provided opportunity for their families. If employment is pioneering ‘eco-hydro’ land and water IBCSD is endorsed by Indonesia Chamber of management practices developed through a Commerce (KADIN) and World Business Council * Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a trusted and globally credible framework of consistent concepts, language and metrics for sustainability reporting. For the 2010 Sustainability Report, APRIL adheres to the GRI G3 Guidelines. three-year collaborative research programme with for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and its Kusnan Rahmin ** Economic geography of Indonesia; location, connectivity, and resources. Hal Hill, Budy P. Resosudarmo, and Yogi Vidyattam. In: Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia. Chapter 8. 2006. pp115-134. leading peat, forestry and hydrologic experts membership extends beyond the forestry industry, President Director *** Decentralization of Forest Administration in Indonesia. Implications for Forest Sustainability, Economic Development and Community Livelihoods/ ed. by Christopher Barr, Ida Aju Pradnja Resosudamo, Ahmad Demawan, John McCarthy, Moira Moeliono and Bambang Setiono. Bogor, Indonesia; Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR), 2006. and universities. Our eco-hydro approach and including banking, telecommunications, power, APRIL Indonesia **** Final Report. Analyzing Government Policies to Support Sustainable Forest Management. By Doddy Sukadri, Bambang Widiyantoro, Herman Prayudi. International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO) PD 389/05 Rev. protection of HCVF maintain important ecological cement and airline companies. 16 September 2011 2(F). Jakarta, Indonesia. February 2009. 14 15 Sustainability Overview About this Sustainability Report Corporate governance APRIL Indonesia at a glance APRIL Indonesia companies APRIL Indonesia sustainability charter Major certifications and awards Our commitment principles APRIL Indonesia sustainability challenges 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Key highlights About this Sustainability Report 4th largest 2nd largest uncoated woodfree (UWF) paper producer in bleached hardwood kraft market pulp Asia, led by flagship brand PaperOneTM (1) producer worldwide(2) >4,500 2.8 million employees tonnes This report sets out an overview of APRIL Indonesia’s sustainability performance for the period January 2008 to December 2010. It and our joint venture supply partners. We report on a national level presenting data that are relevant, accessible and comparable. This report covers areas that are most material to APRIL includes information relating to our economic, directly hired in mill and forestry operations total designed pulp production capacity Indonesia’s sustainability at this time and our social and environmental performances. We progress in areas to which we have committed. have engaged an external assurance provider, We have engaged with stakeholders who Bureau Veritas, whose independent assurance have the most impact on and interest in our statement can be found at the end of this report. business – these include customers, employees, contractors and partners, communities, civilOur sustainability reporting approach 15% increase 88% of market society organisations, government , investors and bankers, and academia and research institutions. The information presented has been determined A cross-functional team from our business has been responsible for producing this sustainability report with oversight and direction by key business in total sales volume for paper segment in 2010 compared with 2008 pulp sales based on our ongoing engagement – formal and informal – with our key stakeholders and has been assessed against the backdrop of current leadership. APRIL Indonesia is a private company and has adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework as the basis for our business operations and prevailing trends in our reporting approach in this period. This report will within Asia Pacific and China (APAC) industry and the global economy. allow our stakeholders to selectively compare our performance against our industry peer group. Scope of this report In terms of disclosure, APRIL Indonesia chooses This report describes our APRIL Indonesia to report on our sustainability system, business (1). Hawkins Wright, Market Pulp Outlook, December 2010 (2). RISI, August 2010 operations. The boundaries for this report include profile, sustainability management approach and APRIL Indonesia’s owned and operated entities relevant performance indicators. 18 19 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Corporate governance APRIL Indonesia at a glance Board of Directors APRIL Indonesia is a leading producer of pulp and paper and one of the largest producers of bleached April has a Board whose principal function is to oversee the business affairs of the APRIL Group. This role hardwood kraft (BHK) pulp in the world, with manufacturing operations in Riau Province, Indonesia. includes providing direction to the APRIL Indonesia President Director on APRIL Indonesia’s sustainability With a global sales and marketing network, the Company is supported by a team of over 4,500 strategy and performance. It reviews and determines the overall strategy and policies on business professionals across Indonesia, embracing the diversity of 16 nationalities. direction, financial objectives, control and performance, risk management and resource allocation. The Board has defined financial authorisation limits for operating and capital budgets, procurement of Our designed production capacity in Indonesia is 2.8 million tonnes for pulp and 800,000 tonnes for goods and services, new investments and divestments, and treasury transactions. Approval sub-limits are paper in a year. Despite the economic downturn, our pulp segment contributed strong growth in sales also set for various management levels to facilitate operational efficiency. The management briefs newly volume with an increase of 10.2% in 2010 from 2008. The paper segment saw an increase of 15% appointed directors on the Group’s business, organisation structure and activities, strategic direction and sales volume in 2010 from 2008. On average, 88% of our market pulp sales occurred within the Asia corporate governance practices. Pacific, China and Australia (APAC), and 66% of our paper sales occurred within this same region. For the calendar year ending December 2010, the Board’s Conduct of its Affairs consisted of 10 APRIL Indonesia is committed to supporting sustainable economic development, through a business directors – three executive directors, three non-executive directors, two independent non-executive model that balances social and environmental considerations specific to the developing country context directors and two alternate non-executive directors. of Indonesia. Access to information We lead the forest industry in implementing viable solutions for optimising land management by applying The Board has unrestricted access to all Senior Executives, as well as the internal and external auditors. the High Conservation Value (HCV) approach to land use planning, ensuring a strong focus on social The Board may also seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense to enable them empowerment, while providing practical and responsible solutions to the challenges of deforestation to discharge their duties in an appropriate manner. To ensure smooth operations and facilitate decisionand degradation. making, certain functions have been delegated to Executive Management Committees. These committees are formed as dictated by business imperatives to deal with specific matters such as strategic directions, In 2010 alone, APRIL Indonesia planted 160 million trees on 96,000 hectares. performance reviews, market updates and organisational development of the Group. Ethical business practices APRIL Indonesia upholds a strict code of corporate governance and business ethics, standards by which all employees are contractually bound to abide. These guidelines include provisions for fair and nondiscriminatory engagement with stakeholders, avoidance of conflicts of interest, and intolerance of corrupt practices. At APRIL Indonesia, all contractors and suppliers are expected to comply with the same culture of business ethics as our employees. Enforcement is ensured through a combination of routine and random audits, and through a comprehensive annual review of employee performance. 20 21 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Production performance Market sales distribution Pulp production Market distribution: pulp 2.500 1.5 2.000 8% 1.0 1.500 Million tonnes Million tonnes 12% 8% 1.000 2.013 1.783 92% 1.709 0.5 88% 92% 0.500 0.000 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 APAC EU Paper production Market distribution: paper 2.500 1.5 2.000 1.0 1.500 Million tonnes Million tonnes 36% 32% 1.000 33% 0.5 0.500 0.810 0.810 68% 0.716 67% 64% 0.000 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 APAC EU 22 23 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report APRIL Indonesia companies APRIL Indonesia sustainability charter PT Riau Andalan Kertas APRIL Indonesia’s vision is to be one of the largest, best managed and sustainable fibre, pulp and paper companies in the world, the preferred supplier to • customers, and the employer of choice to our people. This is based on our ability to create long-term value by transforming chosen natural resources into products that improve the quality of life for people in our markets. • PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper We understand it is important to use the natural resources we rely on in a responsible and sustainable way to fulfil our vision. We are guided by the Triple Bottom Line principle of responsibility to People, Planet and Profit. Social investment, environmental concern and economic development are integral components of our business values. In this regard we are committed to sustainable development according to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. • PT APRIL Management Indonesia Our sustainability system represents a set of targets and benchmarks, against which we measure our progress. The APRIL Indonesia sustainability system undergoes continuous improvement and annual review. Based on our performance over this reporting period, APRIL Indonesia has identified key areas of focus going forward as outlined in the following table. • PT Intiguna Primatama People Planet Profit Build strength through Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Relentlessly focus on purpose and diversity and our energy footprint our customers • PT Anugrah Kertas Utama Grow and develop Reduce solid wastes and Strive for profitable growth our people improve water quality through innovation • PT Riau Prima Energi Promote ethical practices, Value human rights and create a Maintain and enhance good governance and healthy and safe workplace High Conservation Values • PT Asia Prima Kimiaraya discipline in all that we do Build a sustainability system that Create a great place to Develop and apply best-in-class directs and controls all business live and work sustainable management practices relationships and activities Actively engage Achieve and maintain key stakeholders key certifications Build community partnerships for mutual growth and success 24 25 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Major certifications and awards Our commitment principles APRIL Indonesia strives to ensure that our management processes and efforts are aligned to national and globally accepted standards and benchmarks. Towards Our commitment to sustainable development SFPI members seek ways to sustainably manage Indonesia supports its principles, implementing that aim, we actively work to achieve the requisite certifications and awards that assures our commitment to continuous improvement and sustainability. through balancing economic growth, social forests to meet societies’ wood and paper product a corporate sustainability framework closely progress and ecological needs has always needs, renewable energy, ecosystem services aligned to UNGC best practice guidelines. The mills in Indonesia are certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for quality, environment, and health and safety management respectively. been inherent in our policies and practices. We and sustainable livelihoods. The 15 forestry realise that achieving our commitments requires companies participating in SFPI account for FAO Fire Management Actions Alliance Since 2006, our concessions were awarded certification for Sustainable Plantation Forest Management by the Indonesian Ecolabelling Institute, locally known engagement with a range of stakeholders. We around 70% of current global forestry production. We strive to manage our forests in a sustainable as Lembaga Ekolabel Indonesia (LEI). In 2010 we received Sustainable Production Forest Management and Timber Legality Verification Certification (PHPL/ work with a number of NGOs to align our actions way and ensure that the forest resources are SVLK) certification from the Ministry of Forestry, and our manufacturing, sales offices and stores received Chain-of-Custody Certification under the Programme with socially accepted practices. Our corporate Under WBCSD’s Membership Principles and being conserved to meet the needs of future for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). engagements include: Responsibilities, we are committed to2: generations while also serving the benefits to • World Business Council for Sustainable • Efficient and innovative use of fibre, energy present generations. Coordinated by the FAO, Development (WBCSD) and new technologies APRIL Indonesia has been a member of the Highlights for 2008 to 2010 • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Promoting the recyclability, recovery and Fire Management Actions Alliance since May • Fire Management Actions Alliance under the appropriate reuse of fibre 2007. The Alliance’s goals are to improve fire Food and Agriculture Organisation of the • Improving energy efficiency and use of management worldwide, through promotion 2010 • Chain-of-Custody Certification under the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) for pulp and paper production, United Nations (FAO) renewable energy of Fire Management Voluntary Guidelines: stores and sales. • Tracking, managing and reporting on carbon Principles and Strategic Actions that provide • Sustainable Production Forest Management and Timber Legality Verification Certification from the Indonesian Ministry of Forestry World Business Council for Sustainable dioxide emissions a holistic framework for fire management, • Green Industry (Manufacturing) Award at silver level for large company category from the Ministry of Industry, Indonesia Development • Promoting sustainable forest management and balancing social, cultural, environmental and Based in Geneva, but operating around use of forest products as important climate economic dimensions. In November 2008, the world, the World Business Council for mitigation strategies APRIL Indonesia co-hosted a Fire Management 2009 • CSR Recognition Award from Singapore Compact and United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a leading Needs and Actions Workshop with The Nature • Ecolabel certificate awarded by Pulp and Paper International Certification Services (PAPICs) Bandung , Indonesia catalyst in promoting responsible, sustainable United Nations Global Compact Conservancy and FAO in Pekanbaru, Riau, that • “Green” PROPER rating by Indonesian Ministry of Environment for efforts in environmental management and Corporate business. Through its members, the organisation is APRIL Indonesia took a further step to demonstrate was joined by fire management professionals Social Responsibility for four years since 2006 active in influencing global policy developments, our commitments by becoming a signatory to the from 6 Southeast Asian countries. In October • Occupational Safety and Health Management System certified by Minister of Manpower and Transmigration, Indonesia most recently with a particular focus on climate Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 2009, APRIL Indonesia joined the 13th World change. Comprising nearly 200 corporate (UNGC) in 2006. The Global Compact is a Forestry Congress in Buenos Aires, Argentina, to sustainability leaders, APRIL Indonesia remains United Nations initiative to encourage businesses assist the FAO in promoting the use of the Fire 2008 • Partnered with United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to honour the Champions of the Earth 2008 Indonesia’s only representative. The Sustainable worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially Management Voluntary Guidelines to forestry Forest Products Industry (SFPI) Working Group is responsible policies, and to report transparently on and fire management professionals from around one of WBCSD’s most active working groups. implementation. As a signatory to UNGC, APRIL the world. 26 27 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report APRIL Indonesia sustainability challenges Focus The challenge Our response Land tenure/rights Indigenous/Customary land use rights may result APRIL Indonesia will continue to improve the process in conflict with APRIL Indonesia’s licensed rights of engaging and managing our partnerships with from national government. communities and resolving disputes through third party mediation and government approval. Identifying and understanding the issues of most concern to our stakeholders is essential for the sustainable growth of our business. APRIL Indonesia’s sustainability practices are specifically driven by our commitment to People, Planet and Profit. Implementing sustainability in our specific operational context presents many challenges. To better understand these challenges, APRIL Indonesia assessed the viewpoints of 63 environmental and social civil society organisations in Partnerships Our growth requires nurturing existing partnerships APRIL Indonesia will continue to seek engagements Indonesia and the world with interest in forestry, pulp and paper industry to gain a detailed understanding of their issues and how we are perceived. We have and building new relationships with our key with external stakeholders to help identify and develop also looked inwardly to assess our organisational capabilities and strategies as we continue to integrate sustainability into our business management systems. stakeholders. opportunities that deliver meaningful outcomes for We openly acknowledge the challenges that have been identified and here outline our action-oriented responses to effectively deal with 10 key focus areas. our partners and the communities within which we operate. Focus The challenge Our response Sustainability governance APRIL Indonesia adheres to good corporate Improve sustainability governance practices through Climate change Sustainably reduce our carbon footprint across We are working on measuring carbon emissions and governance practices. As part of our continuous better integration, clearer reporting relationships and the APRIL value chain. quantifying our overall carbon footprint. This will be improvement philosophy, APRIL Indonesia will seek performance management. A new External Affairs used to establish a baseline from which goals can be to further develop our sustainability governance Director role has been created at the Corporate set and improvements measured. practices in the areas of control, integration and level, to develop the sustainability governance model, performance management. strengthen internal and external liaison and improve Peatlands The development of peatlands is a significant All peatland concessions utilise “eco-hydro” practices over the next 12 months. Our Sustainability, source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. management to reduce GHG emissions. Certification, Corporate Communications and the NGO engagement teams report directly to the External Affairs Director. High Conservation Value (HCV) Alignment in understanding between internal Continue to utilise Indonesian HCV Toolkit in operations and external stakeholders on HCV collaboration with internationally recognised technical Sustainability strategy and APRIL Indonesia is guided by our Triple Bottom In this 2010 report, APRIL Indonesia has defined our delineations and maintenance of conservation experts. Land use planning will be done by a multicommitments Line principle of People, Planet and Profit. Our sustainability strategy focus areas. Over the next 12 values. disciplinary team of resource experts. growth imperative requires that we develop a months, we will implement processes to develop a more clearly defined sustainability strategy and set of objectives, targets and plans to address these supporting management operating system. focus areas in a structured manner. These actions will Natural forest conversion Establish a plantation-land base that will The clearing of natural forest is an inherent step in be resourced and managed to enable us to lift our sustainably provide a renewable supply of wood developing renewable plantation wood supply for sustainability performance to the next level. fibre to meet market demands. the future of our business. We will continue to assess our wood supply needs and ensure a responsible Joint-venture supply partners External stakeholders expect joint-venture supply We aim to conduct an assessment of the sustainability approach is taken to meeting that demand. partners to adopt and effectively manage and practices of our joint-venture partners and jointly monitor sustainability standards, policies and develop improvement plans that enhance sustainability Forest certification APRIL Indonesia’s goal to be a preferred supplier Although APRIL Indonesia already has several practices consistent with APRIL Indonesia. performance. We will ensure that new partnerships requires a variety of forest certifications to meet different certifications, we will develop the standards, will include an obligation to identify and protect HCV. the expectations of individual markets. people and management system controls to ensure We are also investigating the possibility of acquiring full compliance with regard to maintaining these some of our partners in line with our growth plans, certifications and expand certification where and in order to support consistency in sustainability standards are appropriate to our business model. management. 28 29 Mill Environment Efficient usage of raw materials Emission levels Water consumption Effluent levels Solid waste levels Energy efficiency 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Key highlights Efficient usage of raw materials USD 2.3 million invested to build the bio-fuel methanol plant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions We strive to use raw materials, energy, water and other resources as efficiently as possible. All our mills are ISO 14001 certified and adopt a strict environmental management process based on compliance with government regulations and our own environmental improvement standards. Emissions, effluents Fast facts APRIL Indonesia has invested heavily to and waste levels are monitored regularly and community health assessments are done on upstream optimise our pin chip digester system to and downstream villages along the Kampar River. Sample data on our environmental impact are then reuse some of the small wood chips that will analysed and reviewed at regular intervals and compared with regulatory requirements and our own otherwise be burnt or sent to the landfills. The continous improvement goals. We use the results of that analysis to continually refine and improve pin chip digester in our Kerinci pulp mill has management of our emissions, effluents and waste. a capacity to cook up to 165,000 tonnes of 2 CDM projects recover methane from waste vapour and sludge from effluents Training and awareness programmes relating to Environmental Management Systems (EMS) are incorporated in the training programmes offered in APRIL Learning Institute on a regular basis (Reference: wood chips a year. In the past three years, we managed to salvage approximately 350,000 tonnes of wood chips, equivalent Chapter 4, section on Training Programmes). to approximately 260,000 trees. The efficient use of all raw materials is a guiding principle for our pulp and paper mills to prevent waste. Chemical residuals from our pulp and paper mills are recovered and reused or recycled as raw material, Case study: Precipitated Calcium fuel or for other beneficial uses. This is in line with APRIL Indonesia’s “5R” approach – Recycle, Recover, Carbonate Filler (PCC) 87% energy generated from renewable biomass sources such as bark and black liquor Reuse, Reduce, and Replace. We manually debark 50% of the acacia trees in the plantation before transporting them to our wood Precipitated Calcium Carbonate Filler (PCC) is a special crystal structure that contributes to the bulkiness of paper. APRIL Indonesia yard. Manual debarking in the field is more efficient than using mechanical drum de-barkers which has a proprietary technology that uses more create more waste wood during the debarking process. The bark removed in the plantation is a valuable PCC and less wood fibres without losing source of organic material that returns nutrients to the soil and also reduces the weight of logs to be the thickness, stiffness and smoothness transported, thereby reducing fuel consumption. properties of the paper. Between 2008 and 2010, APRIL Indonesia has increased 95% removal of waste water contaminants through integrated clarified aeration basins – first in Indonesia We have invested in a state-of-the-art pin chip digester (PCD) to ensure the highest utilisation of our wood supply. When wood is chipped, some of it becomes too fine to use through normal processes and is screened out. The material screened out is typically used as fuel in the power boiler. With the PCD, we the PCC content of the paper by 1.5%. This reduction in wood fibre is equivalent to 8,500 tonnes of Acacia pulp every year. are able to cook this material instead and blend it with pulp made from normal chips so that wood fibre utilisation is maximised. In 2010, we had an average output of 350 tonnes of pulp per day from the PCD. Another benefit of PCC is that in the process of producing it, CO2 is required. Hence CO2 emitted from the lime kilns is recovered and mixed with calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH)2) in the PCC plant. 32 33 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Emission levels Emissions Particulate NOX 0.76 0.8 0.6 0.7 0.50 0.5 0.59 0.6 From 2008 to 2010, we made overall reductions in air emission levels from our mills. Emissions Mill Emissions (2008 – 2010) 0.52 0.4 result from burning fossil fuels and chemical reactions in the pulp and paper making process. 0.5 0.34 We regularly monitor the emission levels of particulates, nitrogen dioxide (NOX), sulphur dioxide (SOX), Particulate  14% kg/Adt 0.4 kg/Adt 0.3 total reduced sulphur (TRS) and carbon dioxide (CO2) from our mills. Being conscious of the negative 0.23 0.3 impacts of ozone-depleting emissions, APRIL Indonesia ensures that no ozone-depleting substances are NOX  113% 0.2 0.2 emitted from the mills in the manufacturing process. SOX  63% 0.1 0.1 Emission levels from our mills meet national government standards. Variations from year-to-year in emission 0.0 0.0 levels are due to changes in fuel sources (e.g. coal versus biomass) and changes in the production ratio TRS  31% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 of pulp and paper. Results are presented below as weight of emissions in kg per air dried tonne (Adt) of production, except CO2 which is presented as total tonnes emitted. CO2  64% TRS CO2 0.04 3000 Fast facts 2,524 Black liquor is the cooking chemical from the kraft pulping process. Most kraft pulp mills use recovery 2500 0.029 0.03 boilers to recover and burn the black liquor to generate steam power, enabling the mill to become 2000 more self-sufficient in energy generation. The cooking chemicals are also recovered in the recovery 0.024 ‘000 Tonnes kg/Adt boiler; and in the process, emissions and the use of chemicals are reduced significantly. With a 0.02 0.019 1500 1,315 new recovery boiler operating in 2010, we saw an increase of 12% energy generation using 1000 915 black liquor compared with 2008. This underscores APRIL’s “5R” approach to Recycle, Recover, 0.01 Reuse, Reduce and Replace 500 0.00 0 Fast facts 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Bark has to be removed from the logs through a manual debarking process or a drum de-barker because it contains relatively few usable fibres and darkens the pulp. Bark is considered waste from the drum de-barker and is used in the power boilers as bio-fuel to generate energy. In 2010, the SOX amount of energy generated using bark increased by 7% from 2008. 0.6 0.51 0.5 0.4 kg/Adt 0.28 0.3 0.2 0.17 0.1 0.0 2008 2009 2010 34 35 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Steps to reduce emissions By reducing dependence on fossil fuels and Alternative sources of energy Natural gas Investing in environmentally-responsible operations Water consumption investing in new technologies, APRIL Indonesia In late 2010, APRIL Indonesia started using Chloride removal plant has made significant steps to reduce emission natural gas to fire the lime kilns, shifting away In 2009, we started work on a second chloride levels. CO2 emissions are directly related to the from the use of less cleaner burning fuels such as removal plant (CRP) with a capacity to handle use of fossil fuels. Using alternative sources of Marine Fuel Oils. By 2011, we expect a 100% 300 tonnes of boiler ash per day from the energy has enabled us to reduce the consumption shift to natural gas, bringing about a decrease electrostatic precipitator (ESP) – one of the largest of coal, diesel and marine fuel oil, and the amount in particulate, SOX, TRS and CO2 as seen in the CRPs in the world. ESP is a collection device of CO2 emitted (Reference: Mill Environment, downward trend of these emissions in 2010. that removes particles from a flowing gas. In the section on Self-sufficient energy consumption). process, almost 98% of the chloride from the ash Renewable biomass sources is removed, reducing corrosion and improving The quality of the fuel source also has a direct In 2010, we generated 87% of our energy from function of the recovery boiler. impact on emission levels. For example, between renewable biomass sources such as bark and 2008 and 2009, the coal used in the power black liquor. However, the downside of organic Recovery boiler boiler showed a higher sulphur content compared matter such as bark is its high nitrogen and ash APRIL Indonesia takes pride in having completed to another source of coal available in Sumatra. content which resulted in an upward trend in one of the world’s largest recovery boilers. The In 2009, we switched sources to low-sulphur particulate and NOX levels. project began construction in 2007 and the coal and significantly reduced the amount of new boiler commenced operations in 2009. SOX emitted in 2010. The amount of SOX was Bio-fuels The firing capacity for black liquor dry solids further reduced with a higher use of limestone as The use of bio-fuel such as black liquor, biois 6,500 tonnes a day, which can produce bedding material in the power boiler as limestone sludge, palm shell and methanol also reduces the 265 kg/sec of steam at 84 bar, at a temperature helps to remove the sulphur in the coal. amount of fossil fuel used. of 480°C. This new recovery boiler features four ESPs which help remove airborne particulate Recovering and recycling chemicals The use of bio-fuel in the recovery boilers went matter to minimise the emissions to atmosphere Dissolving tanks are used to recover and recycle up from 58% in 2008 to 70% in 2010. Bio-fuels as evident in the downward trend in particulate black liquor during the pulping cycle. Since have a low sulphur content and hence account levels in 2010. 2008, we have sealed the dissolving tanks fully, for decreasing levels of TRS. ensuring that all gases produced as a result of the pulp and paper making process remain in the production system instead of being emitted. These gases are then recovered and burned in the recovery boiler where chemicals required for pulp production are recycled in the process. Water is essential in the pulp and paper making process, from cooking river, with the remainder being reused or evaporated. Under continuous the raw materials in pulp production, heating it to produce steam to run the improvement, water usage has decreased over the last 3 years. In 2010, turbines in energy generation, to waste treatment. Water is also used to carry we consumed about 38 m3 of water per tonne of production, a decrease of the pulp slurry to the paper machine; to carry wastes and residues of the mill 11.5% from 2008. .In 2008, one of the steps taken to lower water use was to the treatment plants where it is cleaned and discharged safely back into using TrumpjetTM in the paper mill which reduces water consumption by more the environment; and to provide steam to remove 90% of the water from the than 1,000 m3 per day. TrumpJetTM retention aid mixing systems reduce the wet paper sheets in the paper machine. volume of heated clean water required for the production process. In doing so, approximately 1,075 kW of energy was saved per day, equivalent to Our mill is located near the Kampar River. Daily, we extract 340,000 cubic the amount of energy used to heat up the water from 28°C to 50°C. metres (m3) of water, returning about 240,000 m3 of treated water to the 36 37 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Effluent levels Effluent levels BOD COD 0.50 9.0 0.47 8.11 0.43 8.0 7.23 0.39 We continue to make a concerted effort to reduce the level of effluents discharged as a result of Effluent levels (2008 – 2010) 0.40 7.0 6.79 our production processes by installing efficient water treatment systems within our mills to clean waste 6.0 water. Effluents from our mills are treated extensively by tertiary decolouring. Our waste water treatment BOD  8.5% 0.30 plants also ensure that the quality of the water discharged from our mills meets all national regulatory 5.0 kg/Adt kg/Adt requirements. COD  12.0% 0.20 4.0 3.0 Over 95% of contaminants are removed from discharged waste water to ensure that it is clean and safe TSS  9.0% 2.0 for use further downstream. On a regular and continuous basis, we monitor water effluents from our mills 0.10 to track levels of Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Absorbable AOX  50.0% 1.0 Organic Halides (AOX) and Total Suspended Solids (TSS). These data from the last 3 years are shown 0.00 0.0 below. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Efluent levels trended over the reporting period as related to increased organic load from the wood type supplied and as mitigated by improvements to the effluent treatment plant were installed. TSS AOX AOX, produced as a result of chemical reaction with chlorine, dropped by 50% between 2008 and 1.6 0.06 2010 due to a lower usage of chlorine dioxide (ClO2) for bleaching the pulp. Hydrogen peroxide 1.46 1.46 (H2O2) and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) were used as replacements to bleach the delignified pulp. 1.4 0.05 1.34 0.05 1.2 Steps to reduce effluents 0.04 0.04 A new effluent treatment plant (ETP) was installed in 2008 to support our pulp mill expansion and help 1.0 reduce effluent levels. With an additional capacity of 120,000 m3, the new ETP increases the total kg/Adt kg/Adt 0.8 0.03 effluent treatment capacity of the mill by 36.4%. The ETP features an integrated clarifier and aeration basins which marks APRIL Indonesia as the only pulp and paper mill in Indonesia to have invested in this 0.6 0.02 0.02 advanced technology. 0.4 0.01 0.2 0.0 0.00 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 38 39 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Solid waste levels 160 Solid Waste to landfill 0.06 140 0.05 Solid waste generated at our mills is largely a Unfortunately, these trials found that these reuses 120 by-product of energy production and the pulp were not economically feasible and as a result, and paper making process and includes sludge, our solid wastes to landfill increased significantly 0.04 dregs and grit, lime mud, screen rejects and in 2010. We are continuing efforts to identify 100 Total Solid Waste (tonnes) pin chips (wood). Our practices in solid waste ways to utilise this solid waste and in 2011, Solid waste( kg / Adt) management ensure that wherever possible, solid we plan to use some of the boiler ash for brick wastes are used productively to enhance the production. 80 0.03 sustainability of our operations. We have a 14-hectare landfill within our mill Sludge is composed of pulp fibres, fillers, complex in Kerinci. It replaced an older landfill 60 pigments and dirt. Sludge is extracted and burnt which continues to undergo remediation to 0.02 in boilers to generate renewable energy. This is prepare it to be sealed. Remediation includes 40 evident in 2009 where no sludge was sent to the the installation of geo-textile to prevent leakage landfill. Similarly, no pin chips were sent to the into the soil and underground water and contour 0.01 landfill since they are collected and cooked in levelling of the landfill site. 20 our pin chip digester, adding to our overall pulp production. Some of the wastes resulting from our production processes are considered hazardous, such as 0 0.00 Prior to 2010, boiler ash created through our used oils, air filters, batteries, mercury lamps and 2008 2009 2010 energy production processes was mixed with computer parts. We manage these hazardous lime mud for solidification and sent to the landfill. wastes according to Standard Operating Boiler Ash Lime Mud Dregs and Grit Sludge Solid Waste / Adt We had also conducted a number of trials that Procedures which comply with national involved the reuse of boiler ash as compost government laws and regulations, as well as material to enrich plantation soil or as material for meeting international standards. These handling road improvements, resulting in no boiler ash and methods are also part of the training programmes lower amounts of lime mud sent to the landfill. offered in APRIL Learning Institute. 40 41 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Energy efficiency Case study: Clean Development Mechanism projects Energy efficiency is a priority for APRIL Indonesia. In supplying our energy requirements during the black liquor. With that, we have reduced our Mindful of our role in reducing our carbon offsets approximately 22.5 tonnes of the mill’s In 2010, our electricity usage per tonne of paper past 3 years, we have increased our use of consumption of coal significantly by 64% and footprint, APRIL Indonesia aims to maximise the heavy oil requirement per day in the lime kilns to produced was at 0.687MW per hour, meeting renewable biomass and decreased the use of diesel and marine fuel oils (MFO) by 67% for use of “green” energy such as biofuels. Our burn the limestone to produce calcium carbonate our target of 0.7MW per hour and achieving an coal and diesel. Our concerted effort to manage every tonne of pulp and paper produced over Indonesian operations have initiated two Clean for papermaking. energy saving of 11.7% compared to 2007. our energy production efficiently and sustainably the last 3 years. Development Mechanism (CDM) projects that We aim to further reduce the reliance on fossil includes conservation programmes for the use will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. These APRIL Indonesia invested about USD 2.3 million fuels in 2011 by increasing the usage of bio-fuel of power, steam and water, and two Clean projects include methanol recovery and a process in this project which was operational in 2008 and finding other sources of renewable energy. Development Mechanism (CDM) projects to to burn bio-sludge which traditionally goes to landfill. primarily to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, our mill generates surplus energy that provide renewable energy. Plans are being developed to increase the mill’s is supplied to the local electricity grid, contributing APRIL Indonesia’s CDM projects are estimated methanol recovery capacity by 40 per cent to up to 8MW of electricity for the surrounding At present, 87% of our energy is generated from to reduce the amount of CO2 emitted from our 70 tonnes per day. Methanol is a cleaner energy community. renewable biomass sources such as bark and operations by 90,000 tonnes per annum, adding source contributing to a reduction of 24,000 to global efforts in reducing greenhouse gases. tonnes of CO2 per annum. Energy generation by source Bio-fuel methanol plant Bio-sludge project APRIL Indonesia’s methanol recovery process APRIL Indonesia’s bio-sludge project which 100% uses new technology to ‘strip’, condense and was started in June 2009 recovers the sludge liquefy methane from the waste vapour created from the mill’s effluent treatment plant and 90% in the pulping processes. As a greenhouse gas, incinerates this in the chemical recovery boilers. 80% methane is 22 times more problematic than This process reduces the amount of bio-sludge CO2. The methanol recovery process recovers that would normally go to landfill. Bio-sludge, 70% approximately 50 tonnes of liquid methanol per traditionally landfilled, decomposes and emits 60% day. Liquefied methanol is used as a fuel and methane gas. 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2008 2009 2010 Black Liquor Coal Bark Oil (MFO & Diesel) 42 43 Responsible Forest Management Optimising forest land use Building community partnerships Responsible peatland management Best practice forestry Forest fire management Integrating high conservation values into our land-use planning Forest certification Conservation and biodiversity 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Key highlights Optimising forest land use 160 million trees planted in 2010 76,053 hectares community livelihood plantations APRIL Indonesia believes that developing a thriving The Ministry of Forestry provides broad guidance the next 2 years. For the future, we want as much plantation-based business and contributing to the on the allocation of land use for industrial forest of our wood supply as possible to come from sustainable management of the environment are plantation licenses that includes renewable fibre plantation trees. The clearing not mutually exclusive goals. Through responsible (1) industrial tree plantation +/70%, of degraded natural forest is an inherent step and active forest management, APRIL Indonesia (2) infrastructure +/5%, in developing renewable fibre plantation wood pledges a long-term commitment to manage (3) community livelihood plantation +/5%, supply for the future expansion of our business. 278,721 hectares natural forest conservation areas our forest resources sustainably; a challenge considering the trends of forest degradation, illegal logging, encroachment and expansion of (4) conservation +/10%, and (5) natural tree plantation +/10%. We will continue to assess our wood supply needs and ensure a responsible approach is taken to meeting that demand. agricultural land-use. APRIL Indonesia manages over 1.45 million hectares of forest land, including forest lands Committed to optimising our fibre plantation land, We have found innovative ways to increase our licensed to joint-venture supply partners. 19% of we ensure rapid re-planting within 8 weeks after operating efficiency through responsible land use the land is conserved as natural forest and 25% completing a harvest. in fibre plantation growth rate per hectare since management and water management systems. is occupied by community enclaves, community 7.4% increase the establishment of our first plantings For example, we have been able to improve our operations and reduce our carbon emissions through our “Mosaic Plantation Concept” (MPC) livelihood plantations and essential operational infrastructure. In our peatland fibre plantations we have also developed “hydro-buffer” zones where water levels are raised in a combined zone of fibre and responsible peatland management. Since 51% of the forest lands licensed to APRIL Indonesia plantation and natural tree plantation that exists 2006, we have spent more than USD 1.2 million are used to establish our fibre plantations where between our fibre plantations and natural forest on research to identify and develop appropriate we cultivate a variety of fast-growing plantation conservation areas to protect their health and land management practices for our peatland trees that include Acacia, Eucalyptus and biodiversity. The natural tree portion of the hydrooperations. APRIL Indonesia has also begun Melaleuca species. buffer zones, accounts for 5% of the total land use. pioneering work to assess levels of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the forest lands it manages so At present, 65% of our current plantable area that strategies to reduce GHG levels can be is established fibre plantation and we plan to developed. complete the fibre plantation for this area within 46 47 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Managing this large and diverse land area requires balancing the complex social, manufacturing facilities. Our 3 sources of fibre supply are our own plantation concessions, Building community partnerships environmental and economic values that each community fibre farms and joint-venture supply stakeholder places on the natural resources partners. We commenced establishment of our contained within the area. We have developed own concessions in 1994. Community fibre a diligent process that involves consistent farms were initiated in 1999 and joint-venture engagement with many stakeholders including supply partners became active in 2003. Community engagement is a critical responsibility Providing land and support for community and jabon (Anthocephalus cadamba), a fastgovernment, non-governmental organisations of operating in a developing socio-economic livelihood plantations growing durable wood used for plywood (NGOs) and the local communities to jointly We demonstrate our commitment to the long-term context, but is also essential to the stability of As part of the allocation within our licensed and furniture. identify issues, develop positive solutions and management and productivity of the land within our business. Our engagement programmes concessions, APRIL Indonesia has allotted 76,053 implement collaborative actions. We work with: our concessions through aggressive planting contribute directly to the development needs and hectares to develop community livelihood By the end of 2010, we have planted 555 • National, provincial and local government and re-planting programmes. By maximising the objectives of local communities and Indonesia as plantations in partnership with villages that are hectares of rubber trees and 169 hectares authorities to receive licences and operational yield from each planted hectare, we optimise a whole. We continuously adapt our community within or close to our concession boundaries. of jabon. APRIL Indonesia will hand over the permits in compliance with all forestry and the productivity of our land and ensure our engagement approach to the specific needs management of these livelihood plantations to environmental regulations. plantations contribute to the management of and conditions within individual communities. Livelihood plantations provide communities the village cooperatives once the plantations • Local communities to build mutually beneficial carbon emissions. We strive for broad support from within the with economic and social development begin producing. We will remain an active partnerships that empower the communities communities where we operate following a opportunities. APRIL Indonesia establishes the partner providing technical advisory services and to generate income and provide basic From 2008 to 2010, we planted from consultative process as described and practised livelihood plantations including the construction assistance. Proceeds from the harvest of jabon needs such as clean water, education and 71,000 to 96,000 hectares of trees per year. by APRIL Indonesia through our standard of roads, canals, and provision of seedlings and tapping of rubber trees will be distributed community infrastructure. On average over the past 3 years, 24% of the operating procedures. and fertiliser. We also work hand-in-hand with equally by the cooperative to all families in the • Leading organisations that promote planted area was in first rotation, 53% was in the community by empowering them to develop participating villages. sustainable forest management and supply second rotation whilst 23% was in third rotation. We undertake intensive social audits and village cooperatives to manage the growing chains, addressing the important forestry and Since 2008, we have used a rotation length of 4 community consultation involving APRIL Indonesia, agro-forestry business, and prepare them for the social issues of our industry. These include to 5 years, depending on species and soil type, the community and third-parties. Through the socio-cultural adaptations as their standard of Fire Management Actions Alliance under the enabling us to capture average annual wood audits and consultation, we identify concerns and living improves. Food and Agriculture Organisation of the production at its peak. needs of the community and commit to operating United Nations, Forest People’s Programme, principles and development contributions that Before 2009, a majority of the land for High Conservation Value Resource Network, Our Tree Improvement Programme deploys highensure APRIL Indonesia and the local community livelihood plantations was developed and The Forests Dialogue, United Nations Global yield seedlings from 3 central nurseries that, in can grow together. Consultation takes place with managed under the Primary Cooperative Credit Compact, and World Business Council for combination with our satellite nurseries, have representatives appointed by the communities Members programme which established oil palm Sustainable Development. capacity to produce over 200 million seedlings themselves and is finalised through signed plantations in partnership with the local villages. per year. Through this programme, we have seen MOUs between APRIL Indonesia and those In 2009, after receiving additional concession Sustainable plantation fibre supply continued improvement during each rotation. representatives. Reaching agreement may require licences and specific direction from the Riau Our plantations are the most important Based on the mean annual growth rate of several months of consultation. APRIL Indonesia Province Forestry Service, APRIL Indonesia is now component of our integrated operations and acacia species, we are now capable of growing does not start its plantation operations where a only developing livelihood plantations with forest supply the essential raw material needed for 7.4% more wood per hectare per year than land use agreement does not yet exist. tree species such as rubber (Havea brasiliensis) our business. We aim to secure the land that when we began our fibre plantation programme will provide a sustainable supply of renewable in 1994. plantation grown wood to our pulp and paper 48 49 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Case study: Community Responsible peatland management partnership in Lubuk Jering In September 2008, after two years of negotiation, APRIL Indonesia reached a mutual agreement with the indigenous community at Lubuk Jering village in A majority of our plantations in Riau, Indonesia, • Maintain the hydrological function of the conservation forest to follow the natural seasonal Riau province. The agreement stipulated that APRIL Indonesia would develop 1,600 hectares of community plantations consisting of rubber, palm oil and are located on tropical peatland. Peat forms landscape changes that occur in the tropics. Effective water other livelihood trees; pay compensation to the community for the crops and other structural improvements that already exist on the land; provide humanitarian when the accumulation of vegetative matter is • Reduce CO2 emissions from peatlands management reduces the rate of peat subsidence, financial compensation to displaced farmers; and contribute to community education and infrastructure development. This was cited by the United Nations inhibited from decaying, especially in swampy • Maintain long-term productivity in fibre reduces peat degradation which translates to low High Commission for Human Rights as a case study for benefit-sharing and dispute resolution with the indigenous community1. Despite the positive external conditions, over thousands of years. Undisturbed, plantations carbon emissions, and improves the productivity acknowledgement, the sub-district government and newly elected village head rejected the agreement in November 2008. Negotiations with the new peat may accumulate from 0.6 cm to 1.3 cm per and longevity of the fibre plantations and natural officials, though hampered by socio-political changes from recent migration to the area, are currently taking place and we are committed to finding a mutually year, is important for water storage and constitutes SBMSP insights have been integrated into a forest conservation areas. accepted solution. a large and highly concentrated carbon pool. system we called “eco-hydro” management. When disturbed, peat releases carbon dioxide. We learned that peatlands must be planned Monitoring carbon dioxide Peat degradation results from deforestation, and managed at the landscape level, leaving APRIL Indonesia is actively monitoring carbon drainage and fire. central peat domes and river basins intact dioxide (CO2) emissions from our peatland and buffering them against drainage impacts. concessions as part of a broader effort to To manage a peatland fibre plantation We are now using “hydro-buffers” between understand our carbon footprint. Emerging responsibly, carbon emissions and fire must be our fibre plantations and conservation areas. expertise and key results in this new field mitigated by maintaining water at high levels near Through the buffer zones and efficient placement of research are shared with other leading Case study: Community partnerships the peat surface. In 2007, APRIL Indonesia began a 3-year Science-Based Management Support of water control structures in our plantations, we are able to maintain and improve water levels, research institutions. In 2010, APRIL Indonesia hosted visiting scientists from University of in the Teluk Meranti block Project (SBMSP) to enhance the understanding of hydrology, ecology and other parameters thus minimising peat subsidence, fire and carbon emissions. Tokyo and Hokkaido University for technical exchange on the monitoring of greenhouse for responsible management of peatlands. This gas (GHG) emissions from peat soils. project was conducted in collaboration with Prior to 2007, average water levels in the Since 2008, Hokkaido University has been The Teluk Meranti block, consisting of three communities from Teluk Meranti, Teluk Binjai and Pulau Muda, has been a key focus area to develop community experts from Deltares, CarboPEAT, ProForest, and plantations were more than 120 cm below the monitoring GHG emissions in our acacia partnerships because of its location in the Kampar Peninsula, a 700,000-hectare peat swamp forest. In 2009, APRIL Indonesia received a licence to develop the universities of Leicester (UK), Wageningen peat surface. Today, we have improved plantation fibre plantations as well as other land use a protective “ring” consisting of 35,000 hectares of fibre plantations around a 250,000 hectare central core natural forest area. This core region could (Netherlands) and Helsinki (Finland). It led us to water levels and raised them to between 40 cm types. They report that water table depth be secured as a potential carbon project under United Nations initiative on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+) in developing scientifically understand how to: to 90 cm below the peat surface. By integrating is a main factor controlling GHG emissions, countries. Initially the community challenged APRIL Indonesia’s plan to develop the land for Acacia plantations. After 14 months of negotiation, APRIL Indonesia • Conserve lowland natural forest within fibre natural forest “hydro-buffers” into our landscape and that acacia fibre plantation emits and each of the community’s representative teams reached individual and independent mutual agreement in mid-2010. plantation development areas planning, we now manage water in our less GHG than cropland. As part of the agreement, in Teluk Meranti village for example, we are establishing community livelihood plantations and village infrastructure, and will compensate the community for the crops and other structural improvements that exist on the land. Through our community livelihood plantation programmes, we have developed 150 hectares of rubber plantations in 2010 and will continue to move towards the ultimate goal of 2,300 hectares by 2012. We are confident that our collaboration with the community at Teluk Meranti, as well as Teluk Binjai and Pulau Muda, will strengthen trust, create economic stability and become another leading example of community partnership in Indonesia. 1. International Workshop on natural resource companies, indigenous peoples and human rights: setting a framework for consultation, benefit-sharing and dispute resolution, Moscow, 3 and 4 December 2008, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights: http://www2.ohchr.org/english/issues/indigenous/resource_companies.htm 50 51 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Best practice forestry Forest fire management At APRIL Indonesia, best practice forestry APRIL Indonesia has clear policies and has made Development Programme has taught village our capabilities we also monitor daily “hotspot” management approaches are described in our specific investments to protect our concession vegetable farmers natural mulching techniques data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Code of Best Practice. Operational procedures areas from fires because fire management is an that do not require fire use. Administration (NOAA) satellite via the ASEAN are defined by the Company’s standard integral part of best management practices for Specialised Meteorological Service (ASMC) in operating procedures (SOPs) for all aspects of our fibre plantations. The threat to our plantations and We also collaborate with local forestry and law Singapore. Measuring thermal energy, NOAA forestry operation. All employees and contractors conservation areas from fire is present at specific enforcement authorities to educate communities “hotspots” indicate a possible fire burning within involved in forestry operations undergo rigorous times of the year. Although our operations are on the illegality and environmental impacts of fire a 1-square kilometre area. Based on 2008 and training in these standards. In the past 3 years, located in a moist, tropical climate zone, the use, and the effects of smoke and haze on human 2009 “hotspot” data, APRIL Indonesia managed our best practice focus has included: vegetation is susceptible to fire ignition during health. In 2009, we initiated community-level lands had a lower “hotspot” occurrence than • Mechanising and automating our harvesting the two annual dry periods. “Slash and burn” teams known as “Community Cares about Fire” to community lands outside and surrounding our operations practices are used by local farmers to clear reduce fire incidence and improve the response fibre plantation boundary. • Reducing chemical use in our plantation unmanaged forest and shrub land for conversion capabilities to unwanted fires. management to agricultural crops such as oil palm. These Reaching out through international forums • Maintaining our forest fire management “slash-and-burn” methods are the primary cause Preparedness and response In addition to implementing effective fire effectiveness of smoke and haze which periodically affects To mitigate the threat of fires to our fibre plantations management, APRIL Indonesia has promoted and • Integrating high conservation value (HCV) the Southeast Asian region. The frequency and and conservation areas, our rapid-response shared its experience through international and assessments into our land-use planning damage caused by fires are directly related to fire-fighting teams are specifically trained and regional forums. APRIL Indonesia is a founding process the seasonal changes in rainfall and intensity of equipped to respond and control fires in the member of the Fire Management Actions land-clearing activities. shortest possible time. We have a targeted goal Alliance, coordinated by the Food and Agriculture Mechanisation of harvesting operations to In 2011, we will introduce mechanised harvesting experimenting with smaller volume nozzles and to contain each fire to less than 10 hectares. In Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations. It aims improve efficiency systems to our forestry operations, including constant flow valves to reduce application rates Implementing the “No-Burn Policy” the past 3 years, we have achieved an 87% to to stimulate improved fire management and reduce Manual harvesting systems have been the our joint venture partners. This mechanisation and improve chemical use efficiency. Our trials APRIL Indonesia implemented a “No-Burn” policy 96% success rate in keeping fires to less than fire damages worldwide through promotion and traditional and primary method that we have programme will continue until we reach our have shown that a 12% reduction in chemical use in 1994. We use a combination of manual and 10 hectares. implementation of the Fire Management Voluntary used to harvest our wood supply. In 2009, APRIL long-term goal to mechanise at least 75% of our is possible with these equipment improvements. mechanical methods for preparing our land for Guidelines: Principles and Strategic Actions. Indonesia began focusing on the development harvesting capacity. We are also experimenting with surfactants to replanting that ensures we do not contribute to To anticipate the occurrence of threatening fires, These provide an international framework for of mechanised harvesting systems that will reduce herbicide volume and to improve adhesion seasonal smoke and haze and are able to do tree we collect weather data to calculate daily fire a holistic approach to fire management that significantly reduce the requirement for manual Reducing chemical use in our plantations and penetration of the “active ingredient” to the planting every day of the year. Since 1999, the danger rating and conduct regular ground and balances social, cultural, environmental and labour in harvesting operations. The establishment and maintenance of a fibre target weeds. Finally, through field evaluations of Integrated Farming System under our Community aerial patrols for early fire detection. To enhance economic dimensions. APRIL Indonesia was plantation involves the management of weeds to competing weeds growth stage and composition, the first private plantation company to join the Benefits of mechanised harvesting are improved ensure survival and growth of the planted trees. we are able to better prescribe treatment time and Results of APRIL Indonesia’s Fire Management Programme Alliance in 2007. worker safety through reduction of exposure to The two most common herbicides in equatorial frequency, with the intent of reducing the total Description 2008 2009 2010 hazardous activities; development of a highly fibre plantation management are Glyphosate number of applications during the first year of Additional outreach activities during this period skilled workforce to operate and support new and Paraquat, with the former being more plantation establishment. Through repeated trials, Number of Fires 133 224 147 include co-hosting a Southeast Asia workshop to machinery; increased consistency in quality environmentally friendly. we anticipate these best practice innovations will develop national frameworks for fire management, of harvested wood; reduced harvesting time prove operationally effective, cost efficient, and Hectares Burnt 1,187 2,486 307 and cooperation with the Singapore National resulting in more rapid replanting; and higher APRIL Indonesia is focused on managing safer for the environment and our plantation staff, Environmental Agency and Jambi provincial Average Fire Size (ha) 8.9 11.1 2 wood yield and less waste per hectare. the impact of herbicides on the land and is so that we can move towards full implementation. government to enhance their capacity to prevent and mitigate forest fires. Fire Management Performance Rating (%) 96 87 94 52 53 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Integrating high conservation Case study: Bringing it all together – values into our land-use planning monitoring, reporting and verification into fibre plantations. This is based on specific guidance and recommendations from HCV experts APRIL Indonesia received a licence to develop • Communities’ ability and opportunity to benefit • Community social and economic development legal criteria focusing on protecting sensitive soils, enable our planners and managers to implement peatland fibre plantations on the Kampar economically from plantation development • Environmental monitoring and protection hydrological features, wildlife and cultural sites. best practices and achieve sustainable wood Peninsula in June 2009. To address stakeholder • Managing the impacts of peat water • Stakeholder participation These processes fulfil legal requirements for landproduction through a rational balance between concerns, the Ministry of Forestry appointed an drainage on carbon emissions and impacts use plan development. environmental conservation, social concerns and independent and integrated team of specialists on protected natural forests The Ministry’s team verified the progress achieved economic development. The HCV approach in to evaluate APRIL Indonesia’s “eco-hydro” land• Ability to sustainably manage water levels to for implementing these monitoring procedures For the responsible development of peatlands, a Indonesia acknowledges that one or more forms use planning and water management system in reduce the danger of fire and the results were reported to the Minister of science-based land use and water management of active management can be undertaken to December 2010. This evaluation identified four Forestry in early 2011. The team leader, Professor plan is developed for the concession based on ensure the maintenance or enhancement of one primary potential areas of concern for peatland The integrated team developed 19 indicators to Dr. Budi Indra Setiawan from Bogor Agriculture entire river basins – a landscape-level approach or more high conservation values in an area. plantation development: monitor the implementation of “eco-hydro” water University, anticipates that this programme has For APRIL Indonesia, responsible land-use we called “eco-hydro” management. It identifies • Community preparedness for changes in management in our concession on the Kampar. the potential to become the model monitoring planning begins before a plantation concession water management zones in planted areas, As HCV assessment methodology and practice social and cultural values as a result of The indicators that APRIL Indonesia will monitor programme for sustainable management of peat licence is awarded. Our land development hydro-buffers and conservation areas in the evolve, we have tried to keep pace with this change plantation development are classified under 3 categories: forest areas in Indonesia. specialists conduct preliminary evaluations of deepest peat and natural forests. and understand that many of our stakeholders available concessions by assessing soil and land have genuine concerns about ensuring the types for potential fibre plantation growth rates, As a voluntary commitment, we conduct High proper application of HCV assessments where access and wood transport distances, quality Conservation Value (HCV) assessments for each conversion of natural forests occurs. These of existing vegetation, and social issues. This new concession area based on the Toolkit for concerns include acknowledgment of customary evaluation provides information for preliminary decisions on the viability of the concession. It is Identification of High Conservation Values in Indonesia (2008). These assessments identify or legal rights of indigenous communities; sciencebased definitions and delineation of HCV forests Indicators for monitoring sustainable management then followed by a land-use planning process that ensures and incorporates compliance with and delineate exceptionally important biodiversity values, ecosystem services and social or cultural or management areas; stakeholder consultation; land-use plan development; and quality control of of peat forest areas on Kampar Peninsula legal requirements, science-based practices and values and recommends management and HCV documents. voluntary commitments. monitoring activities to guarantee these values will be maintained and enhanced. We incorporate APRIL Indonesia has worked directly with Community social and economic development Environmental monitoring and protection Stakeholder participation Industrial fibre plantation concession development the findings of HCV Assessment into our land leading HCV experts in Indonesia and through 1. Values that support the improvement of 5. Measure rate of peat subsidence, close old 13. Identify key stakeholders to achieve harmony is guided by national government forestry use planning process and ensure that our fibre the Global HCV Resource Network to develop prosperity, education and health through drainage canals and reduce conflict regulations that stipulate the general allocation of plantation development is undertaken in a manner various approaches in applying the HCV process training and health screenings. 6. Measure rate of carbon emissions 14. Ensure involvement with key stakeholders land to be used for fibre, community livelihood that will maintain the HCVs. for a fibre plantation context in Indonesia. We 2. Economic improvement by developing 7. Measure rate of methane emissions 15. Disseminate information on “eco-hydro” management and natural tree plantations, conservation forest continue our efforts to seek common interpretation community farmer groups with necessary 8. Measure rate of carbon sequestration to other companies on the Kampar Peninsula and infrastructure. First, a macro-delineation The HCV process often confirms the microand share knowledge by participating in regional infrastructure, equipment and resources, and 9. Monitor biodiversity using protected species lists 16. Apply APRIL Indonesia’s “eco-hydro” management occurs using available vegetation and delineation and “eco-hydro” planning that we have and global HCV forums, developing internal developing community livelihood (rubber 10. Measure water table depths based on land use to other companies on the Kampar Peninsula environmental data to broadly identify each of conducted. APRIL Indonesia finds added value in capacities and engaging partners to meet the tree) plantations 11. Measure soil moisture content and 17. Reduce contribution to national emissions levels these allocations within the concession. Next, a the HCV concept as a planning tool that takes the challenges of applying HCV process. 3. Social improvement through access to formal temperature in surface peat 18. Increase educational infrastructure and micro-delineation occurs by an independent third“precautionary approach” to land development by education and improved nutrition and health 12. Reduction of “hotspots” and fire occurrence training to develop human resources party to differentiate areas to be maintained as identifying and delineating additional values that 4. Promote local culture and eco-tourism in village and concession areas and develop 19. Develop local contractors in plantation natural forest from those that can be developed may result in conserving more natural forests. The community fire response teams management and use local labour 54 55 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Forest certification We understand the need to provide our Existing certifications (VPA) with the European Union (EU) to tackle the our European warehouses and sold by our global • Enhanced processes for community relations, financial stakeholders, customers and other We currently have a number of national and problem of illegal logging and improve market sales offices. The PEFC auditing body verified that stakeholder consultation and engagement. interested parties with assurance that an effective international certifications that provide evidence opportunities for Indonesian forest products in all wood sources entering our Indonesian pulp environmental management system is used and of our commitment to continuous improvement, the US, EU and other consumer markets. This and paper manufacturing facility are controlled In December 2008, APRIL Indonesia received that our wood supply is legally harvested and free wood legality and sustainability. APRIL Indonesia’s certification is in preparation for the EU’s Forest material originating from plantation wood and FSC Controlled Wood/Chain-of-Custody from controversial sources of wood. manufacturing operations are certified by ISO Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade (FLEGT) avoid controversial wood sources entering the mill. certification from Rainforest Alliance/SmartWood 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. licensing requirements set to become operational for our manufacturing facilities and a portion of APRIL Indonesia has set up a comprehensive APRIL Indonesia’s plantation forestry operations in the EU in March 2013. The PHPL/SVLK Forest Stewardship Council Certification our existing fibre plantation. However, in 2009, wood legality system that is designed to verify in Riau, are certified by ISO 14001:2004, certification assures APRIL Indonesia’s customers The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) was initiated several complex technical concerns arose and and trace wood from our fibre plantations through OHSAS 18001:2007 and Lembaga Ekolabel that its pulp and paper exported from Indonesia in 1994 and works to accredit auditing bodies the certification was suspended in April 2010. to the mill site. This system prevents illegal wood Indonesia (LEI) for Sustainable Forest to the European Union is legal and conforms to based on international standards identified by from entering our supply and production chains. Plantation Management. sustainable forest management principles, criteria FSC’s 10 Principles and 56 Criteria for sustainable The suspension primarily related to both and indicators defined by Indonesia’s laws and forest management. The auditing bodies in turn organisations being unable to agree to a common Comprehensive training in standard operating Recognising that our financial stakeholders and regulations on forestry, trade, and environment. assess forestry operations for compliance with these understanding of definitions of High Conservation procedures related to wood legality is also customers from various markets require different principles and criteria. This provides assurance that Value Forest and interpretation of a 2009 FSC provided to our employees and contractors to certifications for assurance of our product legality PEFC Certification the purchased wood is legal and from sustainably policy introduced since our certification was ensure that harvesting, transporting and storage of and sustainability, we continue to work closely The Programme for Endorsement of Forest managed non-controversial sources. awarded called the “Policy for the Association of wood in the supply chain meets the requirements with several auditing bodies to achieve and Certification (PEFC) is the world’s largest forest Organisations with FSC”. This relates to direct or for wood legality and traceability. maintain these credentials. certification system. PEFC allows national However, full compliance and certification to indirect involvement in the significant conversion organisations (government) to set standards for the FSC Forest Management Standard remains of forests to plantations, which is an essential step In 2007, we started a new department called Ministry of Forestry’s Sustainable Production sustainable forest management and to accredit impractical for APRIL Indonesia because of an for APRIL Indonesia in our process of establishing the Integrated Management System (IMS), Forest Management and Timber Legality auditing bodies. Following that, PEFC assesses FSC criterion that states “Plantations established renewable plantation fibre supplies in the enabling APRIL Indonesia to better manage and Verification an institution’s conformity to that certification in areas converted from natural forest after developing country context of Indonesia. monitor its ongoing compliance with national In October 2010, APRIL Indonesia’s own scheme. PEFC has not yet endorsed a sustainable November 1994 normally shall not qualify for and international requirements. This system was concessions became the first industrial forest forest management certification scheme in certification”. Nonetheless, APRIL Indonesia developed by APRIL Indonesia to harmonise plantations in Indonesia to receive the Ministry Indonesia, though PEFC Chain-of-Custody (CoC) worked to align its operations with all other FSC requirements between the certification standards. of Forestry’s Sustainable Production Forest certification is an available option for forestry forest management principles and criteria, taking IMS effectively consolidates the various forest Management and Timber Legality Verification companies operating in Indonesia. steps which included: certification requirements into one comprehensive (PHPL/SVLK) certification. This certification • Clearly defining HCV forests in the Indonesian programme that enables APRIL Indonesia to was decreed in June 2009 as a result of the In 2010, APRIL Indonesia received PEFC CoC context for APRIL Indonesia operations; achieve certification by independent assessment. Government of Indonesia’s 2007 negotiations certification for forest products produced by our • Reinforced monitoring of wood supply and to enter into a Voluntary Partnership Agreement Indonesian pulp and paper facilities, stored in suppliers; and, 56 57 2010 Sustainability Report Conservation and biodiversity APRIL Indonesia manages over 278,721 hectares of natural forest conservation areas that contain HCVs. These natural forests within our concessions represent 19% of our total concession area and are an important contribution to maintaining Indonesia’s unique biodiversity and natural resource heritage. With the vast majority of our conservation areas located in Riau Province, we contribute an additional 35% to the existing natural forest area protected by the Indonesian government2 in Riau. APRIL Indonesia’s “mosaic plantation concept” (MPC) contributes to protecting natural forests that contain a high level of biodiversity commonly found along streams, rivers and other hydrologic features. Our conservation forests are constantly monitored and patrolled to prevent and apprehend illegal loggers, animal poachers and forest encroachers. Our forest protection officers and security teams conduct both ground and aerial patrols to identify, quickly respond to and stop threats that lead to natural forest degradation. Through our MPC plantation development, a rich conservation, plantation and social landscape are formed, providing significant biodiversity and wildlife security as compared with other land management practices occurring outside our concessions. Some of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) protected species of wildlife using our conservation and plantation areas include the Sumatran Tiger, White-Winged Wood Duck, certain Hornbill species, Tapir and the Sumatran Elephant. To understand the environmental interactions that exist within planted and natural landscape, we manage and monitor the health and biodiversity of our natural forest conservation areas in compliance with legal requirements and report these findings twice a year to government authorities. These activities include: Establishing and monitoring permanent measurement plots to quantify biodiversity index Identifying and demarcating conservation forest boundaries Posting signboards and combating illegal logging Monitoring protected species of plants and animals Controlling threats that may cause environmental degradation 2. Strategic Executive Forestry Data, 2009, Ministry of Forestry, Indonesia 58 Our Responsibility to People Enhancing employee satisfaction Building talent through training and development Creating a continuous improvement mindset Ensuring health and safety in the workplace Contributing through community development Education Integrated Farming System Social infrastructure development Healthcare Social activities Small and Medium Enterprise development 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Key highlights Our responsibility to people 109% increase in number of training participants from 2008 to 2010 44% increase in number of training programmes provided from 2008 to 2010 69% Indonesian managers increased representation of local executives from 65% in 2008 to 69% in 2010 56% improvement APRIL Indonesia practises social responsibility by providing our employees and the local communities in which we operate with the capabilities, environment in Lost Time Injury (LTI) cases for forestry operations from 2008 to 2010 and support to allow them to excel. We focus on providing an equitable and safe workplace that enhances employee satisfaction, develops talent through a comprehensive training programme, and fosters continuous improvement. At the same time, APRIL Indonesia recognises that the company’s progress in sustainability is underpinned by our competent and dedicated employees. 62 63 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Enhancing employee satisfaction Growing a diverse and inclusive workplace At APRIL Indonesia, we recognise the value of a Direct Employee Age Distribution (2010) diverse workforce across different ages, genders 50% and nationalities. We are proud of the fact that 43.7% we employ people from at least 16 nationalities in our operations. In 2010, approximately 9% of 40% People are our most important asset as they are our total workforce was female. 34.2% vital to our business performance and reputation. We acknowledge this through concrete steps to We are committed to developing our local 30% measure and improve our employee satisfaction staff across the region for leadership positions. with independent annual employee satisfaction This focus has resulted in more than 69% of Percent surveys that measure a broad spectrum of management positions in the company being 20% indicators such as rewards and recognition, held by locals in 2010. As expatriate managers 13.4% training and development. develop local staff and transfer knowledge we expect this percentage to increase further. 10% 7.7% The results have been encouraging with an overall employee satisfaction index ranging from 1.0% 65% to 68% during the last 3 years, although 0% we did experience challenges as a result of 18-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55+ our restructuring activities after the 2008 global Age Range financial crisis. The survey results provided good insights into employees’ commitment levels and concerns. Working climate was rated highest whilst career development and promotion were rated lowest in the survey results. Insights from the survey are being used to develop next steps in building an engaged workforce. Some of these areas include: • Refining the Balanced Scorecard or Key Performance Indicator system for performance-based rewards system. • Strengthening Human Resources Development Programme which encompasses career advancement, compensation, communication and coaching. • Tailoring Training & Development Programme based on a competency ladder scheme and career development path. • Improving internal communications system to promptly and regularly inform our employees and families, as well as contractors on all important issues . 64 65 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Attracting and retaining talent Protecting employee rights APRIL Indonesia strictly adheres to national We are committed to providing employee benefits that comply with national laws and ensure the welfare and living standards of our staff. Our comprehensive labour laws and our own codes of practice to benefits packages are fundamental to the retention of the best talent and includes: ensure appropriate employment practices are implemented, including strict rules against the use of child or forced labour. Medical care • Health insurance, medical clinics, and employee physical examination once every two years • Employee relief fund granted to employee/spouse/children suffering from a critical illness or accident hazard APRIL Indonesia respects the individual and collective rights of our employees to join labour and trade unions, and maintains collective Housing • Housing accommodation or monthly housing allowance bargaining agreements with trade and labour unions. Currently, 67.8% of our employees are members of trade unions. Safety •Safety induction briefing as part of the orientation programme • Personal Protective Equipment (hardhat, safety shoes, eye and hearing protection, etc.) Per collective labour agreements in place, • Regular emergency drills significant differences and disputes are first settled between the worker, who is also the union member, and the Company superior. If unresolved Insurance at this level, it will be elevated to deliberation •Social security benefits such as retirement plan, group life and accidental insurance coverage and resolution by a bipartite body comprising members of the Company and the union. If this fails, the worker may pursue the grievance Schools • Schools within the company premises with qualified teachers and subsidised school fees with the local government authority (Department of Labour) through the union for mediation and resolution, in accordance to existing labour Training • Training certification as form of recognition such as Driving Licence Programme (DLP) certification law and regulations. Examples of labour Issues include retrenchment, salary negotiation and payment of incentives. Awards and incentives • Annual competition for continuous improvement initiatives Service awards and gifts • Recognition for long-service employees as well as special events of marriage, new baby and funeral of family members 66 67 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Building talent through Our focused efforts in training and development have increased the overall number of training Number of Training Participants training and development participants almost three-fold in the past three years to over 25,000 participants. The increase 15,000 14,005 is due to expanded operations in the fibre units to develop new acacia fibre plantation areas. We are committed to the development of our employees at all levels, from identifying talent in young scholars to enhancing skills in senior management. We In 2010 alone, more than 14,000 participants 12,000 focus on continuous learning and providing our employees with the knowledge and career skills needed to further their advancement. All employees receive took part in over 1,100 trainings. annual performance reviews based on qualitative indicators and balanced scorecard performance factors. In addition, all executive levels are evaluated against their respective key performance indicators. The regular appraisals determine opportunities for career progressions. Sponsoring young talent APRIL Indonesia recognises that development of 9,000 In 2005, we established the APRIL Learning Institute (ALI) in Kerinci, Riau province, as part of our commitment to build a sustainable pool of talented people. young talent is essential for the future. We sponsor Participants ALI’s programmes are based on three key areas – customer focus, high performance and proactive teamwork. Following the successful establishment of ALI, the both employees and community members 6,722 APRIL Asian-Agri Learning Institute (AAALI) for the forestry and plantation operations was established. to upgrade their education in institutions or 6,336 universities. To date, the programme has granted 6,000 These 2 learning centres adopt holistic competency-based methodologies. We also use various structured programmes such as the Self-Development Programme, 35 scholarships to the Academy of Pulp and Management Development Programme and Executive Development Programmes for leadership training at all employee levels. Individual employee training Paper Technology in Bandung, West Java – the needs are determined via the APRIL Assessment Centre which conducts pre-assessments of most employees to determine competency gaps. Individually tailored only institution of higher learning in Indonesia development programmes are then provided for employees through the performance review exercise. that offers advanced training course in pulp 3,000 and paper technology. There are also currently Employees also benefit from external training which complements that of APRIL Indonesia’s in-house institutes. For example, our employees are provided with 19 employees on scholarships to complete occupational, health and safety (OHS) training where our safety department collaborates with relevant government entities and external training organisations their master’s degrees at the Asian Institute of to ensure full compliance with laws and regulations. Technology in Thailand. 0 2008 2009 2010 Training programmes Year Our institutes provide a number of programmes catering to the different needs and levels of employees, including: Mandatory training for all employees in safety, work environment, company culture and continuous improvement in the APRIL Citizen work place. APRIL Academy Foundation, core, common service and specialisation programmes for new graduates to learn and grow with the company. APRIL Expert Focuses on specific technical and functional competencies. APRIL Leader Focuses on building organisational and business leadership competencies. Focuses on fibre manpower technical and soft skill development, including retention and attraction schemes, and Fibre Talent Development scholarship programmes for external talent. 68 69 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Case study: Realising dreams through Creating a continuous APRIL Indonesia’s scholarship programme improvement mindset APRIL Indonesia regards continuous improvement as an essential business practice to enhance our economic and operational performance and to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business. APRIL Indonesia’s strategy to sustain and maintain our competitiveness focuses on: • Leveraging individual and business team innovation • Motivating people to use company-wide standard frameworks and methods to maximise efficiencies • Creating value-add in day-to-day activities through both incremental and breakthrough improvements We implemented the APRIL Improvement Management System (AIMS) in 2005 as a comprehensive framework to guide and monitor continuous improvement activities. To create a continuous improvement mindset across the entire organisation, AIMS enables improvement ideas through: • Suggestion system for simple improvement ideas by employees • Small group activity for medium complexity initiatives by departments • Task force project for complex programmes by cross-functional teams We also set up a dedicated Business Continuous Improvement Department (BCID) to promote a continuous improvement mindset and facilitate implementation of all improvement projects and activities throughout the organisation. The BCID team also organises annual competitions between business units to select the “best-of-the-best” improvement projects and initiatives. To raise our continuous improvement programme to the next level, we started to embrace Lean Six Sigma to complement our current AIMS methodology in December 2010. Lean Six Sigma is a well-known approach to achieving Operational Excellence that focuses on the elimination of waste, non-valueadded activities and process variation along the process pipeline. This marked a significant step in our continuous improvement journey to support the organisation’s goal to deliver breakthrough results. The first roll-out of Lean Six Sigma Green Belt training was attended by 20 selected employees. We will conduct more Green Belt training in 2011 and 2012, and expect to have a few certified Black Belts Zulfikar, a 23-year-old sibling of an employee, was one of the recipients of the scholarship to the Academy of Pulp and Paper Technology (ATPK) for a period of by 2013. three and a half years. The scholarship covers tuition fees, accommodation, food and transportation. In an interview, Zulfikar said, “I applied for this scholarship to ease the burden on my parents to pay for my college fees and because ATPK is the only pulp and paper college in Indonesia. The knowledge I gained from ATPK will help my career in the pulp and paper industry. I hope that others will continue to benefit from this scholarship programme as it helps develop the local community so they can compete effectively for jobs with others.” Upon graduation in 2009, Zulfikar joined APRIL Indonesia as production engineer in the paper mill. 70 71 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Winners of 2010 Excellence Event Ensuring health and safety in the workplace Every year, we organise the AIMS Excellence To achieve occupational, health and safety (OHS) as well as economic objectives, we follow the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) Event (AEE) where we celebrate successful 18001 Standards and implement an Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS). Our plantation forestry and mill operations are certified innovations and continuous improvement ideas. under OHSAS 18001. We also follow the 5‘S’ Workplace Organisation Process to systematically achieve a safer, more efficient and productive operation. The winning project for 2010 AEE was on reducing CO2 emissions in peatlands. Occupational safety Despite this focus on diligent health and safety, sadly 11 of our contractors in forestry and mill operations lost their lives during the 3-year reporting period from 2008 Reducing CO 2 emissions in peatland to 2010. Analysis of these incidents showed that the fatalities were attributed to falling trees at harvesting, traffic accidents and non-conformance to safety standards. plantation areas Forestry operations are a dynamic and widespread work environment where harvesting and plantation sub-contractors live and work in distant, isolated locations, with regular worker turnover. Mill operations have a more controlled environment where engineering and technical controls are monitored frequently. The loss of even one The challenge life is totally unacceptable to us and we have implemented a series of measures specific to the causes of these incidents to ensure the risk of them recurring is reduced. APRIL Indonesia began a collaborative ScienceBased Management Support Project (SBMSP) in One of the steps to improve safety in forest management is through mechanised harvesting where exposure to hazardous activities is reduced (Reference: Forest 2007 to enhance understanding of hydrology, Management, section on Best practice forestry). ecology and parameters for sustainable management of peatlands. In November 2009, 8 APRIL employees from the Water Management team got together to build on SBMSP insights by Number of Lost Time Injuries Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) identifying additional methods for maintaining appropriate water table levels in the peatland 100 4 plantation areas. The water table is a measure of 3.55 distance between peat surface and groundwater 90 80 3.02 3 elevation and is important in preventing CO2 Based on the team’s analysis, the team considered The outcome emissions from peatland. the following: The trial showed impressive results and the 60 Incidents TRI Rate Contour variation on the peatland initiatives developed by the team are now 2.08 2 48 The approach Need for main canals to be used for being implemented across a wider area in our 40 40 Using the Company’s AIMS (APRIL Improvement transportation concessions. The team is now working on their 24 1 Management System) methodology and tools, Main causes of uncontrollable fluctuations in next goal of designing automatic water control 20 20 19 0.68 0.66 0.66 the team defined the challenge, identified water table levels gates at the water dams. opportunities for improvement, and designed 0 0 and implemented improvements. Tools used by Using these tools, the team jointly created a new 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 the team for the project included Ishikawa or fishMicro Zone Planning system and additional Year Year bone diagram, Pareto chart and Nominal Group construction design of peat dams which they then Forestry Mill Forestry Mill Techniques (NGT). implemented at a trial site. Note: “Total Recordable Incident Rate” (TRIR) is the standard industrial norm for measuring and comparing safety performance. TRIR statistic provides a useful and comparative measure of safety performance by reporting the average number of work-related injuries incurred by each 100 workers during a one-year period. 72 73 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Occupational health APRIL Indonesia strives to be a responsible employer with workplace safety as its top priority. Our commitment to zero tolerance for unsafe behaviour has The common occupational diseases affecting our fibre workforce are upper respiratory tract infection and malaria. To mitigate the incident rates, medical positively affected the quality of life for our employees and contractors. We have implemented more stringent preventive measures by employing a Hazard care and close monitoring are complemented with an intensified campaign to promote better hygienic conditions and practices among our employees, family Identification, Risk Assessment and Determining Control (HIRADC) system in our OSHMS that will improve work planning, procedures and supervisory controls; members and contractors. worker training and awareness; and equipment requirements. We have initiated the development of “self-help” vegetable gardens in the town sites and fibre estate complexes to help improve nutrition among our employees, The HIRADC system has identified corrective and improvement actions in the following areas to prevent and reduce future accidents: family members and contractors. The Company provides the essentials such as farming tools, seeds and fertilisers, and technical support. Area of improvement Actions taken Improvements to OHS management Through our continuous improvement cycle, the following key actions have been undertaken under our OHS management programme to improve our processes: Additional supervision and monitoring to enforce safety guidelines. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) Additional accident prevention requirements, such as boat operator’s permit and safety spot checks. Impose work/contract suspension and penalties/fines as necessary. • Train and brief all employees, new hires and contract workers on OHS principles and work procedures for their specific tasks. Improve first aid, emergency medical treatment services and accident investigation process. • Develop and implement OHS inspection programmes to prevent and correct unsafe acts or conditions, such as safety observation Conduct safety refresher training for all workers on a continuous basis. programme, non-conformance reports and violation ticket. Training Focus on vehicle operations and road/traffic safety. Communicate safety information campaign. • Develop emergency response simulation programme and implement with well-planned scenario, equipment, areas and time. Issue work permit to contractor only at completion of required training. • Define systems to identify causes of work-related illness cases. Quality control Improve work planning, job site assessment and load calculation. • Improve employee knowledge and awareness on OHS through instructional videos. Improve safety inspection procedures and techniques. Install additional road warning signs posted at accident prone locations. • Conduct monthly/quarterly meetings on OHS issues with top management, department heads and trade union members. • Improve safety culture and consciousness by requiring co-workers to reach out to each other to stop unsafe behaviours and educate on Communications Supervisors clearly communicate work instructions to every worker. potential hazards of these behaviours. Physical capabilities Ensure all operators working on-site are in good physical condition. APRIL strives to be a responsible employer with workplace safety as its top priority. Our commitment to zero tolerance for unsafe behaviour has positively affected the quality of life for our employees and contractors. We have implemented more stringent preventive measures by employing a Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Determining Control (HIRADC) system in our OSHMS that covers hazard identification, estimation of probability of occurrence and Work direction Enforce Standards, Policies and Administrative Controls (SPAC). consequences, risk categorisation, determination of sufficiency of existing plans and controls, and identification of requirements for equipment, training and controls. 74 75 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Key highlights Contributing through community development 2,797 scholarships 36,778 people We believe that local communities should share in APRIL Indonesia’s success and growth. Our sustainability mission is for our business We adopt a collaborative approach in working with a community, its leaders and the local government to identify their needs. Community Development Investments (2008-2010), USD Million awarded to students for primary, received free medical treatment practices to support the social and economic Through continuous engagement with the aspirations of communities in which we operate by communities where we operate, we jointly secondary and university education across 116 villages offering a variety of programmes that significantly identify priority areas in: contribute to community development. • Education Other CD Programs Education • Integrated Farming System 2.2 0.5 The majority of our operations are in areas of high • Social Infrastructure poverty so APRIL Indonesia provides programmes • Other CD Programmes that empower local communities and that are Healthcare Integrated Social designed to have a multiplier effect. For example, Social Activities 7,200 volunteers 566 farmers Farming Infrastructure Integrated Farming System (IFS) programme Small and Medium Enterprise development System 1.8 1.4 provides training to members of community farming groups who then pass on this knowledge Over the last 3 years, APRIL Indonesia has invested mobilised for community social activity programmes received training, start-up investment and to their wider communities. Small and Medium approximately USD 5.9 million in various social Enterprises are developed so that they can hire empowerment programmes, yielding multiple on-going technical assistance and train other individuals in the community. positive outcomes. The chart beside provides a summary of total investments we have made over the past 3 years. 5,041 jobs created 4,585 hectares in local communities through SME programmes cultivated through the Integrated Farming System programme 76 77 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Education Integrated Farming System APRIL Indonesia regards support of local education as one of the key thrusts in our community development programme. Our education programme covers a The Integrated Farming System (IFS) is a key component of our community development strategy to multitude of initiatives including scholarship grants, teacher support programme and educational infrastructure. The scholarship programme is aimed at providing improve the skills of community farmers and raise the income generating opportunities of community educational opportunities to economically disadvantaged students from communities within which APRIL Indonesia operates. farmer groups. The IFS has three main focus areas: • Train villagers in farming activities such as horticulture, vegetable farming, livestock rearing and Key contributions to education: husbandry, and freshwater aquaculture. • Provide start-up investments, tools and materials. • Provide technical and managerial guidance through APRIL Indonesia’s Community Development field Scholarships Granted scholarships to 2,695 primary and secondary school students, and 102 university students officers. since 2008. Supported 23 pulp and paper technical institute students. We operate two training centres to deliver technical and practical knowledge to the local farmers. We also donated two additional training centres to the local district governments to share our comprehensive community development programme. Since its inception, the IFS programme has Grants & teacher training support Granted honorariums to 200 teachers in government schools in rural areas in 2008. progressed from affecting only 170 hectares in 1999 to over 1,200 hectares of village farmland in Supported teachers’ training activities for approximately 150 teachers. 2010. In the past 3 years, 566 farmers received training and cultivated 4,845 hectares through our IFS programme and training centres. Educational infrastructure support Constructed and renovated 20 school buildings since 2008. Provided 28 schools with furniture and equipment. Participating farmers and area cultivated 300 3,000 286 250 2,500 Area cultivated (hectares) Participating farmers 200 2,000 190 150 1,500 100 1,000 90 50 500 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Year Participating farmers Cultivated land 78 79 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Social infrastructure development Case study: Preserving Pelalawan’s historical and cultural heritage In many of the communities close to our operations, social infrastructure is limited or in need of repair. To create a meaningful and sustainable impact, we identify needs of individual communities and work with the leaders and local government to determine appropriate programmes. We aim to ensure that people in the communities have equitable access to facilities and opportunities. Our initiatives during the past 3 years represent a prioritised set of healthcare, educational, social and cultural infrastructurerelated projects. 2008 – 2010 Social infrastructure development projects (Number of units) Places of worship and religious schools 21 Public schools 20 Family planning clinics 5 Drainage ditches 5 Electronic power generators 4 Istana Sayap Pelalawan is a palace located in Pelalawan Village near to our mill operations in Riau province. This palace was the throne of the historic kingdom Multi-purpose community halls 3 of Pelalawan. As part of the community development programme, we contributed towards the restoration project for the palace. We worked in collaboration with the Pelalawan district government, Malay Culture Council of Pelalawan, community leaders and renowned culture and history experts. Sports grounds 3 Commenced in 2003, the reconstruction of the palace buildings was completed in 2007 at a cost of approximately USD 1.1 million. Since then, we have Village head office 2 improved access roads and facilities surrounding the palace. On 19 June 2009, APRIL Indonesia officially presented the cultural icon to the Pelalawan District Government through Regent H Rustam Effendy. Istana Sayap Pelalawan is now serving as a monument of the rich cultural heritage of the Riau Malay people, Historical/cultural site 1 and as a key tourism destination in Riau. 80 81 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Healthcare Small and Medium Enterprise development Healthcare is a key component of our community development initiatives as we reach out to remote and isolated villages, most of which are beyond the reach APRIL Indonesia launched the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) development programme with the objective of providing aspiring entrepreneurs with technical of government health service. We mobilise teams of doctors and medical staff and volunteer counterparts from the local government health agency to provide and financial assistance to stimulate wealth and job creation. This programme supports a wide scope of businesses, including those directly related to our free medical services to community members. These include medical check-ups, basic medicine for common illnesses, immunisation, nutritional supplements to operations and those that are not. Examples of businesses closely connected to our operations are fibre plantation planting and maintenance teams, harvesting pregnant women and malnourished children and referrals and surgery for people with congenital birth abnormalities and cataract disease. contractors and transport services. Non-related SMEs receive vocational training in livelihood skills such as tailoring, honey production, carpentry and other skills. APRIL Indonesia acts as a guarantor to these entrepreneurs and helps them receive funding for their businesses.1 After organisational restructuring in 2009, Over the last 3 years, we have directly provided free medical assistance to 36,778 individuals in 116 villages. we extended our support from 79 to 130 local SMEs. In turn, this helped to create 1,636 jobs employed directly by the SMEs in 2010. Number of SME partners/entrepreneurs Number of SME employees Social activities 140 130 2,500 2,219 120 109 2,000 100 1,636 79 1,500 80 1,186 APRIL Indonesia’s community development extends beyond the traditional realm of economic assistance and aims to bring added benefits by partnering with 60 1,000 communities through activities which can touch the hearts of individuals. We believe that it is crucial to strengthen social bonds between the company and 40 community members by actively supporting volunteer work programmes and community religious and youth sports development programmes. 500 20 Programmes Highlights and achievements 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Year Year Volunteers for community • Initiated in 2009, volunteer groups of APRIL Indonesia employees and family members join villagers in cooperative programme social activities that include village clean-up, painting, drainage ditch cleaning, and tree planting. Since 2009, we have mobilised approximately 7,200 volunteers to 47 villages. Religious and cultural • Donations of religious equipment are made and training is provided for religious teachers. In the past 3 years support programme approximately 100 places of worship and 75 teachers have benefited. Youth sports development • Initiated in 2009, APRIL Indonesia invests in developing potential athletes from the Pelalawan district in Riau province programme for competing in local and national sports events that include badminton, football, tennis and karate. In the past three years we have invested approximately USD 110,000 to support 140 athletes in the programme. Note: In 2009, the global economic crisis resulted in lower production level and lower business activities. 82 83 Appendix Glossary GRI Indicators Bureau Veritas’ Independent Assurance Statement 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report GLOSSARY This glossary serves as an easy reference for the Carbon footprint Eucalytpus FSC HCVF ISO 9000:2000 Quality Management Systems terms in this report. The carbon footprint of a product may be seen as A large family of trees, common in Australia. Forest Stewardship Council is an independent, High Conservation Value Forests. HCVFs are Comprises a series of documents (standards, a balance sheet of greenhouse gas emissions and Certain species, like the Eucalyptus pellita, are non-governmental, not-for-profit organisation defined as forests of outstanding and critical guidelines and technical reports) that set out Acacia crassicarpa and Acacia mangium removals (transfers to and from the atmosphere). native to Indonesia. APRIL Indonesia is currently established to promote the responsible importance due to their environmental, sociomore specific standards for each areas such Two species of Acacia, characterised by fastexpanding its use of Eucalytptus on dry, mineral management of the world’s forests. economic, biodiversity or landscape values. as auditing procedures, quality performance growing and good pulping qualities. APRIL CDM soils. evaluation, quality improvement, quality in project plants Acacia crassicarpa on peatlands and Clean Development Mechanism is an FLEGT Illegal logging / wood management, training, techniques and statistical Acacia mangium on dry, mineral soils. arrangement under the Kyoto Protocol allowing FAO Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade Refers to trees that are cut from natural forests, process control. However, these do not result in industrialised countries with a greenhouse gas Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United is the European Unions effort to exclude illegal private concessions and village land without “certifications”. ISO 9001:2000 is the standard ADT (Air Dry tonne) reduction commitment to invest in projects that Nations, headquartered in Rome, Italy. timber from markets, to improve the supply of legal legitimate government authorisation or permits. used to assess an organisation’s ability to meet Marketable pulp (air dried) which contains 10% reduce emissions in developing countries as an timber and increase the demand for responsible The term also includes wood obtained through customer and applicable regulatory requirements, water alternative to more expensive emission reductions TFD wood products. bribery and wood acquired in violation of the thereby addressing customer satisfaction. in their own countries. CDM allows net global Formed in 1999 as an outgrowth of on-going conditions of the permit (For example, felling more Biodiversity greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced at a dialogues by the World Bank, WBCSD and GRI than the authorised volume or cutting outside the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Total diversity or variation of life within a given much lower global cost by financing emissions World Resources Institute, The Forests Dialogue The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a large permit area). Illegal logging is a global multiThis is the only standard within the ISO ecosystem. reduction projects in developing countries where (TFD) is a group of individuals from diverse multi-stakeholder network of thousands of experts, billion dollar industry. APRIL Indonesia is actively 14000 series against which an organisation’s costs are lower than in industrialized countries. interests and regions that are committed to the in dozens of countries worldwide, who participate combating illegal logging. Environmental Management System (EMS) Bio-fuel However, in recent years, criticism against the conservation and sustainable use of forests. TFD in GRI’s working groups and governance bodies. can be certified. ISO 14001 requires that an In contrast to fossil fuels, bio-fuel is based on mechanism has increased. members work together in a spirit of teamwork, This organisation developed the world’s most ISO organisation’s EMS provides a framework to raw material derived from living organisms and trust, and commitment to address obstacles widely used sustainability reporting framework The International Organisation for Standardisation identify and address the significant environmental therefore is classified as a renewable source. COD to sustainable forest management through a and is committed to its continuous improvement is a worldwide federation of national standards aspects and related impacts of its activities, Chemical oxygen demand. COD does not constructive dialogue process among all key and application worldwide. This framework sets bodies, representing more than 140 countries. products and services. ISO 14001 requires BOD differentiate between biologically available and stakeholders. TFD dialogues are designed to out the principles and indicators that organisations ISO is a nongovernmental organisation compliance with all relevant legislation and a Biological oxygen demand. A measure of the inert organic matter, and is therefore a measure build relationships and spur collaborative action can use to measure and report their economic, established in 1947, to promote the development commitment to continual improvement of the amount of oxygen that bacteria will consume of the total quantity of oxygen required to oxidize on the highest priority issues facing the world’s environmental and social performance. of standardisation and related activities globally. organisation’s EMS. However, the ISO standards while decomposing biologically available all organic matter into carbon dioxide and water. forests. ISO is not a acronym but is actually derived from do not set specific environmental performance organic matter. BOD is a measure of the degree Hectare (ha) the Greek word “isos” meaning “equal”. Hence, criteria nor does it establish absolute requirements of organic pollution in water. Also see “COD”. Metric unit of area that is equivalent to 10,000 the term ISO ensures that the name remains the for environmental performance; these are defined square metres or 2.417 acres same, regardless of the country or language by the organisation seeking certification to this standard. 86 87 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report IUCN Kraft pulp OHSAS 18001 Peatland Sumatra WBCSD The International Union for Conservation of Pulp produced by the most widely used chemical An Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Also known a “wetlands”. Peat is dead organic The second largest island (473,481 sq km) in World Business Council for Sustainable Nature, is the world’s oldest and largest global pulping process – the Kraft process (also known Series for health and safety management (vegetative) material that has accumulated over Indonesia, after Kalimantan. Riau province, Development (WBCSD) is a CEOled, global environmental network– a democratic membership as sulphate pulping process). The name of the systems. It is intended to help organisations thousands of years due to a combination of where APRIL Indonesia’s pulp and paper mills are association of some 200 companies dealing union with more than 1,000 government and process comes from the German word “kraft” manage occupational health and safety risks. permanent water saturation, low oxygen levels located, is 1 of 8 provinces on Sumatra. exclusively with business and sustainable NGO member organisations, and almost meaning power or strength. This process is and high acidity. Peat consists of 90% water development. Members are drawn from more 11,000 volunteer scientists in more than 160 versatile, allowing most types of wood to be used Oil palm and 10% plant material. Peatlands vary widely TSS than 35 countries and 20 major industrial sectors. countries. The organisation helps the world find as raw material. Unbleached kraft pulp is brown A special variety of palm widely planted in because of regional and local differences in soils, Total Suspended Solids. A measure of the solids WBCSD also benefits from a global network of pragmatic solutions to our most pressing in colour, and its uses include brown sack paper South East Asia that produces a vegetable topography, climate, hydrology, water chemistry, in suspension in wastewater, effluent or water about 55 national and regional business councils environment and development challenges. and bags. For use as printing or writing papers, it oil. This oil is used for cooking, food processing, vegetation, and other factors, including human bodies. and regional partners. It supports scientific research, manages field needs to be bleached. lubrication and as fuel additive. disturbance. Peatlands are found from the tundra projects all over the world and brings to the tropics and on every continent except TRS governments, non-government organisations, LEI PEFC Antarctica. Total Reduced Sulphur are compounds released United Nations agencies, companies and local Lembaga Ekolabel Indonesia is the Indonesian Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification from both natural and industrial sources that communities together to develop and implement Ecolabelling Institute,a nonprofit constituent based is an international, non-governmental, non-profit Riau province produce offensive odors, but not normally policy, laws and best practice. organization that develops forest certification organization dedicated to promoting sustainable Riau province on the island of Sumatra, is 1 of considered a health hazard. systems that promote just and sustainable forest forest management. PEFC is the world’s largest 30 provinces in Indonesia. Riau is where APRIL Kampar Peninsula resource management in Indonesia. certification system. Indonesia’s pulp and paper mills are located. UNGC The Kampar Peninsula is situated in the province Riau’s land area is 7,256,000 ha with a United National Global Compact consists of 10 of Riau, on the east coast of central Sumatra in Mosaic Plantation Concept PROPER growing population consisting of over 5.5 million principles covering human rights, fair labour, the Indonesia. It is delimited by sea in the north and Mosaic Plantation Concept describes APRIL Program Penilaian Kinerja Perusahaan or people (2010). environment and anti-corruption. The Compact, east, by Kampar River in the south and the Kutup Indonesia’s commitment to balancing economic, Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation, established in July 2000, seeks to promote River in the west. The 700,000 ha peninsula is social and environmental goals. Mosaic and Rating is the Government of Indonesia’s SFPI responsible corporate citizenship by providing a covered by peat swamp forests – a special type plantations are the combination of planted and National Environmental Impact Agency reporting Sustainable Forest Products Industry Working framework for businesses to follow in response to of rainforest growing on an accumulating, waternatural forests that result from implementing initiative and regulatory tool to promote industrial Group within the WBCSD, is defining industry the challenges of globalisation. The UNGC has logged peat soil up to 15 metres thick. Indonesian land use laws and voluntary best compliance with pollution control regulations, to standards and advocating for public policies that been signed by more than 3,000 participants management practices. MPC ensures that no facilitate and enforce the adoption of practices make best use of forestry sectors as agents for including 2,500 companies around the world, biological, ecosystem service, social or cultural contributing to “clean technology,” and to ensure sustainable development. making it one of the largest voluntary corporate values are compromised as a result of plantation a better environmental management system. citizenship initiative. development. 88 89 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report GRI Indicators GRI Indicator GRI Indicator GRI Indicator Description Inside this report GRI Indicator Description Inside this report Code Code Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Our Responsibility to People EC1 Sustainability Overview employee compensation, etc LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Our Responsibility to People EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Our Responsibility to People Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3 Our Responsibility to People Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local employees, by major operations. EC7 Our Responsibility to People community at locations of significant operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our Responsibility to People Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for Forest Management, EC8 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. Our Responsibility to People LA7 Our Responsibility to People related fatalities by region. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent EC9 Sustainability Overview Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist of impacts. LA8 Our Responsibility to People workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Mill Environment LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Our Responsibility to People EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Mill Environment Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 Our Responsibility to People EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Mill Environment employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Our Responsibility to People EN6 Mill Environment reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human HR3 Our Responsibility to People EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Mill Environment rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Mill Environment Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures HR6 Our Responsibility to People taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Mill Environment Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, EN11 Forest Management HR7 Our Responsibility to People and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage EN12 Forest Management SO1 Our Responsibility to People the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Forest Management Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 Forest Management areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Mill Environment EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Mill Environment EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Mill Environment EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Mill Environment EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Mill Environment EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Mill Environment 90 91 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Bureau Veritas’ Independent the company’s material issues, (although these are not always identified in a systematic way.) This is supported by details of how issues are being The assurance work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance and we believe it provides a reasonable Assurance Statement managed internally by APRIL Indonesia, and by performance data in areas such as Environment, Community Development and Employee Relations. The basis for our conclusions. report has been developed and compiled in line with the GRI G3 Guidelines Limitations and Exclusions and reflects its main requirements in an understandable and balanced Excluded from the scope of our work is information relating to: manner. • Activities outside the defined reporting period; To: The Stakeholders of APRIL Management Pte Ltd • Company position statements (including any expression of opinion, Observations and Recommendations belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention provided by APRIL); Introduction Methodology APRIL’s approach to sustainability and associated reporting could be further • Financial data which is taken from APRIL’s Annual Report and Accounts, Bureau Veritas Singapore (Bureau Veritas) has been engaged to provide To conduct the assurance we undertook the following: improved by addressing the priority recommendations outlined below. audited by an external financial auditor. external assurance to the stakeholders of APRIL Management Pte Ltd (“APRIL”) • Interviews with senior managers at APRIL’s head office in Singapore to over the content of its 2010 Sustainability Report (the Report) of its Indonesia build an understanding of sustainability strategy, the identification and Increasing transparency and managing risk This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, operation. The preparation of the Report is the sole responsibility of APRIL. management of key issues and risks to the company and its interaction It is evident that APRIL Indonesia has a good understanding of its key omissions or misstatements that may exist within the Report Our responsibility is to provide assurance to stakeholders on the accuracy, with stakeholders; sustainability issues which are identified as: Mill Environmental Impacts reliability and objectivity of the information therein, and to express our overall • Interviews with operational managers at APRIL Indonesia’s sites in (Emissions, Waste, Water, Energy); Social Impacts (Employees, Community Statement by Bureau Veritas of Independence, Impartiality and opinion as per the scope of assurance. Kerinci, Indonesia in order to assess the implementation of Sustainability Development); and Forestry Management. Competence commitments and the robustness and effectiveness of internal management Recommendation: the Report should contain more substantive information on Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that Objectives of Assurance systems, procedures and programmes; performance in these key risk areas wherever possible. APRIL Indonesia should specialises in quality, environmental, health, safety and social accountability The objectives were to: • Site visits to see operational activities, and verify what is happening in examine the applicability of improved monitoring processes, quantifiable with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance services, 1. Review and evaluate APRIL Indonesia’s sustainability strategy and its practice at both plantations and pulp/paper mills; targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) in these areas. and an annual turnover in 2010 of £3.1 billion. reporting approach at Head Office level; • Verification of performance data and factual information contained 2. Review the integration and implementation of APRIL Indonesia’s approach within the Sustainability report through a process of interviews, document Increasing balance Our assurance team does not have any involvement in any other projects to sustainability across certain of its international operations; review, data sampling and interrogation of associated information on the APRIL Indonesia provides useful context and background for each of its with APRIL other than this sustainability report assurance provision and there 3. Review underlying systems for sustainability governance, identification APRIL intranet; and through discussion with independent consultants who key risks in relation to sustainability and there is careful explanation on the is considered to no conflict between any other services provided by Bureau and management of issues, development of policies and performance have assisted APRIL in producing the Report. complexities of certain issues. Veritas and that of our assurance team. metrics (such as data collection, compilation, review and consolidation Recommendation: APRIL Indonesia’s Sustainability Report could be methods); and We have reviewed the extent to which APRIL has adopted the GRI G3 strengthened by acknowledging controversies related to certain issues more Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across its business which 4. Verify performance data, factual information and activities in relation to Guidelines in its reporting. clearly, and recognising the existence of opposing views among external is intended to ensure that all our staff maintains high ethical standards in their sustainability undertaken by APRIL Indonesia over the reporting period stakeholders. Where possible, the Report could also include the independent day to day business activities. January 1st 2008 to December 31st 2010. Opinion viewpoints of external stakeholders in relation to such issues. Based on our work, it is our opinion that the Report: Competence: Our assurance team has extensive combined experience in Bureau Veritas recognises the need for a robust and transparent assurance process • Provides a fair and reasonable account of APRIL Indonesia’s activities and This opinion has been formed on the basis of, and is subject to, the inherent conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and to ensure credibility, and to act as a tool to drive performance improvement in sustainability related performance; and limitations outlined below in this independent assurance statement. safety information, systems and processes in accordance with best practice. APRIL Indonesia’s sustainability reporting and strategy. This is achieved through • Contains sustainability related factual information and performance data the methodology outlined below, and by providing an impartial commentary that is deemed to be without significant error or bias, and therefore is on the reporting process, proposing summary recommendations for further considered to be reasonably accurate and reliable. development within this statement where appropriate. The report clearly communicates the key challenges and opportunities in relation to sustainability and demonstrates a thorough understanding of Singapore, April 2011 92 93 Sustain bility APRIL Indonesia is committed to building a stronger business while acting responsibly toward our customers, our employees, the environment and the communities on which we depend. As part of our commitment, we are pleased to release our fifth Sustainability Report printed on our own PaperOneTM paper made from renewable plantation fibre using environmentally-friendly soy-based ink, making this document more easily recycled. The front and back covers are made from 100% recycled paper. Your feedback will help us improve our future reporting, and we welcome your comments and opinions at SR2010feedback@aprilasia.com. www.aprilasia.com Signatory to the UN Global Compact Member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development
