Communication On Progress 2010 Datascrip, PT “We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies, corporate culture & philosophies. These are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance towards sustainability objective” Joe Kamdani Founder and Mentor PT Datascrip Global Compact Principle (Human Rights) 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 2: and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Datascrip upholds the rights of its employees, as they are seen as the most valuable resource. We are committed to respecting, protecting and abiding human rights. The company supports exclusively those values and kinds of behavior that are in harmony with the protection of human rights. Besides this, the company’s philosophy, Succeed above Success, becomes the platform of the company business activity to support the employees to success, which then deliver success to the company. Every achievement of each employee is appreciated with rewards, promotion, incentive and bonuses. Human capital is an important aspect for Datascrip in promoting responsible business for development. Datascrip strives to create equal opportunity between men and women, ethnic groups and nationalities. The recruitment process is based on competency according to job specifications and experience. Currently, Datascrip employs close to 1,000 staff members and each individual is evaluated objectively. Global Compact Principle ( Labour) 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5: the effective abolition of child labour; 6: and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Datascrip is committed to not utilizing or supporting child labor or any form of forced labor. We collaborate together with Indonesia Global Compact Network for a project called ‘Tjahaya – Curhat Buat Sahabat’ – “Tjahaya – Storytelling fot Best Friends”. This program is a continuous program for 3 years in a row (2009 – 2012). The goal is to develop children as a role models and becoming future agents of change in their communities to fulfill their rights for a better quality of life through storytelling art and media. The program covering Java, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi island. It is a voluntary initiative that seeks to advance the ten universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption through active engagement of the corporate community. Another program we held for the education of the kids in rural islands of Jakarta, we have Santa program for children by giving books and stationery on Christmas day. Global Compact Principle (Environment) 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9: and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Datascrip adopts environmentally friendly practices in business. We respond to the global warming issues with some actions including; •Reducing the use of paper •Saving energy by turning off lights during lunch time •Adopting the latest technology in implementation by communicating internally using intra-web •Sorting different kind of trashes •Promoting environmentally friendly technology products To support this, we create range of software to be used internally and externally. Global Compact Principle (Anti-Corruption) 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Datascrip arranges and implements marketing and sales strategic programs to create positive atmospheres in business competitions, both external and internal. In external implementation, the management avoids corruption, conspiring and nepotism practices in the business environment. Business ethic is applied in appointing dealer, reseller, seeking supplier, selling to customer and in participating tender. Meanwhile the internal application, every salesman and marketer is motivated to increase and to achieve their target with fair competitions.
