Q.crs~<1Ia1. ~ a:iittt~1Of ~ (~tmnRqm'~) ~ ~: 17.'I1 'lilc<J\~~. +rt 400020. I@I HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORPORATION LIMITED (A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) REGISTERED OFFICE: 17, JAMSHEDJI TATA ROAD, MUMBAI -400 020. 17. UI...ilcoJicrer~. ~iifcR:f;:j. -11041, ~ 400020. ~ -22863900o~ -22872992 oerR: ~~~GQ)I~. o~ -82414,85096 17,JamshedjiTataRoad,P.O. BoxNo. 11041,Mumbai400020.Tel.: 22863900 oFax: 22872992oTelegram:Hindpetcor.Telex: 82414,85096 e-mail: corphqo@hpcl.co.in August 11,2011 Statement of Director Human Resource of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. pledeine continued support to Global Compact Proeramme of United Nations. The Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited is committed to Continue rendering support to the Global Compact Programme of the United Nations and will endeavor to abide by the ten Principles of the programme, some of which are a part of our Vision and Mission Statements. Therefore, the company continues to pledge support to the programme through its policies, processes, products and services. k ~.~.~JJJl~ Dr. V. Vizia SaNEHri Director -HR ~ <il 'ii'ii,,,.:. am f!Y} Commitment to Global Compact: Communication on Progress at Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited is committed to the principles of Global Compact. This is evident from the various policies pursued by the Corporation. In fact, our VISION Statement encompasses Principle 7,8 & 9 ofthe Global Compact. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited's VISION To be a World Class Energy Company known for caring and delighting the customers with high quality products and innovative services across domestic and international markets with aggressive growth and delivering superior financial performance. The Company will be a model of excellence in meeting social commitment, environment, health and safety norms and in employee welfare and relations. Global Compact Principles addressed in our MISSION statement: HPCL, along with its joint ventures, will be a fully integrated company in the hydrocarbons sector of e~ploration and production, refining and marketing; focusing on enhancement of productivity, quality and profitability; caring for customers and employees; caring for environment protection and cultural heritage. It will also attain scale dimensions by diversifying into other energy related fields and by taking up transnational operations. ~=I 8:l'4imtjL:. am ~ . To foster a culture of participation and innovation for employee growth as an employee .. caring Organisation To cultivate high standards of business ethics and Total Quality Management To protect customer interest as a customer caring organisation . To take all steps for enriching quality of life of the community and protect the environment to preserve ecological balance. The Corporation initiated the following actions in support of our commitment to the Principles of Global Compact: 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: . The Organization continues and supports, respects and ensures no violation of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Ensure that the organization is not compHcitin human rights abuses Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limit~d conforms to human rights principles and ensures that no violation of the same occurs: . The organization has an approved policy for handling grievances of employees, shareholders and customers. Issues raised by other stakeholders such as Contractors, Dealers, Vendors and surrounding villa'gers and public are also attended promptly. . Our Conduct, Discipline & Appeal Rules applicable to Management employees and Standing Orders applicable to Non-Management employees are designed in such a manner that they take care of Human rirhts compliance across the Corporation. 3. Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Freedom of association is available to all the employees. The Corporation has established policies and practices through which the employees exercise the freedom of collective bargaining on issues of common interest. The issues are resolved through bilateral discussions with the Unions representing the Non-Management employees by way of signing the Long Term Settlements for salaries, wages and _perks, and settlements for career progression of employees, etc. ' 11iIi;.ui'Ii.. ,,[;ir!t:8 ~ ~ During 2010-11 Management had 11 meetings with the Representatives of the unions representing the employees across the Organization. 10 spot settlements regarding issues on Productivity improvement and other working conditions have been signed with the respective unions. Corporation strongly believes and recognize the right of the employees to know about their organization, keeping this in mind senior management, from time to time share the details of the prevailing business environment, Organization performance, growth strategies and future business plans with the employees through various meetings with the Office Bearers of the Unions and also through various communications in the form of circulars thru Corporate HP Portal for employees, etc. In fact the Corporation has co-created a vision for the Corporation, where the Representatives ofthe employees were also involved in the entire process. 4. Organization supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Corporation does not support forced or compulsory labour in any form and adheres to all labour laws in this respect. During the year no instance of forced or compulsory labour has come to light. The Corporation has systems & procedure in place, for ensuring the payment of minimum wages and other benefits provided under various Laws to the Contract Labour. 5. The Organization supports effective abolition of child labour As per the Corporation's Recruitment Policy, no person below the age of 18 years is engaged as direct employee or even as a Contract Labour. We adhere to Government laws in this regard i.e., Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986. . ~='Ii ,,,,,ii;,,c. ~ ~ 6. Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., is an equal opportunity employer. Corporation policies are aimed at ensuring equal opportunities to all Indian citizens in its Employment and avoid discrimination on any ground. Corporation gives equal opportunities of employment to all citizens of India. Being a Central Govt. of India Undertaking (PSU), it follows the Presidential Directives and Govt. Instructions with regard to its Recruitment Policies with regard to reservation for Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Classes and physically handicapped, scrupulously. 7. The organization adopts a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges . As a responsible corporate citizen, HPCL is committed to Safety and Health of all employees and public living in the vicinity of our installations and constantly endeavor to ensure that the highest safety standards maintained in all its operations. In line with the Safety, Health & Environment Policy adopted by it, HPCL is committed to conduct all its operations in a sustainable manner. . HPCL is committed to environment protection and constantly endeavor to ensure that its increasing scale of operations does not lead to environment degradation. In line with its Environment Policy , HPCL is committed to conduct all its operations in such a manner so as to be compatible with the environment protection. . Drastic reduction in S02 emissions have been achieved in both Refineries inspite of significant increase in crude throughput. S02 emissions have reduced from 60 TPD in 1984 to less than 25 TPD now, inspite of capacity increase from 4.5 to 13 MMTPA and addition of various secondary processing facilities. . Liquid fuel firing has been replaced with the natural gas firing at our Mumbai refinery which has again resulted in significant S02 emission reduction. These significant reductions have been achieved essentially by firing low sulphur fuels in the furnaces, putting up Sulphur Recovery Units and installing gas desulphurization facilities. ~.u;I I:4Iii;1!c. ~ ~ . Dependence on road transport for evacuation of products has been reduced drastically resulting in considerable reduction in auto emissions to atmosphere. Over 75% of products are being evacuated through pipelines from its petroleum refineries. . Both our Refineries at Mumbai & Visakh and many of our marketing installations have implemented the Environment Management system and have been certified by M/s. SGS India Pvt. Ltd. for ISO 14001:2006 (Environment Management System Certified) . HPCL has always been striving for environment protection and has established necessary hardware infrastructure as well as organizational structure for achieving the following objectives: 1. Commitment to environmental protection and preservation. 2. Identification, monitoring and control of pollution parameters. 3. Compliance of the stipulated statutory pollution norms. 4. Adaptation of eco friendly state of the art technologies. . HPCL has implemented various environmental and energy conservation projects to control and minimize the detrimental effects of pollutants on the environment. . HPCL complies with prescribed Environmental Norms of Minimal National Standards (MINAS) and other environmental standards. . HPCL ensures safety during transportation/storage/use of products as precautionary and preventive measures. . Effluent Treatment Plants: To comply with the MOE&F/Central Pollution Control Board revised effluent norms for petroleum refineries, State of the art Effluent Treatment Plants were set up at HPCL Refineries for continuous monitoring and treatment of effluent quality. A new Integrated Effluent Treatment Plant with latest technology like Cyclic Activated Sludge treatment followed by Membrane Bio-Reactor & reverse Osmosis commissioned at Mumbai Refinery. All LPG plants and major oil marketing terminals are having Effluent Treatment Plants for treating the effluent water before it is released to environment. All 44 LPG plants and major Terminals have been provided with ETP. All other POL locations have Oil water separators. ~~GI 'r 'IJiE!L:. ~ 'YJ . Mechanical Oil Recovery from Oily Sludge: To meet the applicable stringent statutory stipulations of Hazardous Waste Rules 1989 (including recent amendments to Hazardous Waste Management Rules.) on Oil Industry, the oily sludge needed to processed by evolving a sustainable management practice. The de-oiling of the available sludge by the oily sludge processing contractor was carried out at both the HPCL refineries and the entire oily sludge was processed in a time bound manner. The recovered oil from the sludge processing plant after meeting the desired BS&W is pumped out to the refinery system. . Bio-Remediation: After the mechanical recovery of oil from sludge processing plant the left over sludge cake containing oil content less than 10% is stored at a designated area to carry out the bio-remediation. Bio remediation is the process by which the oily sludge is bio degraded. The environmental friendly, bio degradable water soluble bio enzyme is used which assists in breaking the long chains of the HC in the oily sludge by the process of encapsulation at the molecular level. The HC molecule which is encapsulated by the aqueous bio enzyme solution then becomes a food source for the naturally occurring microbes present in the solid. The microbeslbacteria consume the encapsulated HC as food, consequentially the end product generated by them being CO, H2O cell mass and biological waste products. The process of Bioremediation of sludge is widely used at both refineries and marketing locations for disposal of sludge. HPCL has provided funds to TERI for development ofBio Reactor for manufacturing OIL ZAPER , the bio enzyme. . Hazardous waste disposal: In order to comply with the Hazardous Wastes Mgmt. & Handling Rules, spent catalysts/ old chemicals/ discarded chemicals/ Paint and oil sludge/ insulation waste etc. are being disposed to the registered Common Hazardous Wastes Treatment Storage Disposal Facility (TSDF) as well as to the SPCB/CPCB approved Recyclers. Our Refineries & Marketing Locations have entered into agreement with such approved TSDF facilities. -~ ~ . VOC Study! Vapour extraction systems: Volatile Organic Compounds study has been completed at both the refineries to address the revised environmental norms. Leak Detection & repair program has been put in place to quantify the VOC emissions and take preventive measures. Vapour extraction system pilot projects for retails outlets and tank truck loading gantries are under implementation. Vapour extraction system has been implementedat 418 retail outlets.New pilot project of vapour extractionsystem for tank truck loadinggantryis underimplementationat newTerminalprojectat Tikri Kalan. . Groundwater monitoring: Both at refineries and marketing locations Bore well water samples are tested regularly for assessing the ground water quality. . HPCL undertakes regular energy and environment audits by the private and Govt. Agencies. Various Govt. as well as non-Govt.organisations has recognized HPCL's efforts towards Environment Protection and awarded prestigious awards instituted by them which are listed below: . Greentech Environment Excellence Gold Award2010 for Outstanding Achievement in Environment Management in Petroleum sector for Mumbai as well as Visakh Refineries. The award was constituted by Greentech Foundation and was presented on 13thDecember 2010 at Hyderabad. . Greentech Environment Excellence Gold Award2009 for Outstanding Achievement in Environment Management in Petroleum sector for Mumbai Refinery. The award was constituted by Greentech Foundation and was presented on 6thSeptember 2008 at Goa. . HPCL, MR Bagged Golden peacock Award for Environment Management 2009 instituted by IOD Delhi . CSIR (Council of Scientific & Industrial Research) Technology Award for the year 2001 for developing a technology for production of food grade hexane using environment friendly Normal Methyl Pyrolidone (NMP) as solvent. . Golden Peacock Award for the year 2002 innovative product service for using environment friendly Normal Methyl Pyrolidone (NMP solvent) treating technology to produce food grade hexane, instituted by IOD & WEF, New Delhi. I1iSi;.J:GlIi . ~ 'fYj . Greentech Gold Award for the year 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007 for 'Environmental Excellence' by Greentech Foundation, New Delhi. . Golden Peacock Award for the year 2006, 2007 and 2008 for excellence in Environmental Management Systems, for the third consecutive year, under the category of Refinery Sector instituted by IOD & WEF, New Delhi. . Prize for Energy conservation in Petroleum Sector for the year 2007 to our Visakh Refinery. 8. The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility The following initiatives highlight HPCL's greater environmental responsibility: . HPCL has been the first to implement & commission its green fuels project in its Refineries for debottlenecking and process up gradation and to produce Euro III/IV diesel and petrol, to be in line with the national fuel policy to implement Euro III and Euro IV norms for fuel quality. As part of Green Fuels & Emission Control Project, Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit (Wet Gas Scrubber) has been envisaged in FCCU Unit & commissioning in 2011 for reducing the S02 emission and Particulate Matter . Continuous Ambient Air Monitoring Stations and on line stack monitoring stations have been installed at refineries which help in monitoring gaseous emissions at source. Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station's (AAMS) has been upgraded to measure Respirable Suspended Particle Matter (less than 10 micron particulate size). . HPCL was one of the first to adopt ECO-friendly technologies such as changeover from Phenol to NMP solvent in three lube extraction units and changeover form Oleum to NMP in the Hexane Treating Plant. These initiatives have been widely appreciated and have won for HPCL some national and international awards/citations. . Adherence to stringent norms for liquid effluents, air emissions and hazardous waste management as stipulated by statutory agencies. . Renewable Energy Initiatives: As a promoter of clean energy & technology, HPCL has embarkedon a Wind Power project of 100 MWH. During phase I of this project,25 MWH capacitieshas alreadybeen installedat Dhule in Maharashtra& Jaiselmerin Rajasthan.Phase I Projecthas been commissionedand electricityis fed to state electricitygrid. PhaseII project is under implementation.Solar energypanelshave been installedat many retail outletsto tap the solarenergy.91 retail outletshave been providedwith solar panels, manyLPG plantsare using solarpanelsfor streetlights. ~=lc ''''iii;rill1I ~ ~ . Energy saving initiatives: Reduced energy consumption results in reduced pollution which otherwise would have been caused by production of such energy. As a part of initiatives taken by HPCL for reducing energy consumption, marketing locations have been provided with Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) for motor load and Energy Saving Devices for lighting load. Most of about 100 POL locations have been provided with VFDs for Tank truck loading pumps. . Promoting eco-friendly products: Auto LPG and CNG are considered to reduce the pollution levels of densely populated cities significantly. HPCL has been contributing in promoting ecofriendly fuels by marketing of Auto LPG and CNG. HPCL has developed Racer 2, a low smoke 2 stroke engine oil for use in 2/3 wheelers. The smoke Index of this oil is 85 against Smoke Index of 45 for earlier products, available in the market. This has helped reduce . exhaust smoke from 2/3 wheeler automobiles by over 50%. Climate Change Policy: HPCL has evolved 'Climate Change Policy', highlighting the vision statement and formation of Steering committee with objectives to reduce Carbon Foot Print and incorporate a Green Perspective in all the key organizational initiatives and processes. The 'Climate Change Policy' has been released on 15th July 2010, 'Foundation day' by C&MD. . Carbon Foot Printing: As a way forward to climate change policy, a benchmark assessment study of 'Carbon foot print' has been carried out at both Visakh and Mumbai refineries in May . 2010. Rain water harvesting: Rainwater harvesting dam at BARC hills has been constructed in HPCL-Mumbai Refinery and is operational. The water from the dam is being used in the refinery for various purposes. Rainwater harvesting projects have been implemented at many marketing locations. . Tree Plantation: Tree plantation initiativeshave been implementedat refineries, marketing locations and housing colonies. Our locations have been receiving awards for Garden .. maintenanceand Tree plantation from localMunicipalAuthorities. Transportation through extensive, environment friendly network of pipelines. Minimizing environmental impacts arising out of use of our products/services by adopting state of the art technologies in our storage areas as well as during transfer of products is through pipelines. . During 2010/11 Corporation has taken up the following initiatives under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ~=IIi ,i... . ~ ~ Component Plan for Schedule Caste & Schedule Tribe Primary Education: Provided various furniture like dual desks, benches, bookcase, whiteboard, fans, tube lights, tables, chairs etc. for various schools/educational institutes. Provided school bus for Prebyterian English Medium School at Mamit, Mizoram. Provided dinning table, bed/bedding, cooking utensils and approved provision of KVA DG Sets, emergency lights, lockers etc., for Residential School/Hostels. Constructed classrooms, toilet blocks, school building, kitchen for Govt. Schools. Scholarshios : Granted scholarships to SC/ST/OBC college/university students from various colleges/university for Graduation & Post-Grad. Studies, from Dists. Thane, Raigad & Ratnagiri from Maharashtra State, Ahmedabad from Gujrat State and Vishakhapatnam from Andhra Pradesh. Drinkine Water Facilities: Provided drinking water facilities thru construction of water tank, water cooler, water purifier, RO system at Parmanand Dham Kusht Ashram of Bhatinda, Punjab. Provided hand pump for Chacha Nehru Bal Mandir at Aonla, Bareilly Dist. Provided gravity water supply under Jaldhara Project at Pathakota Village in Humumpeta MandaI at Paderu Agancy, Visakh. Health Care: Conducted medical camps at village Jodli, Dist. Karauli. Provided medicines for Impact India Foundation for their Lifeline Express at Dahanu Road. Provided Tata Sumo ambulance for Young Mizo Association (YMA), Aizawl, Mizoram. Provided ambulance of Beleri Vehicle to Arunachal Charity Home, Pasighat. Provided ambulance and medical equipments for CTRD Trust Hospital at Devala, Nilgiri Dist. Yag Laser Machine for cataract operations for R K Mission Sevashrama for their hospital at Mathura and ambulance to R K Mission, Vrindavan, Mathura for their Charity Hospital and to the Missionaries of Charity Mother Teresa. Income Generatine SchemesN ocational Trainine : Provided computers, computer furniture, generator set, printer, sewing machines for Computer & Tailoring Training for girls from Rewari Dist. Thru Rewati Svalanban Samiti, Rewari. Sewing machines and other embroidery equipments for Tailoring Training Centre at Durtlang run by Mizo Heichhe Insuikhawm Pawl (MHIP), All Women Federations of Mizoram, Durtlang. and sewing machines for SERUDS, NGO, to help the needy, destitute dalit women in Kurnool Dist. Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities: Granted scholarships for Visually Challenged students from various Dists. of U.P. thru NAB, Lucknow Govt. Residential School at Visakh. Sparsh Rajkiya Drishti Badhit Inter College, Lucknow, National Council of the Blind, Lucknow Blind School at Sitapur. Uniforms, furniture and kitchen utility items for Deaf & Dump School at the Centre for Welfare of Hearing and Speech Impaired, Hissar. and for Govt. Residential School for Visually Challenged Girls at Visakh and for disabled children from Chaitanya Institute at Kothavalsa, Visakh. 11!Ii;.{ ,ni..r It1iE!t:8 ~ Other Welfare Activities: Provided food packets, eye checkup, spectacles drinking water on the eve of Dhamma Parivartan Din, Nagpur., Vijay Stambha at Bhima Koregaon, Pune, Welfare activities on eve of Dr. Ambedkar's Death Anniversary at Chaityaboomi, Dadar, Mumbai.. Adopted Dhangarwada of Latambarcem village, Bicholim, North Goa, to provide various facilities in coordination with Rotory Club Bicholim. Provision of common six seater toilet block at village Usar and Velvali thru Group Gram Panchayat, Khanav, Alibag; CSR Special Proiects At the Field Level: The field personnel in the periphery of their function identify the needs of the community there and schemes are implemented to bridge the gap of the community needs and within their area of business. It has been our experience that these projects create a very strong bond between the community and the company. In periphery of our business we focus on the community development and also take up various social welfare activities like Primary Education, Scholarships for Graduation and PostGraduation Studies, Drinking Water Facilities, Health Care, Income Generating Schemes I Vocational Training, Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and other Welfare Activities. Since we have our operating locations across the country, our programs have a far reach pan India. At the Corporate Level The Projects with specialized NGOs/Implementation partners focus on Health, Education and Child care. Senior Officers volunteer to be Project Heads in addition to their own responsibilities. These projects also have pan India coverage. Major Projects Swavalamban This project is for vocational training to unemployed youth including school dropouts at various locations like Bhathinda, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Visakhapatnam, Loni, and Hyderabad by imparting various skills like Refrigeration, AC, Fabrication, Plumbing, Basic IT, Computer and Beauty Culture & Skin care. During the Year 2010-11, more than 1800 beneficiaries were covered under this project. I&iIi:-tGlI08:r-lllij t!c8 ~ Unnati Promoting computer education and computer literacy to the underprivileged children in semi urban and rural areas is the objective of this project. During the year 2010-11 the project implemented in 14 schools and 4000 students are benefitted from this program in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam, Tamilnadu, Haryana & Uttaranchal Nanhi Kali This program focuses on education of girl children in remote tribal villages of Paderu and Mehboobnagar in Andhra Pradesh, Sheopur and Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, and Udaipur in Rajasthan. During the Year 2010-11 about 5100 girl children were our center of attention. Muskan Street/run away children are taken care of by placing them in shelter homes of Tughalakabad and Jahangirpuri for bringing back their lost childhood. During the year 2010-11 about 200 children were provided with. basic needs like Food, Clothing, Shelter, Health care, Counseling, Non Formal Education and Vocational training for their overall development and giving them an opportunity to live dignified lives as future citizens. Navjyot Supports Child Health and Welfare at Resettlement Colony at Bawana in Delhi. The residents are provided health care facilities, Referral services through regular health check-up camps, Rehabilitation for slum families and Training programs. During the year 2010-11, 2900 children and 660 women benefitted thru this program. Suraksha Suraksha is our program for preventing and spreading awareness of HIV/AIDS. This is executed thru our Retail outlets on highways in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu where we have opened up Khushi clinics. At these clinics, there is STI diagnosis and treatment along with bringing awareness on safe sex practices. .. .. IliJO:-i:GIG 80:l:4iittillJl ~ f!Yj Sushrut Hospital Sushrut Hospital , a Multispecialty Hospital and charitable institution at Chembur is being supported by HPCL for the past many years. The objective is to make health care affordable to the public at large. Chale Chalo It is a community based program in villages and slums with the objective to make permanent irreversible change in the lives of underprivileged Indian children and address the root causes that impact children's lives gender, caste, displacement, livelihood etc. In 2010-11 we covered villages in Naupada and Kendrapara districts of Orissa and in Rajkot district of Gujarat for marginalized communities and children. Rain Water Harvesting The availability of water has a direct and positive impact in the socio-economic and health status of the community. In order to alleviate water scarcity in selected villages which has experienced acute water scarcity, the rain water harvesting project was undertaken in the tribal villages of Dapti in Thane District, Maharashtra, resulting in making water available to them. Awards and Recognition 1. HPCL has bagged the prestigious SCOPE Gold Trophy Meritorious Award for Corporate Social Responsibility & Responsiveness for the year 2009-10. Our C&MD Shri S. Roy Choudhury received the award from H.E. the President of India Smt.Pratibha Devisingh Pati!o 2. HPCL has won the prestigious 'Golden Peacock Award for Corporate Social Responsibility'for the year 2010-11. 3. HPCL has also bagged the prestigious Award in Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (Corporate) in the Special Technical Award Category during Petrotech 2010 and has been appreciated for its remarkable initiatives in Education and Healthcare of underprivileged children, specially the girl-child. ~ <illi f.iiit(iilll ~ 9. Organization should encourage development and diffusion of environment friendly Technologies Following initiatives highlights HPCL's efforts in encouraging development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies: . Adoption of upgraded Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Technology consisting of Flue Gas desulphurization. . Adoption of Diesel Hydro De-sulphurization at our petroleum refineries to produce ultra low sulphur bearing fuels known as Euro-WIIl/IV High Speed Diesel. . Adoption of latest state of the art technologies to produce ultra low sulphur bearing EuroWIll/IV gasoline from our petroleum refineries. . Online chemical cleaning of Atmospheric & Vacuum Furnaces was carried out by GTC, . Korea using liquid spray effectively. Periodic steam leak surveys were carried out by Mis Forbes Marshall. About 1.2 TIHr reductions in steam leak were achieved by arresting the leaks. . Focusing on Research & Development activities for upgrading our products & technologies . Adoption of latest state of the art technologies like membrane technologies for our Effluent Treatment plants to ensure compliance of liquid effluent norms at our petroleum refineries as well as to ensure the recycling ofthe treated.effluent to process. . Adoption of Mechanical Oil Recovery Technology by Mis. Singaport Cleanseas, Singapore to recover Oil from Oily Sludge to meet the applicable stringent statutory stipulations of Hazardous Waste Rules 1989 (including recent amendments to Hazardous Waste Management Rules.) on Oil Industry. The de-oiling of the available sludge by the oily sludge processing contractor was carried out at both the HPCL . refineries and the entire oily sludge was processed in a time bound manner. Employed Bio-Remediation Technology by Mis. TERI, India to treat the left over sludge cake containing oil content less than 10%, after the mechanical recovery of oil from sludge processing plant the is stored at a designated area to carry out the bio-remediation. HPCL has provided funds to TERI for development of Bio Reactor for manufacturing OIL ZAPER , the bio enzyme. . Sponsoring and financing private and government research enterprises for development of eco-friendly technologies. Entered into agreement with TERI for financing Bioreactor for development of microorganism for oily sludge treatment at our petroleum refineries. ~=I ..rii:JI ~ ~ 10. The organization should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery . As per the provisions of Conduct, Discipline and Appeal rules for Management employees and certified Standing Orders for Non-management employees giving or acceptance of bribes is misconduct. . An employee violating the code of conduct and ethics is subjected to investigation and appropriate action is initiated against him based on result of investigation. . Checks and measures are in-built in the organizational system that helps in preventing corruption. . Numerous training programs and workshops are held for disseminating knowledge about organizational system, as also for checking corruption. . Corporation has and independent Vigilance Department which is under the jurisdiction of the Chief Vigilance Commissioner and is empowered to initiate investigations on its own. . Corporations has a 'Whistle Blower Policy' wherein employees who report corruption are provided safeguards against victimization. ****
