Commonwealth Bank Sustainability Report 2011 Contents Contents At the Commonwealth Bank, About this report 3 we’re working to build a more A message from our CEO 4 Our sustainability scorecard 7 sustainable future in everything Who we are 8 we do – from working with Customers 12 People 20 our customers, developing Community Governance 28 38 our people, supporting our Environment 42 local communities to strategic Bankwest 48 Metrics and Definitions 54 corporate decision-making. Independent Review Report 58 2 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 About this report About this report Our annual Sustainability Report details operated by the Commonwealth Bank United Nations Global Compact the key sustainability initiatives we Group within Australia for the period We are a signatory to the Global Compact focused on during 2010–11 and helps from 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011. and committed to communicating us to share our experiences with our It includes a chapter on our subsidiary our progress on integrating the Global customers, our people and the broader Bankwest, beginning on page 48. Compact principles in the areas of community. We believe that being ASB Bank (ASB), our wholly owned human rights, labour, the environment transparent around how we are working New Zealand bank, publishes its own and anti-corruption. This report fulfils our to be a sustainable business, and the corporate responsibility report, ASB in commitment to reporting as part of this role we play in the wider community, is Your Community. This report, along with important initiative. an essential part of how we do business. information about ASB’s sustainability This report describes our key approach, is available online at: Independent assurance sustainability initiatives over the last Key metrics in this report as set out in the 12 months, together with our plans for asb.co.nz/community-and‘Metrics and Definitions’ section on pages the future and it focuses on our five sponsorship/corporate-responsibility 54–57 have been independently reviewed foundations of sustainability: People, For more detailed information on our by KPMG. See the Independent Review Customers, Community, Environment financial performance, our 2011 Annual Report on page 58 for more details. and Governance. Report is available online at: Scope commbank.com.au/about-us/ shareholders/financial-information/ The Sustainability Report 2011 covers annual-reports the activities of companies owned and Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 3 CEO message A message from our CEO The Commonwealth Bank’s third Sustainability Report demonstrates our long-term commitment to the implementation of sustainable programs and initiatives that assist our customers, engage our people, support communities, consider the environment and embed strong corporate governance practices. Sustainability is about being a successful Our customers for our people (page 24), and actively business today while ensuring we We remain committed to our vision to worked to support the health and deliver value over the long term for our be Australia’s finest financial services wellbeing of all staff (page 25). people, customers, shareholders and organisation through excelling in customer Our community the community. I am pleased to share service. Over the financial year, we have The number and extent of natural with you the Commonwealth Bank supported this goal through our ongoing disasters around the country during Sustainability Report 2011. investment in process enhancement the 12 months to 30 June was and systems which have improved the Our sustainability focus has a direct link unprecedented. We moved swiftly customer service experience. We also to our strategic priorities and the related to provide support to the broader launched a number of new products five areas of opportunity – customer community affected by the Queensland and services (page 17) and reinvigorated service, business banking, technology and Victorian floods and Cyclone Yasi. training for our frontline staff with the and operational excellence, trust and As a Group, we made the largest ever launch of SkillBUILDER to help them community contribution of around $65 team spirit, and profitable growth. better support our customers (page 25). million to flood victims (page 28), and During the 2010–11 financial year we have continued to build sustainable Our people many of our people were involved, We have continued to work towards giving their time and money to support practices into every aspect of our impacted communities. business, working to create long-term creating a culture of trust and team spirit. We launched our inaugural We also deepened our community value for our customers, employees, Diversity Policy to bring about greater engagement through new initiatives, shareholders and the community. diversity in our organisation and assist such as Launching Local Heroes and the As a Group, we are proud of the with creating and maintaining an Community Seeds program (page 35). achievements we have made in these inclusive and collaborative workplace At the same time, we continued our areas, and we remain dedicated to culture. We also continued to provide support for established initiatives and building on them in the future. training and development opportunities partnerships (page 29–35), including supporting youth financial literacy through the Commonwealth Bank Foundation Click here for a short video about: and children’s youth organisations Sustainability at the Commonwealth Bank though our Staff Community Fund’s Community Grants program. 4 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 CEO message Ralph Norris Chief Executive Officer Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 5 CEO message Our environment Looking forward We continued our shift to more environmentally efficient properties, moving the first group of people into our new Commonwealth Bank Place buildings which have been We are making significant progress awarded a six star Green Star rating for base building office in our sustainability journey and design. In addition to a range of environmentally friendly features and energy efficiency targets, the North and South remain committed to further buildings both incorporate the activity-based working concept embedding sustainability practices which paves the way for creating an even greater place for our people to work in (page 43). within our business and contributing to a more sustainable Australia. Our governance framework We believe that strong corporate governance and an ethical framework is the backbone of a successful business. Our senior In December 2011 we will celebrate the Commonwealth leaders and decision makers lead by example, demonstrating Bank’s Centenary of our founding – 100 years of helping accountability and disclosure, and we continue to grow and our customers achieve their financial goals, supporting embed a strong ethical culture (page 38). communities, developing our people and providing strong shareholder returns. We share this milestone with our Our shareholders customers, shareholders and people, and this special time will We delivered a solid full year result ending 30 June 2011, provide the opportunity to celebrate and reflect on the positive announcing a Net Profit after Tax (NPAT) on a cash basis of difference we have helped to make to millions of Australians. $6,835 million and a statutory NPAT of $6,394 million. This 2011 will also mark the beginning of new leadership at the result represents an increase of 12% and 13% respectively Commonwealth Bank, with incoming Chief Executive Officer from the previous year’s result, with the underlying strength of Ian Narev officially taking on the role from 1 December. With our businesses a primary contributor to the increase. Over the Ian at the helm, the Group is well placed to continue its longer-term, we have achieved significant total returns for our evolution and the progress we have made towards our vision shareholders, for example 49.08% over two years and 56.05% to be Australia’s finest financial services organisation through over five years, compared with the ASX200 at 26.41% and excelling in customer service. 12.51% over the respective corresponding periods. We remain focused on being forward looking and committed to Bankwest delivering long-term value for our shareholders, our customers, our people, our community and our environment over our next Our Bankwest business has made substantial progress during 100 years. the year, both within its Western Australian home state and through its continuing east coast expansion. The business continues to prove a valuable addition to the Commonwealth Bank Group. We are very pleased with the Bankwest contribution and we are looking forward to continued improvement over the year ahead. Ralph Norris Chief Executive Officer “Sustainability is about being a successful business today while ensuring we deliver value over the long term for our people, customers, shareholders and the community.” 6 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Our sustainability scorecard Our sustainability scorecard All metrics capture data from Australian domestic operations unless otherwise stated. Definitions for all metrics are on page 54–57. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 CUSTOMERS Roy Morgan Research MFI 75.2% 75.6% 73.0% 70.1% 70.5% Retail Customer Satisfaction (ranked 4th) (ranked 2nd) (ranked 3rd) (ranked equal 3rd) (ranked 4th) DBM Business Finance Monitor 7.1 7.0 – – – MFI Customer Satisfaction (ranked equal 2nd) (ranked equal 1st) Wealth Insights 84.7% 86.5% 84.1% 88.2% 89.4% Platform Survey (ranked 1st) (ranked 1st) (ranked 1st) (ranked 1st) (ranked 2nd) PEOPLE Lost Time Injury Frequency 2.3 2.9 2.4 3.1 3.7 Rate (LTIFR) Gallup Survey GrandMean 4.30 4.32 4.37 4.28 4.13 People and Culture Indicator 4.30 4.31 4.36 – (PCI) Absenteeism 6.0 5.9 5.9 6.5 6.2 (average days per FTE) Employee Turnover 12.65% 12.73% 11.37% 18.45% 14.94% (voluntary) ENVIRONMENT Property and fleet carbon 170,668 176,806 172,752 173,397 163,964 emissions (tonnes CO2-e) 5.19 per FTE 5.5 per FTE 5.7 per FTE 5.6 per FTE 5.4 per FTE Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 7 Who we are Who we are Our vision is to be Australia’s finest financial services organisation through excelling in customer service. Since we first opened our doors in Australian communities through our insurance, investment and stockbroking 1912, the Commonwealth Bank has sustainability initiatives. products and services. We have become a familiar part of the lives of We are a leading provider of integrated established businesses in Australia, millions of Australians. We are proud financial services, including retail New Zealand, Europe, the United to have been part of Australian history banking, premium banking, business States, and the Asia-Pacific region, over the last 100 years, and we remain banking, institutional banking, funds including China, Indonesia, Vietnam absolutely committed to supporting management, superannuation, and India. The Group at a glance • With around 11 million retail and business customers, • On average our customers hold 2.64 financial products and 52,000 employees globally, we are Australia’s each. (Roy Morgan Research, based on Australians aged largest financial institution, and the second largest 14+, Banking and Finance customers, 30 June 2011). company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, • Our Business and Private Banking division has around based on market capitalisation. 200,000 business customers, one million trading • We supported our customers with more than $90 billion customers, and 15,000 private banking customers. in new lending during the 12 months to 30 June 2011. • At market close on 30 June 2011 our share price was • In the 12 months to 30 June 2011, 14% of logins to trading at $52.30, a premium to our banking competitors NetBank were through a mobile device. and up 7.5% over the financial year. The S&P200 Financials Index increased 7.1% over the same period. • We process 45% of Australia’s transactions every day, either through ATMs or EFTPOS. • In the 12 months to 30 June 2011 we generated $5 billion in dividends for shareholders and paid $3 billion in taxes. 8 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Who we are Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 9 Who we are Some of our awards in 2010–11 MONEY MAGAZINE AWARDS 2011 • Bank of the Year 2011 • Credit Card Issuer of the Year • Banking Website of the Year • Margin lender of the Year (CommSec) Judged by a team of Money magazine experts, these awards evaluate thousandsof products from banks, building societies and credit unions across Australia. MONEY MAGAZINE BEST OF THE BEST AWARDS • Best Feature-Packed Online Broker – CommSec • Best Featured Margin Loan – Colonial Geared Investments CANSTAR CANNEX 2011 We hold Canstar Cannex 5 star ratings across 31 products plus these awards: • Youth Banking and Education Award • Outstanding Value Award for Home & Contents Insurance • Best Online Banking Award • Innovation Award for the iPhone Property Guide application ASIAN BANKER EXCELLENCE IN RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES AWARDS 2011 • Best Retail Bank in Asia Pacific • Best Consumer Lending – Personal Loans Portfolio • Best Retail Bank in Australia • Best Cash Management Bank in Australia The Asian Banker Excellence in Retail Financial Services Awards recognise financial institutions that have excelled in meeting the needs of their retail financial services customers. AUSTRALIAN PRIVATE BANKING COUNCIL AWARDS 2011 • Most outstanding institution in the $1 million-$10 million category (Commonwealth Private) for the third year running Hosted by the Australian Private Banking Council, these awards recognise outstanding institutions and individuals within private banking, private wealth and private client services. GLOBAL FINANCE AWARDS 2011 • Best Bank in Australia • Best Foreign Exchange Provider in Australia Each year Global Finance magazine selects the best financial institutions around the world. AUSTRALIAN BANKING AND FINANCE AWARDS 2011 • Australian Financial Institution of the Year – Major Banks • Chief Information Officer of the Year – Michael Harte • Chief Risk Officer of the Year – Alden Toevs • Innovative Mortgage Product of the Year – No Fee Variable Rate Home Loan 21ST ANNUAL AUSTRALIAN BANKING & FINANCE AWARDS The Australian Banking & Finance Awards are Australia’s premier financial services awards with winners selected by an independent panel of senior industry professionals. 10 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Who we are Some of our awards in 2010–11 INSTO DISTINCTION AWARDS 2011 • Chief Financial Officer of the Year – David Craig • Australian Issuer of the Year – Australian Bond Market The benchmark for achievement in Australia’s finance and capital markets, the Insto Distinction Awards draw on the views of a broad sample of leading international institutional investors. 2011 AUSTRALIAN LENDING AWARDS • Third Party Operator of the Year (RBS) • 2011 Best Innovator (RBS) We are proud to have been recognised with several awards at the inaugural 2011 Australian Lending Awards, reinforcing our position as Australia’s leading financial services organisation among consumers and brokers. STANDARD & POOR’S FUND AWARDS 2010 • Fund Manager of the Year – Colonial First State Global Asset Management Acknowledged as a pre-eminent accolade in the funds management industry internationally, the Standard & Poor’s Fund Manager Awards recognise managers who have demonstrated superior investment capabilities and are well positioned for sustainable success. Customer service awards 2011 AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS AWARDS • Australian Business Award for Service Excellence – Financial and Insurance Services segment 11 WINN 20 ER SE COMMONWEALTH CE VI BANK EN L R CE EXCEL PROFESSIONAL ADVISER AWARDS 2011, LONDON • Best International Equity Group – Colonial First State Global Asset Management • Best Fund Management Group (Small) – Colonial First State Global Asset Management CUSTOMER SERVICE INSTITUTE OF AUSTRALIA • Service Excellence Award for Large Business – Commonwealth Bank • Best Medium Business in NSW – CommInsure General Insurance • Customer Service Executive NSW – Fred Pollock • Customer Service CEO of the Year – Ralph Norris 2011 CALL CENTRE AWARDS FOR SERVICE EXCELLENCE • Commonwealth Life Indonesia CONTACTCENTERWORLD • Best Large Contact Centre Award – Asia Pacific, Direct Banking WORLD CONTACT CENTRE AWARDS • Silver Medal, Direct Banking Contact Centre (Parramatta) Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 11 Customers Customers Over the last year, we have continued to improve our day-to-day services for both retail and business customers as well as helped our customers in the wake of natural disasters. And we are determined to keep our customers at the very heart of our vision, now and in the future. Customer satisfaction Note: Among customers answering “Overall provides good Customer satisfaction remains our top priority. During the service” of their main bank (% answering 5, 6 or 7 on a 7 point 2010–11 financial year we introduced a number of initiatives scale) Commonwealth Bank rates the highest among the to support our retail, business and wealth management major four banks. Source: Roy Morgan Research, six-month customers. We also remained focused on our commitment to rolling average to June 2011. deliver exceptional products and services to all our customers and launched a range of innovative solutions. We achieved a customer satisfaction rating of 75.2% in the Colonial First State’s FirstChoice Roy Morgan Research Main Financial Institution (MFI) Retail Customer Satisfaction Survey in June 2011 on a six-month product platform was ranked rolling average. This result put us in fourth position against the number one for the fourth three other main Australian banks and was a 0.4% decrease on the previous year’s result. consecutive year, scoring 84.7% However, this year we achieved some of our highest ever for overall satisfaction by financial results against the Roy Morgan measure and held second position for five out of the 12 months. Additionally, in June advisers in the 2011 Wealth Insights 2011 we were first among the major banks on Overall Platform Service Level survey. providing good service on a six-month rolling average, as measured by Roy Morgan Research. 12 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Customers In August 2010, we moved our business customer satisfaction We also continue to run our Brand, Advertising and Reputation provider to the DBM Business Financial Services Monitor Tracker every month to monitor the sentiments of 2,000 (from the TNS Business Finance Monitor). On this measure, consumers using an online survey. The survey covers topics such our MFI business customers gave us a satisfaction rating of as consumer confidence, brand and reputation perceptions, 7.1 out of 10, on a six-month rolling average to 30 June 2011, and awareness and recognition of our advertising. The survey giving us a ranking of equal second among the major banks. results provide an insight into consumer perceptions of market conditions and the Commonwealth Bank brand. Customer satisfaction 2008–2011 90 COMPLAINTS AND COMPLIMENTS ranked 1st We actively encourage feedback from our customers and ranked 1st 80 ranked 1st ranked 1st regard complaints as constructive comments that enable us to ranked 2nd ranked 3rd ranked 4th recover our customer relationships and improve our business. ranked equal 3rd 70 Customer feedback is addressed at the first point of contact ranked equal 2nd ranked equal 1st wherever possible. If this is not possible, feedback is escalated to our Group Customer Relations team, which is a standalone 60 2008 2009 2010 2011 business unit focused on resolving issues quickly and transparently. Customers can provide feedback through a range Roy Morgan Research MFI retail customer satisfaction (6-month to June rolling average) of channels, including a freecall phone number, in person, mail, DBM Business Finance Monitor MFI Customer Satisfaction Wealth Insights Platform Survey email, online and social media such as Twitter or Facebook. Recent regulatory changes in Regulatory Guidelines (RG165) Listening to our customers require a higher standard of complaint recording and handling, Understanding our customers’ views enables us to better and we seek to resolve complaints at the first point of contact. meet their needs and provide them with relevant services. In September 2010, we introduced a frontline customer feedback system called Firstpoint, which allows employees In January 2011, we launched the Commonwealth Bank across the business to record complaints. We also continued Facebook page as a new forum for customers to talk about to train our frontline staff in complaint handling. our organisation and engage in discussions with other customers. The page has been well received by customers, As a result of the expansion to the definition of what amounts with more than 30,000 people with a Facebook account to a complaint, and the introduction of Firstpoint, there was ‘liking’ the page by 30 June 2011. an increase in the number of complaints recorded in the last financial year. At the same time, compliments rose significantly. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 13 Customers Complaints and Compliments 2010–11 2009–10 Satisfy* Firstpoint Total Satisfy* Firstpoint Total Complaints received 6,428 131,482 137,910 32,213 0 32,213 Compliments received 975 8,414 9,389 3,371 0 3,371 Complaint to compliment ratio 6.6 15.6 14.7 9.6 N/A 9.6 * Prior to the introduction of Firstpoint, complaints and compliments were logged centrally through the Satisfy database by the Group Customer Relations team. Supporting our customers in times of need We immediately sent Customer Assist Team Managers to areas DISASTER RELIEF affected by the floods, cyclones and bushfires, to offer support and assistance to our customers directly impacted by natural In the wake of the devastating natural disasters that disaster. Our Emergency Assistance Package, including a three occurred across the country, we acted swiftly to introduce a month loan repayment deferral and options for interest and fee range of responsive banking initiatives to help our customers waivers, provided instant relief for these customers. affected by flood and cyclone damage. Our Emergency Assistance Package was activated to support our retail and Subsequent to these events, the team has managed a business customers, as well as the broader community, significant increase in call volumes, with the usual daily in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, Western Australia call volumes doubling in January 2011. The team and Tasmania. helped more than 2,000 affected customers in the month of January alone and continues to assist many customers on a Our flood and cyclone financial assistance comprised initiatives case-by-case basis with reduced repayment arrangements, totalling $65 million, including: interest and fee concessions and debt restructure. These • Compassionate Assistance Fund of up to $50 million and solutions are available to support the rehabilitation of our ex gratia payments of $8 million. customers’ financial position. • Community Group Flood Assistance Grants Program of The support our Customer Assist team provides to customers $5 million. is imperative to help them achieve financial well-being. This • Cash donations of $2 million to flood relief appeals. support includes providing access to our dedicated financial counsellors network. We also set aside $1 billion for loans to business and agribusiness customers, and we waived the first three months’ interest for At 30 June 2011, the Customer Assist team had 81 staff. customers taking out new or increased overdraft facilities. During the 2011–12 financial year we will be recruiting 30 new Customer Assist front-line officers and also enhancing our On a global scale, following the Japan earthquake and existing management team. subsequent tsunami occurring off the Pacific coast of Tohoku in March 2011, we donated $100,000 to the Australian Red Responsible lending Cross Japan and Pacific Disaster Appeal and launched an We continue to take a considered approach when lending appeal accepting donations in all Commonwealth Bank to customers and follow responsible and business-minded branches. In New Zealand, after the devastating earthquake practices. which hit Christchurch in February 2011, our ASB business donated NZ$1.5 million to the Christchurch Earthquake During the financial year, our Institutional Banking and Appeal and also launched the NZ$1 million ASB Christchurch Markets team updated its Risk Appetite Statement to include Community Groups Assistance Grants. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) risk mitigation. ESG considerations are factored into the credit risk assessment CUSTOMER ASSIST of the transaction exposure, including the potential associated Our specialist Customer Assist team continued to help our reputational risks. ESG considerations are also evaluated on customers requiring financial hardship assistance. During the a portfolio basis and factored into sector business strategies, year, our team moved to a new operating model focusing further strengthening our risk mitigation practices. on the delivery of real-time assessment over the phone. Our aim is to provide an immediate response to our customers experiencing financial hardship, where possible. 14 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Customers We are committed to ensuring we continue to balance the requirements of our customers and shareholders by offering competitive, fairly priced products and operating profitably. INTEREST RATES Privacy We continue to balance interest rate pricing with customer We take the privacy of our customers very seriously, in needs, market fluctuations and shareholder returns. particular our responsibility to maintain the confidentiality International capital markets volatility and pressure on funding of customer records and information. costs for deposits within Australia makes this balance a The Group Privacy Standard outlines our policy for personal challenging task. information handling practices, including collection, usage, Since the Global Financial Crisis, the sustained increase in integrity and storage, and is in accordance with the Privacy the retail bank’s wholesale funding and retail deposit costs Act and the National Privacy Principles. increased our funding costs to 135 basis points above the official cash rate. Our overall wholesale funding costs continue Core banking modernisation to increase as cheaper funding expires and is replaced with Initiated in 2008, our Core Banking Modernisation program more expensive funding. At the same time, competition for retail continues to roll out, and we achieved significant milestones deposits has significantly increased the cost of retail funding. during the year. By updating our core banking processes and systems, we are introducing a world-leading banking Accessibility technology platform that enhances our services to customers We are always looking for ways to make banking easier for and how we do business in general. our customers with a disability. This year, we commenced an ‘ATM Refresh’ project which includes making ATMs more accessible. The screen displays now have a better contrast, In late 2010, 10 million retail deposit and text appears in a larger, clearer font. We currently have 75 ATMs with enhanced frontal access, and over 1,100 ATMs and transaction accounts were are audio-enabled. By the end of 2014, we aim to have 100 migrated to our new core banking per cent of our ATMs audio-enabled. system, giving these account Customers can easily locate ATM banking services with improved accessibility features by visiting our website – holders access to real-time banking commbank.com.au/locate-us. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Our website has also been upgraded and simplified to provide better accessibility and navigation for people who are vision impaired or have a print disability and are users Our retail customers are now experiencing the benefits of the of screen reading technologies. new platform, including: All our web development and maintenance adheres to our • Seeing their transactions in real-time using Netbank. guidelines on improving accessibility and usability. • Instantly opening new accounts which allow immediate transactions. For customers who are deaf, or have a hearing or speech • Clear and simple transaction descriptions, as well as impairment, we provide information on how to use the National simplified processes, which mean easy, understandable Relay Service, both online and in our Telephone Banking and efficient banking. brochure. We also provide Telephone Typewriter (TTY) banking services that specifically assist these customers. We are now focused on bringing our business customers to the new platform, with more than 1 million business deposit and transaction accounts being migrated in the project’s next release. We expect that these business deposit and transaction accounts migrations will be completed by early 2012. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 15 Customers 16 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Photo by Tony Phillips Customers Innovation BUSINESS BANKING NEW NATIONAL FLAGSHIP BRANCH 2011 is our third year of running our free small business forums for customers. These popular forums were held between We were pleased to open our national flagship branch at February and April. In addition to informative presentations and 240 Queen Street, Brisbane in March 2011. This exciting branch discussions, the forums also provided participants with free brings together Personal, Business, Premier and Private Banking, financial health checks and business reviews. as well as Foreign Exchange and Financial Planning, to provide a one-stop financial service solution for our customers. We also launched our new Business Banker in branch service, making it easier and more engaging for our customers to talk The branch offers a range of state-of-the-art technology to us about their business needs. innovations, including iMac Netbank terminals and iPads for customers to access the iPhone Property Guide application, Two innovative iPhone applications now complement our and a self-service online booking system to schedule meetings Business Banking offerings. The first application enables business with banking specialists. There are quick deposit machines customers to use their smart phone to process transactions. The for cash and cheques plus a coin counting machine, Business other application enables businesses and consumers to access Banking tellers and a Foreign Exchange area. our foreign exchange calculator and also set currency alerts on Customers are welcomed by dedicated concierges and engaged their smart phones. The Foreign Exchange Toolkit incorporates a by compelling digital media, including LCD video screens. number of comprehensive, market-leading features including the latest exchange rates for 33 foreign currencies, up to two years worth of historical currency data to view past performance and Click here for a short video about our: currency tracking using user-defined alerts. New flagship branch In April 2011 we celebrated the first anniversary of our Institutional Equities business. This business is part of our PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Institutional Banking and Markets division’s Total Capital During the 2010–11 financial year we introduced a number Solutions offering. The research team now includes 35 of new products and services for both our retail and business analysts covering 90% of the ASX 200. customers: MEET THE HARRINGTONS VIDEO SERIES • No Fee Variable Interest Rate Home Loan. The first Also in March 2011, we launched our Meet the Harringtons of its kind in the Australian market, this ‘no fee’ home video series. This online media series debunks the myths around loan is available to new and existing customers, with no financial planning. Four episodes cover the different Harrington switch fees for existing standard variable rate home loan family members as they experience specific life stages – from customers. Customers can conveniently arrange this type Steve and Lucy who are about to start a family, to Carly the of loan by visiting one of our branches, over the phone, young professional. Meet the Harringtons demonstrates how online or through a broker. a Commonwealth Financial Planner can assist customers • GoalSaver savings account. With no monthly account or throughout their life. The videos were well-received on YouTube, withdrawal fees, this account offers a variable bonus rate with more than 43,000 views by 30 June, 2011. currently at 6% pa when customers increase their savings balance by at least $200 and no more than one withdrawal is made each month. • Business Debit MasterCard. This MasterCard gives business customers improved access to their business transaction or cheque accounts. It allows them to access their money from their business transaction accounts at ATMs and also pay for purchases using EFTPOS. Customers can also use business funds to pay for business expenses online, over the phone or in person. This card also provides extra security through an Europay, MasterCard and VISA (EMV) chip and MasterCard Zero Liability. • General upgrades. Over the year we upgraded our platforms, including Netbank, CommBiz and CommSee with new features to enhance the customer experience through increased efficiency. We also updated our ATMs to reflect our current branding and advertising campaign, including visual improvements and audio enabled functionality for customers with impaired vision (see the View the Meet the Harringtons video series at Accessibility section on page 15). commbank.com.au/harringtons. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 17 Customers JUST FOR STUDENTS The education of CFSGAM’s investment professionals in matters For our tertiary student customers, we held an Orientation relating to responsible investment remains a priority for the Week ‘heaps free’ campaign in February 2011. We also business. Investment managers need to become responsible launched our University of Canberra Campus Card (UC1 card) investment specialists if they are going to successfully and at the same time. effectively integrate ESG considerations into their investment processes. CFSGAM made a significant investment in training CFSGAM and United Nations Principles for staff during 2010 and of particular note was a globally-recognised Responsible Investment training program for the direct infrastructure team. Given the Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) long-term nature of direct infrastructure investing, it’s critical provides asset management services to wholesale and institutional that CFSGAM understands and manages ESG issues to both investors and has been a signatory to the United Nations maximise value for investors and to reduce investment risk. Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) since March 2007. CFSGAM has a long term commitment to responsible The PRI provides a framework for incorporating environmental, investment in order to respond to the future needs of clients social and corporate governance (ESG) issues into investment and the industry. Increasingly, clients are demanding that decision-making and covers six principles: ESG issues are integrated into investment processes, as it becomes clear that a proper consideration of ESG issues in 1. We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis the investment process can help investment managers make and decision-making processes. the best possible investment decisions. It is CFSGAM’s role 2. We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into as a fiduciary to make the best possible investment decisions our ownership policies and practices. on behalf of clients, and this is what drives the business’s 3. We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the approach to responsible investment and the PRI. entities in which we invest. For more information about CFSGAM’s ESG initiatives and 4. We will promote acceptance and implementation of the to download the 2010 Responsible Investment Report visit Principles within the investment industry. cfsgam.com.au/RI. 5. We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. We are determined to deliver world6. We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles. class banking to all our customers, TRANSPARENCY wherever they are and whatever CFSGAM endeavours to be fully transparent in its approach their needs. to implementing the PRI and keeping stakeholders informed on progress, and has worked to raise awareness of ESG initiatives. All current policies and reports are publicly available on the CFSGAM website at cfsgam.com.au. In 2011, CFSGAM published its fourth annual Responsible Investment Report covering the 2010 calendar year. CFSGAM produces this report to encourage discussion with stakeholders, increase awareness of challenges and opportunities and to provide transparency on the implementation of the PRI. BUSINESS STRATEGY The PRI are an important part of CFSGAM’s business strategy and are used to set key performance indicators throughout the business. CFSGAM’s effectiveness in implementing the PRI are incorporated into the business’s balanced scorecard, with the target of achieving top quartile ranking across five of the six Principles by the 2011 calendar reporting year. During 2010, CFSGAM continued to promote the business case for the PRI and encouraged a deeper understanding of ESG issues. CFSGAM participated in a number of engagement initiatives and associations to enhance the PRI’s implementation and contributed to a number of articles and academic publications. 18 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Customers We are determined to give our customers the best banking experience Our customers are at the heart of everything we do – and everything we do has an impact on our customers’ experience. We are determined to deliver world-class banking to all our customers, wherever they are and whatever their needs. We are proud of our achievements to date and we are working on a number of programs and initiatives to further enhance our customer experience. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 19 People People Fostering a culture of trust and team spirit is a key driver of customer satisfaction and an important strategic priority for us. With a particular focus on diversity, our initiatives over the last year have helped to build an engaged, talented and effective workforce. Through a number of initiatives we have pre-empted as well as decline in the Gallup GrandMean result from the previous year’s responded to the needs of our people. Over the year, as part of 4.32 result, which is only a marginal difference given our survey our diversity strategy, we have increased our focus on providing population of nearly 30,000 and 88% participation rate. diversity support to our people with a disability, mental illness or other serious health conditions. In June 2011 we launched our inaugural Diversity Policy. The overwhelming majority of People and Culture Survey employees feel that we genuinely We measure our progress towards better people engagement care about our people. They each year in the People and Culture survey. The key survey see this reflected in the flexibility indicators are: offered, the effort on developing • The People and Culture Indicator (PCI), designed by the Group to measure overall engagement. individuals in their careers and • The GallupQ12, a set of questions designed to measure our focus on workplace diversity. engagement within teams. In 2011 we recorded a PCI result of 4.30 and Gallup The focus groups held as part of our People and Culture GrandMean score of 4.30, putting us in the 73rd percentile Survey revealed high levels of collaboration and respect as a in the Gallup Worldwide database. This represents a 0.02 major characteristic of our organisational culture, contributing 20 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 People to pride and advocacy. The focus groups also revealed a We recruit, develop and retain qualified and passionate strong positive view of our senior leadership team, including individuals who bring strength to our organisation through our Chief Executive Officer, Ralph Norris. their differences, including gender, age, race, family or caring responsibilities, disability or sexual orientation. Within the Absenteeism and turnover Group, 43.6% of people in Manager roles (Branch Manager to Our absenteeism rate was 6 average days per full-time Group Executive) are female employees, an increase of 0.4% equivalent, while voluntary turnover dropped to 12.65%, from the previous year. Our primary focus on increasing gender a decline of 0.08% from the previous year. diversity in senior leadership continues, as we understand the Voluntary turnover rates are directly affected by workplace business benefits attained by having broader gender diversity culture, employee benefits and the external job market. across all levels of the organisation. In the context of a tightening domestic labour market, Since setting our goal in June 2010 to increase the we have improved the retention of our employees within representation of women in Executive Manager and above Australia by providing a range of competitive employee roles from 26.6% in December 2009 to 35% by December benefits and undertaking initiatives in flexible working 2014, we have seen an increase to 28.2% at 30 June 2011. environments and workplace culture. Female Participation in Executive Manager roles and While benchmarking of these measures is unavailable for 2011, both of these results are comparable to finance industry above 2009–2011(June) medians from 2010. 2011 28.2% Diversity In June 2011, we launched our inaugural Diversity Policy which 2010 26.3% formalises our framework to create and maintain an inclusive and collaborative workplace culture. It outlines our diversity 2009 26.1% strategy which is focused on building a sustainable business by accessing the broadest possible talent pool. 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Our Diversity Council, established in 2006, continued to meet Click here for a short video about: at least quarterly during the year to discuss and track progress Diversity in action of the diversity strategy. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 21 People We also rolled out the Unconscious Bias Leadership program DIVERSITY SUPPORT in March 2011. This program is for General Managers and Having a diverse workforce brings internal benefits to our teams above, and aims to teach our leaders how to leverage the full and the way we work together. Diversity among our people value of a diverse workforce. At 30 June 2011, 268 senior also reflects the diversity of the customers and communities we leaders had completed this program out of a total 380 people serve, and enables us to better deliver products and services. who will complete the program before it ends. For example, having diversity of ethnic backgrounds means In addition to Group activities, Colonial First State (CFS), our we can offer translation services and where applicable, provide wealth management business, is focused on broadening culturally appropriate products and services. diversity across the business and established the CFS Diversity Equal access to banking products and services for all is very Council during the reporting period and held a cultural diversity important to us. We released our updated Disability Action Plan day in August 2010. in December 2010, outlining our commitment and strategies for Profile – Jane Taylor, Business Analyst, Workforce Analytics Team as my children grew older and at work I lip-read and verbally communicate with colleagues. I currently work in Workforce Analytics in HR Operations as a Business Analyst. I thoroughly enjoy the role and work with a great team. In team meetings my colleagues ensure I sit in the best spot to lip-read each person and I have never felt left out or missed out on vital information. At workshops or seminars, sign language interpreters are usually provided. “I was born in Sydney to deaf parents. level, I left with my School Certificate and As my sister and I were also deaf, our only Over the years, I have met some great applied for positions in both the Public form of communication while growing role models and worked with managers Service and the Commonwealth Bank. I up at home, with extended family and and mentors who have supported was offered a position in both and chose friends in the deaf community, was by and encouraged me. And I think it is the Bank, and am still a Commonwealth Auslan (Australian Sign Language). fantastic that the Commonwealth Bank Bank employee 35 years later. has the drive to support people with This was the life I knew until I started In my interview I was asked if I wanted disabilities and has implemented the school in the Oral Deaf Unit (ODU) at to work with other deaf employees, as Disability Action Plan.” Penshurst Primary School. It was a at the time there were about 10 deaf shock to find that I was not allowed to Alice Klontzaris, Manager, Workforce female employees working in the Clearing use my hands to communicate, so I Analytics and Jane’s manager, adds, Branch. Since I lived at home with my started to wear hearing aids and learn “I had never had the opportunity to work deaf family and socialised and played to lip-read and speak. with someone who had a disability and sports with deaf people, I decided not to I was looking forward to the challenge When I was about 10 years old, my join this team. I wanted exposure to the when I joined the team. Jane’s disability teacher commented that, ‘Hearing big wide world. It was a nerve-wracking has never been an obstacle in our working people will always be better than deaf first day when I started my role as a people’. I was mortified and humiliated relationship. The technology that we have Claims Assessor in CBHS in April 1976, that deaf people – including my family, in the Commonwealth Bank has always aged 16. I needn’t have worried as I was friends and myself – were seen as not made it simple and very easy for us to warmly welcomed by the entire team. being good enough. As I grew older, communicate. In addition we have had I remained in CBHS until I received my this comment was a motivating factor in web-cams installed on both of our PCs, first promotion nine years later. making me more determined to achieve as Jane works in Melbourne, and this my best in whatever I did. I felt that I had Following the births of my two children allows us to catch up face to face and to prove that deafness was not a barrier. (both hearing) I resumed work part time is particularly beneficial as Jane can lip and job shared until they started high read. The team and I do not see Jane’s Due to the unavailability of teachers in the school, and then returned to a full time deafness as a disability. We are all working ODU at Kogarah High School at HSC role. My speech noticeably improved as a team toward common goals.” 22 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 People supporting our people and customers with a disability, mental new Indigenous employees to the Group and are tracking well illness or other serious health conditions. During 2010–11, against our target with 185 Indigenous employees joining the our Group Culture and Diversity team welcomed a specialist Group since the commencement of the strategy on 1 July 2009. Diversity Support Manager, a new role with a focus on leading We also continue to support Indigenous students completing our approach and providing advice and support to implement their Higher School Certificate or equivalent through our strategies across the business in the areas of disability. Indigenous School Based Trainees program, which has been INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT STRATEGY running since 2003 and provides 80 traineeship positions The Indigenous Employment Strategy remains one of our key each year. In 2010, the program expanded with 48 new focuses and we made good progress towards our target of School Based Trainees starting across the country. We also creating 350 additional positions for Indigenous Australians by welcomed 10 graduating School Based Trainees as permanent June 2012. In the 12 months to 30 June 2011, we welcomed 30 employees, in addition to the 30 new starters. Profile – Evelyn Forrester, Customer Service Representative, Maddington Branch Evelyn joined the pre-employment each of my colleagues have gone out of program in late October 2010 and found their way to ensure my transition into life it a very rewarding experience. at the Commonwealth Bank has been a wonderful experience. Since starting “I heard about the Commonwealth my role, the Commonwealth Bank’s Bank’s pre-employment program via an Indigenous Banking Team has also been online Job Network site. Signing up to very supportive and proactive in ensuring the program was quick and easy. I settled in well. Soon after, I was invited to the The pre-employment program has been Commonwealth Bank’s Learning Centre a fantastic experience. My current role is in Perth. The program was intensive and both challenging and rewarding and my highly informative. I experienced first-hand experience is enhanced by the positive the high standard of professionalism and support and guidance I receive. I would duty of care the Commonwealth Bank highly recommend the program to other has for its clients and expects from its Indigenous Australians especially if they people. I also learned that banking at the love to be challenged!” Commonwealth Bank is so much more than just figures; it’s about providing Dino Pacella, Maddington Branch life changing and life enhancing financial Manager and Evelyn’s manager, adds, Evelyn Forrester, now a Customer Service “Evelyn has been extremely proactive tools and products for personal and Representative at the Maddington in learning her Customer Service business needs. Branch in Western Australia, successfully Representative role in both aspects completed the Commonwealth Bank I feel privileged to have had an insight of sales and service. She consistently four day pre-employment program which into the dynamics of the Commonwealth demonstrates the organisation’s aims to support Aboriginal and Torres Bank even before starting my role as behaviours at a high level and knows Strait Islander job seekers. The program Customer Service Representative. what is expected of her in regards to assists Indigenous job seekers interested From the moment I first walked through providing exceptional customer service in working at the Commonwealth Bank the door of the Commonwealth Bank and also working with colleagues in a by offering them training in a range of Maddington Branch, I was welcomed large team environment. She is an asset competencies such as customer service, with open arms. My Branch Manager, to my team and I’m extremely proud of communication, sales and teamwork. my Customer Service Managers, and her tremendous efforts.” “The pre-employment program has been a fantastic experience. I would highly recommend the program to other Indigenous Australians especially if they love to be challenged.” Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 23 People Leadership and talent development GRADUATE PROGRAM LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS This year, we welcomed 161 graduates into our graduate In September 2010 we launched our Influential Leadership program, a significant increase on the previous year’s intake program. The program is for Executive Managers with at least of 134. The participants work in areas across our business, 18 months in an Executive Manager role, and aims to ensure with 38 of the 2011 graduate intake joining the Financial they have the skills to lead effectively. Designed in partnership Planning team and the remaining 123 joining a range of with the Australian Graduate School of Management Executive teams, including Institutional Banking, Enterprise Services, Programs, the Influential Leadership program focuses on three Regional and Agribusiness, Retail Banking, and Marketing key areas: analysing and translating strategy, creating a culture and Communications. of high performance, and leading change. Our graduate intake In June 2011 we also launched True North, an assessment and development program to identify leadership potential 2011 2010 2009 2008 among our General Managers. The True North program helps us to provide meaningful and ongoing career planning and 161 134 135 114 development activities for our future leaders. Profile – Julia O’Brien, first year Commonwealth Bank Graduate In October 2010, our graduate group with different teams from across the was invited to a ‘get to know you’ event organisation. I was the coxswain for my in Sydney. The diversity of our group team’s rowing crew in the Les Taylor was noticeable, with recruits coming Cup; volunteered with other graduates from every state and territory in Australia at Midnight Basketball and the Cerebral as well as New Zealand. As a collective Palsy Foundation; helped to organise we possessed 43 different degrees and a karaoke event to fundraise for Clown spoke 24 languages. Doctors; and even dressed up as one In February 2011, the group of the Dollarmites on Clean Up Australia participated in a three-day induction Day. And as a member of the Graduate and training program that covered Sustainability Committee I helped organise everything from the Bank’s vision and the annual Graduate Trivia Night, which objectives, through to negotiation skills raised money for the Breast Cancer and an ‘Amazing Race’ orienteering Institute of Australia. style team building activity. Most recently, in June 2011 I attended the As an in-coming graduate I was also Graduate Mid-Year Forum – a two-day introduced to a buddy from the previous reunion that provided additional training year’s graduate intake who answered and the opportunity to meet Ralph Norris “The graduate experience begins nearly and other Executive Committee members all of my many questions. As well as 12 months before the job starts. The at the CEO cocktail function. the buddy, I was assigned a mentor application and recruitment process in a management position and this My experience as a Commonwealth is thorough and competitive, so I was excited when in April 2010 I was relationship helped to make the transition Bank graduate has so far proven both selected as one of four Marketing smoother. By the time I began my job, I challenging and highly rewarding, and Communications graduates. By felt I had a good idea of what to expect. and I am looking forward to the many accepting the offer I was taking on a Aside from the role and learning about opportunities and experiences that two-year position at the Bank that would Marketing and Communications at the lie ahead.” involve rotating across five areas of the Bank, I have had many other opportunities Marketing and Communications division. for extra-curricular and social activities 24 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 People TRAINING concentrated on raising everyday safety awareness by Investing in the long term future of our people is important asking our people to stop and think before acting to prevent to us, and we offer a range of learning and development workplace incidents. It became one of the most successful opportunities for all staff across the Group. We have dedicated Safety Day campaigns to date, with an internal video using teams within both Human Resources and the business who the theme ‘Man Vs Workplace’ having 24,000 views. Not only deliver learning solutions. Access to learning is provided to all was this the highest number of views achieved for a Safety staff through our intranet-based Learning Centre. Day campaign, it was also the most-watched internal video of 2010. And in November 2010, our Manual Handling and During 2010–11 more than 4,000 online learning and face-toErgonomics e-learning programs received the Best Corporate face programs were completed by staff through the Learning eLearning Award in the eLearning Industry Association of Centre at the Group-wide and business unit level. Of these, Victoria’s excellence awards. more than 1,300 face-to-face learning initiatives were held at the Group-wide level, with more than 15,300 people participating in Looking ahead, we are continuing to prepare for the these events. This is a marked increase on the 780 face-to-face introduction of the Model Work Health and Safety legislation, events reaching over 9,300 staff in the previous year. which will apply across Australia from 1 January 2012. Our preparation for this change includes a number of Group-wide We launched skillBUILDER, an online coaching tool for our initiatives that will be rolled out from mid to late 2011. Retail Banking Services team in April 2011. A major learning initiative, skillBUILDER is designed to teach customer service skills and uses computer-generated avatar expert role models Health and wellbeing to teach best practice responses for various situations. This Supporting the health and wellbeing of our people is of training creates consistency in the service we provide with a critical importance for our business. We continue to offer a view to improve the overall customer experience. comprehensive range of health and wellbeing initiatives to our people to actively support their needs and fulfil our duty of care Safety as an employer. Initiatives are regularly rolled out across the We endeavour to promote a safe environment for our people. organisation, encouraging our people to maintain a healthy and During 2010–11 our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) balanced lifestyle and exercise regularly. result improved compared to the previous period. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate We hold regular wellbeing 2011 2010 2009 2008 seminars for our people during which we provide practical advice 2.3 2.9 2.4 3.1 on ways to maintain a healthy A number of initiatives focusing on improving our health work-life balance. and safety systems and performance contributed to our improved LTIFR, including the implementation of the 2010–12 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Strategy. We also had In addition, My Wellbeing is a personal online health and no non-conformances in the annual external OHS Management wellness centre, providing interactive resources to help our System audit against the National Audit Tool in September people to define and achieve their individual wellness goals. 2010. The audit was conducted across Business Units in My Wellbeing includes online personal health assessments, Sydney, regional New South Wales, Canberra and Melbourne. articles and regular emails aligned to health profiles. Nearly 5,000 employees have participated in the annual Global Aligned with our OHS Strategy, our individual Business Units Corporate Challenge, a walking initiative held over a 16 week have implemented BU OHS Plans, which will be reviewed period, with the Group having the largest number of participants annually. The BU OHS Plans reflect the key priorities of the from any organisation in Australia. We also provide discounted Group-wide OHS Strategy and focus on the risk areas and gym memberships and our online Sports Club community group identified trends within the particular business units (for subsidises employee participation in local sporting events. example, slip, trip and fall injuries or hazards external to the workplace) to further improve the safety of our staff. A range of mental health initiatives are also available, including our Employee Assistance Program, targeted training programs The LTIFR indicator has also improved due to our focus on for our leaders, participation in R U OK? Day, and Mental positive safety behaviours in internal communications, alerting Health Month. We also have resources to help employees deal our staff to behavioural key hazards. with stress. In addition, we provided targeted assistance for In October 2010, our annual Group-wide Safety Day campaign teams supporting customers affected by the Queensland and focused on common incident and hazard categories, and Victorian floods and Cyclone Yasi. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 25 People Reward and recognition As an organisation, we strongly encourage our people to donate The Australian of the Year announcement has become one of their time to worthwhile community causes and we look to the most important national events and to have the opportunity recognise the most outstanding contributions. In December 2010 to meet so many inspiring individuals was like being in the we introduced the Our Local Hero Awards program and asked presence of giants. It gave me the opportunity to reflect and our people to nominate a colleague they believed deserved to be think about what more I could do in my community. recognised. Two winners were selected by a representative from the National Australia Day Council and our Sponsorship team. I donated the $1,000 prize to the Breast Cancer Institute of Australia as I have had a number of work colleagues, family and friends touched by this insidious disease over the past 12 months. Given the Group’s long association with the Breast As an organisation, we strongly Cancer Institute of Australia I hope our donation assists in encourage our people to donate some small way to finding a cure.” their time to worthwhile community Sally works in Retail Administration for Colonial First State. Her work in the community during 2010 included chartering her local causes and we look to recognise Rotaract Club, raising funds for Make-A-Wish and involvement the most outstanding contributions. in our Staff Community Fund. Sally said she felt the utmost pride when her manager called a meeting to announce to the team that she was a recipient of the inaugural Our Local Hero Awards. The winners, Chris Milne and Sally Hetherington, each received $1,000 to donate to their favourite charity and won Sally commented, “My colleagues support me constantly with a trip to Canberra for themselves and a friend to attend the my fundraising efforts, and always encourage me to keep up 2011 Australian of the Year pre-announcement lunch with my community involvement. To know that the Group now has the finalists and see the recipient announced. an award to recognise community involvement among staff makes me incredibly happy. Chris is a Training Consultant in Human Resources. His community work in 2010 included coordinating his local I strive to promote volunteer work to others and winning In2Cricket Program, coaching the local Nippers, surf life the award was a fantastic way for my workmates to learn saving and various fundraising initiatives for cancer research. about what I do outside of work, and to ask me questions on how they can get involved. I donated my $1,000 to the On winning the inaugural Our Local Hero Awards Chris Green Gecko Project, an organisation in Cambodia where commented: I volunteered for a month in 2010.” “I get so much personally out of being involved in a variety of community activities and to be recognised by colleagues and peers for that work is a very humbling experience. Sally Hetherington and Chris Milne 26 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 People Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 27 Community Community In a year marked by natural disasters, we responded quickly to help those communities in greatest need. We also continued building programs and partnerships around the country, helping to support community health and welfare, the arts, environment, sport, financial literacy and opportunity for Indigenous peoples. In the 12 months to 30 June 2011, we invested well over $5 million Community Group Flood Assistance Grants Program $30 million in charitable donations, community grants, community – the only sizeable program tailored for community groups sponsorships and volunteering as well as our unprecedented affected by the floods. disaster relief response. In addition we supported low income Under the program, not-for-profit community groups that earners and the not-for-profit sector by providing a wide range had suffered damage or loss to their property and uninsured of fee-free or discounted financial services, bringing our overall equipment were invited to apply for grants of up to $20,000. community contribution to over $200 million. We received 452 applications from groups in Queensland, The impact felt around the country in the wake of the natural Victoria, New South Wales and Western Australia, representing disasters once again underlined the significant contribution a wide-cross section of community sectors, including health, corporations such as the Commonwealth Bank can make by arts and history, children’s wellbeing, sport and social welfare. engaging with local communities. Our Emergency Assistance We awarded 381 groups with grants totalling $5,006,497. Package allowed us to deliver help quickly and effectively to affected communities as well as support our retail and business customers – see page 14 for more information on how we supported our customers. We launched a $5 million Community Natural disaster emergency relief Flood Assistance Grants Program, The floods and Cyclone Yasi had a devastating impact on donated $2 million to flood relief, our customers and the wider community. We understand the and collected over $44 million in important role that community groups play in sustaining and rebuilding local communities, so our response included a donations from staff and customers. 28 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Community Youth financial literacy STARTSMART Helping Australians learn money management skills while Our StartSmart program, run by the Commonwealth Bank they are young plays a part in building a stronger, more Foundation, is a series of classroom sessions and workshops sustainable economy in the future. This year marks the 80th designed to help young Australians build better money anniversary of our School Banking program. The School management skills. The program is for children aged 5 to 12 Banking program provides around 100,000 primary school (StartSmart Primary) and teenagers aged 13 to 17 (StartSmart kids across Australia with the opportunity to bank at Secondary), with interactive and engaging classroom sessions school, and develop important financial literacy skills at led by trained facilitators. the same time. “We have designed our StartSmart program to be interactive, In November 2009 we launched our ‘onemillionkids’ fun and exciting while delivering important educational content. campaign, an initiative based on our commitment to invest Students pick up important lifelong lessons and values about $40 million to improve the financial literacy of one million money during our sessions, using examples they can relate to.” children by 2015. The ‘onemilllionkids’ campaign includes Chantelle, StartSmart facilitator our School Banking initiative, the Commonwealth Bank During 2010–11 the StartSmart program again proved popular in Foundation’s StartSmart program and Coinland. secondary and primary schools across metropolitan and regional During the 12 months to 30 June 2011 we expanded areas. More than 200,000 students registered for StartSmart, an on some of our existing youth financial literacy programs increase of more than 80,000 students from the previous year, and introduced a new Mathletics initiative as part of the with over 76,000 participating in StartSmart Secondary and over ‘onemillionkids’ campaign. For more information see 123,500 participating in StartSmart Primary. onemillionkids.com.au. Helping Australians learn money management skills while they are young plays a part in building a stronger, more sustainable economy in the future. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 29 Community What teachers say about StartSmart “This is an extremely valuable experience for students... “The students enjoyed getting involved in the activities and This seminar is the only experience some of them are I’ve seen a few of them planning out their own potential exposed to in terms of tax, super, savings and investment.” ‘businesses’. As a class, we took a lot out of our session Joseph Nolan, John Paul College, New South Wales and would like to thank StartSmart.” Anna Pokora, Holland Park State School, Queensland “You had quite an impact! I had quite a few mums come up and talk to me about what [their children] had learnt with you.” “The session was extremely well delivered and had the Chris Ratcliff, Dernancourt School, South Australia students’ attention throughout. Definitely a worthwhile experience for all. The students were very appreciative “The facilitator was great. The children loved it. They were of the information presented with a touch of humour engaged and interested. They learnt important lessons for throughout. Would highly recommend to all schools! the future.” Well done!” Hannah, Reheboth Christian Primary School, Western Australia Margaret Crump, Woonona High School, New South Wales 30 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Community MATHLETICS PARTNERSHIP We continued to support the Australian Indigenous Minority We understand the importance of mathematics as a solid Supplier Council (AIMSC), of which we are a founding partner, foundation for financial literacy. In August 2010, we became in its work to support Australia’s Indigenous enterprise sector the inaugural sponsor of the Australian Maths Challenge as and provide a direct business-to-business purchasing link part of a three year partnership with Mathletics. As Australia’s between Australian corporations, Government agencies and leading online maths learning resource for students and Indigenous-owned businesses. teachers, Mathletics teaches children maths literacy in a fun “The Commonwealth Bank was one of the first Australian and engaging way. It is used in around 3,000 primary and companies to commit to buying goods and services from secondary schools and by 100,000 students every day. Indigenous businesses through its membership of AIMSC. The bank continues to explore ways it can purchase goods The Commonwealth Bank Australian Maths Challenge is a and services from Indigenous businesses, and make doing free online competition open to all school-aged children. The business with Indigenous suppliers ‘business as usual’. challenge in 2010 took place over two days with nearly 4,000 The Commonwealth Bank demonstrates that it is possible schools and 250,000 Australian school students taking part. for one of Australia’s largest companies to do business with Year Four from St Raphael’s Central School in Cowra, New small-to-medium size Indigenous suppliers.” South Wales took out the title of Australian champions and won their own cricket clinic with Australian cricketer Simon Natalie Walker, Chief Executive, AIMSC Katich. In addition, the top students of the 2010 competition SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY were given the opportunity to participate as ambassadors for As part of our commitment to supply chain diversity, we have World Maths Day in March 2011. engaged a number of Indigenous businesses as suppliers COINLAND over the past few years. In May 2011 we started our newest Indigenous business partnership with Message Stick Coinland is an online world created to teach kids about Communications, an Indigenous Australian business and AIMSC financial literacy. During the 2010–11 financial year Coinland supplier, as our new provider of teleconferencing services. continued to increase in popularity, with more than 115,000 children logging on to learn the basics of money management In addition, we have taken an active lead in developing a with the help of a cast of fun characters including the ‘second tiering’ approach to introducing smaller suppliers into Dollarmites and Platy. large organisations. Second tiering encourages existing and new businesses to use Indigenous organisations in their supply New additions to the Coinland community during the year chain. An example is our relationship with AIMSC member included the Coinland Cricket Challenge, where players head Kallico Catering. We have supported Kallico by facilitating to the online School Cricket Oval to test their batting skills a relationship between them and our pre-existing national against four of Australia’s cricketing stars – Mike Hussey, catering partner. As a result, Kallico is now a member of the Nathan Hauritz, Philip Hughes and Shaun Tait. The fun game larger caterer’s national supplier network. sees players practicing their counting through addition and subtraction exercises. And in the new Community Garden, AUSTRALIAN INDIGENOUS EDUCATION FOUNDATION Coinland residents learn about money and savings interactively MENTOR PROGRAM by volunteering their time to grow and harvest crops and then The Australian Indigenous Education Foundation (AIEF) is a deliver these around Coinland to raise money for virtual causes private-sector-led initiative with a strong partnership between like the Lost Pets Home. the Australian Government and support from the Australian community. AIEF provides boarding school scholarships for For more information see coinland.com.au. Indigenous children to attend some of the leading schools in Indigenous initiatives Australia, and includes a Post-School Pathways program to help educated and job-ready Indigenous school leavers move We continue to work with our community partners to play our into meaningful careers with leading organisations. part in creating opportunities and making a difference in the lives of Indigenous Australians. In December 2010 we released Our partnership through the AIEF Mentoring Program involves our third Reconciliation Action Plan, and have continued to matching a Commonwealth Bank mentor with an Indigenous support various Indigenous initiatives and programs over student attending one of AIEF’s partner schools in Sydney. the 2010–11 financial year, including supporting National The aim of the program is to create a structured and trusting Aborigines and Islanders Day Observance Committee relationship between the mentor and student, bringing a (NAIDOC) Week, fundraising for the Australian Indigenous young person together with an experienced individual who Mentoring Experience (AIME), and continuing our Bawaka can share their knowledge and offer guidance, support and cultural program in Arnhem Land, attended by around 60 encouragement. While the AIEF Mentor program lasts for 12 employees including our Chief Executive Officer, Ralph Norris. months, the intention is to create a long-lasting relationship which continues past the school years and focuses on the young person’s transition from school to work or further study. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 31 Community Profile – Anna Jovanovic, Indigenous Programs Coordinator and AIEF volunteer mentor and guidance. After high school it was The AIEF Mentoring program is hard for me to adapt to university life, fantastic. It’s extremely important for so I deferred my studies and entered Indigenous students to receive support the workforce. It was not until I started while boarding at a school far from my current role, six years later, that I home. I know my mentee misses her realised I wanted to go back to university home, and the support I can offer her to challenge myself and complete my through difficult times is very important. degree and I am now planning my return. My experience of the program so far is The lack of guidance when I was younger that the mentor/mentee relationship is was another reason why I wanted to a two-way street. Knowing I am making become a mentor and offer my mentee a difference in my mentee’s life is support, with the hope of instilling in incredibly satisfying, and for my mentee, her the confidence and belief in herself the opportunity to have a supportive that, with hard work, she can achieve relationship with someone other than whatever she sets her mind to. a teacher or principal, where she can As part of the program I am regularly in speak freely is really valuable. contact with my mentee – about two to “I became an AIEF mentor in 2011, three times a week plus a face-to-face If you are looking to help, support and and it’s my first experience of being a catch-up once a month for about two guide someone, being a mentor is a mentor. I decided to get involved in the hours. We talk about family, school, great experience. To see the positive AIEF Mentoring Program because it homework and assignments; anything impact on someone’s life, and knowing was an opportunity for me to support she wants to discuss. My mentee is an your support has made a difference, is and guide a young Indigenous girl. From extremely talented young woman and very rewarding.” my personal experience, I remember a hard worker, and I try to provide a how tough my high school years were network of support to her that will help and how I received minimal support in any way possible. “To see the positive impact on someone’s life, and knowing your support has made a difference, is very rewarding.” Staff Volunteering Our people’s connection to the broader community Click here for a short video about our: demonstrates a genuine commitment to making a difference. 1:2:1 Mentoring program By volunteering their time, our employees connect with local community organisations and work to share their skills with Staff Community Fund people in need. From one-day projects that involve delivering food to the homeless to ongoing mentoring initiatives with Our Staff Community Fund is Australia’s longest running disadvantaged students, we encourage our staff to engage employee workplace charity program. In the 2011 financial year, the Staff Community Fund contributed over $1 million with their local community. to Australian youth charities. This includes 69 grants of up During the 2010–11 financial year our people continued to to $10,000 each to youth organisations across the nation donate their time to a range of community groups, charities though the Community Grants program. and causes. Many of our people dedicated time to mentor We are a proud foundation partner of Midnight Basketball, school children in one of the mentoring programs run by our a social inclusion program for at risk youth, having supported partner, Australian Business and Community Network (ABCN). them since 2008. Held on a Friday or Saturday night from 7pm The 1:2:1 Mentoring program assists Year One school children to midnight participants play basketball, are fed a nutritious with maths while the Spark Reading program is focused on meal and attend a compulsory lifeskills workshop. We continue improving reading skills in primary-aged school children. our support for Midnight Basketball both financially and through our people volunteering at tournaments. 32 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Community CLEAN UP AUSTRALIA DAY As the major sponsor of Clean Up Australia Day in 2011, we hosted over 65 cleanup sites nationally on 7 March. As this event occurred soon after the Queensland floods and Cyclone Yasi, it made sense to establish our official Clean Up Australia Day site in Brisbane. On the banks of the Brisbane River, Commonwealth Bank employees joined members of the community to clear flood-related debris. Staff volunteers witnessed first-hand a community working together to rebuild, and experienced a day of camaraderie The Humour Foundation’s Clown Doctors program brings and support. fun and laughter to sick kids in every major children’s hospital in Australia. The Staff Community Fund is a foundation partner of the Clown Doctors, providing both financial support as well as our support from our people who rally behind the Clown Doctors’ major fundraising event, Smile Day. This month-long campaign held in April 2011 saw our people in branches and head office get creative and have some fun with activities including face painting and dressing up, hosting morning teas, promoting the visiting Funbulance and a karaoke night. Our people’s and customers’ support of the campaign raised more than $180,000, which will help support around 180 additional Clown Rounds in children’s hospitals across Australia. “We are extremely grateful for the support of the Commonwealth Bank, which has been a partner since 1998. Our relationship with the Commonwealth Bank has enabled us to grow and expand to be in every children’s hospital in Australia. The Commonwealth Bank is a true partner to the The Humour Foundation.” Melinda Farrell, General Manager, The Humour Foundation We also provided financial support to Very Special Kids (VSK). Our donation assists VSK provide counselling and support services to families caring for a child diagnosed with a life-threatening illness. For more information about our Staff Community Fund partners As part of Clean Up Australia Day 2011 we introduced a see midnightbasketball.org.au, clowndoctors.org.au and Schools Clean Up Photo Competition, with the prize of a fully vsk.org.au. installed vegetable patch plus seedlings. Entrants sent in a photo of students participating in Schools Clean Up Day, and Community partnerships we received creative entries from schools across the country. Through long-term relationships with our key community Dominic College in Tasmania was selected as the winner, and partners, we continue to support the Australian community. in May local branch staff joined students to help plant their During 2010–11, we enhanced a number of these partnerships new vegetable patch. and introduced several new initiatives. SPORT We continue to support cricket around Australia, from grandstands to the grassroots, through our ongoing sponsorship of the One Day International Cricket Series and our support for local cricket clubs. In November 2010, our Grants for Grassroots CricketTM program entered its second year, with over 200 local men’s, women’s, and children’s cricket clubs receiving a $1,000 cash grant and $750 worth of equipment. The program created an overwhelming response from all types of cricket clubs across Australia, with the number of grant applications increasing by 43% from the previous year’s program. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 33 Community Community groups working in partnership with corporate organisations By Ian Kiernan AO, Chairman, Clean Up Australia As Chairman of Clean Up Australia I zero unemployment, employee loyalty communities regularly drives information firmly believe that the environment and its increases when people are proud of the on important matters with great zeal and protection is an absolute primary issue. partnerships in which their organisations spirit. And while communities also look For 21 years, Clean Up has been working are engaged, have opportunities to share to authoritative bodies for information, with communities to identify important their skills or talents and share in new our volunteers tell us they don’t want local environmental issues, and during experiences that have real outcomes. patronising advice – they want real this time there has been no shortage of Indeed, our partners’ employees directly commitment. What they seek from ideas, passion or commitment from our tell us the programs that most inspire Clean Up is a partnership that brings team, volunteers and corporate partners. them are those that harness their shared projects and programs to life. creativity, channelling their skills and They expect us to undertake our own I learned very early in my environmental talents into new arenas. research to ensure that we, and the campaigning that solutions are best organisations we choose to partner with, delivered through individuals and In turn, these partnerships deliver share values and a genuine commitment organisations working together to competitive, social and financial benefits to undertake a journey of more achieve outcomes that encourage skills as the broader community recognises sustainable business practices. sharing, tangible outcomes and long consistent commitment to shared term partnerships. Corporate and private concerns, projects and initiatives. Honesty The key for Clean Up is mutual respect funding are our lifeblood, allowing us to is the key – where organisations and with an understanding that our role is develop and expand initiatives to achieve community groups share clear agendas to deliver the programs we undertake the results that now position our flagship and goals with the ability to monitor and the best we can. I am proud that event, Clean Up Australia Day, as the celebrate achievements. While funding our partnership organisations, including largest community participation activity might be a core component, a true the Commonwealth Bank, respect in the nation. partnership is where organisations and and appreciate our capabilities and communities commit to working together limitations. The teams within our Well-managed and responsible to identify new ways and means of partnership organisations actively work corporations understand that achieving these goals. with us to seek new ways to expand our partnerships which provide meaning, scope, relationships and promotional purpose, relationships and interesting Australians crave information so they opportunities. This is partnership in action. challenges are key motivators for their can make their own decisions. The people. And in a market approaching knowledge that exists within local 34 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Community To support cricket clubs affected by the Queensland floods, Colonial First State sponsorship and we launched the Fours and Sixes for Local Pitches initiative, community activities where we donated $4,000 for every four and $6,000 for This year, Colonial First State (CFS) established the Charity every six hit during the Commonwealth Bank Series match at Radio Boost in partnership with Fairfax Radio Network, Brisbane’s Gabba in January 2011. This raised $188,000 to providing much-needed support for many small charities help affected cricket clubs rebuild and get back on the pitch. and foundations. Between October 2010 and May 2011, the HEALTH Charity Radio Boost provided around $50,000 in donations Supporting health initiatives remains a priority and we to charities chosen by radio listeners in Sydney, Melbourne continue to support our key partnerships with Breast Cancer and Brisbane, including the Steve Waugh Foundation, Life’s Institute of Australia (BCIA) and Prostate Cancer Foundation Little Treasures Foundation, Hawkesbury Community Kitchen, of Australia (PCFA). Huntington’s Victoria and Angels for the Forgotten. CFS also sponsored the twentieth Sydney Morning Herald Half Marathon in May 2011, with record numbers participating in a field of over 13,000. The CFS team included over 170 employees, their family and friends, who all fundraised for Breast Cancer Network Australia. New programs and initiatives LAUNCHING LOCAL HEROES We have been a major sponsor of the Australian of the Year Awards for over 30 years. This year we took our partnership to a new level with the introduction of the Launching Local Heroes Program. Announced in May 2011, the program is an initiative to help eight inspiring Australians to make an even greater impact in our communities. Our aim is to actively get involved to help turn the potential good of Australia’s During the year, we helped raise more than $452,000 for local heroes into reality, while helping to raise the profile of BCIA through fundraising and the sale of the Australian each Local Heroes’ organisation. The eight individuals were Women’s Health Diary in our branches. In September 2010 all nominated for the Australian of the Year Awards 2011, we supported the PCFA’s national BBQ for Prostate Cancer representing each state and territory. awareness campaign during International Prostate Cancer To support these eight inspiring individuals we established Awareness Month, holding a number of fundraising barbecues the Launching Local Heroes panel made up of eight at our branches and corporate offices around Australia. Commonwealth Bank executives. Each Local Hero has Many of our teams also fundraised to help us raise more than been matched with a panel member who acts as a mentor, $200,000 for the PCFA. providing guidance and business knowledge to help each ARTS Local Hero take their ideas forward and realise their goals. We are a long-term supporter of the arts in Australia through For more information, visit commbank.com.au/about-us/inour enduring partnerships with Opera Australia, the Australian the-community/community-business-awards/local-heroes/. Chamber Orchestra and Bangarra Dance Theatre. This year we also supported the highly successful exhibition Annie COMMUNITY SEEDS Leibovitz: A Photographer’s Life 1990–2005 at the Museum of Contemporary Art. In early June 2011 we launched the Commonwealth Bank Arts Lovers community, an online forum for our people to access exclusive offers and promotions available through our arts partners, and connect with employees who are passionate about the arts. The online community helps us to make the arts In May 2011, we launched Community Seeds – an online accessible to more people and demonstrates our commitment social media campaign aimed at encouraging the public to staff engagement in our sponsorships. By 30 June 2011 to promote and support one of six charity organisations. nearly 500 staff had joined the online group. We began by asking our employees to vote online for their For the full range of community programs we support visit choice of 12 charities, with the six most popular grassroots commbank.com.au/about-us. community organisations put forward for the public’s support. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 35 Community The program then encouraged all Australians with a Facebook SOCIAL IMPACT SCHOLARSHIP account to visit the Commonwealth Bank Facebook page, We work with the Centre for Social Impact (CSI) and provide a choose one of the participating community organisations, scholarship as part of our commitment to individuals working in and pledge $5 of the Group’s money from a pool of $150,000. the not-for-profit sector. The scholarship is offered to a candidate To further encourage public support, we pledged an extra working in a not-for-profit organisation that has a connection $20,000 for the organisation that received the most votes. with the Commonwealth Bank Group. The scholarship is HeartKids Australia, a community organisation focusing available to students enrolled in (but not yet commenced) the on all aspects of childhood heart disease, was the popular Graduate Certificate in Social Impact at one of CSI’s partner vote and received $40,100 plus the $20,000 award, business schools: the Australian School of Business at University taking the Group’s total donation through Community Seeds of New South Wales, Melbourne Business School, Swinburne to $60,100. University of Technology or UWA Business School. The $10,000 scholarship is used to offset the program’s tuition fees. Community Seeds’ viral component encouraged people to spread the initiative through their Facebook network. By inviting FUNDRAISING INSTITUTE AUSTRALIA friends to click through to Community Seeds, participants Recognising the importance of good fundraising skills in competed for the Most Influential Campaigner prize of $5,000 not-for-profit organisations, in October 2010 we ran a fundraising and a donation of $5,000 for their chosen organisation. skills-building workshop in Sydney and Melbourne for a number of our Community Grant recipients, charity partners and selected A Start in Life, an organisation which offers education customers. We partnered with the Fundraising Institute Australia opportunities to underprivileged kids, received a donation to deliver two workshops in each state, with the aim of helping of $28,390, including the $5,000 Influencer Award. charity organisations to improve their fundraising techniques. Other organisations receiving a donation through Community The introductory workshop was tailored for people with less than Seeds were Alzheimer’s Australia, who received $23,775, three years fundraising experience, and the advanced workshop Bowel Cancer Australia with $21,925, SANE Australia was for more experienced fundraisers. Eighty-one charities receiving $20,630 and OzHarvest which received $20,180. registered to attend a workshop, including 25 charities who were 2010 Commonwealth Bank Community Grant recipients. 36 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Community Understanding the benefits of a stronger link between corporate organisations and the social impact sector By Georgina de Beaujeu, National Manager, Strategic Planning and Business Improvement, Australian Red Cross. 2010 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Social Impact Scholarship winner – Graduate Certificate in Social Impact. The Graduate Certificate in Social Impact sustainable housing. And refurbished mission. Corporate organisations shape has provided me with the knowledge and computers given to developing nations much of what we do and how we live networks to focus my career and support and installed in training centres provide our lives. This power places them in a the ongoing development of the sector. previously excluded individuals with unique position to partner with not-forComing from a commercial background IT skills as well as the opportunity to profit groups where there is alignment, in management consulting I found myself engage in a global economy. and use their expertise and resources to gravitating towards engagements with alleviate social issues. This involvement As these examples show, the line a social impact, which resulted in me has the potential to drive change in key between for profit and not-for-profit working with Red Cross. I also began to areas, such as financial inclusion. organisations is being reassessed be inspired by financially sustainable and and it is critical to be involved in these While it is clear that corporate and successful community-based solutions to social and environmental issues that discussions now in order to shape not-for-profit organisations benefit from were leveraging market forces. the sector’s direction. Studying the working together, there is no single Graduate Certificate in Social Impact best way for these two sectors to Such solutions include shared spaces has enabled me to participate in these collaborate. What is most important is that are transformed into community conversations and promote this shift. an appreciation of different perspectives, gardens to bring a culturally diverse imperatives and knowledge, coupled community together, use land to Knowledge of cutting edge approaches with a willingness to keep learning and grow fresh produce, help reduce food frees an organisation from the restraints applying this knowledge. By working miles, teach children how to prepare of current ways of working and together, corporate and not-for-profit nutritious food and also supply produce introduces new ideas and strategies, organisations will be able to tackle to restaurants that offer training for which in turn can accelerate change. difficult social challenges and mitigate vulnerable youths. Or sewing Awareness and appreciation of the the risk of new issues emerging. Only co-operatives that link new migrants benefits corporate organisations can together can the largest of society’s together and provide them with an bring to the social impact sector issues be addressed. income. Their products are used to provides greater opportunities for the decorate low cost, environmentally not-for-profit sector to realise its core Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 37 Governance Governance Good corporate governance is critical to the success and sustainability of our business. Our senior leaders and decision makers lead by example, demonstrating strong ethics, accountability and disclosure. Ethics the Group. We also recognise that communication is a We continue to grow and embed a strong ethical culture. Our two-way process, and the Board is committed to engaging ethics program continued throughout 2010–11, with more of in communication with shareholders to ensure issues and our leaders attending sessions in which hypothetical scenarios concerns are captured and addressed. with potential ethical dilemmas were discussed and exemplary ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING solutions were created. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the formal opportunity A key area of focus for 2011–12 year is continuing to grow for dialogue and communication between the Group and its and embed a strong ethical culture. This will involve launching shareholders. The Group’s AGM is held in Australia in late the Commonwealth Bank Group Code of Conduct and October or early November each year. Meetings are rotated Professional Practice (Code) and an ethical decision-making between the capital cities to give as many shareholders as framework. The implementation of the Code will be supported possible the opportunity to attend. Shareholders are encouraged through interactive learning and a communication campaign to attend the AGMs and to use these opportunities to ask aimed at encouraging our people to be ethically aware of the questions either during or prior to the meeting. Our AGMs, along decisions they make and the opportunities to raise concerns. with other key public briefings, are recorded as a webcast and made available on our website. Shareholder accountability Shareholders seeking information can also contact the We recognise the importance of communicating with our Group directly throughout the year, with contact details shareholders and hold ourselves accountable for providing provided on our Shareholder Centre – comprehensive, timely and accurate information about commbank.com.au/about-us/shareholders. 38 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Governance Disclosure Government and industry engagement Maintaining the highest level of disclosure to our shareholders 2010 saw an unprecedented number of issues affecting ensures they have timely and equal access to information the financial services industry. We actively consult with about our business operations and performance. This is Government to ensure that Governments are well informed essential for investors to be able to make informed decisions of current financial service activities. about their investment in the Group. We are working to improve the regulation of financial services We communicate information to shareholders through for the benefit of customers and shareholders, as well as the interim and final results, annual reports, quarterly updates broader community. and shareholder newsletters. Our processes for keeping During 2010–11, we engaged directly with the Government on shareholders informed are set out in detail in our Guidelines a range of public policy issues, including: for Communication between the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Shareholders, available at our Shareholder Centre • The Government’s Competition and Sustainable Banking – commbank.com.au/about-us/shareholders. To read System package. the Annual Report 2011 visit commbank.com.au/about-us/ • Consumer credit reforms, including credit cards, shareholders/financial-information/annual-reports. investment lending and reverse mortgages. Our Disclosure Committee – comprising the Group’s • Capital proposals for the financial services industry, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, including international reforms arising from Basel III and Head of Investor Relations and Company Secretary – G20 discussions, as well as proposals by the Australian ensures the ongoing monitoring of any potential issues that Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) and the Australian may require disclosure to shareholders and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). Stock Exchange. We have management processes to ensure • Future of Financial Advice (FOFA) reforms. all matters that potentially require disclosure are promptly • Stronger Super reforms. reported to the Disclosure Committee and Group Chief • Reviews into insurance cover following natural disasters. Executive Officer. The Disclosure Committee also provides • Bank funding. advice to the Chief Executive Officer on the disclosure obligations of the Group. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 39 Governance • Financial Claims Scheme. Fraud protection • Price signalling. We have continued to take proactive steps to protect our • Privacy reforms. customers from ATM fraud. One of the biggest threats is ATM • Personal Property Securities. skimming, where account details are illegally copied from the magnetic strip on a credit or debit card when used in an ATM. Representations were also made through the Australian Bankers Association on the US legislation, Foreign Account Our Group Security strategy includes: Tax Compliance Act, and the UK Bribery Act. • Robust physical security standards. We also participated in various parliamentary inquiries, including: • Raising customer and consumer awareness through information and education. • Senate Economics Committee’s Report into Competition within the Australian Banking Sector. • Intelligence gathering and knowledge building of both local • Parliamentary Joint Committee on Corporations and and international fraud trends. Financial Services Access for Small and Medium Business • Research, testing and deployment of the latest to Finance. anti-skimming technology. • Senate Finance and Public Administration Committee’s • Working with relevant industry groups and law enforcement. Report on Positive Credit Reporting. • Analysing transactional data to search for suspicious As a matter of course, our senior executives regularly meet transactions on customer accounts. with a range of stakeholders that include members of parliament and industry regulators such as APRA, ASIC and the Reserve Bank of Australia. We also participate in industry Our security teams have consultations through various associations, including the Australian Bankers Association, the Financial Services Council, detected and removed around the Insurance Council of Australia, the Financial Planning 50 skimming devices since April Association, the Australian Financial Markets Association and the Business Council of Australia. 2010, and installed more than 2,000 anti-skimming devices on Sustainable supply chain Our supply chain plays an important role in our efforts to ATMs across Australia. develop sustainable practices, and we expect the highest ethical and professional standards from our suppliers. Our To guard against debt fraud, we implemented the Real Time approach involves managing environmental, social and Transactions Monitoring (RTTM) system. The RTTM system governance risks and opportunities in our supply chain as aims to stop fraud without impacting customers by stopping we work to deliver long-term shareholder value. fraudulent ATM and debit card activities in real-time, while Since July 2010, our Group Procurement team has used the still allowing customers to make legitimate transactions. Sustainability Schedule, which is a sustainability assessment, It detects fraudulent patterns in transaction data and scores as part of every tender it conducts. The Sustainability each transaction, enabling us to predict and immediately Schedule forms a minimum 10% weighted component of respond to urgent situations. Transactions that have a high every tender evaluated by Group Procurement. Suppliers score are assessed as high risk and an automatic decline must show their plans and activities that support our five on the transaction is triggered before it is completed. The sustainability foundations. suspect card is then blocked and the customer contacted. The Group Procurement team is also developing a Sustainable For medium risk scores, we may contact the customer as Supply Chain Management (SSCM) Policy and SSCM Code of the transaction is occurring. Conduct to govern our assessment of supply chain compliance. To help create awareness of scams and other types of fraud, These will be introduced in December 2011. we supported National Consumer Fraud Week, an initiative Offshore, our International Procurement Office (IPO) based of the Australasian Consumer Fraud Taskforce held during in Hong Kong continues to procure goods for our Australian March 2011, focusing on scams. business and these make up 1% of our total procurement spend. The IPO gives us greater visibility and control of goods procured from Asia and has also allowed us to form close partnerships with Asian suppliers. The IPO team is committed to engaging with environmentally certified suppliers, and uses Intertek, one of the world’s largest audit and testing companies, to conduct social compliance audits. 40 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Governance ATM stand-in issue Storm Financial was an independent, licensed financial A technical problem occurred on 1 March 2011 resulting in our planning group that operated from North Queensland. back-end system going off-line and our ATM network going We were one of a number of financial institutions which into stand-in mode. On the rare occasions that the system lent to Storm Financial’s clients to enable those clients to experiences problems, our ATMs are placed in stand-in mode implement Storm’s advice. so that our customers can access their money normally and Storm Financial’s model was not able to withstand a severe without disruption. market downturn, and as a result of the sharemarket fall in While the large majority of our customers withdrew money late 2008 many of Storm Financial’s clients, including people in line with their account conditions, a small number chose who were also our customers, experienced financial difficulty to abuse the system. While the ATMs were in stand-in mode and losses. these customers deliberately withdrew funds up to their daily We are committed to putting right any wrongs on our part withdrawal limit regardless of the balance of their account. when providing loans to Storm Financial’s clients. We have We acted immediately following this incident and clearly stated helped our customers by providing hardship assistance in that the transaction records for that day would be reviewed the early stages after the impact became known. Following and action taken to recover all funds from customers who a comprehensive review of the nature and extent of our had overdrawn their accounts. We identified and contacted arrangements with Storm Financial, we instigated the Storm those who made numerous transactions during the time of the Resolution Scheme to address customers’ claims quickly, outage to access funds that were not theirs. fairly and at no cost. While most customers were diligent in returning the money, a Under the Scheme, each customer’s situation was considered number have refused to do so. As an organisation that values and an offer of assistance individually tailored to reflect their integrity and transparency as central to doing business, being situation. Offers included loan reductions and write-offs, loan associated with individuals who do not hold up these beliefs restructures, reduced or zero interest rates for the life of the loan is not our preferred way of operating. For those customers and permanent tenancy arrangements. Customers who are not who refused to return funds not belonging to them, we made satisfied with an offer have the opportunity to have their claims the decision to no longer provide financial services to them. reviewed by an independent panel. As at 30 June 2011, around Around 60 of the most serious of cases were also referred to 80% of offers had been accepted by customers, 94% of cases the Police, with supporting CCTV evidence. had been finalised and the Scheme is nearing completion. Since the incident, the Retail Banking Services team has We are incorporating important lessons from the Storm made changes to the stand-in mode which will dramatically Financial situation into the ongoing sustainability of our reduce financial losses. Now, when our ATMs are in stand-in, business, in accordance with our deeply held values. customers are only able to withdraw the lesser of the previous A continuous improvement program is underway to strengthen days balance or the daily withdrawal limit. the Group’s risk culture, especially with our internal and external risk management measures, the management of third Storm Financial impact and recovery party relationships and our analysis of risk data. This is an We continue to proactively respond to the impacts of our important part of the Group’s existing culture program that will relationship with Storm Financial Limited (Storm Financial) aim to strengthen our people’s awareness of day-to-day risk and incorporated some important lessons into the ongoing management, clarify accountabilities for risk management and sustainability of our business. improve our risk management overall. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 41 Environment Environment As one of Australia’s largest organisations, we are keenly aware of the importance of managing our environmental impact and reducing our carbon footprint. In 2010–11 we remained focused on managing our carbon These initiatives helped us to reduce our property and fleet emissions, moving into more energy efficient buildings and carbon emissions to a total of 170,668 tonnes CO2-e (5.19 reducing our paper usage. We also continued to develop our tonnes per full-time equivalent employee), down from 176,806 renewable energy portfolio and met our environmental reporting tonnes CO2-e (5.5 per full-time equivalent employee) in 2010. commitments. And we remain committed to educate and More activities are planned for 2011–12 and beyond to further engage our people as well as provide them with opportunities reduce the impacts of increased energy and fuel prices. to make a difference to our environmental footprint. Property environmental performance Reducing carbon emissions Our commercial property portfolio has shifted to more Reducing our carbon footprint is one of our key environmental sustainable and energy efficient buildings, particularly across goals, and during 2010–11 we kept a strong focus on our our Sydney properties. target of a 20% reduction in carbon emissions from 2008–09 levels by June 2013. The Green Refresh Lighting refit program got underway, We achieved a five-star National focusing on replacing and controlling lighting while improving energy efficiency in around 780 branches nationwide. Phase Australian Built Environment one of the program saw the completion of 25 trial branches, Rating System (NABERS) rating and the energy efficiency program will reach the remaining sites in the 2011–12 financial year. We also launched environmental for water and energy for our awareness initiatives to increase our people’s awareness of buildings at Sydney Olympic Park the environmental impacts of travel and company car use. In the process, we introduced a carbon tracking tool in our online and completed construction of travel booking system. Commonwealth Bank Place. 42 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Environment COMMONWEALTH BANK PLACE As well as innovative features in overall building design and The construction of Commonwealth Bank Place (CBP) was physical office environment, the buildings incorporate Activity completed during the year, with the first teams moving into the Based Working (ABW). ABW enables staff to choose the CBP North building in June 2011. space best suited to the type of work they are doing at the time, and includes single-person desks, large tables for teams Consisting of commercial A-grade office spaces, the two to work together, and private offices for confidential business. eight-level buildings – CBP North and CBP South – each have Team meeting and work spaces feature LCD collaboration a large atrium with link bridges and stairs, as well as a rooftop screens and smart boards. terrace with a community garden and covered external area. Together, the buildings contain around 11,500 indoor potted plants. To maximise mobility, connectivity The buildings feature a range of sustainability principles and and efficiency, all employees sustainable design, including a tri-generation plant to support energy requirements and provide chilled water, and chilled at CBP are equipped with the beam air-conditioning to help reduce energy consumption by lightweight Macbook Air laptop 50%. Recycled blackwater will make up 100% of the water which can access a secure used in toilets and 90% of cooling tower water. Eighty per cent of waste will be recycled or diverted from landfill. The efficient wireless network anywhere in the lighting system controlled by Building Management switches building. Each laptop includes a off all lighting outside scheduled operating hours, with the exception of designated security lighting that operate 24 hours. built-in webcam for video calls. A digital wall in each building displays live sustainability data, including energy consumption, recycling records, tri-generation Click here for a short video about: output and recycled water levels. CBP has been awarded a six star Green Star rating for the Commonwealth Bank Place base building office design and is targeting a six star Green Star Office As Built rating for the base building and a five star We will continue consolidating our Sydney CBD properties with Green Star rating for office interiors within the Commonwealth a phased move to CBP. By early 2012 around 6,300 of our Bank fitout. Both base building and the Commonwealth Bank people will be located in one of the largest corporate precincts fitout are also targeting a five star NABERS Energy rating. in the southern hemisphere. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 43 Environment LESS PAPER Since 2008 we have voluntarily reported our carbon emissions to We introduced a number of strategies to dramatically reduce the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent organisation our paper usage, such as: that seeks climate-related information from the world’s largest companies for investors. Our 2010 submission earned us a place • Introducing ABW, which targets business processes and in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), achieving individual behaviours to reduce paper usage. For example, second place among all Australian financial institutions reporting to a limited amount of physical storage space has been CDP. We were also ranked third in the world for carbon disclosure allocated in the CBP building design, with some teams and commended by CDP as a Global Sector leader. reducing their storage by more than 50%. For our third year of National Greenhouse and Energy • Encouraging staff to adopt new behaviours and embrace Reporting (NGER), we were required to provide a statistical new technologies that use less paper, such as not printing estimate of the level of uncertainty associated with our documents for meetings, using Microsoft OneNote instead corporate group Scope 1 emissions (that is, direct emissions of a notebook for taking notes, and holding regular file such as fuels used by our tool-of-trade fleet). It is necessary to cleanups to encourage good housekeeping. report uncertainty associated with our Scope 1 emissions in • Encouraging greater use of scanning technology to enable order to meet the objective of the NGER Act; in particular to: teams to work with electronic copies of documents rather • Inform Government policy formulation and the Australian than hard copy files. public, and • ‘Follow-You’ printing, where staff select a printer based • Meet Australia’s international reporting obligations. on their working location within CBP as opposed to configuring their computer to a specific printer. This We also reviewed our energy and emissions data management enables us to track print usage, reduce paper use and tool and confirmed its accuracy in disclosure. target continuous improvement efforts. This year also marked the end of the first five-year reporting cycle (2006–11) for corporations captured under the Energy Environmental reporting Efficiency Opportunities Act 2006. During this period we have We recognise the importance of transparent reporting of our implemented a number of energy efficiency projects. For energy consumption and production, both to drive environment example, during 2010–11 we identified over 1,800 individual benefits and to keep our shareholders informed. opportunities to save power, potentially saving 18,527 gigajoules of energy each year. Case study – The Wrap goes online As part of our commitment to managing Our customers had indicated that they Andrew Cheesman, General Manager our impact on the environment, we preferred to read the publication online. of Merchant Solutions commented, “We stopped printing our quarterly merchant As businesses increasingly use the internet work hard to manage our impact on the newsletter, The Wrap, and moved to research information we are focused environment and hope that by identifying it online. The transition occurred in on improving our online communication smarter solutions and making changes February 2011 and ended the printing of channels to provide our customers with now, we can contribute to a sustainable 800,000 copies per year. relevant updates on our products. future and a better environment.” “We work hard to manage our impact on the environment and hope that by identifying smarter solutions and making changes now, we can contribute to a sustainable future and a better environment.” 44 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Environment For the second five-year reporting cycle, organisations must MW) while in New Zealand it is 68% (total energy exposure assess 90% of total energy use across their portfolio (including equals 9,337 MW of which clean/renewable exposure equals electricity and transport energy usage), an increase from the 6,360 MW). 80% required in the first five-year reporting cycle. We are well positioned to respond to this change as we have already Staff engagement scheduled portfolio assessments to cover the additional We participated in Earth Hour during March 2011, an event energy consumption required over the next reporting cycle. we have been involved with since its beginning. We supported For more detail see commbank.com.au/about-us/ourthe initiative by switching off core lighting in our CBD sites, company/sustainability/environment/environmental-reporting. raising awareness of the initiative internally, and asking our people to turn off lights, computers, monitors and any other Renewable energy portfolio electrical appliances when leaving the office on Friday 26 We are a senior investor in renewable and clean energy March. We also encouraged our people to participate at home. projects currently generating over 17,400 megawatts (MW) A key component of our support for Clean Up Australia Day in Australia and New Zealand each year. involves encouraging staff participation. In March 2011 around Over the 12 months to 30 June 2011 we increased our 1000 of our people helped clean up at one of our 65 Clean Up investment by approximately 4,000 MW, with a Group sites around Australia. investment of more than 11,000 MW in Australia compared with the previous year’s investment of around 7,000 MW. Carbon Solutions team Our loan facilities to clean/renewable generation companies The Carbon Solutions team is responsible for the development and represent approximately 59% (measured by MW capacity) execution of the Group’s Carbon Markets Strategy. Our strategy of total exposures in this sector (Australia and New Zealand leverages core trading, financing and distribution capabilities combined). This is based on total energy exposure of 29,550 to provide a range of tailored financing and hedging solutions to MW in Australia and New Zealand of which clean/renewable assist our clients in the management of their carbon risks. exposure makes up 17,474 MW. A wide range of corporate organisations and investors will face In Australia our loan facilities to clean/renewable generation significant risks and opportunities linked to the price of carbon. companies represent approximately 55% (measured by Our diverse and innovative solutions can be tailored to provide MW capacity) of total exposure, (total energy exposure equals our clients with bespoke solutions, whatever their carbon 20,213 MW of which clean/renewable exposure equals 11,114 market objective. Case study – Recycling discontinued uniforms In April 2011 the Retail Sales Support the Kerb (KOTK). The garments will be Scott Henricks, General Manager, Retail Team in conjunction with Group shredded and used to fill punching bags Sales Support, commented, “We are Procurement set about collecting the manufactured in El Salvador and donated not only focused in thinking about how return of discontinued and surplus to local youth centres. the Group impacts the environment today Corporate Collection garments in but are also taking steps to minimise KOTK is focused on creating sustainable a recycling initiative where 60,000 future impact in direct support of our garments would be diverted from landfill. training, employment and business Group-wide sustainability approach. opportunities for youth at risk throughout The initiative followed the introduction the world. KOTK is especially active in The recycling project was a collaborative of a new Commonwealth Bank uniform sustainably creating opportunities for effort across the business with a key focus design, requiring the old design to young people. This is the second time on the environment and community – two be recalled and disposed of. 60,000 we have participated in a recycling of our sustainability foundations. We were discontinued Commonwealth Bank initiative with KOTK and Waste Diversion able to leverage our suppliers to achieve shirts and additional surplus uniform Enterprises (WDE), through the uniform success in achieving an environmentally garments held in storage were collected supplier Neat ‘n Trim Uniforms, to donate responsible outcome that helped those from branches. To ensure the clothing the old Corporate Collection to charity less fortunate in El Salvador.” did not end up as landfill, it was sent to and keep it out of landfill. El Salvador for use by the charity Kids of Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 45 Environment Case study – Supporting carbon management initiatives Our Investment Finance team approved a revenue and balance sheet growth. “By contributing to the fight against senior debt facility for Carbon Conscious The deal also positions us as one of the climate change and helping Australian for the establishment of Mallee Eucalypt leaders in supporting the growing carbon farmers fight other environmental carbon forest sink plantings. The forest sink plantings industry. problems such as salinity and soil primary focus of Carbon Conscious is to erosion, we continue to strengthen our “As one of Australia’s main financial create large scale carbon estates in the reputation as a leading environmental institutions, it was important to us to Australian wheat belt in order to produce corporate citizen,” Brendan added. demonstrate that we are a bank that quality and accredited carbon credits. understands this burgeoning industry and CEO of Carbon Conscious Mr Peter They do this through planting Mallee the need to become involved at ground Balsarini commented; “We welcome Eucalypt trees, a native species adapted level,” commented Brendan White, the opportunity to work with the to the growing conditions of the region. Executive General Manager, Regional and Commonwealth Bank who have Carbon Conscious will establish the Agribusiness Banking. shown leadership and forethought in carbon forest sink plantings on behalf of the provision of this funding. To our Importantly the majority of the plantations clients wishing to add an environmentally knowledge this debt arrangement is the are on marginal Australian farmland. This beneficial initiative to their carbon first such facility negotiated between results in two significant benefits. Firstly, management portfolio. This pioneer a carbon sink developer and a main farmers can generate an income from company is well positioned to capitalise stream lender and highlights the ability land that previously has not provided on this developing industry, with green of the Commonwealth Bank’s team to a financially viable yield. Secondly, energy offsets seen as a growing market. create value through innovative thought by integrating trees into the cropping and action.” The senior debt facility will provide program, the environmental benefits benefits for our organisation including assist in improving overall production. 46 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Environment Colonial First State • National Tree Day in August 2010, where more than 300 Our wealth management business, Colonial First State (CFS), staff adopted native trees and planted them in their own has maintained its focus on environmental sustainability and communities. achieved a number of successes, including: • Walk to Work Day on 1 October 2010, with close to 200 staff members participating. • Paperless meetings at Executive Committee level. • Friday File Fling, Planet Ark’s workplace recycling initiative • Electronic distribution of senior management team meeting as part of National Recycling Week, with 120 wheelie bins briefing packs. of paper collected for recycling. • Paperless auditing processes. • Earth Hour in March 2011. • Printing all business marketing collateral on 100% recycled • Clean Up Australia Day held at CFS offices with 240 bins FSG compliant paper. of paper and more than 80 boxes of stationery, metals and However, while some CFS divisions used less paper, the plastics collected for recycling. business did not achieve its sustainability KPIs due to a slight PLANET ARK increase in power usage and an overall increase in paper usage across the business. This in turn has given the business CFS has continued its support of Planet Ark, and as part of a renewed impetus and a number of programs and initiatives the ongoing paper-free statements initiative, donations will be rolled out in coming months. to Planet Ark have increased to $600,000. Also, 300,000 customers have opted in to receive statements online. The CFS Sustainability Committee encouraged CFS’s approximately 2,000 staff nationally to participate in a number Additionally, CFS continued to support World Environment of activities, including: News, Planet Ark’s daily email newsletter. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 47 Bankwest Bankwest Bankwest is a market leader in Western Australia, and has significantly expanded its East Coast store portfolio during 2010 –11. The Bank of Western Australia (Bankwest) became a wholly Bankwest’s vision to be the best value, most innovative and owned subsidiary of the Commonwealth Bank Group in approachable bank in Australia. Bankwest was also named December 2008. Savings Institution of the Year and received the Best Balance Transfer Card Award in the Blue Ribbon Awards. Bankwest is active in all market segments – consumer, business and rural. While Bankwest has a dominant presence Bankwest has demonstrated its commitment to the in Western Australia, its identity on the East Coast has sustainability agenda over the 2010–11 financial year by gradually increased with a steady rollout of stores. It serves focusing on a number of clear priorities. In particular, Bankwest over one million Australian retail customers through a branch has reinforced its customer commitment with new products network of 139 stores serviced by 72 Business Banking and services and a focus on customer satisfaction. Bankwest’s Centres and 79 Home Loan Specialists. commitment to the community over the past 12 months is reflected in its disaster relief support and new community Bankwest’s vision is to be the best value, most innovative and partnerships, while for its people Bankwest has reinvented approachable bank in Australia. During the 2010–11 financial a number of internal programs. Good corporate governance year Bankwest maintained focus on its 1-3-6 Strategic Plan, continued to be a primary consideration for Bankwest, while with one vision, three core values – Customer focus, Results the work on Bankwest Place reinforces the organisation’s driven, One team – and six strategic priorities – Iconic WA and commitment to the environment. East Coast challenger, Customers satisfaction, Profitable growth, Cost efficiency, Managing risk responsibly, and Our people. Customers Since joining the Commonwealth Bank Group, Bankwest’s At 30 June 2011 Bankwest’s score in retail customer people have been heavily focused on improving customer satisfaction was 83.6 per cent, as measured by the Roy satisfaction through service delivery and product innovation. Morgan Research Main Financial Institution (MFI) Retail In September 2010, their efforts were rewarded when Customer Satisfaction survey on a six-month rolling basis. Bankwest was named Bank of the Year in the AFR Smart This result is an increase of 4.7 percentage points from the Investor Blue Ribbon Awards. The award recognises 78.9 recorded in June 2010, and reflects the focus that 48 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Bankwest Bankwest Retail has applied to improving the customer The refreshed website gives customers an easy, streamlined experience. Bankwest ranked fourth against a competitor online browsing experience inspired by online shopping sites and set of eight including the main and regional banks. not seen elsewhere in the financial services industry. The search tool takes visitors where they want to go in one click by predicting Among its business customers, Bankwest’s customer popular search terms and suggesting keyword matches as users satisfaction score was 6.8 in the total market based on a type, then suggesting direct links to relevant information. six-month rolling average as measured by the DBM Business Finance Monitor (the Commonwealth Bank Group’s new The elegant site design includes photographs contributed by business financial services monitor). In the $1 million plus market colleagues and reflects Bankwest’s Happy Banking brand. Bankwest scored 7.3 based on a six-month rolling average. A free iPhone application, launched along with the new website, enables customers to use the most popular features of personal and business online banking on their smartphones. In March 2011, Bankwest INNOVATION relaunched its website. In June A number of banking products were launched for a range of the new site was awarded customers, including the Fee Saver, Business Low Rate and Business Fixed Rate loans and the Student Edge Debit Card. the Interactive Media Awards Two of Bankwest’s existing products were recognised at the Outstanding Achievement Award Canstar Cannex 2010 Awards: for the Banking category. • Bankwest Business Mastercard Low Rate Card – five-star rating for outstanding value, in the Business Credit Cards category. BANKWEST.COM.AU • Business Bonus Account – five-star rating for outstanding In March 2011, Bankwest relaunched its website, value, in the Business Deposits category. bankwest.com.au. The new site was awarded the Interactive Media Awards Outstanding Achievement Award for the Banking category in June 2011. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 49 Bankwest PROJECT ORANGE The Bankwest People and Culture Indicator registered a score Project Orange, aimed at revitalising Bankwest’s stores, of 4.13, up from 4.09 in the previous financial year. business centres and neighbourhood banks across Australia, Voluntary employee turnover increased from last year, with continued throughout the year. Three new retail stores were a voluntary turnover rate of 17.9%. Absenteeism was similar opened – Mt Ommaney in Queensland, and Charlestown and to the previous period, with 6.97 average days per full-time Top Ryde in New South Wales – as part of Bankwest’s East equivalent (FTE) for the 12 months to 30 June 2011, a slight Coast branch expansion. A number of stores were refurbished increase of 0.03 on the previous reporting year. Bankwest’s in Perth and in rural and regional areas, while several additional lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) for the 2010–11 financial Western Australian stores were fully re-branded. A new Store year was 1.7 against a target of 1.8. has just opened in Ellenbrook, WA. Bankwest provides a flexible work environment so that staff can balance work with other important aspects of their lives. At 30 June 2011, 18.03% of Bankwest staff worked part-time. Bankwest is focused on increasing the representation of women in management roles and has established a target to achieve 28.5% of women in Level 4 and above positions from a 2009-10 baseline level. As at 30 June 2011 the proportion of women in Level 4 and above positions was above target at 29%. WELCOME PROGRAMS As part of Bankwest’s strategy to attract and retain the best In February 2011, Bankwest introduced its first interactive talent, in October 2010 a new Welcome Program was rolled Express Store in Western Australia, at Perth’s Karrinyup out for Bankwest retail employees. The redesigned program Shopping Centre. The Express Store delivers greater ensures new retail staff members and those returning to accessibility and convenience to customers, and provides the work from an extended absence are equipped to understand functionality of a regular bank, including an ATM and internet and engage with the vision and values of Bankwest’s 1–3–6 banking terminals. The Karrinyup Express Store is also open Strategic Plan. Key features of the new program include an during Thursday nights and Saturday trading hours with assigned Welcome Coordinator for the first six months and a experienced staff on hand to assist customers. redesigned Welcome Pack. A refreshed Induction Program was also launched within the People Bankwest Business team to enhance the experience of new people and existing employees transferring into the team. The program includes a welcome video, online induction modules Bankwest’s people are focused and new starter forums. on the company’s strategic Bankwest’s Human Resources team developed the Employee priorities and working towards Value Proposition (EVP), called ‘Have Fun. Go Far’. The EVP encompasses three pillars – Colleagues, Career/Growth/Future, achieving the bank’s vision and Contribution/Impact – and relates directly to Bankwest’s of being the best value, most ‘Our people’ Strategic Priority by assisting in improving innovative and approachable engagement, retention and attraction. bank in Australia, with an absolute LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT The Bankwest Leadership University is the bank’s online focus on customer satisfaction. learning and development system and provides colleagues with resources to develop their leadership skills. During the 12 months to 30 June 2011 Bankwest launched the Bankwest The Bankwest People and Culture Survey results over the Values and Behaviours 360° program through the Leadership reporting period showed an improved level of staff engagement University. The tool provides Bankwest leaders with and cultural alignment of employees. Bankwest recorded comprehensive feedback on the behaviours they demonstrate a Gallup GrandMean of 4.15, an improvement of 0.03 from and assists with identifying development areas. The program the previous period, and maintaining the organisation in the aims to better align colleague performance and behaviours 63rd percentile in the Gallup Worldwide database. While against the bank’s 1-3-6 Strategic Plan. improvement has been made there is some progress required to achieve Bankwest’s goal to reach the 75th percentile. 50 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Bankwest Bankwest leaders also have access to a panel of external COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT coaches who provide an individualised development journey, as For the second year in a row, Bankwest has committed to well as Leader to Leader Mentoring where individuals develop a their partnership with Redkite and Edmund Rice Camp for professional, confidential partnership with a colleague who can Kids helping provide financial assistance through an annual share practical, experience-based knowledge. corporate donation as well as staff donations from the Bankwest Workplace Giving program. Community DISASTER RELIEF Natural disasters affected much of the Western Australian Bankwest’s community support coastline as well as inland rural and regional areas across the state. focuses on providing assistance In November 2010, Bankwest launched its Drought Assistance to a number of children’s charities initiative in response to parts of the central and eastern Western – both financial help and support Australian Wheatbelt facing the driest season on record. The initiative included a commitment to fund the 2011 Cropping from Bankwest’s people who program for farming clients who had experienced cashflow donate their time to volunteer for issues due to drought affected crops. various programs. Following flooding in Carnarvon in December 2010, Bankwest announced the Emergency Financial Hardship Relief package for customers affected by the floods. In addition to providing a Bankwest has been the major partner of Redkite for two years. team of specialist hardship bankers, the package included: Redkite provides support to children and young people with • Additional loans or changes to home loan repayment cancer, and their families. Redkite provides families with services arrangements. such as hospital and community-based support, financial • Restructuring loans for business customers with existing assistance, educational assistance and bereavement support. loans without applying the usual establishment fees. • Reviewing credit card instalments for customers of good standing. • Emergency credit limit increases. • Waiving prepayment charges for a specified time for affected customers needing to access term deposits. As well as providing the relief package to customers, Bankwest local staff identified that the Carnarvon SES lost their flood boat and as a result the local staff engaged with the bank to help provide support. Bankwest donated $25,000 to fund the purchase of a new flood boat and other necessary equipment. Along with Redkite, Bankwest is also a major partner of Edmund In response to the Queensland floods in January 2011, Rice Camp for Kids in Western Australia, which supports at Bankwest established a Disaster Recovery team to help risk or disadvantaged children, and their families, and provides affected customers and the Emergency Financial Hardship camps and other recreational and developmental activities for Relief package was activated again. In addition, impacted children who would not otherwise have such opportunities. customers were excluded from all collections activities. Bankwest branches also processed public donations for To support its Community Engagement program, Bankwest the Queensland Premier’s Flood Relief Appeal. has developed a Community Giving Champions Committee with the aim to drive ideas and opportunities and inspire Bankwest donated $100,000 to the Lord Mayor’s Distress Relief Bankwest’s people to become involved. The Committee is Fund in February 2011 following some of the worst bushfires made up of eight Bankwest Community Giving Champions ever seen in Western Australia, and also accepted donations in who help create a closer connection between Bankwest all Bankwest stores and online through the Bankwest appeal colleagues and the community organisations supported in each account. The Disaster Response team were on hand to offer state. The Committee members identify local opportunities to support to customers, and an additional $20,000 was donated support and inform staff, and communicate information about to crisis support service, Lifeline WA, helping the organisation Bankwest’s community support programs to new employees answer an additional 1,000 calls over a 12 month period. including how they can become involved. They also facilitate and support local colleague events. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 51 Bankwest VOLUNTEERING In April 2011, Bankwest announced another sporting Bankwest’s Volunteering Program is coordinated through a partnership with the West Coast Eagles. Bankwest joined number of Western Australian volunteering charities who help the club as a Premier Partner for the 2011 season, and from to deliver a variety of volunteering experiences. Bankwest November 2011 will become a Major Sponsor of the West employees get involved in a range of volunteering activities, Coast Eagles Football Club. As part of this partnership, the including painting houses, gardening clearouts, stacking shelves Bankwest logo will make its debut on the West Coast Eagles’ at food banks, mentoring youths and cooking for the homeless. football guernsey at the beginning of 2012. This new sporting sponsorship marked a milestone for Bankwest as it continues This year, with the help of charity partner United Way WA, to deepen its involvement in the Western Australian community. Bankwest has partnered with HOPE (Helping Out People Everywhere) to deliver a barbecue lunch once a month for the Governance homeless community. HOPE supports the homeless community As part of Bankwest’s focus on good corporate governance, in Perth by providing food, clean donated clothing, clean the business launched a number of enhanced risk management showers, blankets, personal hygiene items and referral services. capabilities, including the Risk Decision Engine (RiDE). In addition, Bankwest also provides a Skilled Volunteering Implemented in November 2010, RiDE is an industry-leading Program and has partnered with not-for-profit organisation credit decisioning system that enables the business to efficiently goodcompany to provide various opportunities for Bankwest revise credit decision models and criteria. RiDE is a significant people to share their skills. goodcompany matches skilled milestone for Bankwest’s Managing Risks Responsibly strategy. volunteer professionals to Australian community groups in all sectors. Examples of skilled volunteering include community Environment organisations looking for support with information technology A number of environmental initiatives were rolled out over tasks, business strategy and planning, administration support, the 12 months to 30 June 2011, such as the implementation graphic design and production. of Desktop Power Management (DPM) across Bankwest’s computers. The DPM project, begun in May 2011, ensures all This support allows community groups to expand or work desktop computers are automatically placed in sleep mode, a more effectively and learn new skills from the volunteer. And for low energy state, during non-operational periods. This means the volunteers, skilled volunteering is regarded as a valuable Bankwest is reducing power usage, and CO2 emissions, as development opportunity. well as its operating expenditure. PARTNERSHIPS AND SPONSORSHIPS BANKWEST PLACE Bankwest’s partnerships aim to strengthen the business’ Development of Bankwest’s new corporate headquarters, position as a good corporate citizen in the community by Bankwest Place (previously known as Raine Square) is continuing. supporting initiatives in the areas of education, health and The building, which is targeting a five star Green Star rating for welfare, research, arts, indigenous affairs and community and Bankwest’s internal fitout from ground floor to level 14 and a business awards in both established and emerging markets. four and a half star National Australian Built Environment Rating Bankwest’s sponsorships aim to build positive relations with System (NABERS), will be completed in early 2012. the communities in which the bank operates and engages with, in a mutually rewarding way. During 2010–11, Bankwest forged new partnerships with Bankwest Place is targeting a the Royal Flying Doctor Service as well as several sporting five star Green Star rating for sponsorships. Bankwest’s internal fitout from In May 2011, Bankwest joined forces with the Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS) to raise funds for the RFDS in Western ground floor to level 14. Australia and support people located in rural and remote areas. The community fundraising partnership included an initial Around 3,000 Bankwest colleagues will be relocated from five donation from Bankwest to the RFDS. The two organisations, current locations and will occupy 14 floors of office space. which have a long standing association in Western Australia, These people will become the first Bankwest employees to work are working together to help RFDS identify additional fundraising in an Activity Based Working (ABW) space. Within the new ABW opportunities and initiatives throughout Western Australia. office environment, employees are provided with innovative Bankwest became a major partner with Football West workspaces and technology tools to support mobile, flexible (football’s governing body in Western Australia) in February and collaborative working. Environmental initiatives focused on 2011. The two-year deal includes two focus areas – female paper independence will also be introduced at Bankwest Place. football and officiating. Bankwest will assist in funding the In November 2010 Bankwest signed up as the first and anchor employment of a Manager, Women’s Football, plus other tenant at Fujitsu’s new data centre in Perth. Not only will initiatives to strengthen women’s football, and will also support this provide Bankwest with a technology platform to deliver the continued recruitment, education and support of young banking services to customers across Australia, the data referees in Western Australia. centre is expected to consume 30% less energy than standard facilities and save up to 80% in water use in its cooling system. 52 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Bankwest Artist’s Impression Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 53 Metrics and Definitions Metrics and Definitions Commonwealth Bank of Australia – All metrics capture data from Australian domestic operations only (excluding Bankwest) unless otherwise stated. CUSTOMERS Roy Morgan Research MFI retail customer satisfaction (6-month to June rolling average) 2011 75.2% (ranked 4th) The proportion of each financial institution’s MFI retail customers surveyed by Roy Morgan Research that are either ‘Very Satisfied’ or ‘Fairly Satisfied’ with their overall relationship with that financial institution on a scale of 1 to 5 where 2010 75.6% (ranked 2nd) 1 is ‘Very Dissatisfied’ and 5 is ‘Very Satisfied’. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average to June, based 2009 73.0% (ranked 3rd) on the Australian population aged 14 and over. The ranking refers to the Group’s position relative to the other three main Australian banks (Westpac, NAB, ANZ). The competitor set changed in 2010-11 to exclude St George. Rank 2008 70.1% (ranked equal 3rd) adjustments have been applied historically. KPMG have not provided assurance over 2008-2010 rankings. DBM Business Finance Monitor MFI Customer Satisfaction 2011 7.1 (ranked equal 2nd) The average satisfaction of each financial institution’s MFI business customers surveyed by DBM Business Financial Services monitor. Respondents rate their overall relationship with that institution on a scale from 0 to 10 where 0 is 2010 7.0 (ranked equal 1st) ‘Extremely Dissatisfied’ and 10 is ‘Extremely Satisfied’. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June. 2009 – – The ranking refers to the Group’s position relative to the other three major Australian banks (Westpac, NAB, ANZ). The Group began reporting Business customer satisfaction using the new industry currency, DBM Business Financial Services 2008 – – Monitor in August 2010. DBM have provided data from June 2010, which has not been assured by KPMG. Wealth Insights Platform Survey 2011 84.7% (ranked 1st) The proportion of financial advisers giving the Colonial FirstChoice platform an overall satisfaction score of 7-10, on a scale of 1-10 where 1 is ‘Poor’ and 10 is ‘Excellent’, in the Wealth Insights Platform Service Level survey. Ranking 2010 86.5% (ranked 1st) captures the relative position of Colonial FirstChoice compared with bank peer master trusts measured in the survey, 2009 84.1% (ranked 1st) based on the percentage of advisers giving 7-10 for overall satisfaction. Until 2010 this survey was known as the Wealth Insights MasterTrust/Wrap survey. There have been no changes in methodology. 2008 88.2% (ranked 1st) Overall provision of good service 2011 79.5% (ranked 1st) Among customers answering “Overall provides good service” of their main bank (% answering 5, 6 or 7 on a 7 point scale). Ranks based on Commonwealth Bank’s position relative to the major four Australian banks, six-month rolling averages. 2010 78.6% (ranked 2nd) Source: Roy Morgan Research. 2009 77.4% (ranked 3rd) 2008 72.0% (ranked 4th) Number of StartSmart presentations and students booked The number of StartSmart classroom sessions and workshops delivered, and the number of students booked to attend these sessions. StartSmart StartSmart StartSmart Secondary Secondary classroom StartSmart Primary Primary classroom Students booked workshops delivered sessions delivered workshops delivered sessions delivered 2011 200,081 259 1,839 1,176 3,425 2010 119,669 243 1,536 – 1,889 2009 51,426 223 1,541 – – 2008 47,918 147 1,190 – – PEOPLE Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2011 2.3 LTIFR is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted in an accepted workers compensation claim, for each million hours worked by domestic employees, for the year ending 30 June. The 2010 2.9 metric captures claims relating to domestic employees only (permanent, casual and those contractors paid directly by the 2009 2.4 Group). Data is complete as at 31 August, however it may be updated in future reports due to late reporting of incidents that occurred during the year, or the subsequent acceptance or rejection of claims made in the year. To reflect this, the 2010 2008 3.1 figure (previously reported as 2.5) has been adjusted. KPMG has not provided assurance over the adjusted figure. 54 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Metrics and Definitions Commonwealth Bank of Australia – All metrics capture data from Australian domestic operations only (excluding Bankwest) unless otherwise stated. PEOPLE Gallup Survey GrandMean 2011 4.30 73rd percentile The Gallup Survey GrandMean measures the average response, on a 5-point scale (where 5 is the most positive response), summarising the average (mean) responses to the Gallup Q12 statements, given by employees in the People and Culture 2010 4.32 76th percentile survey. The result captures the responses of domestic and international CBA employees excluding those of Bankwest, 2009 4.37 ASB Bank and other overseas banking subsidiaries. KPMG did not provide assurance over the percentile in 2010. 2008 4.28 People and Culture Indicator (PCI) 2011 4.30 The PCI measures the average response on a 5-point scale (where 5 is the most positive response), by summarising the average (mean) responses to 25 People and Culture Survey statements comprising the Gallup Q12 statements and 13 2010 4.31 additional statements selected by the Group, all of which measure our progress towards our cultural aspiration of trust 2009 4.36 and team spirit. The surveyed population is the same as for the Gallup GrandMean. The PCI was first measured in 2009. 2008 – Absenteeism (Average days per FTE) 2011 6.0 Absenteeism is the annualised figure as at 31 May each year. Absenteeism refers to the average number of sick leave days (and, for CommSec employees, carers’ leave days) per full-time equivalent (FTE), reported by domestic, permanent 2010 5.9 employees. FTE captures domestic, permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave). 2009 5.9 2008 6.5 Employee Turnover (voluntary) 2011 12.65% Employee turnover refers to all voluntary exits of domestic, permanent employees as a percentage of the average domestic, permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave). 2010 12.73% 2009 11.37% 2008 18.45% Number of graduates commencing in a graduate position 2011 161 The number of graduates who accepted and commenced in a graduate position with the Group. Graduate positions commence in February each year. 2010 134 2009 135 2008 114 Female participation in Executive Manager and above roles 2011 28.2% Percentage of roles at the level of Executive Manager and above that are filled by women, in relation to the total permanent headcount, as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, 2010 26.3% on extended leave) and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid via PeopleSoft HR. KPMG has not provided 2009 26.1% assurance over the 2009 and 2010 figures. 2008 – Percentage of women in management roles 2011 43.6% Percentage of roles at the level of Manager and above (including Branch Managers) that are filled by women, in relation to the total permanent headcount as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job 2010 43.2% share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid via PeopleSoft HR. KPMG has not provided 2009 43.1% assurance over the 2009 and 2010 figures. 2008 – Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 55 Metrics and Definitions Commonwealth Bank of Australia – All metrics capture data from Australian domestic operations only (excluding Bankwest) unless otherwise stated. PEOPLE Staff working part-time or job-sharing 2011 22.4% The number of employees who are employed on a part-time or job share basis, as a percentage of domestic, 2010 22.7% permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and those contractors paid directly by the Group, as at 30 June. 2009 22.9% 2008 20.8% Ethnic Diversity The ethnicity of respondents who chose to nominate their ethnicity in the 2010 People and Culture Survey. The percentages are as a proportion of the 92.8% of survey respondents who chose to nominate their ethnicity. The surveyed population is the same as for the Gallup GrandMean. South North Nth African South New or Cental East or Middle South Australian East Asian European Other British Zealand Asian Asian Eastern African Americas 2011 66.3% 8.1% 6.5% 4.6% 4.5% 2.8% 2.0% 1.9% 1.4% 1.0% 0.9% 2010 68% 7.6% 6.4% 4.7% 4.3% 2.7% 1.6% 1.6% 1.2% 1.1% 0.8% 2009 65.2% 7.9% 7.3% 5.0% 5.0% 2.8% 2.0% 1.6% 1.4% 1.0% 0.8% 2008 – – – – – – – – – – – Age Diversity The breakdown of domestic, permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and those contractors paid directly by the Group, by their age as at 30 June of that year. <25 years 25 – 34 years 35 – 44 years 45 – 54 years 55 – 64 years 65+ years 2011 (11.7%) (36.1%) (29.2%) (16.9%) (5.8%) (0.3%) 2010 (12.7%) (35.9%) (28.6%) (16.9%) (5.7%) (0.2%) 2009 (13.3%) (35.2%) (28.7%) (16.9%) (5.4%) (0.2%) 2008 – – – – – – ENVIRONMENT Property and fleet carbon emissions (tonnes CO2-e) 2011 170,668 5.19 per FTE Emissions relate to the consumption of electricity, gas and fuel (gasoline and diesel) by domestic retail and commercial 2010 176,806 5.5 per FTE properties, the business use of domestic tool-of-trade vehicle fleet, dedicated bus services, business use of private vehicles and domestic ATMs. Due to the electricity billing cycle, 8% of the 2010-11 electricity data was estimated to meet 2009 172,752 5.7 per FTE publication deadlines. 2008 173, 397 5.6 per FTE Travel carbon emissions (flights, hire cars and taxis) (tonnes CO2-e) 2011 38,856 1.18 per FTE Emissions relate to employee business travel in aircraft and hire cars and taxi travel. Only flights taken by Australian-based 2010 21,903 0.7 per FTE employees, and booked through the Group’s ‘Cliqbook’ booking system; and hire cars booked through ‘Cliqbook’ and used in Australia are included in the scope. 2009 18,065 0.6 per FTE 2008 – Bankwest – All metrics capture data from Australian domestic operations only BANKWEST Roy Morgan Research MFI retail customer satisfaction (6-month to June rolling average) 2011 83.6% (ranked 4th) The proportion of each financial institution’s MFI retail customers surveyed by Roy Morgan Research that are either 2010 78.9% (ranked 5th) ‘Very Satisfied” or ‘Fairly Satisfied’ with their relationship with that financial institution on a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 is ‘Very Dissatisfied’ and 5 is ‘Very Satisfied’. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average, based on the Australian 2009 76.2% population aged 14 and over. The ranking refers to Bankwest’s position relative to CBA, NAB, ANZ, Westpac, St George 2008 73.5% Bank, Bank of Queensland, Suncorp and Bendigo Bank. Bankwest competitor set changed in October 2010 to include the regional banks, and the 2010 ranking has been adjusted historically. KPMG has not provided assurance over the adjusted figure or the 2008 and 2009 figures. DBM Business Financial Services Monitor Main Financial Institution (MFI) Customer Satisfaction 2011 6.8 (ranked 6th) The average satisfaction of each financial institution’s MFI business customers surveyed by DBM Business Financial Services monitor. Respondent’s rate their overall relationship with that institution on a scale from 0 to 10 where 0 is ‘Very Dissatisfied’ and 10 is ‘Very Satisfied’. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June. The ranking refers to Bankwest’s position relative to the regional Australian banks including St George, Bank of Queensland, Suncorp, Bendigo Bank and Adelaide Bank. The Bank began reporting Business customer satisfaction using the new industry currency, DBM Business Financial Services Monitor in August 2010. 56 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Metrics and Definitions Bankwest – All metrics capture data from Australian domestic operations only Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2011 1.7 LTIFR is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted in an accepted workers compensation claim for each million hours worked for the year ending 30 June. The number of 2010 1.4 hours worked is calculated using a working week of 40 hours per FTE and multiplied by 46 weeks. The metric captures claims relating to Bankwest employees only (permanent, casual and those contractors paid directly by Bankwest). Data is complete as at 30 September, however it may be updated in future reports due to post-publication reporting of incidents that occurred during the year, or the subsequent acceptance or rejection of claims made in the year. Gallup Survey GrandMean 2011 4.15 63rd percentile The Gallup Survey GrandMean measures the average responses, on a 5-point scale (where 5 is the most positive response), summarising the average (mean) responses to the Gallup Q12 statements, given by employees in the People 2010 4.12 63rd percentile and Culture survey. The result captures the responses of all employees of Bankwest (full-time, part-time, casuals, 2009 3.73 35th percentile job-share and contractors). Excludes employees on extended leave without pay (career break and parental leave). KPMG has not provided assurance over the figure in 2009 or the percentiles in 2009 and 2010. People and Culture Indicator (PCI) 2011 4.13 The PCI measures the average response on a 5-point scale (where 5 is the most positive response), by summarising the average (mean) responses to 25 People and Culture Survey Statements comprising the Gallup Q12 statements and 13 2010 4.09 additional statements selected by the Group, all of which measure our progress towards our cultural aspiration of trust 2009 3.71 and team spirit. The surveyed population is the same as for the Gallup GrandMean. The PCI was first measured in 2009. KPMG has not provided assurance over the 2009 and 2010 figures. Absenteeism (Average days per FTE) 2011 6.97 Absenteeism is the rolling 12 month figure as at 30 June each year. Absenteeism refers to the average number of sick leave days per full-time equivalent (FTE), reported by permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share). This metric 2010 6.94 excludes employees on unpaid extended leave. Employee Turnover (voluntary) 2011 17.9% Employee turnover refers to all voluntary exits of Bankwest employees as a percentage of the average permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job-share). Metric excludes employees on unpaid extended leave. 2010 16.1% Staff working part-time 2011 18.03% The number of employees who are employed on a part-time basis as a percentage of permanent employees (part-time and full-time, excluding casuals, contractors and those on extended leave) as at 30 June. Proportion of women in Level 4 and above positions 2011 29% The number of roles held by female colleagues at level 4 (senior professional) and above as a percentage of permanent employees (part-time and full-time, excluding casuals, contractors and those on extended leave) as at 30 June. Age diversity Breakdown of permanent employees (excludes casuals, contractors and those on extended leave) by their age as at 30 June of that year. <25 years 25 – 34 years 35 – 44 years 45 – 54 years 55 – 64 years 65+ years 2011 (11.4%) (35.8%) (27.8%) (18.1%) (6.7%) (0.3%) 2010 (12.7%) (35.9%) (28.6%) (16.9%) (5.7%) (0.2%) 2009 (13.3%) (35.2%) (28.7%) (16.9%) (5.4%) (0.2%) 2008 – – – – – – Property and fleet carbon emissions (tonnes CO2-e) Emissions relate to the consumption of electricity, gas and fuel (gasoline and diesel) by domestic retail and commercial properties, the business use of domestic tool-of-trade vehicle fleet and domestic ATMs. Due to the electricity billing cycle, 12% of the 2010-11 electricity data was estimated to meet publication deadlines. 2011 29,103 6.05 per FTE Travel carbon emissions (flights and hire cars) (tonnes CO2-e) Emissions relate to employee business travel in aircraft and hire cars. Only flights taken by Australian-based employees, and booked through the‘Cliqbook’ booking system; and hire cars booked through ‘Cliqbook’ and used in Australia, are included in the scope. 2011 8,285 1.72 per FTE Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 57 Independent Limited Assurance Report Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Our limited assurance conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Metrics as set out in the Metrics and Definition Section of the CBA Sustainability Report 2011 for the year ended 30 June 2011, have not been prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Definitions established by management. We have been engaged by the Commonwealth Bank June 2010 as disclosed in the Sustainability Reports of Australia (CBA) to provide limited assurance over for 2009 and 2010 respectively. Our independent the Sustainability Metrics (the Metrics) for the year limited assurance reports in relation to these metrics ended 30 June 2011 as presented in the Metrics and can be found in the Sustainability Reports for 2009 Definition section on pages 54 to 57 of the CBA and 2010. The internal control structure which Sustainability Report 2011 (the Report). management has established, and from which the Metrics have been derived, has not been reviewed Management responsibility and no opinion is expressed as to its effectiveness. The management of CBA are responsible for the Our limited assurance engagement was conducted in preparation and presentation of the Metrics in accordance with the Standard on Assurance accordance with the Definitions as described in the Engagements ASAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements Metrics and Definitions Section. This responsibility other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial includes establishing and maintaining internal control Information” and other relevant assurance standards over systems which are used to prepare Metrics that issued by the Auditing and Assurance Standards are free from material misstatement whether due to Board. fraud or error. There are no mandatory requirements for the preparation, publication or review of ASAE 3000 requires that we comply with applicable sustainability performance metrics. As such CBA ethical requirements, including independence, and applies its own internal reporting guidelines and plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited definitions for sustainability reporting (the assurance about whether the Metrics are free from Definitions) which can be found in the Metrics and material misstatement. Definition section of this report. A limited assurance engagement consists of making Our Responsibility enquiries of persons responsible for the management, monitoring and preparation of the Metrics, and Our responsibility is to carry out an independent applying analytical and other evidence gathering limited assurance engagement and to express a procedures, as appropriate. These procedures conclusion based on the work performed over the included: Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2011. • Inquiries of relevant staff responsible for Information in respect of the years ended 30 June preparing the Metrics; 2007 and 30 June 2008 has not been included within the scope of our engagement. We have not • Inquiries about the design of the internal performed any procedures with respect to this controls and systems used to collect and process information and accordingly have expressed no the Metrics; conclusion on it. Except as noted within the Definitions, we were previously engaged to review the metrics for the years ended 30 June 2009 and 30 1 58 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Independent Limited Assurance Report • Where applicable, inquiries of third parties Our limited assurance report is prepared solely for responsible for the preparation of data that is the use of CBA in accordance with the terms of our included in the Metrics; engagement. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this review report to • Inquiries about the design of the systems used by any person other than CBA or for any other purpose third parties to collect and process the Metrics; other than that for which it is prepared. Independence • Comparing the Metrics to relevant underlying sources; and In conducting our limited assurance engagement, we have complied with the applicable independence • Reading the Metrics presented in the Report to requirements of the Accounting Professional and determine whether it is in line with our overall Ethical Standards Board. knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of CBA. The extent of evidence gathering procedures KPMG performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and Sydney, 20 October 2011 therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. We performed procedures in order to obtain all the information and explanations that we considered necessary to provide sufficient evidence for us to state whether anything has come to our attention that would indicate that the Metrics have not been prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Definitions established by management. 2 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 59 Our Community Partners Our Community Partners 60 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Our Community Partners United Way Community Funds of Australia The Group is proud to be an active participant of leading global sustainability programs. Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 61 This page has been intentionally left blank 62 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 Commonwealth Bank | Sustainability Report 2011 63 eB132 211011 Talk to us We welcome all feedback and are interested in hearing your thoughts about our report and what you’d like to see us report on in future. Email your feedback to: sustainability@cba.com.au You can also write to us: Corporate Sustainability Commonwealth Bank Level 12, Tower 1 201 Sussex St, Sydney NSW 2000 More information about our Sustainability program is available at: commbank.com.au/sustainability
