ITITisisa anew-age new-agelifeline lifelinetoward towardharmony harmony with withpeople, people,communities, communities, and andthe theenvironment… environment… Corporate Corporate Social Social Responsibility Responsibility Report Report 2010 2010 CSRReport CSR Report 2010 2010 NEC NECFielding, Fielding,Ltd. Ltd. 1 Message from the President A company marked by vitality based on human resource development and dialogue, that continues to grow with society As President of NEC Fielding, Ltd., I would like to thank you for taking a look at our company’s CSR Report 2010. It has always been our management style to engage in activities driven by customer satisfaction (CS) and corporate social responsibility (CSR). On the CS front, we aim to rank clearly first in our industry through a wider and swifter provision of supporting services for use of IT systems that act as lifelines underpinning socioeconomic capabilities, and with higher levels of reliability and convenience. We also strive to propose IT systems that will help to make the “information society” more friendly to people and the earth. As for CSR, we are keenly aware of the mounting needs and expectations in society at large for corporate enterprises in this regard. These may be exemplified by the release of a new international standard for social responsibility (ISO 26000), the rising requirements for preparation of business continuity plans in the event of the outbreak of pandemic influenza and major disasters, and the calls for corporate action to protect biological diversity in line with the agenda of the 10th Meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10) held in Nagoya in October 2010. Under these circumstances, we are taking action not only to fulfill our obligations to society in all directions and in all fields, but also to formulate our second CSR Medium-term Plan toward our goal of continuing to be a company that people trust and praise. Vitality deriving from people and dialogue In our view, the most important factor in our CS and CSR activities is our human resources. We take pride in supporting society as a whole through IT systems, and Kiyoshi Nakanishi feel confident thanks to the trust placed in us by President customers and communities for the aggregate of our activities. In addition, we feel a sense of mission about taking active approaches on all sorts of social issues, All-points CSR activities not to mention our constant supply of security and comfort to society through the IT support services that Grounded in this reinforcement of our management are our main line. We develop human resources who foundation, our second CSR Medium-term Plan posts are equipped with all of these elements, and the vitality “all-points CSR activities” as our basic policy, and born of interpersonal dialogue is the force driving our represents our determination to be a company that growth. remains trusted and praised by all of its stakeholders. At present, we are placing emphasis on and To this end, we are committed to maintenance of the practicing dialogue in all in-house scenes in line with a social infrastructure through our business proper, strict policy encompassing all employees, myself included. compliance with all laws and regulations, and sure The encounter of different perspectives breeds discharge of our responsibilities in areas such as communication and awareness of new things which, in preserving the transparency of our business. These basic turn, encourages the further growth of individuals and requirements are joined by proactive steps to resolving mutual collaboration among employees. We believe issues in society and communities (such as alleviation this cycle helps to make the foundation of our of environmental impact) through the activities of the management even more solid. Fielding Philanthropy Club and work in our business. Outline of the Second CSR Medium-term Plan 2 While renewing the sentiment of gratitude toward The joy of supporting the society and even individual customers who give us this joy together with our employees, I hope that we As an IT-supporting enterprise, NEC Fielding, Ltd. remain the kind of company that always continues to buttresses the social infrastructure in all areas, as I’ve grow with its customers. already mentioned. This infrastructure-supporting role In our endeavors to this end, I ask for your is performed not only by customer engineers* (CEs), continued constructive advice and even more generous who work directly with the customer, but also the support. technicians and staff backing their activities. Our * Customer engineer: An engineer that supports the customers’ use of their employees feel a special gratification and joy knowing IT system. We have around 4,300 customer engineers throughout Japan, that their own activities are actually supporting society. and they provide a range of support services. Outline of the Second CSR Medium-term Plan (2009-2012) Basic policy Reinforcement of the management foundation (HR, CS, CSR) through an on-site orientation, emphasis on people, and collaboration All-points CSR activities —Graduation from “responsibility” to “trust”— Policies in each field Unswerving internal control and higher transparency by all members of the Fielding Group Governance and accountability A company with fulfilling Development of business in work fostering the growth support of new-age lifelines of diverse HR CSR Management Market Employment • Fundamental CSR policy • Integrated management • Deployment of strategy and implementation of measures Approaches to resolution of • Information disclosure Toward a sustainable society at and dialogue social issues and contribution harmony with the environment to society through good Society Environment Creation of societies that are low-carbon, relations with the community recycling-oriented, and at harmony with nature Governance/accountability Employment • Promotion of CSR activities by the whole Fielding Group • Creation of workplaces that enable all employees to feel a as a part of One NEC sense of accomplishment and facilitate work • Continuation and reinforcement of activities aimed at • Improvement of HR performance development of reducing the actualization of major risks to zero human resources endowed with powers of action and • Breeding of an excellent organizational culture through personal appeal tighter corporate ethics and compliance Society Market • Construction of cooperative schemes for approaches to • Practice and expansion of CSR activities in our business resolution of issues in the local community proper to raise CS • Active approaches to social issues and evolution into a • Reinforcement of and publicity for the power of our brand company at the core of the local community as a CSR-discharging company • Expanded activities of contribution to preservation of • Strengthening of CSR alliances with partners and links of biological diversity the supply chain Environment • Reinforcement of environmental governance • Reinforcement and promotion of environmentally-friendly business • Innovation for transition to a sustainable business style 3 Contents/Editorial Policy C O N T E N T S Message from the President 1 Contents 3 Editorial policy 3 Corporate Summary Corporate Profile 4 Special Feature: A Customer Engineer’s Day 5 Management Philosophy Scheme, Corporate Principle, 9 and Charter of Corporate Behavior NEC Group Vision 2017 and Mission Statement 10 CSR of NEC Fielding TOPICS 1: Stakeholders Meeting 11 CSR Management 15 Governance/Accountability Editorial policy TOPICS 2: Approaches to 19 The NEC Fielding CSR Report 2010 covers its CSR activities as Sales Compliance Education defined in the five aspects of CSR activities, based on its unique Governance Structure 21 CSR concept of the “CSR Management Framework”. Corporate Ethics/Compliance 26 Scope of the report Accountability 27 • Period: The report summarizes the results and data regarding our CSR initiatives during fiscal 2009 (April 2009 to March 2010). Market • Organizations: The report mainly focuses on the activities of NEC Fielding, Ltd., but also includes its group companies in some TOPICS 3: Maintenance Formation 29 sections ( see page 4 ). Any scope of information covering Communication 31 specific organizations is referred explicitly on each relevant Fielding Solutions Business 33 section. Proactive Maintenance Business 37 Making the report easier to read and understand Collaboration with Partner Companies 38 We have changed the content and layout of the report so as to make it much easier to read and understand for our stakeholders*. Employment • Unfamiliar technical or specialized words are noted with a* symbol, and explained immediately after the word. TOPICS 4: Meetings for Employee Dialogue 39 • A see page XX mark is placed on the relevant pages which takes the reader to further information on other pages of the Effort for Employment Area 41 report. Effort for Safety and Health 42 Creating an Easy-to-work-at Workplace 43 Environmentally-friendly printing Human Resource Development 45 We have adopted the environmentally-friendly printing method to produce the CSR report, using the followings; Society • CPT (computer-to-plate) technology which allows exposing of printing plates directly and eliminates the need for film; • Vegetable-oil based inks which help to reduce air pollution; and TOPICS 5: Program of Employee 49 • FSC-certified paper which guarantees it comes from responsible Commendation for Social Contribution sources managed to meet the social, economic and ecological Social Contribution Activities 51 needs. Environment NEC Fielding’s Website http://www.fielding.co.jp/ TOPICS 6: Provision of Eco IT Solutions 57 Environmental Management 59 Environmental Performance 63 * Stakeholder: A party that has an interest in the company. The term previously referred to a shareholder or customer in principle. However, as Environmental Education 67 the concept of CSR has permeated in our society, it became widely thought Environmental Communication 68 that the term should include all parties who affect or are affected by corporate activities, such as suppliers and other business partners, local Third Party Review 69 communities, non-profit organizations (NPOs), employees, and future generations. Fifty Years of Fielding 70 We at NEC Fielding are committed to discharge our accountability to all our Postscript 70 stakeholders from the perspective of CSR, and thereby developing synergistically with our society. Corporate Summary Corporate Profile 4 Corporate Profile Corporate profile Earnings Company name NEC Fielding, Ltd. (hundred million yen) (%) Headquarters Mita Kokusai Bldg., 1-4-28 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Operating income margin Founded March 1957 3,000 5.29 6.0 April 2000 (name changed to NEC Fielding, Ltd.) Sales Representative Representative Director and President, 1,909 2,000 4.0 Kiyoshi Nakanishi Capital 9.67 billion yen Employees Consolidated: 6,362 (as of March 31, 2010) 1,000 2.0 Offices In Japan: 439 offices (as of March 31, 2010) Operating income Overseas: 7 offices in 2 countries (China, 0 101 0 Germany) (FY) Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ Mar/ (as of March 31, 2010) 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Group companies NDEC Co., Ltd. NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. http://www.ndecweb.com http://www.fsc-fielding.co.jp/ 5-47-7 Higashi Nippori, Arakawa-ku, Tokyo 1-4-28 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo Business: Manufacture and sale of electronic equipment Business: Staffing (general office, sales support, IT equipment installation and the supervision and conduct of electrical installation support, help desk, IT equipment installation, inventory and warehouse work, courier service, IT equipment maintenance) NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. http://www.fielding-st.co.jp/ NEC Fielding Information Technology Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 1-4-28 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo http://www.nefits.com.cn/ Business: Consulting, designing, constructing, operating, Room1102A, 11A/F, Shining Tower, No.35, Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, and managing services for computer/network systems, as Beijing, China well as provision of associated or related technical guidance Business: Maintenance, installation, consulting, training, technical and education, and information processing/offering development, service, design, construction, sales, and transfer of services via networks such as the Internet. computers, networks, and related equipment, as well as import and export of related products Core competencies (our strengths) The concept of IT solutions In a network/computer society, we are active as a total NEC Fielding provides support for IT systems support company in order to support IT systems on all throughout their life cycle. fronts, from consulting to design, installation, We offer one-stop services in assistance for all construction, operation, maintenance, and sales, customers’ IT systems at every step in the life cycle, making use of our three core competencies; from planning and design in advance of introduction to deployment, technology, and knowledge management. construction, installation, operation, maintenance, and improvement. Through these services, we deliver Core competencies of NEC Fielding convenient operation with complete peace of mind. The strongest power in the industry for business development IT solutions Number of service bases in Japan: 409 Deployment Number of customer engineers (CE)*: Design Planning and Installation Operation Maintenance Improvement approx. 4,300 construction Technology Support backed by technology IT consulting Design and infrastructure System operation Business operation Security management System maintenance Monitoring and diagnosis Relocation and removal Introduction and Recovery Client Number of certifications held：26,084 Knowledge development Server management Knowledge power applying preparation customer feedback Network Accumulated information: 288,000 companies and 5,300,000 systems Responses to customers: Facility 4.18 million requests by customers annually * Customer engineer: please refer to page 2. 5 Corporate Summary Special Feature A Customer Engineer’s Day CSR activities permeating daily work NEC Fielding’s main line is supporting services for IT systems, the lifelines of the new age. Each and every one of our employees goes about his or her daily work with a sense of pride, confidence, and mission about our role in supporting the social infrastructure. Our customer engineers, who number about 4,300 nationwide and deal directly with customers in their work, engage in CSR activities in various other scenes with the awareness that their very work constitutes CSR activity. Let's look at the typical day of one of these customer engineers. CSR Check! The figure at right shows the CSR activity field in which the CSRconducted activities Check! by the CE lie in the particular span of time. * G/A = governance/accountability G/A Market Employment Society Environment START Office G/A Market Employment Society Environment Society Environment Cleaning up the neighborhood CSR Check! Today is the day on which we clean up the neighborhood of the office once a week. I always get 8:00 AM to the office 15 minutes early, but today I came a little G/A Employment Society Environment Arrival earlier and helped to clean up the sidewalks and Participation in the neighborhood cleanat the office parks in the area of the office. up deepens my awareness of being a member of the local community and gives G/A me a graphic sense of actually Employment Society on contributing to it (for information Environment the clean-up activities at all offices nationwide, see page 55 ). In addition, it refreshes my body, Society which felt like sleeping before Environment I start Market Society work, and gave me a lift on the job that day…or at least I think it did. Market Society G/A Market G/A Market Employment Society G/A AMarket Special Feature: Customer Society Environment EmploymentEngineer’s Day 6 Society Environment Reciting priority reminders CSR Check! Besides conveying the necessary items of communication, our morning gatherings are devoted 8:30 AM to reciting priority reminders for prevention of G/A Employment Morning incidents and accidents. These priority points include Even things people think they gathering some that are specific to each office and some that understand are driven home better when (Start of work) G/A Market Employment Society Environment are common to all offices that particular month. we all recite them in unison (for information on the priority Society reminders, Environment Sample priority reminders see page 26 ). The office-specific • Look at the screen and make sure to input fax numbers correctly! reminders for recitation are determined • Check articles before and after work practice at monthly office meetings. We also Society Environment point-and-call to reduce loss to zero believe that having employees propose • Take care and practice safety-first driving even off reminders Market from their point Society of view is the job, anytime and anyplace important for heightening awareness. G/A Market Employment Society Environment Customer sites G/A Employment Travel by public transit and eco-car G/ACSR Check! Market My office is in a city, so I travel to customer locations Society Environment by train, bus, or other means of public transportation, Society Environment 9:00 AM or by eco car, to lower the burden on the environment. We are introducing eco cars Employment Society Travel to customer sites ( see page 64 ) toward the goal of having G/Acompany cars all Employment replaced with eco G/A models Market by the Employment end 2014. Environment Society of fiscalSociety As of Market the end of fiscal 2009, eco cars accounted for 91% of the company fleet. Environment Society Environment Society Environment Preventive maintenance through periodic work G/A Market CSR Check! This is the main work of a Market Environment customer engineer. IT Market Society systems are the lifelines G/A Employment supporting the social Employment NEC Fielding services someSociety 5.3 million infrastructure. Work at IT systems at about 290,000 companies customer sites gives me a G/A nationwide. Employment These services are provided sense of fulfillment and by G/Aour customer Market engineers, who number responsibility about actually about 4,300. Society Environment sustaining society. see page 29 for the maintenance Environment formation. Employment Society Market Society Market Environment Product safety activities CSR Check! A check of the customer’s system revealed that it Environment was using a UPS* whose service life was over. I G/A Market explained how this could lead to an accident, and was G/A Employment told that they would consider replacement. Continued use of superannuated UPS and batteries could possibly cause accidents. On their visits Marketto customer locations, CEs Environment * UPS (uninterruptible power supply): are instructed toEmployment check the Society service life of A power unit that continues to supply equipment connected to it with power equipment and fulfill their obligation to for a fixed period, even if the input explain things by making notices and power supply is cut. proposals if the life is exceeded. G/A Employment Environment 7 Corporate Summary G/A Market Employment Society Environment G/A Employment Office Society Environment Taking a class (web learning) CSR Check! Society Environment I returned to the office and finished G/A Employment 11:00 AM the paperwork from Return to the visits, so I took a Besides group class, employees can get the office class for which a instructionMarket Society at their own desks through designation had web learning. The curricula ranges from come until the noon G/A technical Market Employment instruction needed Society Environment to maintain Society Environment break. Because I and improve capabilities as a customer take the class engineer to education required for action G/A Market through the web education system, I can get the and behavior as a conscientious adult instruction right at my desk. Next week, I plan to take (G/A see pageMarket 45 ). Employment Society Environment Society Environment get some technical instruction in a group class. Market Society Employment Society Turning off the lights in the office CSR Check! Society Environment G/A Employment G/A Market During the lunch break, we turn off the lights on the floors to lighten impact on the environment, even just Environment 12:00 PM a little. G/A To Employment burden imposed alleviate environmental Lunch break by business activities, Society Environment the company Employment Society is Customer sites adopting eco cars and EnepalTM computers, and promoting reduced use of Protecting customer information Market Environment transportation means through discussion via videoconference systems Society Environment An instruction for trouble-shooting came in from a call Market Society center. The customer seems to need a new hard disk ( see page 64 ). The practice of turningEnvironment off 1:30 PM drive (HDD). HDDs must be carefully handled lights during the lunch break is performed G/A because they store the customer’s precious at Employment all sites as something all can do. Responding to a service call information. I put a security lock on the old HDD so it Market Society cannot be read, and then take it with me. I make sure G/A Market Market CSR Check! Environment to perform a virus check when removing test media from the site and also after use at the customer site. G/A Market Employment Society G/Ainformation Employment For on approaches to information security, see page 25 . Employment Society Environment Proposal of environmentally-friendly PCs CSR Check! The customer’s computers are old and consume a lot of electricity. I was told that they are taking active Environment steps to mitigate environmental problems, and Market Environment therefore intend to Another important role of CEs is to make advise them to proposals to customers. Although the switch to EnepalTM specific sales activities are generally Market Environment models, which performed G/A by personnel Employmentassigned consume little power exclusively to them, comments by CEs and have powerwho are trusted by customers can saving software built occasion deals (for information on right in. Enepal G/A TM computers, see page 57 ). Employment Special Feature: A Customer Engineer’s Environment Day 8 Office Market Environment Paperwork CSR Check! I returned to the office and did G/A Employment 4:00 PM paperwork such Return to as entering the The work record data base contains entries of the office day’s work into information on work performed for customers the work record nationwide (5.3 million systems at 290,000 data base and companies). G/A This information Market Employmentserves as the Society basis for Environment processing the analysis of trends by system type and phenomenon, return of parts and is extensively utilized for management of the after replacement. quality and safety of products and work. Society Environment Discussion in the workplace CSR Check! Today, we had our monthly group meeting. At the same time, we held the workplace discussion to talk G/A 5:30 PM about things such as priority reminders, activities of Employment social contribution, and improvement of the Group G/A Meeting Market Employment Society Environment workplace environment as well as items of business communication. Because employees are often out of the office visiting customers during Society Environment the day, the meeting is generally held in the evening. Society There is a lively exchange of ideas for Environment making the workplace and work better. Market Society It was busy again today, but I accomplished a lot. G/A Employment I’m ready to do my best again tomorrow. 7:00 PM G/A Market Return home Society Environment Local community Extra activity Participation in local events Voice Saturday Employment Society Although today is Saturday, there is a civic event for Working day after day with a Market which I have Society helped to make preparations with some smile and a business-like attitude other colleagues beginning about six months ago. It Kazumasa Murakami is volunteer work, but I am going to enjoy 1st Section, Tokyo Chuo Branch Office, Tokyo Branch Division participating as well. Environment The CE job also G/A requires stamina, Market but I think the CSR Check! most important thing is a smile. My workplaceMarketis Environment staffed with Employment Society pleasant but hard-working The photo shows employees from the Dotoh people from my Branch Office of the Hokkaido Branch G/Asuperior down,Employment and everyone works with a Division who participated in the 24-hour smile and a business-like attitude. I believe endurance race using ordinary street Environment this is because we all communicate bicycles. Besides being a form of social thoroughly with each other in the workplace contribution, the race is also a form of discussions and in our routine work. This recreation that heightens the sense of naturally also applies to dealings with togetherness at the office (for information on customers. I always try to keep a smile on my face when meeting or making reports to Market activities, see page 51Environment social contribution ). customers, but to be all-business on the job. G/A Employment 9 Corporate Summary Management Philosophy Scheme, Corporate Principle, and Charter of Corporate Behavior Management Philosophy Scheme, Corporate Principle, and Charter of Corporate Behavior Management philosophy scheme CS CSR The Management Philosophy Scheme at NEC Fielding Code of Conduct rests on the Corporate Principle and Charter of Day-to-day operations Corporate Behavior, which are at its basis and remain Values essentially changeless. Immediately above them is the Fiscal-year policy Vision, which constitutes a medium-term goal. Medium-term management plan Proceeding from the Vision are management policy, medium-term management plan, the fiscal-year policy Management Policy* to realize it, and finally the day-to-day operations. CS Vision and CSR run through these components as the backbones of management, and the whole is supported Corporate Principle by the Values as the corporate soul and the Code of Charter of Corporate Behavior Conduct, which is a concrete manifestation of the * Operations with CS and CSR as its cornerstone Charter of Corporate Behavior. Corporate Principle Using Fielding activities* to facilitate new dynamism and business expansion for our customers, whilst also contributing to the creation of a stable and prosperous society. * Fielding activities: Activities that refer to creating and providing various services within the field of information technology, by anticipating our customers’ needs while ensuring the optimum performance and availability of our customers’ IT assets at their places of work. Charter of Corporate Behavior NEC Fielding shall endeavor to increase its profitability through sound business practices and actively work for vibrant advancement and the emergence of a sustainable society. To these ends, we realize it is important for us not only to observe all pertinent laws and regulations, but also to discharge our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders/ investors, transaction partners, communities, employees, and all other stakeholders; and to aim for advancement with society while increasing our corporate value. • Customer satisfaction We shall gain the satisfaction and trust of our customers by developing and providing goods and services embodying high levels of utility and dependability with full consideration of safety, and increasing the value delivered to them. • Taking up the challenge of new technology We shall take up the challenge of developing creative technology, pioneer new fields of business, and provide goods and services of genuine value. • Fair business activities We shall engage in fair, transparent, and free competition. In addition, we shall maintain sound and normal relations with political and administrative authorities. • Information provision and communication We shall provide accurate, plain, and full corporate information both promptly and appropriately to increase the transparency of corporate activities. Similarly, we shall engage in communication with all sectors of society and strive for harmony and mutual advancement. • Practice of environmental management We shall alleviate burden on the global environment and contribute to the building of a sustainable society. • Harmony with communities Besides observing international rules as well as laws and regulations, we shall respect national and regional cultures and customs, and practice management for contribution to their advancement. • Activities of social contribution With a keen awareness that our company and our employees are members of society, we shall engage in activities of social contribution on our own initiative as a good corporate citizen. • Respect for human rights In all corporate activities, we shall respect human rights and shall not condone discriminatory treatment, child labor, and forced labor. • Respect for employees We shall respect the diversity, personality, and individual characteristics of our employees. In addition, we shall provide an employment climate enabling full exercise of capabilities and work with a feeling of fulfillment. • Management of intellectual assets and personal information We shall properly manage intellectual assets and personal information with a true appreciation of their value. NEC Group Vision 2017 and Mission Statement 10 NEC Group Vision 2017 and Mission Statement NEC Group Vision 2017 A global leading company building the information society friendly to humans and the Earth with innovation NEC Fielding aspires to be a best partner continuing to create valuable services and to support the information society friendly to humans and the Earth Mission Statement* Our pledge to society and our customers Information Technology (IT) systems have become the lifeline of a new era in human history. They play an essential role as society’s infrastructure to build an affluent and sustainable future. We provide support services that make IT a dynamic force in the business and life of our customers, and these services are centered on advanced technological skills, nationwide deployment of engineers, and information management skills for swift problem-solving. We aim not only to provide IT support services that increase the value of our customer’s IT assets but also to understand our customer’s business and IT environment from their perspective, to support their business and lives, and to contribute to the sustainable development of society as a whole. In order to maintain our existence as a corporation that is trusted and relied upon, we aim to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities and grow along with society as a conscientious corporate citizen. Together with our customers, we will contribute to the sustainable development of society and our customers, as a partner that can share peace of mind and happiness. * Mission Statement: A clear statement of the company’s mission and a promise to stakeholders. Support of the Global Compact Ten principles of the UN Global Compact The Global Compact was advocated by Kofi Annan, then the 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of United Nations Secretary-General, in January 1999 to address Human internationally proclaimed human rights; and issues arising with globalizat ion. The companies subscribing to rights 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. it are called upon to support and practice universal principles 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and covering ten items in the four fields of human rights, labour the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; standards, the environment, and anti-corruption (see the list at Labour 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; right). In June 2004, NEC Fielding standards 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and became the 15th Japanese company to announce its support of the Global 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Compact. As of July 30, 2010, the 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to member companies numbered more environmental challenges; than 8,000 worldwide and 115 in Japan. NEC Fielding works for rigorous Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and compliance with the Global Compact 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally and its principles among its employees friendly technologies. and is engaged in vigorous activities Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, based on them. corruption including extortion and bribery. Information and communications technology (ICT) is a lifeline supporting today’s social infrastructure, and has become indispensable for the efficient and safe operation and control of all sorts of socioeconomic functions. NEC Fielding is committed to helping customers utilize their ICT systems with ease and peace of mind. To this end, it provides services in accordance with NEC Vision 2017, which is aimed at evolution into a “global leading company building the information society friendly to people and the Earth with innovation”. More specifically, it offers services in ICT support through its network of service sites operating around the clock, 365 days a year (as of the end of March 2010, these sites numbered 439 in Japan and seven in two other countries). It may also be noted that expectations of companies in the international community are no longer confined to the output of their business; they extend to demands for action to assist the resolution of social issues. Besides supporting the Global Compact as an international standard and discharging its corresponding mission, NEC Fielding aspires to be a company whose employees all act with a sense of pride, confidence, and mission, and are trusted by society. 11 CSR of NEC Fielding TOPICS 1 Stakeholders Meeting We held a tour of the NEC Nakagawara Technical Center to promote understanding of NEC Fielding’s business, and got a lot of feedback as well Holding of the CSR Report 2009 Feedback Meeting The meeting produced a frank and extended On January 13 (Wed.), 2010, we held the CSR Report exchange of views on issues based on the contents, 2009 Feedback Meeting. This meeting was the third in such as the types of activities of social contribution a series which began in December 2007, and was the befitting NEC Fielding. We take the opinions voiced at first to include a tour of the NEC Nakagawara Technical this meeting seriously as valuable advice, and plan to Center. Together with the meeting, the tour helped to reflect them in the preparation of CSR Report 2010 as deepen understanding of NEC Fielding’s business well as in efforts to raise the level of CSR activities among the participants. themselves even higher. Overview of the CSR Report 2009 Feedback Meeting Date: Wednesday, January 13, 2010 Participants (affiliations are as of the time of the meeting) Location: NEC Nakagawara Technical Center Takashi Togawa (Hirayama Ikuo Volunteer Center, Program: (1) Tour of the NEC Nakagawara Waseda University) Technical Center Mitsukuni Ishihara (Waseda University) (2) CSR Report 2009 Feedback Midori Asano (Waseda University) Meeting Yuki Manabe (Keio University) Satoshi Ida (Keio University) Yoshinori Tsunai (Nishi Kanto Branch Division) Hirokazu Ueda (Shibuya Branch Office, Tokyo Branch Division) Tatefumi Kushibe (Assistant General Manager, CSR Located in the city of Fuchu, Tokyo, the Nakagawara and Internal Auditing Division) Technical Center occupies an area of 3,769.5 m2, and is equipped with facilities for employee training and education. TOPICS 1 Stakeholders Meeting 12 Tour of the NEC Nakagawara Technical Center NEC Nakagawara Technical Center Comments by tour participants The CSR Report 2009 Feedback Meeting was Confirmation of “a company that can be trusted” preceded by a tour of the Nakagawara Technical Center. Mr. Takashi Togawa The Center contains the Customer Support Center (call I read both the 2008 and 2009 editions of the CSR center), which handles first contact with customers and Report in the last two years, and got the impression is attached to the Eastern Japan Customer Support that NEC Fielding is an extremely trustworthy company. Division, and a unit in charge of technology and My impression was corroborated by the tour of the call research. It is also used as a facility for training and center and observation of the education and training educating employees, and functions as the central session this time, which were very worthwhile. facility of technical activities at NEC Fielding. Corporate enthusiasm you could feel Mr. Mitsukuni Ishihara Introduction to call centers at the heart of our I had imagined that the call center would be staffed business with a group of part-timers. But at NEC Fielding, I saw The tour began with orientation in which participants professionals who knew the actual situation striving to were given a profile of the company and introduced to provide the best services. I could just feel their the routine operations enthusiasm. The tour erased my preconception. of a call center and support formations. Empathy with the human-centered stance Next, the group Ms. Midori Asano moved to the Working at a call center must entail a lot of stress, but aforementioned call the operators seemed to be going about their job in the center and watched, special booths with plenty of leeway. I sensed the through the window, concern for the environment in which the employees We promoted participants’ understanding the activities of the work, and it struck me as a very good thing. It of our business through company profile operators (former DVD and other materials. confirmed the “human-centered activities” noted in the customer engineers), Report. who field calls from customers around the clock, 365 days a year. In the interest of more accurate response, A company where one would like to work the conversations between the customers and Mr. Yuki Manabe operators are committed to text by a voice recognition It was the second time for me to participate in the CSR system. All of the participants were engrossed by a Report Feedback Meeting. The tour of the Technical demonstration of conversation being put into writing in Center this time was very valuable for getting a better real time. picture of the company. It showed me that NEC After the tour, the participants were given a Fielding was really putting resources into and emphasis presentation on employee education and training. They on education. This is a welcome stance as viewed from entered a technical training room which is ordinarily off my perspective as a student. I imagine the company is limits to unauthorized personnel, and viewed an actual a place where anyone would want to work. training session. The tour presumably provided a glimpse of the business activities of NEC Fielding that Conveyance of earnestness about the CSR Report cannot be communicated in their entirety in the CSR Mr. Satoshi Ida Report. The Report struck me as very well put together, but did not give me a firm grasp of what the company was doing. The tour this time gave me a good idea of the company’s business and its need for preparing the Report in earnest. As such, it was really worthwhile. The employee conducting the tour played the role of a customer making a call to the center. An operator took the call, and the demonstration continued until the conversation ended. 13 CSR of NEC Fielding CSR Report 2009 Feedback Meeting Exchange of opinion in search of activities befitting NEC Fielding After the tour of the NEC Nakagawara Technical Center, Takashi Miyamoto, the director responsible for CSR, opened the CSR Report 2009 Feedback Meeting with remarks in which he thanked the participants and asked them for a lively exchange of opinion. The participants, who had read the Report by themselves in advance, discussed advisable avenues of CSR activity, particularly as regards social contribution. This section presents a brief outline of opinions on three themes. (1) Social problems surrounding NEC (2) Significance of corporate involvement Fielding in activities of social contribution Linkage with the community in units of offices CSR as presenting opportunities for growth All companies are being asked to So far, I think companies have maintain good ties with the local considered CSR activities a cost. community. NEC Fielding has Lately, however, corporate views about 400 locations nationwide, of them have been changing. One and I think this is one of its key telecom firm developed a mobile features. I believe it would be a phone especially for the aged and good idea for each office to challenged persons as part of its develop activities of social CSR activities, and improved its contribution adapted to the host performance as a result. As this community. This will presumably Ms. Midori Asano indicates, CSR presents Mr. Satoshi Ida deepen their ties with the companies with opportunities. At community and make NEC NEC Fielding, our very existence is linked to social Fielding even stronger. contribution. I believe we could become a more interesting firm if we made full use of our IT support Passing things on to children as tomorrow’s capabilities in areas such as initiatives for disaster principals response. I think NEC Fielding could do something for our children, to Need for social contribution through the business whom the future belongs, as a Corporate social responsibility has come to the fore company engaged in IT support because of widening recognition business. One home delivery firm on the corporate, citizen, and is holding classes in traffic safety global levels that companies at a kindergarten on a volunteer cannot subsist unless they basis. We, too, definitely should discharge their responsibilities as be able to pass something on to members of society. Companies Koichi Ueda children by drawing on our IT are now being asked to find their support technology and other own distinctive ways of fulfilling features. As I see it, this is our these responsibilities. I think that, No. 1 task. Mr. Mitsukuni Ishihara ideally, development of our business in a sustainable form Strength for closing the “digital divide” would in itself constitute fulfillment of CSR and be Takefumi Kushibe linked to social contribution. In today’s society, the “digital divide” is steadily widening. This is a problem that must be resolved in the future. For us at NEC Fielding, IT is at the core of our business and our field of greatest competence. Precisely for this reason, I believe resolution of the digital divide is a task we must address as part of our mission. TOPICS 1 Stakeholders Meeting 14 In response to the opinions of participants (3) Social contribution activities befitting NEC Fielding CSR activities as linked to an upward spiral for growth Hisashi Owada, General Manager, CSR Management Promotion Div. Continued focus on the HRD Through involvement in volunteer As I see it, CSR should not be work, people build their character viewed in isolation. We are and grow as human beings. engaged in IT support business Participation in social contribution and various other corporate activities helps to develop human activities, and all of them resources. The Fielding constitute CSR. Companies Philanthropy Club is nothing less engaged in CSR activities are than a variety of human resource trusted by society and further development. I regard it as an extend their business with the organization that conveys the Mr. Takashi Tokawa backing of this trust. Furthermore, the expansion of character of the company, and their business leads to development of their human hope it always remains in action. resources. The continuation of this genuinely upward Need for action with an awareness of other spiral for sustained advancement may be equated countries with CSR discharge. Considering the matter in light of the opinions you voiced today, I realized all over again In regions such as Asia and that, for us, fulfillment of CSR lies in raising the quality Africa, there are still many of our corporate activities, developing our human countries without a decent IT resources, and responding to the needs of society. infrastructure. The installation of IT infrastructures in such Desire to heighten the quality of the Report developing countries could in and even activities through the meeting itself make a big contribution to the society and expand business Takefumi Kushibe Assistant General Manager, CSR Management Promotion Div. prospects. I think you ought to Mr. Yuki Manabe take a look at other countries NEC Fielding established the around the world instead of CSR Committee and launched confining your vision to Japan. CSR activities in 2003, and Social contribution based on our main began publishing the CSR business Report in 2006. The Report has been prepared through a process In my view, when all is said and of trial and error, and we hold the done, it would be advisable to meeting to read it as an occasion develop social contribution linked for hearing the views of external to our main business, which parties on matters such as the advisable contents. This would also be in keeping with the meeting, which was the third in the series, gave us the personality of our company. NEC opportunity to discuss questions such as the proper Fielding does business modes of social contribution for NEC Fielding and the nationwide, and almost all of the nature of CSR activities themselves as well as how the ordinary work makes use of the Report should be prepared. CSR activities will never be car. A switch to eco models for Yoshinori Tsunai finished. We intend to continue working to raise the company cars therefore appears quality of the Report and the activities by reflecting the to be a viable step. It could immediately be taken and views gathered from our stakeholders through this would benefit both the society and the environment. meeting and other venues. (Posts as of the time of the meeting) 15 CSR of NEC Fielding CSR Management History of our CSR activities Our Fundamental CSR Policy We launched CSR activities upon instituting the CSR Our commitment is to strive to satisfy Committee in May 2003 and formulating our CSR the expectations of all stakeholders*, Activity Policy in December of that year. To reinforce to proactively contribute toward our setup for CSR activity promotion, the Committee was superseded by the CSR Promotion Division* in making society sustainable, April 2005. This made it possible for us to lead all units to act in a socially responsible way in the Company with management integrating CSR and to pursue economic growth elements, and to construct a setup for systematic and as a good corporate citizen ongoing fulfillment of our corporate mission. and an integral part of society. In February 2010, we formulated our second CSR Medium-term Plan to achieve “all-points CSR * Stakeholder: please refer to page 3. activities”. * Renamed to “CSR Promotion Division” in April, 2010 We achieve both stable business growth and fulfill our responsibilities to all stakeholders, Business and aim to become a globally excellent company. objectives CSR Management Promotion Phase of Promotion Division CSR Activities (2007-2010) 2010 February 2010 Second CSR Medium-term Plan created June 2008 Fielding Vision & Values created and Corporate Philosophy Scheme reviewed CSR and Internal 2008 March 2008 Fielding Philanthropy Club established Auditing 2007 October 2007 Major revisions made to corporate Division governance scheme Well-established Phase of CSR (2005-2006) 2006 April 2006 Business Auditing Division merged into CSR and Internal Auditing Division CSR April 2005 CSR Promotion Division set Promotion Division 2005 February 2005 CSR Medium-term Plan created Introduction and Understanding Phase of CSR (2003-2004) December 2004 Activities undertaken to strengthen the corporate brand 2004 August 2004 Management Philosophy Scheme reformed December 2003 CSR Activity Policy set CSR 2003 May 2003 CSR Committee established Committee Main CSR promotion 2000 April 2000 Name changed to NEC Fielding, Ltd. organizations 1957 March 1957 The Company founded CSR Management — 1 16 CSR concept We think that all corporate activities should fall under Aiming for No.1 corporate value CSR activities. • Contribute to improving the quality of Social Inc Superior and praiseworthy company society In our recognition, a company should seek to contribution • Work to develop local society re Aggressiveness of CSR activities develop itself in the following steps: first, the state of duty • Make contributions that go beyond a business str sing an ordinary company which fulfills its basic responsibility • Be fair and honest, and conform to social expectations en b gt ran Reliable company with fulfilling work Ethical • Respect environmental conservation, safety, and by heightening profitability (economic responsibility) human rights, and be trustworthy h d duty • Understand and practice the substance of laws and through its compliance with applicable laws and regulations regulations (compliance responsibility) and healthy Economic • High reward, high dividend, and Earning company business activities; second, the state of a earning duty economic support company which is able to pay high compensation and Economic Economic responsibility Ethical responsibility Social contribution Ordinary company responsibility Basic responsibility dividends (economic duty); third, the state of a reliable company with fulfilling work which conducts fair, responsibility honest, and environment-conscious businesses (ethical Compliance responsibility duty); and the last, the stage of a superior and praiseworthy company which makes social contributions through its business activities to create a better society Level of corporate maturity (social contribution duty). NEC Fielding is striving for top corporate value by * Please refer to “A Study of Corporate Social Responsibility from the Perspective of Management Science” (Mitsuo Morimoto, 1994) for fulfilling its basic responsibilities as a foundation, information on the four levels of Compliance, Economic, Ethic, and Social steadily undertaking conscientious activities on sound contribution. growth of business, and steadily fulfilling its social contribution duties. Target for promotion of CSR Activities Measures to achieve the target • Promote CSR activities by both the NEC Fielding • Share awareness within the Group by group companies and partner companies promoting NEC Group Vision and Values • Improve the quality of social contribution activities • Promote activities of the Fielding Philanthropy Club nationwide • Promote measures to improve employee satisfaction (ES) • Discuss and develop measures through the ES improvement Project Target for firm establishment of CSR Measures to achieve the target • Promote activities aimed at Zero Risk • Strengthen risk management scheme • Implement and expand CSR in the core business • Select the CSR Supplies and expand sales (+110% YoY) • Move from creating Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to Business Continuity Management (BCM) • Contribute to society in a manner that continues to • Coexistence with local community activities at steadily expand 414 offices nationwide, centered on the NEC Group’s Social Contribution Activity Campaign “NEC Make-a-Difference Drive”� • Toward the 2010 Environment Management Targets • Reach the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets set in the Kyoto Protocol • Establish a scheme for self evaluation of activity results • Quantitatively measure the benefits of CSR activities by setting KPI�� 17 CSR of NEC Fielding CSR management framework At NEC Fielding, we categorize all CSR activities into a We create clear indices for activities in each field, CSR management framework with five fields: and advance the five aspects of CSR activities within governance and accountability; market; employment; this framework. social contribution; and the environment. CSR management framework Unswerving internal control and higher transparency by all members of the Fielding Group Governance/ • Management philosophy • Corporate governance accountability • Risk management • Corporate ethics A company with fulfilling • Disclosure and communication See P.19work fostering the growth of diverse HR Development of business in • Improving employee satisfaction support of new-age lifelines Managing • Diversity of employment Market CSR activities Employment • Easy-to-work-in environment • Faithful response to customers • Positive action and consumers See P.29• Fundamental CSR Policy See P.39• Response to partners and suppliers • Integrated management • Fair and honest response to • Strategy deployment and shareholders and investors implementation • Thorough management for product safety Toward a sustainable • Disclosure and dialogue society at harmony with • CSR activities within core business the environment Creation of societies that are low-carbon, Approaches to resolution of social issues recycling-oriented, and at harmony and contribution to society through Society Environment with nature good relations with the community • Environmental management See P.49See P.57• Social contribution activities and • Environmental communication coexistence with local communities • Environmental business • Alliance with NPO/NGO • Overseas support • Environmental risk response Evaluation results for Morningstar’s MS-SRI Morningstar Japan K.K. (Morningstar) is a joint venture between We have been selected as one of the 150 companies in the Softbank Finance Corporation and Morningstar Inc. in U.S. and MS-SRI Index since July 2003 up to present (fiscal 2010), and provides comprehensive financial information, including the continuously granted “A” as an overall rating since fiscal 2004. evaluation of equity investment trusts. Morningstar also publishes the MS-SRI Index (Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Results of MS-SRI assessment Index), an index composed of selected SRI shares and was jointly FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY developed with the Center for Public Resources Development, a 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 non-profit think tank & consulting firm, as one part of its efforts Overall rating B A A A A A A A to actively promote business related to socially responsible Governance/accountability A A+ A+ A A+ A+ A+ AA investing (SRI). When selecting companies to be included in the index, companies are comprehensively evaluated in regards to Market A A+ A A+ A+ A A A both responsibility and creativity in five fields—governance/ Employment B A A A A A A A accountability, market, employment, social contribution, and the Social contribution B A A A A A A A environment. Liquidity of shares is also taken into consideration. Environment B A A+ A A AA A+ A Details of evaluation results Governance/ We were given high marks for our preparation of both policies and setups, and our generally full approaches in accordance with our management philosophy scheme, which is grounded in CS and CSR. In the field of business continuity plans (BCP), we were particularly praised not only for our accountability own BCP preparation but also for our both diverse and proactive approaches to development of BCP support as a business activity. In dealings with customers, we won high ratings for our diverse action related to CS, products/services, and related laws and regulations. At the same time, there were expectations for measures in areas such as construction of a management system for complaint processing and announcement of Market the status of improvement. In dealings with suppliers, we are required to act based on labor conditions and employment environment standards on the fronts of supplier selection and support. We received a high praise overall for our efforts for human rights and preparation of employee-friendly workplaces. However, we also received some Employment negative comments on needs for improvement in the aspects of employer responsibility (i.e., the low rate of women in managerial positions indicating issues related to sexual equality) and human resource performance (insufficient provisions available for free choice of lifestyle). We were given high marks for our activities in line with the priority fields, such as establishment of the Fielding Philanthropy Club and support for Social volunteer work by our employees, the companywide support for fields tied to the main business in times of disaster, and the activities for tree-planting contribution and education. For the future there are expectations for further improvement of activities in China, which will become an important overseas market. In connection with our management system, we won high ratings for the certification of all offices at all domestic Group companies under ISO 14001 and our regular program of environmental education. In regard to environmental targets and plans, however, there were some suggestions for greater Environment involvement with local residents and environmental NPOs as well as integration of overseas Group companies in activities. In the aspect of environmental performance, we also received high marks for our routine concern for the environment, green purchasing and procurement, recycling, and various other initiatives. CSR Management — 2 18 CSR promotion setup Our CSR promotion setup is leading and developing the external assessments and detailed activity indicators entire CSR activities in the Company centering on the categorized into five fields that can be considered as a CSR and Internal Auditing Division, by taking advantage developmental opportunity. of our business structures and aspects based on the CSR promotion setup Corporate Officer Meeting (CSR-related matters) Executive Officer Meeting (CSR-related matters) • Approval of mediumand short-term plans related to • Periodic reporting on the CSR-related matters CSR activity promotion (strategy promotion/progress check) • Requests for and approval of items such as • Requests and notifications related to CSR promotion implementation of measures and sharing of information Escalation and approval Reporting and notification Related committees CSR Management Promotion Division • Crisis Management Committee • Planning Office • Compliance Committee • Internal Auditing Office*1 • Central Committee of • Environmental Management Environment/Workplace Promotion Office Safety and Health • Corporate Ethics Promotion Office • Customer Information • Education Committee Management Promotion Office • Business Continuity Planning Project Concurrent appointee All first-tier divisions*2 Discussion and promotion Discussion and promotion CSR Strategy Meeting CSR Promotion Meeting Meeting period: Quarterly Meeting period: Monthly Objective: To absorb the expectations of all Objective: To promote practical CSR stakeholders; draft strategy for activities and raise CSR awaremediumand short-term planning ness on a companywide basis, to meet them; study concrete through deployment of specific measures; and manage the strategies and measures in each progress; thereby serving as an of five fields (governance/ engine to drive CSR activities and accountability, market, employincrease the corporate value. ment, society, and the environCommittee chair: Director responsible for CSR ment). Vice chair: General Manager of the CSR Committee chair: General Manger of the CSR Management Promotion Division Management Promotion Division Committee members: Lead mangers by category Committee members: Promoters in all first-tier divisions (manager level or above) *1 Internal Auditing Office was reorganized as the Internal Auditing Division, an independent first-tier division in April, 2010. *2 First-tier divisions refer to branches, business promotion divisions, and corporate staff divisions, which manage sales locations (branch level). 19 Governance/Accountability TOPICS 2 Approaches to Sales Compliance Education Action with awareness of tighter compliance supports sound corporate management Keener awareness of compliance linked to proposals to customers Masateru Yamasaki General Manager, Sales Governance Div. Since its listing, NEC Fielding has seen an expansion in its business with clients outside the NEC Group and rise in its responsibilities and risks as well. It may also be noted that enactment of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act in 2006 made solid arrangements for internal control a natural obligation of listed companies, and this made compliance even more important for us. In response, besides tightening internal control* by constructing a system for segregation of duties, our Division has launched a full-fledged program of sales compliance education. The segregation of duties provides systemic assurance for compliance, but it cannot perform this function unless the employees in direct contact with customers are all aware of its importance and act accordingly. It has been four years since the program started, but the in-house awareness of what each employee has to do to tighten compliance is still somewhat lacking. So far, we have placed priority on enhancing knowledge of laws and regulations. For the future, I would like the education to also assist proposals in sales activities for tightening compliance at customer sites. This would encourage employees to be more active about taking classes. As a result, it should have the effect of heightening awareness of compliance throughout the company and help to better the corporate culture. * Internal control: In general, it refers to controlling, monitoring and guaranteeing the reliability of operations within a company, through standardization and documentation of these processes, in order to monitor illegal behaviors and ensure a sound business environment. Setup for checking compliance Sales Governance Division Examining Department Control Department Planning Department Income BC Center Accounting Center System development Operation support Billing Notices Systems Credit assessment Check of Confirmation and incoming information input payments Sales notifications Transaction slips Sales information Commercial Check for verification input distribution consulting Sales locations Sales activities Customers and transaction partners TOPICS 2 Approaches to Sales Compliance Education 20 Construction of the setup for checking Sales compliance education compliance NEC Fielding conducts group seminars for sales Formerly, business processing work was completed compliance education. There are both basic and entirely within the sales locations, and there were advanced seminars. The basic seminars are held for problems of internal control because checking sales personnel in the manager class, and take up capabilities were not fully exercised. In response, we specific cases in areas such as dealings with decided to separate business processing work from the customers and performance of internal procedures. sales locations, to have the entire business process They are aimed at raising levels of compliance managed and controlled at the Sales Governance awareness and knowledge. The advanced seminars are Division. This accomplished a setup for internal control held for personnel on the level of office heads, and based on the segregation of duties. impart key points in management of sales employees. In addition, all sales personnel receive basic Construction of the setup to reinforce education in sales compliance in the form of e-learning. compliance, and related activities April 2005 Launch of the project for segregation of duties Sales compliance seminars and number of participants October 2005 Leading establishment of the Tokyo and Course Type of Number of Osaka Business Centers seminar participants April 2006 Simultaneous opening of nine Business Sales compliance seminar (basic) Group 92 Centers across the country Sales compliance seminar September 2006 Start of sales compliance education (advanced) Group 55 Governance/ March 2007 Institution of the Sales Governance Division Sales compliance seminar Group 210 Change of Business Center name to BC (basic & advanced) accountability Center Sales compliance seminar for working-level personnel Group 185 April 2008 Establishment of the Yokohama BC Center (basic & advanced) April 2009 Establishment of the Income Sales compliance basic education Accounting Center in Tokyo Individual 2,440 (web) July 2009 Establishment of the Income Total number of participants — 2,982 Accounting Center in Osaka Voice Knowing the rules as a prerequisite for proper behavior Toshikatsu Azuma, Expert, Examining Dept., Sales Governance Div. As a result of my transfer to the Sales Governance had when I was working in sales. Division in April 2009, I began serving as an Once they understand what compliance instructor in the sales compliance seminars along demands, employees can also understand how they with my regular duties in the Examining Department should act. Similarly, management by superiors in October of the same year. Before that, I had had becomes clear-cut, and subordinates can go about absolutely no teaching experience. When I was first their sales activities with peace of mind. For this leading a seminar by myself, I felt a lot of pressure reason, I encourage people to make sure and read and was so nervous that I had trouble sleeping the the internal rules before taking the seminar. By so night before. These days, I am trying to find ways of doing, the instruction will better ring a bell with getting the students to accept compliance with a them and their awareness as sales personnel will positive outlook while drawing on the experiences I change a degree. Voice Observance of compliance rules to protect yourself Masahito Tagami, Sales Manager, Minato Mirai Solution Section, Sales Dept., Nishi Kanto Branch Division In recent years, the establishment of the system of directly to business, for example. segregated duties based in the BC Centers has led It goes without saying that people have to to a rise in the compliance awareness of sales observe the law. But to do so, they must have a personnel. Partly because I was placed in a position good knowledge of it. With knowledge, they can of guiding subordinates, I wanted to get more also offer advice to customers and say no to knowledge in this area, and so decided to enroll in unreasonable requests from customers that could the program of sales compliance education. The violate the law. I now see that to observe the rules seminar I attended was based in actual cases that of compliance is to protect yourself and, by facilitated understanding, and enabled me to extension, your company. reconfirm important points of contracts linked 21 Governance/Accountability Governance Structure Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges In fiscal 2009, we pushed ahead As for the results of the fiscal 2009 activities, in For the future, we see a need with ongoing activities on the the field of information security, we continued for reinforcement of agendum of continually efforts to heighten employee awareness with a governance throughout the enhancing our activities aimed digital covenant. In the field of business NEC Fielding Group. To this at Zero Risk. continuity planning (BCP), we made an external end, we intend to take steps disclosure concerning our BCP premised on including enhancement of outbreak of pandemic influenza, which we awareness in the management began to prepare in fiscal 2008. layer on the Group level and information-sharing. Setup of corporate governance* Our company has a board of directors and a board of * Corporate governance: A framework for monitoring corporate management. Specifically, it has functions to monitor the management who corporate auditors. We also introduced a scheme of are committed to manage their company with the goal of maximizing corporate officers, in order to ensure swifter decisionshareholders interest. These functions include setting targets for the management, evaluating and monitoring their performance to produce making and more efficient supervisory and monitoring reasonable shareholders value. functions of the board of directors. The board of directors holds provisional meetings when needed as well as regular monthly meetings. It Ensuring corporate governance of subsidiaries reviews and discusses important issues prior to We send directors and corporate auditors to our meetings, thus enabling more flexible and appropriate subsidiaries, and provide guidance and support in management decisions. In addition, to clarify the creating a legal-compliance framework, in order to management responsibilities, the tenure of directors is ensure corporate governance of our subsidiaries. Our limited to one year. internal audit division (Internal Auditing Division) also The board of corporate auditors, on the one hand, audits our subsidiaries, providing guidance and meets six times a year. Our corporate auditors and an recommendations for improvements as necessary. accounting auditor (KPMG AZSA & Co.), as well as our internal audit division (Internal Auditing Division) work in close collaboration with each other, through exchange of information related to audit activities as needed. Corporate governance setup General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/dismissal Appointment/dismissal Management/supervision Audit Audit Accounting The Board of Directors The Board of Corporate Auditors auditor Supervision Collaboration Collaboration Business execution Corporate Officer Meeting Internal Auditing Division Executive Officer Meeting Internal audit All divisions (39 divisions) Governance Structure — 1 22 Constructing an internal control* system Establishing the segregation of duties by separating back-office operations We have established an internal control system, which consists of various types of systems such as a risk Back-office operations such as processing orders, management system and information security system, sales, and payments were previously carried out at under our Basic Policy on Construction of the Internal branches and sales offices. In order to establish the Control System determined in accordance with Article segregation of duties, we have relocated all back-office 362, Paragraph 5 of the Companies Act of Japan. works from sales locations to business compliance centers (BC Centers) located in nine sites around Japan. In fiscal 2009, we established the Income Basic Policy on Construction of the Internal Accounting Center, a dedicated unit for handling of Control System incoming payments, to enhance control and increase Pursuant to Article 362, Paragraph 5 of the efficiency. Companies Act of Japan, we have determined the following basic policy with respect to Roles of BC Centers systems (internal control systems) set forth in Stage Roles Article 362, Paragraph 4, Item 6 of the Check order-processing information received from Companies Act, as well as in Article 100, Posting of sales divisions in accordance with internal regulations orders as well as the Construction Industry Act and other Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Ordinance for regulations, and carry out processing of orders. Governance/ Enforcement of the Companies Act. Under such Place an order with subcontractors for specific basic policy, we ensure appropriateness of, and Processing of procurement services, or for appropriate goods from suppliers based constantly review, improve, and enhance our accountability on orders received, and carry out receiving checks. business operations, according to changing Posting of Check the delivery confirmation from customers, and conditions of social, economic, and other sales carry out appropriate postings of sales. aspects in our business environment. Billing/ Issue invoices to customers, and carry out a matching Check of check with invoices to payments received. incoming * Internal control: Please refer to page 19. payments Instatement of the unit system While NEC Fielding had already instated the block the whole company. This step is allowing the company system in its business line, it expanded this to the to strengthen both coordination and horizontal business promotion divisions and administrative staff deployment of information among concerned units, for divisions in April 2010, so that the unit system covers better governance. Unit system Corporate Staff Corporate Planning Unit Resource Management Unit Comptroller Unit Reinforcement Corporate Planning Div. Reinforcement Human Resource Reinforcement Comptroller Div. Development Div. of coordination of coordination of coordination CSR Management Promotion Div. Corporate Communication Div. Sales Governance Div. with concerned with concerned Purchasing Div. with concerned Legal and General Affairs Div. divisions Management Information Systems Div. divisions divisions Close coordination Business Promotion Equipment Support Unit Business Promotion Unit Engineering Support Unit Reinforcement Equipment Planning Div. Reinforcement Corporate Planning Div. Reinforcement Customer Satisfaction Management Div. of coordination of coordination of coordination Group Logistics Div. Maintenance and Operation Business Div. Customer Support Div. with concerned with concerned with concerned divisions Repair Div. divisions Solutions Business Promotion Div. divisions Service Education and Engineering Div. Training Div. Close coordination Business Line Kita Block Kanto Block Tokyo Block Chubu and Kansai Block Nishi Block Initiatives Planning Div. Initiatives Planning Div. Initiatives Planning Div. Initiatives Planning Div. Initiatives Planning Div. adapted to adapted to adapted to adapted to adapted to Group the local Branch the local Branch the local Branch the local Branch the local Branch environment environment environment environment environment Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch 23 Governance/Accountability Approach to risk management* We are committed to swift and highly controlled risk Risk Management Basic Policy management. We have created our Risk Management Basic Policy, and have built a risk-management system To avoid management crisis, we focus on the following for our CSR Management Promotion Division to control initiatives: overall risk. 1. Increase the degree of penetration of risk * Risk management: A process to manage risks systematically, and avoid or management and expand the risk management reduce losses and damages from risks. It is an operations-management system; methodology for effectively minimizing unforeseen damages from all types 2. Provide measures to follow up and reduce of threats, at the minimum cost. existing risks; 3. Identify new risks and provide measures to prevent them; 4. Decide divisions in charge of managing recognized risks and debate collateral measures (such as insurance); and 5. Conduct periodic risk assessments. Risk management system Division with risk External Direct notification Results of Fielding Helpline Risk management notification such CS mail various audits system as from NEC CSR Management Promotion Division Comprehensive management of risks (Manage the entire process of risks, from identifying, responding, handling, through to resolving.) Management of risks in various fields: • Management decision • Shares • Finance • Transactions • Human resources/organization • Social response • Overseas • Service quality • Product safety • Safety/environment • Information management • Intellectual property • Contracts • Logistics Risk investigation and response team Recognition Escalation/output to: • Emergency Response Headquarters • Crisis Management Committee Update of risk management table • Corporate Officer Meeting • Executive Officer Meeting • Report on individual decisions, company-wide notification, etc. Review of the Crisis Management Committee Cases of risk actualization in fiscal 2009 and their NEC Fielding is considering a review of the Crisis handling Management Committee, which is at the core of its risk Fiscal 2009 unfortunately saw the actualization of risks in management system. The Committee has had a forms such as loss of employee ID and access security membership of qualified personnel selected by each cards as well as mobile phones and other items. organizational unit. This is going to be replaced with a In response, besides continuing to implement the membership consisting entirely of corporate officers conventional steps (e.g., web education about and subsidiary presidents, in the interest of more information security and protection of personal prompt management judgments and decisions in the information, rigorous checking and wearing of straps to face of risks. It has also been decided to establish hold employee ID and access security cards and mobile ad-hoc examination subcommittees to address specific phones, and security settings on mobile phones), we risks as bodies ancillary to the Committee. This will issued priority reminders for attention to prevent risk permit the study and drafting of more initiatives tailored actualization throughout the company and had more closely to the particular type of risk. employees recite them at morning gatherings in each workplace, in order to enhance awareness. (For information on action related to priority reminders, see page 26 .) Governance Structure — 2 24 Approach to BCPs* Since fiscal 2006, we have been committed to Basic Policy on BCP Creation for Disaster Response establish our business continuity plans (BCPs) in order to swiftly resume business operations in case of a 1. Place the highest priority on checking the safety major natural disaster, and keep providing necessary of employees and their family, providing aid services for stable operation of lifeline. and support, and preventing secondary In fiscal 2009, we created a new BCP to respond to disasters. a new influenza pandemic, and released it within and 2. Create a system that allows the resumption of outside the company. operations*1 on the following day after a disaster hits. * BCP (business continuity plan): A plan (document) indicating policies and procedures for ensuring the continuity of the companies business in the 3. Create a system that allows the resumption of event of natural disasters, terrorism, or other unforeseen events. business*2 on the second day after a disaster hits. Business continuity training *1 Resumption of operations: resume minimal in-house operations, including receiving damage reports We have begun *2 Resumption of business: actively call on customers and fully business-continuity resume business following the recovery of customer systems training sessions in order to verify the validity of our BCPs, Anti-pandemic measures and ensure that all In response to the spread of H1N1 influenza in 2009, Governance/ divisions are aware NEC Fielding implemented the following measures to accountability of these plans. curtail infection among its employees to the minimum, We conducted in light of its role as a firm maintaining socioeconomic the training in February 2009, envisioning that a capabilities. Tonankai earthquake and a Nankai earthquake occurred in series amid a new influenza pandemic. We started by • Construction of an escalation scheme in the event of setting up a disaster headquarters following the outbreak earthquakes, confirming the safety of employees, and • Instruction for stand-by at home to employees who confirming the state of damages at our customers’ themselves contract, or whose family members sites, after which we practiced phases from the contract, H1N1 influenza recovery of our work sites to the recovery of our • Distribution and rigorous rule for wearing of surgical customer systems. With the President and all directors masks by employees making visits to clients or and senior management below him attending, the customers exercise was conducted with all our business sites • Distribution of non-contact thermometers in nationwide connected via teleconference and radio. preparation for outbreak in workplaces Moving forward, we plan to conduct training continuously, in order to attain further improvements in our BCPs reflecting the outcomes of the training. Basic Policy on Response to Pandemics NEC Fielding established the following basic policy Company-wide business continuity disaster-response on response to H1N1 (highly virulent) influenza. Placing top priority on safeguarding the lives of Company-wide Business Continuity Headquarters our employees and others, the policy is also aimed Director: at discharge of our social responsibilities. President Deputy Director Secretariat 1. Place top priority on assurance of the safety of lives and maintenance of health. Senior Corporate Officer CSR Management Promotion Division 2. Continue with the work of supporting IT systems, which are used to maintain socioeconomic functions, upon implementation of maximum Head Office Front-line Disaster in Tokyo measures to assure employee safety. BC Headquarters BC Headquarters Metropolitan area 3. Even for IT systems which have no connection with Director: Director: Senior Corporate Director in charge maintenance of socioeconomic functions, make a Officer of the relevant area maximum effort to continue support; provided that, there may be cases to reduce or discontinue such Tokyo Metropolitan Relief Headquarters support activities, depending on the pandemic (Osaka) situation. Front-line 4. Cooperate with assurance of safety in the local recovery site Director: Director for community. Chubu-Kansai block 25 Governance/Accountability Approach to information security We are often entrusted with customers’ information Information security measures assets while doing maintenance work for their • Install antitheft equipment on service cars information systems and network. Therefore, we • Install a safety box on service cars Antitheft measures consider risks related to information security and • Install tools to prevent the HDD retrieval • Introduce PC-encryption software on all in-house personal information protection as substantive CSR computers Information leak risks that need to be managed carefully, and • Expand the mail encryption method throughout countermeasures the company continuously make efforts to eliminate them. • Thoroughly introduce IRM*-based document protection To prevent the occurrence of any accidents related to information security, we have established an • Implement digital covenants and information Increase employee security education awareness information security management system based on our * Information Rights Management (IRM): A tool provided by Microsoft Information Security Basic Policy, thereby promoting Office 2003 for preventing information leaks. prevention measures at the companywide level. Increasing employee awareness with a digital Diagram of the information security management system covenant President We strive to ensure that all employees at NEC Fielding, Reports who often work at the offices of customers, are well Consultation Division in charge of supervision Liaison aware of rules which they must abide by at these (Internal Auditing Division) • Division in charge of information NEC security promotion working sites. Such rules include maintaining Auditing (CSR Management Promotion Division) Concerned • Division in charge of information assets divisions information security they should be careful in daily work Instructions and Instructions and routines. In fiscal 2009, our employees again made a directions Reports contracting digital covenant that they fully understood the rules All divisions/employees Partner they had to adhere to, thereby raising thorough companies NEC Fielding Group companies compliance awareness within the company. Information Security Basic Policy To protect the information assets entrusted to us by our 3. We shall provide education required for assurance of customers and transaction partners as well as those of information security. our own, and to contribute to socioeconomic 4. We shall take appropriate human, organizational, and advancement through supply of better goods and technical measures, and endeavor to prevent information services, NEC Fielding has determined the following assets from incurring improper access, leakage, alteration, basic policy on information security, and hereby loss/theft, destruction, hindrance to use, or other damage. proclaims its commitment to practicing this policy. 5. In the event of a security problem involving information assets, we shall immediately ascertain the cause and take 1. We shall establish a setup for information security action to curtail any damage to the minimum. management and strive for proper management of 6. We shall observe all laws, agreements with customers, information assets. and social norms related to information security. 2. We shall instate and apply in-house rules in accordance 7. We shall constantly review the aforementioned activities with this basic policy. and strive to improve them. Approach to protection of personal information In 2001, we formulated our Personal Information Protection Diagram of the system for personal information protection Policy. Since then, we have been working to protect personal information under the companywide management President system for personal information protection, which is Person in overall charge of Person responsible supervised by the President. In each division, we appoint a personal information protection for inspection person in charge of personal information protection as well Division in charge Person in charge of personal as a person in charge of divisional promotion of personal CSR Management Promotion Division information protection information protection, in order to make all employees aware Personal information protection Person in charge of divisional promotion of personal information protection activities. consultation window of personal information protection We have acquired the official certification Person responsible for Person promoting personal of Privacy Mark (P mark) in 2002, and passed in-house education information protection Person responsible for the renewal examination of the certificate in storing personal information 2008. Governance Structure — 3 / Corporate Ethics/Compliance 26 Corporate Ethics/Compliance Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges As in fiscal 2008, the main In addition to the regular measures to foster The major themes beginning in activity themes in fiscal awareness of the importance of attention in this fiscal 2010 will presumably be 2009 were rigorous area, the fiscal 2009 activities led to the start of the continued reinforcement of adherence to and deployment of the priority reminders throughout information-sharing throughout promotion of the dictates the company every month to make the practices a the Group and measures to raise of corporate ethics and habit. awareness in the management compliance among all layer for effective application of units and individuals in the compliance rules in their Group as a whole. respective divisions. Corporate ethics promotion system We appoint corporate ethics promoters for all divisions implementation of schemes and measures set out by down to the branch offices nationwide. Each promoter the CSR Management Promotion Division at all levels cooperates with a staff member concurrent with the of the company. CSR Management Promotion Division, to assist the Governance/ System of corporate accountability ethics promotion Division responsible for the corporate ethics promotion CSR Promotion Meeting Discussion/ Responsible director CSR Management Promotion Division promotion Business Group Business Promotion Group Corporate Staff Block Staff member concurrent Staff member concurrent Staff member concurrent with the CSR Management with the CSR Management with the CSR Management Branch office Promotion Division Promotion Division Promotion Division Corporate ethics promoter* Corporate ethics promoter Corporate ethics promoter Corporate ethics promoter * Corporate ethics promoter: An employee who supports for the following activities in promoting corporate ethics practices in each division. (1) Confirmation of employees’ compliance with the Code of Conduct and related laws (2) Implementation of educational activities to raise awareness of corporate ethics (3) Coordination within the division and communication with other divisions Educational activities to raise awareness of corporate ethics Deployment of priority reminders Distribution of Fielding Pocketbook In fiscal 2009, we began issuing reminders related to We provide a Fielding Pocketbook to all our employees. corporate ethics and information security for the This prescribes activity guidelines and basic policies purpose of making practices in accordance with rules such as the NEC Fielding Charter of Corporate Behavior into habits on the personal level, toward the larger goal and the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct. of eliminating the actualization of potential risks. All organizational units in the company are notified of these Email magazine and case sheet “priority reminders” every month. We issue and disseminate to all directors and Each reminder is a haiku-form phrase concisely employees the Corporate Behavior Email Magazine stating a type of act in line with the corporate rules. which provides various topics, examples of other They are recited on a daily basis with a view to companies, laws and ordinances, etc. relating to preventing the occurrence of incidents and accidents corporate ethics and compliance, as well as the on the level of individual employees. Corporate Conduct Case Sheet which explains our internal rules based on examples, in order to share Examples of priority reminders information within the Group. • Scribbled fax numbers cause mistakes • Make sure to check belongings after nights out • Always check computers for viruses after holidays 27 Governance/Accountability Accountability Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges Since our listing on the 1. We promptly submitted our financial statements Besides working for prompt Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) and quarterly reports as documents whose and proper information in September 2002, we have disclosure is stipulated in law, as well as financial disclosure, we are going to continued to implement report summaries, corporate governance reports, disclose information that activities aimed at providing and other documents in accordance with the will deliver even higher all stakeholders with Securities Listing Regulations of the TSE. levels of satisfaction to management information in 2. We actively disclosed information whose disclosure investors. In addition, we a timely, accurate, and fair is not required by law but which influences intend to improve events for manner. In fiscal 2009, we investment decisions, such as earnings individual investors in order launched activities to raise presentation materials and fact sheets. to increase their the quality of this 3. To encourage a better understanding of NEC Fielding, opportunities to learn about information provision even we provided more information on our website, and NEC Fielding. higher. prepared and distributed our annual report, Fielding Communication Report, and various other tools. Information disclosure Method of information disclosure Basic Policy on Response to Pandemics We disclose information in a way that complies with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, We shall endeavor to continually provide our Companies Act, and the rules for timely disclosure of shareholders and investors in a timely, TSE. Our financial statements, quarterly reports, etc. accurate, and fair manner with information on are registered on the EDINET system managed by the our business activities as well as major matters Financial Services Agency. Furthermore, we register of execution and decision-making, which may major matters stipulated in the rules for timely affect appraisal of our investment value. disclosure of TSE on the TDnet system managed by 1. We shall provide information on the actual facts of TSE and make an announcement of such matters to the our management that are deemed necessary for press through the Kabuto Club (the reporters club shareholders and investors to make their decision within TSE). on their shareholding (investment decision). 2. In disclosure of information related to future Voluntary disclosure orientations, we shall append a statement of We shall actively disclose information that does not fall caution (i.e., safe harbor statement) specifying under the scope of legal requirements but is deemed factors that could make targets unattainable. important for investment decisions by shareholders and investors concerning our operations, or necessary for enhancing their understanding of our company. IR (investor relations) activities Results of IR activities External evaluation for our IR activities FY2008 FY2009 Number of Number of Frequency participants Frequency participants We have been selected for the 7th consecutive year as one of the 580 firms with General shareholder’s April excellent IR websites by Daiwa Investor meeting 1 58 1 52 2009 Relations Co., Ltd. In addition, we were ranked as top 3 in the service industry since Presentation of financial the last year. results and explanation 1 27 1 27 We have been selected for Presentation of interim results and explanation 1 21 1 16 the 4th consecutive year for the Excellent Corporate IR for overseas Website Award 2009 investors 1 − 1 − November (overall ranking for the 2009 quality of website among Publication of listed companies) by Nikko annual report 2 − 2 − Investor Relations Co., Ltd. In addition, we were ranked as No. 5 in the Company tour 1 5 1 10 service industry (by segment). Accountability 28 Communication with our shareholders and individual investors Since most of our business activities are based on Investor relations website business-to-business (B2B)* transactions, we do not We prepared a have a high degree of recognition among the general “Investor public. Based on this understanding, we are proactively Relations” website working on IR activities to help our shareholders and in order to augment individual investors properly understand our businesses our provision of and activities. information to them, and are * B2B transaction: Meaning a commerce transaction that occurs between businesses. In contrast, the term “consumer-to-consumer (C2C) transaction” otherwise striving means a commerce transaction that occurs between consumers. to improve our accountability Publication of the annual report provisions. We publish an The website also posts IR news and other annual report as a information announced by NEC Fielding in the “IR tool for giving Library” section, to report on our business activities. In institutional addition, it has streaming footage of earnings investors and presentations and information meetings for individual Governance/ analysts an investors, so that visitors can actually hear the voices of understanding of our executives. our company. It is We also send information to registered investors by full of information e-mail. accountability on our performance and finances required for analysis of our company, and presents details of basic management policy, growth strategy, and business activities that may be difficult to ascertain when viewed from the outside. The report has been rated as conveying the thinking of top-layer management and being of great value for investment decisions. We intend to continue furnishing institutional investors and NEWS Tour of corporate facilities for analysts with even more useful information through the report. 2009 institutional investors and analysts In December 2009, NEC Fielding conducted a tour Interactive communications via the Fielding of its facilities for institutional investors and Communication Report analysts. The participants were taken through Aru We publish the “Fielding Communication Report” Parts Kawasaki, our hub facility for distribution of semiannually and send it to our individual shareholders. maintenance supplies. The functions of the Yamato This aims to deliver messages from the President, Techno-center (Repair Division) were consolidated company information, business activities, financial into Aru Parts Kawasaki in September 2009 for the results, etc. by creating contents easy to read and purpose of shortening repair lead time and understand. improving efficiency in various work processes. The On the “Shareholder Questionnaire” section, we presentation in the tour centered around the effects introduce opinions and questions from shareholders as of the consolidation and the nature of the activities well as answers to these questions, thus leveraging this for production innovation. It was understood by the report as a tool for interactive communication with participants, with some institutional investors and them. analysts making favorable remarks to the effect that the consolidation heightened the investment value. We plan to hold more tours to give more investors a solid grasp of our business. 29 Market TOPICS 3 Maintenance Formation Supporting the social infrastructure in all parts of the country through our IT support services We shall continue to support the social infrastructure through human resources and services working from the customer’s perspective Etsuo Iwasaki Corporate Officer It would be no exaggeration to say that the history of NEC Fielding is one of continued support for the IT systems of its customers. IT systems are now underpinning socioeconomic systems in all fields. NEC Fielding has developed personnel able to cope with the diversifying technology, provided services meeting the wants and needs of the diversifying customers, and built relationships of trust with them. We now care for 5.3 million systems at about 290,000 firms. We are determined to deepen these ties of trust with our existing customers and forge similar bonds with new ones. To this end, it is surely essential to place even more emphasis on activities on the front lines (meaning the individual customer sites) and continue to offer human resources and services developed even more from the customer’s perspective. Over the coming years as well, NEC Fielding is committed to supporting the social infrastructure by supporting front-line IT systems across the country. Service setup to support the IT infrastructure of contemporary society In this age, lifelines and socioeconomic functions maintain customer systems and the socioeconomic cannot be maintained without IT systems. NEC Fielding functions supported by them, so that all members of provides services in periodic preventive maintenance to society can go about their activities in comfort and with see that these IT systems remain operable 24 hours a peace of mind. day, 365 days a year. It also engages in work to Service offices in all parts of Japan Hokkaido area: 北海道地区 17 offices サービス対象： 28.8万社・530万システム Service subjects: 5.3 million systems in 288,000 companies 17拠点 Service network of 409 offices in Japan 国内409拠点のサービス網（海外7拠点） (and 7 in other countries) and 4,300 engineers 4,300人のエンジニア Periodic maintenance of 1.27 million circuits per year 127万回／年の定期保守 Kansai area: 関西地区 東北地区 Tohoku area: Chugoku 中国地区 area: 66拠点 66 offices 27 offices 32拠点32 offices Kyushu area: 27拠点 38 offices 関東地区 九州地区 Kanto area: 145拠点 145 offices 38拠点 中部地区 Chubu area: 5959 拠点 offices * Figures・ ※拠点数 for 人員数は 2010of the number 年 Shikoku 四国地区 area: offices and personnel are 3月末時点単体のデータ 25拠点 25 offices as of 31 March 2010. です。 TOPICS 3 Maintenance Formation 30 Setup for total support of IT systems throughout society NEC Fielding supports the availability of systems which customer engineers (CEs) nationwide. These CEs, in are indispensable for convenient and comfortable living. turn, are backed by customer support centers fielding Centering around the IT systems of companies and calls from customers, logistics divisions delivering governments, the systems it services encompass parts, and various other backyard divisions. Of those controlling the ATMs of financial institutions and particular note is the Maintenance and Operation automatic turnstile machines in train stations, and point Business Division, which provides across-the-board of sales (POS) systems in supermarkets and support for CE activities by overseeing business in convenience stores. The systems at customer sites are protective maintenance and operating support as a directly supported by our force of some 4,300 whole. IT system support by CEs Support for the construction of ties Environment for comfortable Voice of trust between CEs and customers Host computers Internet use for ATMs and Tetsuyuki Oho banks Network controlling Maintenance Dept., Maintenance and Operation Business Div. Main computers automatic turnstile machines at train Support of IT systems by CEs is the core of companies and stations business of NEC Fielding. The Maintenance POS cash governments registers for and Operation Business Division, to which I smooth handling of payments at Construction of belong, is the unit in charge of this supermarkets city hall systems business. We support the strengthening and restaurants and networks and expansion of ties of trust between CEs and their customers through operations such as the creation of Customer engineers (CEs) service menus, preparation of service assortments, incorporation of products of other vendors into the maintenance menu, and assistance for the conclusion of contracts for support. Customer support centers Logistics divisions The prevailing theme of supporting the socioeconomic Maintenance and Operation Business Division infrastructure amounts to nothing other than the activities of our CEs across the country. We are determined to support their activities as much as we can. Market Formations supporting swift response in the event of trouble NEC Fielding has made solid arrangements for swift trouble, get accurate information on the difficulties, and response in the event of trouble with IT systems at make estimates of the cause based on this information; customer locations, based on coordination among our maintenance service locations send CEs to the groups of professionals. More specifically, our customer locations to do the troubleshooting; and our customer service support centers take calls about logistics divisions deliver the parts needed for repairs. Response in the event of trouble Swift response to trouble in Occurrence the event of occurrence Acceptance of trouble report of Customer Support Center trouble Telephone/FAX/e-mail CTI*1 Customer database Performance of preventive Technical support maintenance on a Trouble/inquiries periodic basis to ALIVE*2 Precedent database keep trouble from occurring and Automatic Customer engineer (CE) Customer engineer (CE) support a stable Dispatch order/ operation notification parts order i-mode Customer Maintenance service locations Periodic Respond to Dispatch order maintenance system failure Work history database Telephone Parts delivery order Logistics divisions Parts information database Parts shipment Acquisition of technical *1 CTI: computer telephony integration, technology interlinking telephone information with mobile and fax communication with computers for management of terminals customer relations *2 ALIVE: an automatic notification and remote diagnosis system 31 Market Communication Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges We promoted our 1. In a program for basic reinforcement of work, CS Technical capabilities and companywide campaign trainers at service locations accompanied CEs to powers for proposal of called “No.1 in Customer customer sites to furnish them with guidance and solutions at customer sites Satisfaction—Far Ahead of support. still have room for Others” Challenge. Particular 2. To bolster communication with customers, we improvement. We are going emphasis was placed on conducted a seminar utilizing the interactive to put more effort into activities of human resource “customer talk system*”. development of human development to improve 3. To improve matters in the initial phase of trouble, resources for on-site powers of technical expertise, we promoted a campaign for swift notification to measures and take other communication, and customers (of the date and time of visit for action to meet the problem-solving among CEs response) when receiving reports of trouble. expectations of our active on the front lines. customers. * Interactive customer talk system: an education system built for personal learning through the web as opposed to group classes. It systematically incorporates cases and precedents from actual conversations with customers, and is designed to promote activities aimed at better communication with customers. Personnel use it to efficiently master capabilities for parley with customers (as well as making reports and proposals to them). Our approach to CS* Mechanism to improve CS Bringing our customers security and gratification We employed the mechanism of ISO 9001 PDCA cycle through Fielding activities* to our CS promotion activities. Companywide policies and measures related to CS promotion are examined at The groundwork of our business is on-site operations the CS Improvement Council and the Team of “No.1 in (fieldwork) at our customers’ premises. We put the Customer Satisfaction—Far Ahead of Others” highest priority on providing services that will give our Challenge, and then conveyed to each division. The CS customers a sense of security and make them think we Promotion Division and a quality promoter assigned to are a reliable crew always be available and ready to help each organizational unit take initiatives toward practical in solving their problems. implementation of these measures within the unit. Furthermore, at the Divisional Activity Reporting * Customer satisfaction (CS): At NEC Fielding, the foundation of our Meeting held quarterly, the top management will check business operations is customer satisfaction; that is, offering services that satisfy our customers, working and growing together with our customers. the progress in implementing measures in each block and branch division, where all the CS promotion * Fielding activities: Please refer to page 9. activities are put in practice. Proposals to meet customer needs Activities to improve CS Customer We have frequent contact with our customers, totaling Activities to handle of 4.18 million times this year. The information we customer’s demands Activities at blocks, branch divisions and offices acquire from them, such as opinions and requests, is ISO 9001 Product Quality Management System Divisional Activity CS Promotion Activities our most precious asset. We apply it to our everyday Reporting Meeting at branch level routines in order to ensure stable and safe operations • Top management and staff • Instruction for service quality check 5 blocks and other management activities and maintenance, as well as to achieve more smooth business lines within • Implement the “No.1 in and accurate provision of services. We also make full Japan on a quarterly basis • Follow CS promotion Customer Satisfaction—Far Ahead of Others” Challenge use of this accumulated information for the activities • Review and trace CS • Point out problems and promotion activities of each improvement of system efficiency. Our customer instruct measures branch division • Check the progress toward • Promote CS promotion engineers* (CEs) and salespersons carry a Knowledge the quality goals activities at the entire branch level Note terminal (KN terminal) so that they can access and Progress Development suggest the latest information that will meet the needs check order Reporting and requests of customers. Corporate activities CS Improvement “No.1 in Customer * Customer engineer: Please refer to page 2. Satisfaction—Far Ahead Council of Others” Challenge • Check the management of • Companywide CS Fielding from the aspect of promotion activities CS • Management function • Function as CS steering • Review and implement committee concrete measures by • Determine the basic policy each working team of CS • Hold monthly since July 1992 Communication 32 Process to make use of customer opinions We cherish any feedback from our customers through CSVOICE diverse routes originating from Fielding activities. By CSVOICE is a channel for sharing our customers’ requests and disseminating these opinions within the company, we opinions. The feedback data is first recorded as CSVOICE and work on further improvements in various aspects of our subject to primary analysis; each issue is classified by types and business. In addition, in order to provide more sent to a division concerned. Then, the division will determine and implement specific measures to solve the issue. The data satisfactory services, we conduct a customer can be accessed by other divisions and shared throughout the satisfaction survey on a regular basis. With constant company. check how customers feel about our activities, we try to find out issues to improve CS and run through a CS CSVOICE promotion cycle. Collection and sharing process Reflection/ Customer Access utilization process opinions information CSVOICE Each division Process of utilizing customer feedback Service Information on customer site needs and satisfaction, and questionnaire survey data Customers in charge Response individually Primary analysis Fielding activities Response systematically Customers Customer (information reference, analysis, and examination) satisfaction NEC Sales survey salespersons, Others Response SEs stores to Headquarters (semiannually) Service requests development Customer feedback and Preparation Drafting of Creation of improvement of statistical measures new business information NEC Fielding Review and instruction by the top management CSVOICE Responding to customer feedback Quickly CSMAIL CSMAIL communicating issues within FR Apply issues of the CSMAIL is a database collecting information on major failures in (Field Request) Market the company field to our products customer systems and cases dissatisfied with our maintenance, as well as conditions which may cause customer dissatisfaction. Any issue will be promptly communicated internally and within Resolve issues the NEC Group via CSMAIL, to be solved in the earlier stage under the collaboration of the entire Group. NEC and product vendors FR (Field Request) Field Request is a system for improving our products, which delivers information on product problems and productimprovement requests arising from the customer’s side, to the factory/quality control division of the product vendor, via our engineering division. Development of CEs to support CS To deliver peace of mind and joy to our customers, we CS senior advisors strive to improve the technical capabilities and business CS senior advisors are appointed on the recommendation of manners of each CE supporting the level of CS. To this corporate officers in charge of each block. After graduating from end, we conduct a program of CE development making the training program especially for them, they are sent to and stationed at a specific block. Besides developing and supporting full use of the energies of CS senior advisors and CS the CS trainers at service locations, they transfer on-site trainers. technology (experience, knowledge, and craftsmanship) to and advise CEs, by way of assisting CS trainers. Setup for operating the CS trainer system CS trainers Deployment of companywide policy and initiatives (Customer Satisfaction Management Division) As a general rule, CS trainers are nominated by the service section heads of service locations and appointed by the directors of service locations. After their appointment, they Education Division Block initiatives to heighten CS (CS Promotion Div., Block Planning Division) undergo the program for production of CS trainers to win Dispatch of Report on qualification as such, and then put what they have learned into qualified on-site personnel conditions practice. CS trainers instruct and develop CEs at service Branch office locations and customer sites based on the measures to raise CS Service sites CS trainer Guidance/ Guidance/ levels at each block formulated in line with the companywide CS senior support advisors development policies and initiatives. CE • • • CE 33 Market Fielding Solutions Business Fiscal Themes of Results of activities Future Challenges 2009 activities We aimed to expand our 1. Launched “e-lding” in April 2007, our service for online We will engage in further business domains sales to member corporations. “e-lding” offers a full line of research and development through structural more than 20,000 items from expendables to peripheral of services and products innovation and reduce equipment and software, as a one-stop shop, and supports from the CSR perspective, costs by making our the operation of customer IT systems. taking environmental business more efficient. 2. Began to issue the “e-lding Catalog” with carbon offset solutions and other terms In addition, through our credits in October (Vol.06). such as “eco”, “green”, solution business, we 3. Commenced sales of the industry’s first compact and “universal” as key strived to meet various uninterruptible power supply (UPS) unit with carbon offset words. In this way, we customer requirements credits in October. This product offers automatic selection strive to make a positive and contribute to society of the optimal power supply mode for the power contribution to society and our customers in the environment, and delivers an energy-saving benefit and and our customers problem-solving aspect. high reliability. through our business activities. Services for security measures Supporting customers’ security measures Services for security measures There are stricter regulatory requirements related to • Support for creating information security policy Total solutions data management and access restrictions within • Support for risk analysis Information • Information security training companies since the Act on the Protection of Personal security • Regular visit consulting Information came into effect. Leakage of information consulting • Support for information security management • Information security audit and diagnosis may cause irreparable damages to a company’s • Certification support (ISO/IEC 27001, Privacy Mark) clientele, reputation, etc.; therefore, protection of • Installation of firewalls Illegal access information assets becomes inevitable during the • Virus countermeasures countermeasures • Spam countermeasures, etc. course of business activities, and companies are now • Encryption, countermeasures against removal of Specific solutions required to implement measures on enhancing internal Information leak information by employees controls from the standpoint of managerial responsibility. countermeasures • Content filtering (mail, web) • Information asset management, PC management To eliminate concerns of these managements and the Authentication • Directory service (Active Directory) personnel in charge of information systems, we support system and log • Card-based authentication, biometric authentication their security measures with a range of services and management • Log management systems, etc. options. We also offer comprehensive solutions to our • System for managing people entering and leaving Physical security premises customers who need to improve their activities through measures • Surveillance cameras, etc. the PDCA cycle. Information Security Consulting We support optimization of information security Combination of services We put together combinations of solutions optimal for the management by providing a range of services, from customer environment from our richly varied assortment of creating information security policies based on the products and functions, based on the existing needs, information asset lifecycle, conducting training, audit, conclusions reached in consulting, and the findings of analysis assessment of information security, through to improving and reports. As such, our services help to make work more operational efficiency of information security systems. efficient and to lower risks. Information security management cycle Combination of solutions (example) Information Support for creating security training File server File server control Control server information security policies Scheduled onsite Assets Encryption User ID verification management consulting Plan Do Support for Customer Support for information Encryption Personal information security retrieval risk analysis management Encryption Log collection Information security audit Support for Action Check Network drive improvement Information Removable media Print-out and update security planning E-mail Carry-away control Log server assessment Fielding Solutions Business — 1 34 CSR performance in supply services Recovery of EP cartridges Recovery and recycling of PRB Since 1995, we have been recovering and recycling EP Under the Act on the Promotion of Effective Utilization cartridges from laser printers, facsimile machines, and of Resources effective in 2001, all manufacturers who multi-function devices with the NEC Group, in the make portable rechargeable batteries (PRB) or devices interest of making effective use of resources and using PRB are required to recover and recycle these preserving the global environment. Upon dismantling, batteries. Along with the enforcement of the Act, the checking, and cleaning, the recovered EP cartridges are NEC Group became a member of the Japan Portable transformed into new EP cartridges under a scheme of Rechargeable Battery Recycling Center (JBRC), and strict quality control. recovers PRB through the recycling system operated by the center. Recovery and recycling flow of EP cartridges Individual customers Corporate customers Recycling flow for PRB (example for nickel-cadmium batteries) Sales stores NEC Fielding locations Collected small rechargeable batteries NEC EP cartridge recovery center Sorting Recycling process Recycling plant Reconditioned EP cartridges Nickel-cadmium Nickel-hydrogen Lithium-ion batteries batteries batteries Breakdown Approaches to product safety and separation NEC Fielding is committed to preventing the Heat treatment occurrence of defects and accidents with a bearing on the safety of not only products of its own development but also products procured from outside or consigned Recycled resources for outsourced maintenance. To this end, and also for the purpose of appropriate measures for safety-related Iron-nickel alloy Metal cadmium accidents, we have constructed an organizational setup Market and are promoting product safety activities. Reused products Setup for promotion of product safety activities Stainless-steel products, etc. Nickel-cadmium batteries Person with final responsibility Corporate officer for product safety activities responsible for CSR Person assigned to Person responsible for General Manager of technical laws product safety management CSR Management and regulations Promotion Division Recovery of used IT equipment from corporations Person responsible for Person responsible for Person responsible for ( see page 65 ) execution of product execution of product execution of product safety activities safety activities safety activities Target equipment (First-tier division Manager) (First-tier division Manager) (First-tier division Manager) Used information equipment (PCs, computers, PS divisional promoter PS divisional promoter ••• PS divisional promoter telecommunication equipment, etc.) PS engineer PS engineer PS engineer Flow of 3R’s (reduce, reuse, recycle) Case (iron) Steel Sale to steel manufacturer (Fe) Units, Power supply Crushing Manual dismantlement and sorting Aluminum, Copper Sale to non-metals manufactures (Au, Ag, Cu, Ni, Pb, Sn, etc.) and sorting Chassis, etc. Deflection yoke Shredder dust Landfill disposal Printed circuit board Sale to metal refinery (Au, Ag, Cu, Ni, Pb, Sn, etc.) Used IT equipment Removal of parts Cables Sale to non-metals manufacture (Cu) CRT glass Washing and crushing Sale to glass manufacturer LCD unit Heat recovery and slag utilization Heat recovery and slag utilization Plastics Processing Materials company company Reuse in NEC products (PC98NX, etc.) Fluorescent lamp Processing by mercury collection operator (Hg) Battery Sale to metal refinery (Pb, Cd, Zn, etc.) Inspection and sorting Reuse as maintenance parts (motherboards, LCDs, etc.) 35 Market Integrated Management Support Center with full suite of information security In 2007, our Integrated Management Support Center Role of the Integrated Management Support Center obtained the certification for Information Security Management System (ISMS). Through this certification, Integrated we are striving to further enhance our information Management security and achieve more stable operations. Support Center Furthermore, we place the top priority on securing System failure call our customer information. We have established a Service Desk Vendor complete information security management system, CM database Identify the including a room-entry control to prevent entries of failure and respond to non-system operators, data carry-away prevention the call NEC Customer system to prevent taking out of customer information, Support Center Escalation and access control system to prevent unauthorized Remote Monitoring reporting Customer access to data by non-system operators. of operation We also strive to ensure the stable operation of our Alert database Fielding Customer Communication Support Center customer systems through monitoring their network and of the failure hardware and detecting problems in the early stage. Monthly report Improvements to enhance information security Send SE to the customer’s premises Escalation 1. Acquisition of ISMS knowledge and ISMS assistant as necessary Mobilization auditor certification by system operators (e.g. system order recovery) 2. Maintenance and security measures for operation areas System engineer 3. Formulation and implementation of rules for entering and (SE) leaving operation areas 4. Preparation and maintenance of manuals and procedures Hardware maintenance for system operations support 5. Review and improvement of systems Customer engineer Coordinating (CE) site 6. Risk analysis on equipment and devices Actions to improve quality 1. Improve the rate of communication of reported problems upon primary analysis Maintenance and improvement of operational and work quality by the program for audit of IT operation service quality Under this setup, personnel audit the work for support of requested corrections and improvements, and perform customer IT system operation provided by NEC Fielding, the PDCA cycle to confirm that the operation support and issue instructions for correction or improvement. satisfies the customer’s needs. The aims are maintenance and continuation of service The operation support services are performed to quality meeting customer requirements, and optimization improve the level of operation quality, lessen risks, and of services for adaption to changes in work prerequisites. assure the continuity of the customer’s business. Owing to changes in and diversification (in respect of market needs, technical innovation, and values) of Quality auditing process the environment surrounding customers, IT systems are becoming more complex and varied. This is being Customer reflected in an increasing and varied segmentation of IT Service for proxy operation and maintenance services provided. Current Audit of service quality Correction/ optimization To ensure that customers can patronize the services of service (work requirements) Operating Work provision operation support services offered by NEC Fielding quality quality with complete confidence, services are audited with attention to dependability and continuity. The objective Quality auditing is to identify problems at present and tasks for the NEC Fielding activities future, to assist ongoing improvement. Quality Correction/ Audit of service quality begins with apprehension of improvement Fact-finding Abstraction Specification improvement Continuation the facts of service provision. The personnel ascertain Objective Problem Examination identification Drafting of improvement Execution of Assessment measures the conformance of the current service status and measures objectively assess any gaps with the customer requirements. The units providing services make the Fielding Solutions Business — 2 36 CSR activities via exhibitions and events Holding of security seminars Active holding of BCP (BCDR) seminars We held the Fielding Solution Seminar 2009 in various We have long been parts of the country to introduce the latest trends in actively holding BCP security and related activities by NEC Fielding. Besides seminars. In a seminar, the presentation, the Seminar included a demonstration we took up approaches of various cases of operation for various solutions at by NEC Fielding in adjacent exhibition sites. The exhibition sites also response to changes in contained displays and commentary on the latest the management climate technology and Fielding solutions. and natural disasters, and Lectures at BCP seminar These included PC verification systems using nonpresented the actual procedure of BCP introduction. contact IC cards or biometrics, verification systems for Right at the seminar, we made simple diagnoses and prevention of unauthorized access to PC networks, IT suggested BCPs that would be the best for the assets management with excellent operability, participating customers, nearly all of whom had high evidence management based on log visibility, and evaluations of the event. The seminar turned out to be information assets management for personal and other a fine opportunity for thinking about BCP with our confidential information. customers. In the future as well, we plan to actively hold BCP seminars for contribution to the CSR activities of our customers. Market Adjacent exhibition site to the seminar site BCP seminar exhibits Proposing CSR activities through exhibitions of environmentally-friendly green services and CSR activities at exhibitions products Exhibitions and events are our points of contact with Each year, we hold many exhibitions and events our customers, and we use them to present our CSR throughout the country, and introduce our activities. We recovered PET bottle caps as a part of environmentally-friendly services and products such as our activities of social contribution at nine locations EnepalTM PC, green hybrid-type UPS and green network nationwide, including the Fielding Solution Fair held by solution. In this way, we actively propose solutions to NEC Fielding in Tokyo. Many of the customers who support our customers’ CSR activities. attended the seminars held in the Fair endorsed our campaign to collect the caps and get vaccine to children around the world. Besides being linked to social contribution, the collection of a massive amount of caps helped to increase recycling rates because of the related presorting, and so also gave a lift to environmental activities. We plan to promote further activities of social contribution at Enepal TM PC screen future exhibitions and events. Corner for recovery of PET caps at the seminar site 37 Market Proactive Maintenance Business Fiscal Themes of Results of activities Future Challenges 2009 activities In fiscal 2009, we took 1. To prevent the occurrence of inability to make repairs due to a lack of For stable operation of action to bolster parts, we bolstered arrangements by centralizing the management of customer systems, we must compliance by tighter maintenance and field information, and constructing a flow for graduate from the conventional control of product provision of information to sales personnel. level of hardware maintenance maintenance 2. In the aspect of new product development, we commercialized nine to that of platform maintenance deadlines, engaged in models including a maintenance support pack for hard disks encompassing software activities to promote connected to LANs. domains. For this purpose, we voluntary agreements 3. To augment our software support, we reinforced our assortment of have to expand the scope of our by steps such as services for system restoration by adding POS to the scope, which support services by development of had been confined to PCs and PC servers. This step helped to strengthening our capabilities maintenance menus maintain the scale of our business. for coping with the systems of and expansion of 4. We also worked to maintain the scale of our business by multiple vendors in cloud support for software, incorporating support for POS systems and various other terminals computing environments. In and conducted a for service stations. addition, we must continue the campaign to reduce 5. In strategy for business process reengineering, we took action to campaign for voluntary the costs for reduce the costs of parts and materials in the context of an ongoing agreements and heighten maintenance parts campaign for production innovation. More specifically, we coordination with sales stores and materials, mainly consolidated the locations of our repair and logistics divisions, which in order to increase the number by production had the effect of shortening the repair lead time, and raised levels of of maintenance contracts and innovation. productivity by improving efficiency in various work processes. thereby expand our business. Business maintenance services Stable operation Quick response to problems We realize more stable operation of our customers’ IT We have constructed a customer support formation systems through proactive maintenance, which entails that makes it possible to respond quickly and monitoring their systems 24 hours a day, 365 days a appropriately as problems arise from customers year, and detecting signs of problems, and taking systems, thereby enabling immediate recovery from proactive steps. the system failure. Customer support formation Customer Inquiries regarding Automatic Respond to system failure problems notification (Phone/FAX/e-mail) Technical Customer engineer (CE*) support Customer Field Support i-mode, Knowledge Note terminals Support Center Department Technical information CTI*1 ALIVE*2 Maintenance Parts Engineering Dispatch order delivery Logistics Divisions Reception Technical support Parts order support locations order Division Customer database Precedent database Work history database Parts information Technical information database database Results of work Escalation *1 CTI: computer telephony integration, technology interlinking telephone and Delivery fax communication with computers for management of customer relations of parts Sales Product *2 ALIVE: an automatic notification and remote diagnosis system NEC Divisions SE Divisions Division * Customer engineer (CE) : Please refer to page 2. CSR performance within maintenance services Recovery from natural disaster Disaster response route Customers (local survey) We quickly restore customers’ systems when they are damaged by natural disasters such as earthquakes and Survey/response floods. We work with utmost effort to restore local IT Logistics Maintenance service Divisions locations systems damaged by natural disaster by, among others, Support for Instruction/ Instruction/ establishing a disaster headquarters, evaluating the maintenance materials support support Reporting damage, examining countermeasures, increasing Factory Engineering Division Operation East and West Japan Notification/ Department in response personnel, and providing detail reports on the Divisions Notification/ coordination Customer Support Division coordination each Branch Office damage. Proactive Maintenance Business/Collaboration with Partner Companies 38 Collaboration with Partner Companies Fiscal Themes of Results of activities Future Challenges 2009 activities Provision of services We set out to further tighten the control of information We believe it is important to promote that customers can security we have been pursuing with partner companies. For CSR activities as an entire group utilize with peace of this reason, we constructed a setup for information security including our partner companies, so mind demands control based on close coordination between NEC Fielding that our customers can patronize our measures to hedge and these firms. services with confidence. In keeping potential risks. We clearly indicated the management and operation rules with this view, we took steps with Besides reinforcing that must be observed and tightened their application through particular emphasis on proper control of information information security managers at preregistered partner corporate conduct in line with the security, which is companies. dictates of compliance with laws and assuming increasing NEC Fielding has long been making studies aimed at regulations and management of importance, we took continued provision of services to customers even in the information security as the bases of steps to combat threats event of major earthquakes or other large-scale disasters. In business activity. For the future, such as outbreak of this connection, we mounted approaches to be implemented besides further developing these pandemic influenza. in the case of pandemics and made arrangements for activities, we intend to pursue information coordination so that partner companies would be collaboration in areas such as health able to exercise the same level of control. & safety and human rights & labor. Corporate ethics promotion as a Information management in collaboration foundation of business activities with partner companies Many of the goods and services we supply to our NEC Fielding has many opportunities to handle customers rest on the materials and services we customer information. As such, we are called upon to procure from partner companies. In accordance with manage information in a manner that goes beyond our basic policy on material procurement, we intend to in-house security and extends to collaboration with promote CSR approaches through closer interaction partner companies. with these partners. In the handling of data required for work, our security manager and that of the concerned partner Market Corporate ethics promotion Compliance with laws company collaborate in managing the entire process, based on the collaboration and regulations from data selection, entrustment, receipt, and daily with partners Properly comply with laws and regulations concerning contracts, such as the Worker control to retrieval, return, and disposal. Dispatching Act, the Subcontracting Act, and the Construction Business Act as well as those concerning technology, such as the Collaboration in information management in Radio Act and the Electrical Appliance and Compliance Material Safety Act. consigned (outsourced) work with laws and regulations Enhance the NEC Fielding Partner transparency Enhance the transparency Collaboof transactions of transactions Information ration Information Conduct comprehensive evaluation and security manager security manager selection of transactions, provide an equal Strengthen opportunity to compete among partners, ・Sorting of outsourcing ・Sorting of outsourcing the information and maintain a fair and honest relation-ship information information Reoutsourcing security with the partners. ・Encryption and ・Receipt, encrypted destination extraction control storage and management ・Periodic checking extraction control Strengthen the information ・Control of retrieval and ・Periodic checking Same level of security management disposal ・Control of retrieval, information Introduce and provide explanations, tools, return, and disposal management and educational support of the information Management and security management for partners. operation regulations Strengthening support and expanding collaboration with partner companies In order to strengthen the cooperative relationship with partner companies. Sixteen people from fourteen partner companies, we try to explain them our current companies attended business conditions and the future direction in every the course. Aiming occasion such as the business trend explanatory to improve customer meeting and the New Year’s greetings exchange satisfaction and CSR meeting. We also set up a discussion forum to exchange together with our information with our top management. We are also partners, we will holding topic-specific periodic meetings and occasional continue to offer discussion forums for each field of transaction. In fiscal training and 2009, again, we held the Training Course for Business encourage more Training Course for Business Etiquette Etiquette Instructors designed for managers of our partners to join. Instructors for partner companies 39 Employment TOPICS 4 Meetings for Employee Dialogue A circle of in-house communication supports a vibrant corporate culture Acceleration of people’s growth through “awareness” based on dialogue Yoshinori Takasuka Director and Senior Corporate Officer NEC Fielding has more than 6,000 employees. Previously, they had few opportunities for contact with the President or other executives, and we figured many of them felt they didn’t know what the company’s intentions were. Under these circumstances, we started to hold meetings for employee dialogue with the President in 2009. It was our hope that these meetings would give employees a good understanding of the thinking of the President, other executives, and their peers, and that the accompanying interchange of ideas would breed a higher awareness. Our 2010 Medium-term Plan calls for the growth of our people. To attain this goal, it is vital to make all employees keenly aware of the corporate policies through gatherings such as the meetings for dialogue, so that they can draft their own medium-term plans, consider what they should do for the company, and take action accordingly. Such approaches will further heighten the quality of management at our company. We are currently also promoting dialogue among the employees themselves. Gathering and networking by employees in the same generation will presumably lead to subsequent communication, and may be expected to have the effect of strengthening bonds both horizontally and vertically. Although the circle of communication now centers around the executive layer, we are going to widen it by arranging similar opportunities for the senior staff and staff in charge of units. As I see it, this will help to make the whole company into a truly vibrant organization. Attainment of the vision around people’s growth April 2008 saw the announcement of the NEC Group two. In response, NEC Fielding formulated the Fielding Vision & Values. The Vision presents the targets Vision & Values in June 2008, and its 2010 Mediumcommon to the entire Group, and the Values, the value term Plan which centers around people’s growth in outlook to be shared by the entire Group. The Group is May 2010. It is now making efforts to achieve the to aim for sustained growth through attainment of the Group Vision. Steps toward vision attainment Three approaches to people’s growth NEC Group Vision 2017* Growth of people A global leading company building the information society el friendly to humans and the Earth with innovation fe an eesc Movement • Meetings for dialogue marked NEC Fielding aspires into action oy by functionality and continuity to be a best partner pl Attainment of the Vision continuing to create em at Cultivation • Dialogue in layer-specific education valuable services and to th Growth of the company support the information ow of minds • Active use of companywide events th society friendly to Gr First step toward attainment of the vision humans and the Earth Preparation • Concerted companywide approaches Growth of people of the base • Regular dissemination of information 2009 Medium-term Plan • Interactive communication * Established in 2008 TOPICS 4 Meetings for Employee Dialogue 40 The first step in creation of a new Active dialogue across generational Voice corporate culture Voice and divisional boundaries Nobuyuki Kakutani Katsuharu Kondo Assitant Manager, Corporate Planning Div. Manager, Solution Sales Section Vision & Values Promotion Secretariat Kobe Branch Office, Kansai 1st Branch Division The holding of meetings for dialogue The preparation of personal opinions at NEC Fielding originated in the and workplace issues for the campaign for penetration of the NEC meetings for dialogue provided a Group Vision and Values. Upon the good opportunity for taking a look at inauguration of President Nakanishi in myself, too. At the meetings, I also June 2009, a major shift was made to had the chance to exchange views development as an activity distinctive to NEC Fielding. with people who belong to divisions with which I normally Behind this change lay the lessening of in-house have little contact. communication. President Nakanishi put top priority on Even among employees of the same generation, human resources, and the movement to strengthen perspectives vary with the organizational unit, and the communication took off after he began to hold meetings meetings produce a diversity of opinion. The good point for dialogue with middle managers as the group at the core overall was the constructive discussion. My honest of the company. impression was that all the participants were giving serious The primary point of this approach was to make thought to the issues. In my dialogue with the President, opportunities for dialogue. It reconfirmed the importance my nervousness was allayed by his polite replies to my of in-house communication, and constituted the first step questions. The conversation ranged over a wide area, and I toward creation of a new corporate culture. In our role as found the meeting worthwhile for giving me the chance to the secretariat promoting the meetings, we intend to draft hear the thoughts of the top layer of management right projects that will further stimulate in-house from their mouths. This last meeting drove home to me the communication. importance of communication. From now on, I hope to actively engage in communication in the workplace. Employment Description of meetings for dialogue in fiscal 2009 Month Medium-term objective Activities (Number Purpose/aim Number of of times) Layer participants Inaugural address • Questionnaire survey to collect opinions on the President’s questionnaire July 250 inaugural address • Strengthening of horizontal coordination and informationCompanywide September sharing among middle managers meeting for (once) 39 dialogue • Discussion of companywide issues and reflection in formulation of the medium-term plans Managers within the • Direct dialogue for resolution of problems on the front lines division Local meeting November for dialogue (5 times) of business 29 • Sharing of cases of success in each area Meeting for December/ • Discussion on advisable action by supporting teams and divisional dialogue February reflection of results in future business operation 19 to support blocks (4 times) • Collection of new observations as footing for taking the next Meeting for step Young February dialogue with (twice) • Sharing of thoughts and issues through horizontal managers 24 young managers interchange among members of the same generation Meeting for • Collaboration with the Working Team for Promotion of dialogue among March Positive Action ( see page 44 ) and sharing of information on Women 6 female employees the current status and orientation for the future 41 Employment Hiring and Employment Initiatives Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges Amid the worsening of the employment picture 1. In spite of the worsening circumstances in the We are going to and uncertainty in the business environment, market environment, we hired a small number of redouble efforts to we must work to maintain and promote elite candidates (both newly graduated and midhire new graduates employment by continued hiring. At the same career) through a process of careful selection. of immediate service time, we must follow the activities of employees 2. We actively promoted the hiring of newly graduated and expand the hired in mid-career for immediate service in the people with disabilities, and brought the share of female share of our aspect of practice. Furthermore, we must our total number of employees occupied by the employees. strengthen existing and mount new approaches challenged to 1.87%. to employment diversity by, for example, 3. We appointed more women to managerial (senior breeding a corporate culture that gives full play staff or managers) positions (the number increased to the talents of female employees. from 35 to 38). Employee diversity At NEC Fielding, where each New graduate recruits Employment of people with disabilities employee is recognized as a 100 (persons) 83 Utilizing our network of more than 400 offices valuable management asset, 73 throughout Japan, we employ people with disabilities we believe that the recruitment who want to work in their local community. From the and cultivation of human 50 perspective of normalization*, we strive to have resources who can share NEC 9 employees with disabilities work at the same location Fielding’s goals is vital for the 0 as other employees, and when necessary, the company (FY) 2008 2009 2010 sustainable growth of the or surrounding people provide support. company, and under this * Normalization: The idea that persons with and without disabilities should concept, we aggressively hire live together in society without any special distinctions between them, and new graduates every year. that this is the best outcome. Normalization also includes programs, policies, and the like aimed at achieving this. Creating a corporate culture Ratio of employees with disabilities that women can actively take (%) part in No. of female managers We compare poorly to the 50 (persons) 2.0 1.87 35 38 industry average in terms of 33 1.8 female employment and female Average in Japan 1.63 managers. In order to improve 25 1.6 Average in Tokyo 1.59 the situation, we are 1.4 0 aggressively taking steps to (month) (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2009.4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 2010.1 2 3 expand the areas women are active in, and these efforts include setting targets for Preparing an environment of mutual the percentage of women among new graduate recruits and calling for each division to promote women to Voice employee understanding management posts. Osamu Kishida Customer Satisfaction Management Div. Voice To continue working in my own style I am engaged in data processing for Noriko Ara, Corporate Communication Div. response to customers and management of the in-house website. I do volunteer In 2009, I was appointed to a managerial work, and am grateful to NEC Fielding position. I now have more responsibility, for understanding this activity and but also get a greater feeling of making it easy for me to take time off to accomplishment. The change of status do it. On the other hand, although the rate of employees with has given me more to learn, and I am disabilities meets the legal requirement, there are no programs enjoying the change. Currently, I am also for training in sign language or transfer of business skills, and I active as a member of the Working am experiencing some difficulty in raising by skill level. Team for Promotion of Positive Action. I am determined to do I think that, if each employee, whether challenged or not, what little I can to see that women have more opportunity for takes steps to prepare an environment for mutual sharing of exercise of their capabilities and can continue to work as long our abundance of wisdom and opinions, we could make the as they like, and with a sense of fulfillment. I want to see my company an even easier place to work. colleagues and subordinates take up the challenge of various (One of Mr. Kishida’s volunteer activities is introduced on work by enjoying instead of fearing change. page 56.) Hiring and Employment Initiatives/Health and Safety Initiatives 42 Health and Safety Initiatives Fiscal Themes of Results of activities Future Challenges 2009 activities We worked to 1. Incorporated basic knowledge related to mental health and We will promote continuously improve procedure for response in the workplace into the program of the mental and the work environment, position-specific training for people promoted during the year. physical health of strengthen health 2. Introduced the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to promote our employees, by management and employees’ mental healthcare. reinforcing mentalenhance our mental3. Strengthened the setup for safety and health management through health measures as health measures. We coordination between the Central Committee of Workplace Safety well as also enhanced our and Health and the related committees in each block. We also strengthening the system for supporting tightened provisions on priority items such as health management. health management employees in times of 4. Bolstered the systems for business continuity and confirmation of scheme to prevent disasters and other safety in the event of disaster, and implemented measures to the lifestyle emergencies. counter H1N1 influenza. diseases, etc. Expanding health management Creating a system of workplace safety and health Mental health seminars In order to create a safe workplace environment, we Mental health has have established the Central Committee of Workplace recently become a Safety and Health at a companywide level, and promote social issue; activities aimed for zero accidents and incidents in the therefore, we held workplace. In addition, we work on safety and health group seminars for activities, such as measures to prevent diseases, in section managers. each region taking into consideration their local characteristics. System of workplace safety and health Tamachi Area Safety and Health Committee Introduction of the Employee Assistance Program Central Committee of (EAP) Nakagawara Area Safety and Health Committee In January 2010, we instated the Employee Assistance Takatsu Area Safety and Health Committee Program offered by Hokendohjinsha Inc. The Program Kawasaki Area Safety and Health Committee has a telephone and web contact for consultation about Workplace Safety and Health various matters by employees and their families, and Kita Block Area Safety and Health Committee also arrangements for face-to-face counseling. We Kanto Block Area Safety and Health Committee Employment added a setup which employees can use to check their Tokyo Block Area Safety and Health Committee own stress level merely by answering questions on the Chubu & Kansai Block Area Safety and Health Committee web. Nishi Block Area Safety and Health Committee Approach to BCP We are pushing forward with efforts to create a system supplies that can be used and mechanism so that business can continue in the when a disaster hits. case of an earthquake or natural disaster, so-called We are also working to BCP* (business continuity plan). prevent the spread of new As one part of these efforts, we have introduced a influenza, by establishing safety confirmation system for personnel so that the the internal prevention company and employees’ families can confirm the system, stockpiling masks safety of employees in and other supplies, etc. case of a disaster. * Business continuity plan (BCP): Furthermore, we have Please refer to page 24. stored, at the offices in each region of Japan, items such as food, Storing food, drinking water, medicine, drinking water, medicine, blankets, and other supplies in case of blankets, and other Safety confirmation system for personnel emergency and pandemic outbreak 43 Employment Creating an Easy-to-work-at Workplace Fiscal Themes of Results of activities Future Challenges 2009 activities Toward achievement of 1. Based on the Fielding Vision & Values, had all employees share Although we have a good work-life the outlook on values and principles of conduct to be strictly emphasized approaches balance by our followed by each and every one of them every day. with a focus on the employees, we strived 2. Promoted campaigns to enhance awareness of the importance of individual toward the to take action to create making time for private pursuits and a setup for career support, achievement of a good a workplace where thereby responding to the diverse needs of our employees. work-life balance, there employees can enjoy 3. Conducted a campaign again in fiscal 2009 to deepen awareness are less opportunities for working and to breed a of respect for human rights, in step with Human Rights Week. The employees to fraternize corporate culture activities included a contest for human rights slogans and the in the workplace. enabling employees to distribution of related pamphlets. Measures to stimulate feel higher degrees of 4. Newly created the Diversity Group, under which the Working communication in the fulfillment. Team for Promotion of Positive Action (18 members) was installed workplace are therefore and engaged in promotion activities. a remaining task. Employee opinion survey As a periodic communication channel between Trends in response rates of opinion survey and job satisfaction employees and the company, an opinion survey of all 100 (%) Job satisfaction level employees is conducted once a year. The 2009 survey Response rate 71 shows that the job satisfaction of employees has 80 63 improved for two consecutive years to 71%. The 60 results of the survey are used to examine system improvements and measures to implement. 40 20 0 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 Aggressive human rights education Our basic stance toward protection of human rights is In addition, we are promoting various types of clearly stated in our Charter of Corporate Behavior. human rights education activities, which include human ( see page 9 ) rights training, a slogan contest, and the distribution of human rights leaflets. These activities are centered on Charter of Corporate Behavior the Human Rights Education Promotion Committee, which actively works to create a discrimination-free • Respect for human rights organization and to help all employees properly In all corporate activities, we shall respect human understand the company’s efforts related to the human rights and shall not condone discriminatory rights issues. treatment, child labor, and forced labor. FY2009 Human rights education slogan • Respect for employees Number of submissions: We shall respect the diversity, personality, and Employees 722 Family members 18 individual characteristics of our employees. In The prize was awarded to three entries addition, we shall provide an employment climate enabling full exercise of capabilities and work with The shining individuality of a feeling of fulfillment. each employee Let’s protect and recognize it (Keiko Ishii) Beware of measuring others by your own yardstick (Nobuaki Rikitake) Keiko Ishii My heart and the hearts of others They all feel (Chikako Nagahama) Creating an Easy -to work-at Workplace 44 Advancing work-life balance Self-directed career support system Flexible supporting systems relating to childbirth We have introduced a self-directed career support and childcare system as well as employment extension system in Our maternity leave, childcare leave, and system of order to meet the diverse needs of employees seeking reduced working time support employees’ efforts to new careers outside the company, and employees who balance work with their private life. Around 51 employees are nearing mandatory retirement. take childcare leave each year. Furthermore, the website “ikuchu.com” has been introduced to provide Second career support system opportunities for communication among employees who are on maternity leave or childcare leave. With this system, we provide employees, who create and implement their own new carrier plan outside of the company, with the greatest support possible in terms of financial and time Employees taking childcare leave requirements. 60 (persons) 51 37 Employees taking second career leave 33 40 60 (persons) 40 20 40 29 29 0 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 20 * Only employees took childcare leave for the first time 0 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 Promotion of positive action In fiscal 2009, the Working Team for Promotion of Employment extension system Positive Action was organized with the participation of 18 persons, including female employees and managers We have introduced an employment extension system that enables employees who wish to work after 60 to work up to 65 with female subordinates. The team considers ways of at the wholly-owned subsidiary NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. widening the sphere of activity by female employees and assisting their career development. Health and welfare system for use equally by all employees NEC Fielding has instated the “Benefit Station” welfare program provided by Benefit One Inc. as a setup open equally to all employees. The program, aimed at furnishing effective backup for employee leisure and supporting their fulfilling life, is being used by many Employment employees. Employee consultation center We have created a consultation center that handles a Fielding helpline wide range of employee consultation needs. The center plays a role in our efforts to maintain an This is a hotline for consultation or reporting concerning violations of the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct, illegal employee friendly workplace, improving the working behaviors, or human environment by enabling employees to voice feedback rights infringements. and requests, seek counseling, report incidents, and The line is operated by a third party the like for topics that are difficult to raise through organization, and ordinary channels. consultation can be carried out on an anonymous basis, in Equal treatment consultation center order to protect privacy In order to create an environment where women can easily seek and safety of people advice regarding discrimination or sexual harassment, we have seeking advice. established the Equal Treatment Consultation Center, which is staffed solely by female counselors. Fielding helpline We are making greater efforts than ever to create a work environment that women can easily work in. 45 Employment Human Resource Development Fiscal Themes of Results of activities Future Challenges 2009 activities To develop human 1. Reinforcement of position-specific training (heightening of inclinations to participate in We will strive to create resources to make the training and provision of opportunities for self-betterment) a positive workplace Fielding services 2. Strengthening of customer response capabilities (cultivation of capabilities for talking, where employees can number one in listening, and practicing, and acquisition of capabilities for the proposal process and demonstrate the best of customer customer analysis) their personality and satisfaction 3. Development of Advanced CEs*, Agent CEs*, and PF-SEs* (reinforcement of ability. (fostering of human capabilities for system response and proposal from the customer’s perspective) Development of our resources who can 4. Improvement in cultivation of PC/PR technical CEs (elimination of repetitive obstacles) personnel is also our contribute to the 5. Improvement in cultivation of personnel for logistics response (development of focus, to help them maintenance personnel with the requisite skills) create valuable services, business in the era 6. Reinforced development of personnel for security and audio fields (expansion of effectively express of “open networks” solution sales) themselves, and act as a as well as expansion 7. Development of construction management engineers (maintenance of qualified responsible and ethical of our businesses). personnel at major offices) member of society. * Advanced CE: CE who has expertise sufficient for not only hardware maintenance but also for construction of entire systems including software maintenance and operation support. * Agent CE: CE who has the ability needed for making accurate proposals for system construction, upkeep, and improvement to customers in addition to the technical expertise of Advanced CE. * PF-SE: engineers who perform design, operation, and management for entire systems throughout the IT life cycle, which consists of the stages of IT system conception, construction, operation, and maintenance. Concept of human resource development We try to develop ability and skills of each employee, Human resource development program reflecting by clearly defining our philosophy of human resource customers needs development based on our Corporate Principle, and in We create and advance our education program order to realize this concept, explicitly displaying them reflecting our business strategy and customer needs, what is an ideal employee. for approximately 5,500 employees of NEC Fielding, and approximately 4,000 employees of our corporate Philosophy of human resource development partners, as well as our distributors, independent maintenance shops, and overseas subsidiaries. We develop human resources who can demonstrate the best of their personality and Human resource development program ability, create valuable services, effectively Human Resource express themselves, and act as a responsible Development Database Customer Needs Database Customer System Database (contains entries for and ethical member of society. about 25,000 people) (about 10,000 entries/year) (about 5,030,000 entries) • Individual education histories • Results of surveys conducted • System installation and and skills by third parties operational status Characteristics of the ideal employee • Site resources and skills • Results of surveys conducted by us • Results data on service implementation • Customer feedback from visits • A person who has a positive mindset toward CS* and is capable Reflect Market Create an education of thinking and acting from a customer’s standpoint trends Reflect plan for the year Reflect • A person who is a first-rate professional with a broad vision and (update semiannually) Business Mid-term ability far superior to competitors strategy plan Disclose a draft plan internally • A person who has a sophisticated sensibility and challenging spirit Business • A person who is well aware of problems and improvements, and plan Collect feedback from constantly work on self-development each department Technology Management • A person who is well-balanced, and a responsible and ethical trends Revise the plan, including improvement feedback from each department project member of society Shipment information Notify each department of the final plan * CS (Customer satisfaction): Please refer to page 31. Concept of human resource development Philosophy of human *1 Competency file is a manual for standards of resource development conduct for organizing actions (processes) Customer needs distinctive of high achievers by job class. *2 Two-way scheme is a management style through Job class system an open one-on-one dialogue between superior Business strategy (competency file)*1 and subordinate, to talk about goal-setting, evaluations, and careers. Two-way scheme*2 Development plans/ Assessment/ personnel management NEC Fielding’s training system treatment system • Development plan for skills and • Skill assessment capabilities designed for each employee Training Training Service technical • Personnel/bonus evaluation system • Resource management by job class by division training (Consideration of ability and performance) • Skill distribution management • Scheme to encourage employees to acquire qualifications Human Resource Development — 1 46 NEC Fielding’s training system Employee training to create an ethical member of society Our training system is composed of a skill development program divided into three broad categories: training by Implementation of compulsory training courses for job class, training by division, and service technical employees training. In addition, we actively conduct OJT* in order Our employees receive necessary training courses to to promote the improvement and deepening of practical become an ethical member of society, and those who skills at worksite. completed the training can take a refresher course periodically. * OJT (On the job training): A method of training on the worksite to help employees obtain skills and abilities necessary to perform their work tasks. Compulsory training scheme NEC Fielding’s training system Join the • NEC Fielding Code of Conduct company • Rules for customer response and Manager level Senior staff Staff handling of corporate secrets • Information security Office manager Basic business Business category A, • Risk management Education Division Training by job class training management training 2nd & 3rd-grade training 1st month • Personal information protection Grade-specific Business category A, Business category training 1st-grade training B training • Export management Business category C training • Product safety education New employee • Environmental education basic training • Revised Subcontracting Act • Sexual harassment prevention Improvement suggestion VE training 3rd • Mental health (Services Engineering Division) month • Proper understanding and awareness Operation Administrative Division Reliability technology training of human rights (CSR and Internal Auditing Division) Assignment Training by division Small group activity ZD training (CSR and Internal Auditing Division/ Services Engineering Division) Corporate ethics (CSR and Internal Auditing Division) Trends in training hours of CEs (customer engineers*) Environmental education (CSR and Internal Auditing Division) Technological innovation is rapid in the IT industry, and CS training, ISO training (Customer Satisfaction Management Division) CEs working on the front lines of IT must keep up with the latest technologies. Operations/accounting related training (Comptroller Division) We made a major revision to the NEC Fielding CE Employment Training Course in 2005. This revision has made it much more efficient to give the necessary people the necessary training. In 2009, we provided over nineteen General training for all employees days of training per CE. • Compliance/corporate ethics training Human Resources Development Division • Coaching, management training * Customer engineer: Please refer to page 2. • Performance management/contract-related training • Various voluntary training courses, etc. Training received per CE Service technical training (Days/person) Solution service technical training • Solution/option training • Network facilities/design training 30 • Internet security training • Presentation/sales training, etc. 19.3 20 Maintenance service technical training • New product handling training • Skill expansion training • Skill improvement training, etc. 10 New employee technical training 0 (Year) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 47 Employment Educational environment Training facilities Educating a workforce distributed throughout Japan Our training facilities consist of Nakagawara Technical Since our employees are spread Center and fourteen classrooms at seven locations over more than 400 sites (Sapporo, Sendai, Omiya, Nagoya, Osaka, Takamatsu, nationwide, we offer various and Fukuoka). study options, including group The training centers are fully outfitted for dynamic training, on-site training by learning, with facilities including presentation rooms, sending instructors to local sites, multimedia classrooms, studios for development and and self-directed learning* using editing of educational materials, rooms for experiments the Internet. We maintain a and proving tests, and lodging. learning environment where our employees can feel comfortable NEC Fielding’s training facilities to study at anytime, and thus Nakagawara Technical Center our employees are working Studio at Nakagawara Technical Center Classroom 21 continually to improve their skills Multimedia classroom 1 and earn certifications. Total area 3,769.5m2 Sapporo Studio for development * Self-directed learning: We call individual study as self-directed learning. of educational materials 1 Our goal is for our employees to improve their skills through individual effort. Nakagawara dormitory rooms 80 Nakagawara dormitory rooms Sendai Local classrooms Omiya 14 classrooms at 7 locations Fukuoka Osaka Nagoya • Sapporo: 1 • Omiya: 2 • Osaka: 5 • Fukuoka: 3 Takamatsu Nakagawara Technical Center • Sendai: 1 • Nagoya: 1 • Takamatsu: 1 Training system Integrated management of educational information on human resource development system TRAINSis a core system that supports human resource development. This system provides integrated management for training related information, which includes not only course explanations and applications but participation records of all employees over the past fifteen years, training effects, and status of skills and qualifications broken down by office/employee. It also TRAINS-IV system operation screens (examples) supports divisions responsible for training as well as each worksite to facilitate general planning of human resource development. TRANS-IV: A core system that supports human resource development TRAINS-IV Each Human resource development database Each site Training site Skill Course Qualification participation Learning information information information record materials Access Access Integrated management Each Information management system Each site site Access Skill Course Service technology Self-directed Access management management certification learning system system test system support system Access • Skill search (by individual • Information on planned • Application for the test • On-line self-directed learning Access employee, type of courses • Implementation of the test • FAQ equipment, or location) • Enrollment/planning • Management of results • Learning progress management • Skill planning and • Application for the use of • End-of-course exam Each management lodging facilities Each site • Application for qualification • Management of results site exams/information • Management of participation record management • Implementation of questionnaire/ analysis of its responses Human Resource Development — 2 48 Programs to support human resource Best Fielding Contest development Contest to improve CE’s technical and support skills Certification cost reimbursement program As a company providing comprehensive IT support, it is We have a certification cost reimbursement system vital for us to improve the technical and support skills of that assists our employees in obtaining public and our CEs. That is why we launched the Best Fielding vendor certifications. The program provides cash Contest in 1998. reimbursements to persons obtaining official In this contest, engineers who directly support certifications specified by the company. Under this customers compete using their day-to-day skills. The program, we foster and promote employees’ personal goal of the contest is to improve skills, ethics, and growth and help them become more capable of motivation. The contest also serves to improve the responding customer needs with these certifications. technical and support level of the entire company, by laterally deploying the best practices gleaned from the Trends in holders of certifications capable of responding contest. to customer needs For this reason, the competition events and judging Number of certificates obtained by employees criteria are revised for each contest, ensuring that it reflects current needs and NEC Fielding’s business 30,000 26,084 strategy. Overseas training for winners 20,000 The Best Fielding Contest starts with preliminary screening (written tests) held at fifteen locations nationwide. The preliminaries are open to all 10,000 employees. In the preliminaries, CEs are selected to compete in each subject. Around a little more than 40 0 CEs go on to the two-day finals. On the first day of the (FY) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 finals, the competitors write reports or proposals in accordance with the contest themes. On the second Total certificates held per employee day, the competitors participate in realistic role-playing situations with the judges acting as a customer. 1 certificate The judges score the competitors, ranking them for 9.8% each subject. The winners receive a cash prize and a 10 or more certificates 2-5 certificates medal, as well as a trip for overseas training. The 42.4% 26.8% training includes a visiting tour of the world-famous IT expo, and a visit to an IT company. 6-9 certificates Employment 21.0% Flowchart of the contest Holder of Skill S* Recommendation About 300 participants Voluntary training support system We have Preliminaries (written technical tests) established a • Contest subjects: 6 in total voluntary training • Exp5800 • Networking • Practical printer skills support system • CX5000 • Security • Operational support from a perspective 7 qualifiers in each subject: 42 in total that the employee’s Finals desire to develop • Day 1: Reports/proposals documentation his or her • Day 2: Customer role-playing capabilities is the Portal site for voluntary training Winners basis of the One for each subject: 6 in total fundamental of human resource development. In this Overseas training (5 nights 7 days on the US West Coast, etc.) spirit, we offer all employees opportunities for self• Visiting tour to the world-famous IT expo betterment and assume part of the expense burden. • Visit to an IT company We have prepared voluntary training courses in a * Top technical level achieved on in-house test diversity of fields, including management, basic business skills, accounting, languages, qualification acquisition, and hobby-type areas. 49 Society TOPICS 5 Program of Employee Commendation for Social Contribution Encouraging Employee Activities of Social Contribution to Support Good Relations between Offices and Communities We want employees to drive companywide activities by taking up the challenge of community relations and social issues Takashi Miyamoto Director Responsible for CSR At NEC Fielding, our more than 400 offices nationwide play a major role in the aspect of social contribution as well as our core business. With the exception of certain big cities, our employees live in the community where they work. The process of having individuals and groups think about what their community needs and take appropriate action is in accord with our Philosophy on Social Contribution Activities, which calls for engaging in a wide variety of activities for contribution to society, and forms the foundation of social contribution activities at NEC Fielding. By commending individuals and groups for their activities, we hope not only to heighten employee motivations in this area but also to induce analogous activities in other communities and improve activity quality. In examining nominees, we consider approaches to social issues as well as the ties with the community. We want our employees to actively address agenda such as preservation of biological diversity and social welfare, and to drive companywide activities following their example. Nomination and examination scheme, and record of commendation NEC Fielding encourages its employees to engage in The process begins with the nomination of excellent activities of social contribution for deeper relations with cases of contribution by various organizational units and the local community. areas. The cases undergo a primary screening by the It presents CSR awards (group and individual) to CSR Management Promotion Division and a secondary groups (offices) and individual employees implementing screening by the party promoting activities in each block. activities that contribute to the community while giving The winners are selected upon a final examination at the them enjoyment, and assist their own advancement as Corporate Officer Meeting. In fiscal 2009, there were well as that of the company and the community. The three winners each selected for the group and individual awards serve to enhance awareness in this aspect. awards in the first and the second half of the year. Commendation results Group awards Individual awards Nomination of excellent cases (number of offices) (number of people) Primary screening Secondary screening Presentation of awards Final examination 1H 2H 1H 2H by various organizational by the CSR Management 4 8 by the activity promoters 2 7 by the Corporate Officer FY2006 FY2007 1 3 8 5 Promotion Division in each block Meeting units and areas FY2008 4 6 4 4 FY2009 3 3 3 3 TOPICS 5 Program of Employee Commendation for Social Contribution 50 Profile of award-winning activities Winner of the individual CSR awards in the second half of FY2009 Support for the traffic safety association in Fussa Tsutomu Mizorogi (Tachikawa Parts Center, Eastern Japan Materials Support Dept., Logistics Div.) For about six years now, we have been supporting the traffic safety association in the city of Fussa, Tokyo, upon Voice Steady activity rooted in the community accepting a commission from it. In this connection, we Tsutomu Mizorogi provide surveillance and security services for traffic safety Tachikawa Parts Center, Eastern Japan in coordination with the municipal police department Materials Support Dept., Logistics Div. during traffic safety week in spring and autumn as well as at the time of the midsummer star festival, firefly festival, I started this activity out of a desire to be of some service to the city of and other municipal events, in addition to neighborhood Fussa, where I have resided for over festivals, funerals, and incidence of fatal traffic accidents. 20 years. The funny thing is that I am Mr. Mizorogi was selected for the award in recognition liable to be mistaken for a police of the spirit of dedication he exhibits in his activities, his officer due to my uniform, and high long record of continued service, and his deep roots in the schoolers call me “officer“. When directing traffic during community. summer festivals, I sometimes think that the heat will get the best of me, but the sight of the spirited lads carrying the portable shrines on their shoulders down the street gives me the energy to go on. The job is an unspectacular one, but an ice-cold beer back at home tastes even better after being thanked by the people and police for helping them keep the doings accident-free for another year. Winner of the group CSR awards in the second half of FY2009 Participation in the Community Open Garden Winner of the group CSR awards in the second half of FY2009 Campaign in Makuhari New City Activities of social contribution in cooperation Higashi Kanto Branch Division with local groups Tokushima Branch Office, Shikoku Branch Division Endorsing the aim of attractive community development, the Branch Division has continued to take part in the For the last six years, the Branch Office has been Community Open Garden Campaign organized by the participating in river clean-up campaigns and supporting Makuhari-Shintoshin Machizukuri Kyogikai (MMK; the staging of events such as “health walks” organized Makuhari New City Development Council). Its employees by local groups. It has also received letters of gratitude help to replant the planters along the main street with from them for this activity. different flowers with every change of season. Society Efforts to protect the local nature Voice and scenery Contribution to enhancement of the Voice community image Tatsuo Kataya Office Head, Tokushima Branch Office, Shikoku Branch Division Shinichi Aoki Manager, Solution Support Section, Sales Dept., Higashi Kanto Branch Division When the people of Tokushima city talk about “the river”, they naturally mean the majestic Yoshinogawa. And when We also participate in the massive clean-up activity on they mention “the mountain”, they are referring to Mt. Makuhari New City Clean-up Day, which is held at the Bizan. We find this scenery, which is among the most same time. While doing the work, we have a lot of fun beautiful in the prefecture, more appealing than any other, talking with people from other companies in the MMK. and intend to go on contributing to the community by Over the coming years, too, we hope to help prepare an continuing our volunteer work rooted in it. environment to enhance the image of Makuhari New City. 51 Society Social Contribution Activities Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges NEC Fielding targets a yearly total of In the Fielding Philanthropy Club, five The United Nations has 50,000 hours of activities for social teams are engaged in vigorous activities proclaimed 2010 to be the contribution (for an average of about taking biological diversity as their key International Year of eight hours per person). Efforts are being word. Two other teams have launched Biological Diversity. We are made for both qualitative and quantitative activities and are achieving results in the going to take active improvement through further stimulation field of social welfare. approaches for contribution of activities by the Fielding Philanthropy Activities of social contribution as a whole to protection of biological Club, and collaboration between on both the block and individual levels diversity, mainly through endeavors on the block or individual level had a combined duration of 61,563 hours the activities of the Fielding and those of the Club. (for an average of 10 hours per person). Philanthropy Club. NEC Fielding’s social contribution activities Philosophy on social contribution activities System to promote social contributions In keeping with our Corporate Philosophy and Fielding Philanthropy Club our Charter of Corporate Behavior, we shall Activity team engage in a wide variety of activities for Headquarters Area contribution to society as a good corporate Overall person in charge for promoting citizen. Nakagawara Technical Center Area Kita Block CSR Promotion Meeting Approach to social contribution activities Activity team Kanto Block • We shall contribute to society through our business activities. Tokyo Block social contribution activities (President) • Even in domains outside our business activities, we shall strive to benefit local communities, and go a Chubu & Kansai Block step beyond volunteer activities in our efforts to make positive contributions, in line with our commitment to Nishi Block … be a good corporate citizen. Activity team • As a member of the NEC Group, we shall coordinate Kawasaki Block these activities with those of NEC. Takatsu Block • As a member of the 1% (One-Percent) Club of the Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), we Related subsidiaries shall direct at least 1% of our ordinary profit to social contribution activities. Social contribution programs We are promoting a number of companywide social Social contribution tree (social contribution activities contribution programs, as well as voluntary programs centered on five key words) which are implemented independently at the site level based on the five key concepts of our “social Contributions to the local community contribution tree.” Education activities We also encourage our employees to become Social welfare activities involved in their local communities through individual Volunteer support activities volunteering, and actively participate in the Make-aLocal sports activities Difference Drive (MDD), an unified social contribution activity of the NEC Group. NEC Fielding Corporate Philosophy see page 9 Social Contribution Activities — 1 52 Companywide programs Collecting donations for seeing-eye dogs training Collection activities At the inception of NEC “Collection” activities are a part of the MDD Fielding’s social contribution ( see page 51 ). We participate actively in these activities, activities in 2002, we began and have had some of the best results in the Group. collecting donations for seeing“Collection” activities include collecting cancelled eye dogs training as the stamps, unneeded plastic cards, foreign coins, cornerstone of our efforts, misaddressed unsent postcards, and old hard tennis something that all employees balls. These items are collected and used in activities could commit to. We joined the that benefit society. Our “collection” activities have Japan Guide Dog Association earned high praise outside the company. Collected (JGDA) as a corporate member, items are donated to organizations via the NEC Social and installed donation boxes at all sites nationwide. Contribution Office, and are used for various purposes. A tour of the seeing-eye dog training center was joined by a number of employees and their families, Items collected from “collection” activities helping to deepen their understanding for the Results in Results in significance of this activity. FY2008 FY2009 Cancelled stamps 14.7kg 17.9kg Unneeded 7,714 6,334 plastic cards Foreign coins 3.2kg 3.6kg Misaddressed 463 613 unsent postcards Used TDL 104 92 passports Tour of the seeing-eye dog training center Experiencing a simulated training Old tennis balls 738 1,585 Used books 277 184 Comments by participants in the tour Voice of the seeing-eye dog training center Outline of “collection” activities A good experience for the whole family Cancelled NPO, Live with Friends stamps on the Earth (LIFE) Although I had seen seeing-eye dogs being trained on TV, Sold via Internet auctions. Used as funds to I was surprised and moved to learn that most of the people support improvements in people’s lives in NEC Social Contribution Office manages activities throughout the Group doing the training are volunteers. India and Indonesia. Healed by the cute dogs Unneeded Specified non-profit plastic cards/used corporation NEC Fielding CSR Management Promotion Division The tour made me realize that seeing-eye dogs depend on TDL passports Hunger Free World support by many volunteers. I intend to discuss the matter Items collected at about 400 sites nationwide Sold to collectors in Europe. Used as funds to with my family and see if I can cooperate in some way as a support efforts to eliminate hunger in puppy worker* or family that cares for retired seeing-eye dogs. developing countries. * A puppy worker is a volunteer who welcomes a puppy that may later be Japan Committee trained as a seeing-eye dog into his or her home as part of the family. Foreign coins for UNICEF Converted to US dollars, then deposited into the designated account. Used as funds to In addition, we called on our employees to donate, and support children in developing countries. produced measurable results. The company itself also Society National Federation donated money to JGDA, an equivalent amount of Misaddressed of UNESCO unsent postcards Associations in Japan donations collected from customers and employees via the donation boxes. Exchanged for stamps at the post office. Used as funds to support literacy education for people in developing countries through the Donations for seeing-eye dogs training “World Terakoya Movement.” 800,000 (Yen) NPO, Global Old tennis balls Sports Alliance 1H 600,000 479,086 Being cut and attached to chairs. Used at 2H elementary and junior high schools throughout Japan to reduce noise at classrooms. 400,000 429,982 Used books Schools in China 200,000 Used as supplementary reading materials for Japanese learning 0 (FY) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 53 Society Fielding Philanthropy Club NEC Fielding has posted social contribution by the the objective of heightening our corporate value by company as one of the agenda of its CSR activities, and nurturing a highly society-oriented perspective in the has been pursuing such contribution through a minds of our employees. companywide effort, or by each office of approximately Employees and offices form activity teams with 400 locations nationwide. In recent years, volunteer members who were recruited via the Fielding activities by individual employees have also been on the Philanthropy Club and work under the action plans to rise, and social contribution by them is rapidly spreading. handle matters brought up in respect to the coexistence It was to add further impetus to this trend and with local societies and various social tasks. support the spontaneous, voluntary activities of social As of March 2010, seven teams are engaged in contribution by our employees that we set up the activities, while five teams are preparing to start actions Fielding Philanthropy Club in March 2008. Besides a in fiscal 2010. qualitative improvement in these activities, the Club has Fielding Philanthropy Club Activity teams operated by club members Steering Committee operated by President and Secretariat Activity team Activity team Activity team Committee vice-chairperson Members Social Contribution Committee chairperson Team leader Team leader Team leader Fund Sub leader Sub leader Sub leader Company’s contributions Members Member Member Member Membership fees Audit Auditor Members Member Member Member PR Division Fund accounting Fielding Philanthropy Club Secretariat Development of human resources through social how for expansion of human networks and contribution activities collaboration through actual activities. “Fielding People” Through its activities of social contribution, the Fielding also have an abundance of knowledge, skills, and other Philanthropy Club develops personnel who have a broad features from various experiences that make them understanding of our involvement with the community particularly appealing members of the community. and society, are equipped with both related knowledge and skills, and are endowed with a pronounced personal magnetism in the community. Voice Support for more vibrant activity Toshiaki Shimanoki Provision of sites of activity Secretary-General, Fielding Philanthropy Club The Club furnishes opportunities for acquiring (and Department Manager, Planning Office, CSR Management Promotion Div.) knowledge about social issues in areas such as biological diversity and social welfare. It also acts as a In fiscal 2009, we increased the number bridge to NPOs and other external groups where of working teams to twelve (including employees can take joint action on such issues. the teams in preparation) as compared to four in fiscal 2008, and expanded the physical scope of activity from the Backing for activities Tokyo-Yokohama region to Sapporo, Osaka, and Fukuoka, for The Club provides facilities and equipment owned by nationwide coverage. At the same time, the circle of activity the company that are needed for the activities (such as genres was made more diverse by the addition of social conference rooms, parking lots, computers, tools, and welfare, music, and community contribution to that of videoconference systems), along with financial aid from preservation of biological diversity, which is the core concern. its fund. However, there are many other activities being developed by employees in their respective areas. I want the Club to offer comprehensive support inclusive of the financial end so Development of “Fielding People” that these various activities can each be seated in a separate The Club produces people who have acquired team and be pursued more vigorously. capabilities for leadership, self-realization, and knowSocial Contribution Activities — 2 54 Fielding Philanthropy Club activities for preservation of biological diversity Approaches to biological diversity The Fielding Philanthropy Club has five teams that are “The Tale of the Bamboo-Cutter” team engaged in activities on the theme of biological diversity. The team is active in the The United Nations proclaimed 2010 to be the International Sugao district of Akiruno Year of Biodiversity, and efforts to preserve biological city, which is located in diversity have been gathering momentum internationally, Tokyo. The district is a as exemplified by the declaration on biological diversity habitat for a Tokyo species made by the Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business of salamander, goshawks, Federation) in March 2009 and the holding of the 10th and martens. The members Meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on tend bamboo groves and forested zones that had been Biological Diversity (COP 10) in Nagoya, Japan in October neglected, and so help to preserve biological diversity. 2010. In this context, employees are considering what they can do, reaching out to other employees, forming “Personal chopsticks” team teams, and setting about dedicated activity. The team makes chopsticks for personal use from wood “Fielding People” lecture left over from thinning This lecture series is aimed operations and scrap wood. at developing “Fielding The use of these chopsticks people” who have a broadlyraises awareness of the based understanding of the importance of conserving relations linking nature with resources while reducing the destruction of overseas individuals and society as forests and lowering emissions of CO 2 in transportation. well as a high environmental awareness, and apply themselves to problem-solving Fielding Forest and Tree Planting Tour in Indonesia as global citizens. It is a venue for developing human Employees began planting a resources equipped to find solutions for social issues. forest in the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan “Fielding People” lecture schedule in 2006 for the purpose of Date Attendance Theme reviving and protecting May 19 Connection between Biological tropical rain forests. Thus No. 1 (Tues.) 172 Diversity and Eco Services far, they have planted some Jun. 2 No. 2 (Tues.) 157 What Can We Do? 2,000 trees. To support campaigns for the protection of Jul. 1 Peaceful Living with Eco Lifestyles orangutans, they are also planting trees that bear fruit No. 3 (Wed.) 119 Probing Possibilities which orangutans eat. Sep. 15 Surviving Because of Insects No. 4 (Tues.) 98 Just What is Biological Diversity? Environmental Preservation to Heighten Oct. 27 No. 5 (Tues.) 74 the Appeal of Corporate Activities NEWS Approaches to Biological Diversity Nov. 17 What Biological Diversity Means NEC CSR Awards 2009 No. 6 67 (Tues.) to Companies 2009 Receipt of the Grand Prize in the social contribution category Fielding Grove maintenance team The team’s activities concern For its approaches to preservation of biological Fielding Grove, which is Society diversity, the Fielding Philanthropy Club was located on forested land awarded the Grand Prize in the social contribution leased exclusively for category at MDD 2009, the integrated social maintenance by NEC Fielding contribution program of the NEC Group in fiscal in a section of the Minato 2009. People’s Forest in the city of Akiruno, Tokyo. The members perform thinning, trimming, and other such work to tend the man-made forest, which had been neglected for the preceding 25 30 years. Presentation of activities Receipt of the award The team’s work renewed the forest by giving it more sunlight 55 Society Sponsoring the World Heritage Site Theater Activities to support staging of the World Heritage Site Theater NEC Fielding has supported the World Heritage Site panels profiling Japan’s World Heritage sites to raise Theater, which is hosted by Asahi Shimbun and other awareness of them among the visitors. At the same parties with the cooperation of the UNESCO right from time, we its start in 2006. We provide assistance for art projects distributed ecoblending tangible cultural properties with intangible goods to the ones (such as Noh theater, Kyogen theater, and visitors and traditional music) on the stage of World Heritage sites solicited in Japan. donations of In fiscal 2009, concerts and other events were held funds for activities at the three sites of Himeji, Kamakura, and Itsukushima. to protect the At each of these sites, we set up special booths with World Heritage. Contributing to local communities Supports for educational activities Clean-up activities at offices nationwide Support for Work Work Week Tokyo Business offices across the country Repair Division NEC Fielding has offices in more than 400 locations in We accepted a request from a junior high school in all parts of Japan. At each of these offices, employees Tokyo for acceptance of students for a program of are engaged in various clean-up activities to help the workplace experience out of empathy with the purpose, host community remain a pleasant and attractive place which was phrased as “to give students an opportunity while working to maintain good relations with it. These to develop the capability to carve out a path for activities include removal of litter from streets and themselves, learn responsible action, and get firsthand parks in the neighborhood of the office as well as experience of the importance of communication and participation in campaigns for delittering rivers and interpersonal ties”. As a result, the Division accepted paths in hills led by NPOs and local governments. four students for a program at Aru Parts Kawasaki. There, the students experienced studies for production innovation, repair of plasma and LCD panels, and diagnosis and repair of telephones and POS systems. Participation in the clean-up Participation in the campaign to clean campaign organized by the Group for up the Tottori Sand Dunes organized Protecting the Crying Sands of Itanki by Tottori Municipal Government Beach (Muroran Sales Office, (Tottori Sales Office, Chugoku Branch Hokkaido Branch Division) Division) Holding of eco classes during summer vacation Keeping our community clean with Komaki Branch Office, Chubu Branch Division Voice our own hands! The Komaki Branch Office Kozo Otsubo, Komaki Branch Office, Chubu Branch Division held eco classes during the summer vacation season for Endorsing the spirit of the Komaki the purpose of cultivating City Adopt Program, we at the eco excellence and Komaki Branch Office registered for activity under it and are participating enhancing awareness of the in the Citizen Action Day for need for preservation of Prevention of Litter and a project to nature and the environment. This session was the condition the environment of an elementary school in the fourth in the series, and was held at the Water Eco Park neighborhood. In the latter project, the younger employees of in the city of Kakamigahara in Gifu Prefecture. The the Branch Office undertook the hard work of cleaning sand children learned how to make pictures with pressed and grit out gutters and digging to prepare flower beds. The flowers using only natural materials and toured the expression of thanks from the school principal and parents of aquarium containing freshwater fish. the schoolchildren motivated us to continue these activities. Social Contribution Activities — 3 56 Social welfare activities Individual volunteer activities Holding of concerts at nurseries and juvenile facilities Contribution to community sports activities as a National Capital Area Block coach for youth baseball Kazuyuki Tamura, Tokushima Branch Office, Shikoku Branch Division Music-loving employees of the National Capital Area I coach kids on a youth Block organized a band. They baseball team every began practicing together in weekend. Thanks to their February 2010 and hard work, the team won the commenced activities as one autumn tournament held in of the Fielding Philanthropy September. I hope this Club teams under the name “Green Band” in April. experience will serve them They currently give concerts at nursery schools and in good stead into the future. (Mr. Tamura won one of other facilities for care of children. Although they the individual CSR awards in the first half of 2009.) encounter difficulties in arranging schedules and finding venues for their practices several times a month, they Felling of windbreak trees in Senbon Matsubara, Numazu remain in activity thanks to the lift provided by the Hiroshi Nagai, Numazu Parts Branch, Shizuoka Parts Center, smiles on the faces of the children at the concerts. Nishi Nippon Materials Support Div., Logistics Div. Since 2003, I have always taken part Support for the staging of coming-of-age in the felling of unneeded trees in the ceremonies for the challenged windbreak forest Senbon Matsubara Nagasaki Branch Office, Kyushu Branch Division in the city of Numazu. Besides its Office employees assisted beautifying effect, this work helps to the setup, guidance, and prevent crime and disasters in the dismantling work at venues area, and gives me a chance to work where coming-of-age with people in the community. This is ceremonies were staged for why I got interested in participating. the challenged. The setup (Mr. Nagai won one of the individual CSR awards in the and dismantling work was second half of 2009.) physically demanding and tired them out, but they forgot the fatigue when they were thanked by the Overseas social contribution activities organizers on their way out. Support for the 21st Summer Deaflympics Taipei 2009 Supports for community sports activities Osamu Kishida, Customer Satisfaction Management Div. I participated in the Supports for the staging of marathon events Deaflympics held in Taipei in NEC Fielding employees volunteer to support the September 2009 as the staging of marathon events in various locations and official cameraman for the clean up after them. Employees of the Tsukuba Branch Japanese team. It took a lot Office ran an aid station at the 34-kilometer point in the of stamina, but I was glad to Tsukuba Marathon and handed water, rolls filled with have the chance to support sweet bean jam, and bananas to the runners. They also the whole Japanese team. helped to clean up the area after the marathon was * The Deaflympics are an international sports event held once every four Society years for athletes who are deaf, by the deaf themselves. Its hallmark is the over. Our employees also assisted the running of water deepening of ties of friendship through communication in international sign supply points and aid operations as well as the postlanguage. event clean-up at the Yodogawa River Citizen’s Donations to a fund for victims of the Haiti Marathon and the Hokkaido Marathon. Earthquake In response to the strong earthquake that struck Haiti on January 13, 2010, NEC Fielding solicited donations for the quake victims from its employees. The drive gained the support of many employees and collected a total of 428,778 yen. The money was donated to the international emergency humanitarian aid organization Support for the aid station at the Support for the water supply points in Japan Platform through NEC. Tsukuba Marathon (Tsukuba Branch the Hokkaido Marathon (Hokkaido Office, Higashi Kanto Branch Branch Division) Division) 57 Environment TOPICS 6 Provision of Eco IT Solutions Development of new energy-saving office services to help customers reduce CO2 emissions High hopes for the energy-saving effects of Enepal PC TM Hiroaki Kikuchi Department Manager, Environmental Management Promotion Office, CSR Management Promotion Div. The prevention of global warming is a worldwide issue. In Japan, too, measures to this end are being accelerated, as evidenced by the effectuation of the amended Energy Conservation Law, which obligates reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. NEC Fielding falls under application of the Law, and must improve the efficiency of its energy utilization by at least 1 percent every year. This is not an easy task. NEC Fielding has long been making priority use of energy-saving types of equipment and taking companywide steps to conserve electricity and resources, but we will have to deploy even more efficient initiatives in the future. What has come to the fore under these circumstances is Enepal TM PC. This is a “green IT” service of the software-as-a-service (SaaS) type newly developed by NEC Fielding, and curtails power consumption by computers. The Environment Management Promotion Office went with EnepalTM PC as a new means of cutting CO 2 emissions, and installed the software in some 7,000 computers in the company. The resultant reduction in power consumption is projected to save about nine million yen per year. We have high hopes for EnepalTM PC as a computer user ourselves and are convinced it can also contribute to activities for CO 2 emission reduction at customer sites. Promotion of eco activities in the office EnepalTM PC makes visible the amount of power consumed by computers, in correspondence with the consumption by computers in the office and CO 2 use pattern of each user. In addition, it enables the emissions due to power consumption. It also centrally setting of targets and management of progress in units manages the use of a plural number of computers. of divisions or sections, and so helps to heighten the Merely by setting the target for CO 2 emission environmental awareness of employees on these reduction, it automatically controls the amount of power levels. Three features of EnepalTM PC, the energy-saving office service 1) Can be started simply and easily 2) Makes the effects of daily 3) Automatically reduces environmental activities visible unnecessary power consumption • Users can start saving energy merely by • Users can see the amount of power • The software autonomously controls the installing the software consumption and CO2 emissions computers and decreases their power • Because it is a SaaS product, there is no entailed by their computer use consumption by up to 30%*1 need for initial investment or installation • It brings environmental impact to the of a server attention of users, and enables managers to get a grasp of environmental activities throughout the organization Yearly emission reduction of about 34 tons-CO2*2 *1 Based on the results of a proving test by NEC in fiscal 2008. *2 Per thousand computers TOPICS 6 Provision of Eco IT Solutions 58 Expansion of eco IT solutions led by Enepal PC TM Yuji Fukuda Group Manager of the Service Development Dept., Corporate Planning Div. EnepalTM PC was created around a system for autonomous control of IT hardware. The technology behind it was based on a project of joint research and development launched in 2004 by NEC, the National Institute for Environmental Studies, and the University of Tokyo Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology. NEC Fielding began to take part in this project in 2008. The project set out to commercialize EnepalTM PC as a SaaStype service, and we got the call in view of the excellence of our technology for handling such services, as exemplified by operation of our data centers. We were consequently assigned to the actual work of commercialization in all phases, from proving tests to software development. In the development, we took the greatest pains to find the best way of showing the screen to the user. EnepalTM PC makes the amounts of computer power consumption and CO 2 emissions visible to the users, but must make them take notice. A simple display of figures will not do. I intend to further improve the screen while incorporating feedback from users. Since its release, EnepalTM PC has been given high marks by users in various quarters. There are particularly strong needs for it in other countries. For the future, I would like to see its application spread to external markets and fields other than computers. Besides other IT equipment, the application prospects include air-conditioning systems, lighting, and other general office equipment, and even home electronics. As this indicates, I hope to broaden the base of our eco IT solution business. Enepal TM PC screen Other environmentally-friendly products Support for the energy-saving Voice activities of customers and services IT environmental assessment Kenji Morita, Manager of Service We perform assessments of the environment of IT systems Development Dept., Corporate Planning Div. installed in data centers and server rooms. More specifically, We are generally selling EnepalTM PC we survey and examine this environment, and make reports to firms with at least 1,000 and propose measures in correspondence with the computers, because we figured a objectives (e.g., energy conservation and mitigation of number on this order would be environmental problems) and results. required considering the cost effectiveness, but we have also been iSolution services getting surprisingly many inquiries from companies with from 100 to 200 computers. The These services center around our housing service, through outstanding feature of EnepalTM PC is the autonomous which customers entrust us with the operation of their control function that turns off power. The ability to see the servers, and encompass all sorts of services in monitoring, savings has a strong appeal for these customers. They operation support, and proxy operation. These services want to know how much power their computers are enable customers to reduce the CO 2 emissions from their IT actually using or wasting, and link this knowledge to energy systems by large amounts. conservation. Environment NEC Fielding offers many kinds of eco IT solutions. I Wide-area 3Rs services (hardware removal services) want to contribute to reduction of CO 2 emissions by customers and society as a whole through provision of We accept requests for removal of IT hardware no longer EnepalTM PC and other optimal means to address the needed from the premises of corporate customers. We have diverse energy-saving needs of each and every customer. also constructed a system for parts reuse after detachment, checking, and repair as necessary, and are therefore engaged in the recycling of IT hardware components. 59 Environment Environmental Management Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges We strived to legal compliance 1. Promoted companywide environmental risk 1. Enhance environmental management, internal audits, management activities through our management in the NEC chemical management, waste environmental management system. Fielding Group, including management, and supporting the 2. Conducted internal audits and periodic reviews, subsidiaries and partners. development of environmentaland confirmed that our environmental 2. Further enhance the management framework of our management system is functioning properly. appropriateness of our legal partners, in order to enhance our 3. Offered the Fielding eco Net Service to advance compliance management, environmental risk management environmental management at our corporate internal environmental audits, system. partners and affiliates. chemical management, and waste management. Approach to environmental management In full recognition of our corporate social Operation of the environmental management system responsibilities, we strive to implement an effective We maintain our environmental management system environmental management system that can reduce based on policies and targets on environmental the environmental impacts of our business activities as management activities, which are determined by the chief well as those of society as a whole by offering environmental management executive and disclosed to environmentally-friendly products and services, and persons responsible for the environmental management thereby contribute to building a sustainable society. on the first-tier level. Then, annual planning and activities guidelines are formulated and given to each district. Environmental philosophy In each district, environmental management activities are carried out along with the annual planning, and In all of our business domains, NEC Fielding progress on these activities are checked by each district, shall contribute to the emergence of an first-tier, and companywide level. environment-friendly society. Accordingly, CSR Strategy Meetings are held for discussing deliberations on medium-term plans and Action guidelines in-house rules, while CSR Promotion Meetings for conducting environmental communication activities 1. We shall contribute to the building of a sustainable, including horizontal promotions and activity follow-ups. recycling-oriented society through provision of various services and products to support computer systems, In addition, each year, an internal environmental auditor telecommunications systems, and network systems, appointed by the chief environmental management while also promoting activities to prevent global executive conducts the internal audit on the environmental warming, reduce waste, and promote reuse and activities in all districts to continuously improve them. recycling in our sales of all types of product. 2. We shall strive to provide environment-friendly goods and services that help customers to alleviate their The environmental management system environmental burden, and practice green purchasing for Chief environmental Appointment Internal environmental office supplies used in the Company. management executive auditor (Director responsible for the 3. Besides observing the environmental regulations of environmental management) national and local authorities and the items of Annual policies and targets on agreements with customers, we shall apply our own environmental management activities voluntary control standards and work to prevent pollution CSR Strategy Meetings Person generally responsible for Person responsible for on an ongoing basis. environmental management the environmental (General Manager of the CSR management system 4. We shall set forth an explicit program of environmental Management Promotion Division) (Department Manager of the management activities and have all divisions and Environmental Management Promotion Office) employees practice environmental management in their Directors responsible for own ways, in accordance with their respective roles. environmental management 5. We shall confirm the status of activities through internal on the first-tier level CSR Promotion Meetings environmental auditing; make efforts of improvement, (every three months) correction, and prevention; and strive to maintain and Persons responsible for First-tier environmental improve our environmental management system. environmental management management promoters on the first-tier level 6. We shall systematically educate our employees about (Mangers at the first-tier level) environmental preservation to raise their environmental (more than once a year) awareness, so that each will act as good corporate Annual First-tier Environmental Management Promotion citizens. planning Meetings 7. We shall actively disclose information on our (every three months) Environmental Policy and environmental measures in our business activities, and make a positive contribution to Persons responsible for environmental management District environmental society as a whole. on the district level management promoters Environmental Management — 1 60 Organization of environmental management system We have developed a three-tiered T-PDCA system involving branch offices nationwide. Voice Participation in interactive auditing (Three tiers: (1) companywide-level, (2) branch division/division/department-level, (3) branch office-level) Kazuto Soga ACTION TARGET PLAN Environmental Expert, Management Innovation Dept. Headquarters (companywide regulations) NEC Facilities, Ltd. ACTION TARGET PLAN Division/ Corporate staff, Business promotion group At present, NEC Facilities and department two other companies are NDEC Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. conducting a program of NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. interactive auditing in order to Business line group improve internal auditing and heighten environmental Branch division Branch division … performance. After internal ACTION TARGET PLAN auditing, we bring excellent Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch ideas from it back for deployment in other units. In office office office office office office … this way, the program assists on-going Sales Sales Sales Sales Sales Sales Sales office office office office office office office improvement of our environmental management CHECK DO system. NEC Fielding has built a both efficient and CHECK DO advanced auditing system featuring components CHECK DO such as a scheme of electronic auditing that As of May 2010, a total of 409 locations in 122 districts have acquired ISO 14001 certification. greatly decreases auditing man-hours. Environmental audit Regular audit for ISO 14001 certification (May 2010) Internal environmental audit (November-December 2009) The environmental management system that we NEC Fielding conducts the internal environmental audit operate is a three-tiered system, which involves annually since fiscal 1993. companywide, branch division, and branch office levels. Its environmental management system is audited by We underwent the regular audit, efficiency of which external auditors, and those on a level of division/ was improved by adding electronic audit. department/branch division are inspected on a We are committed to continuous improvement by reciprocal basis by auditors of other divisions, taking corrective and preventive measures based on the departments, and branch divisions. Fiscal 2009 audit results of these regular audits, aiming at more efficient covers a total of 160 locations nationwide. For “failure” operation of the environmental management system. items, we have been implementing corrective and preventive measure to improve regulations and Results of ISO 14001 certification audit in FY2009 operational procedures. Scope of audit and registration FY2008 FY2009 Results of internal environmental audit in FY2009 39 divisions on 38 divisions on the first-tier level the first-tier level 126 districts 122 districts Scope of audit FY2008 FY2009 Number of registered locations Total: 412 locations Total: 409 locations 38 divisions on 38 divisions on (departments, sales offices, (departments, sales offices, the first-tier level the first-tier level and district centers) and district centers) 123 districts 122 districts Number of registered Number of employees in locations Environmental Management Environmental Management the registered scope 8,747 8,274 Promotion Office Promotion Office Total: 161 locations Total: 160 locations Results of audit FY2008 FY2009 Interviews in 38 Interviews in 38 Number of on-site districts districts Instruction-for-improvement confirmations Electronic audit in Electronic audit in items (Category A) 0 0 105 districts 105 districts Instruction-for-improvement 10 internal auditors 10 internal auditors items (Category B) 0 0 Number of district auditors 9 external auditors 9 external auditors Opportunities for improvement 9 7 Results of audit FY2008 FY2009 Strong points 1 4 Failure (Category 1) 0 0 Failure (Category 2) 7 3 Environmental risk management* Environment To prevent contamination of air, water, and soil, we Occurrence of accidents and complaints have established stricter self-management standards We have not received any environment-related and environmental audit systems while observing all penalties, fines, or complaints up to the present. pertinent laws and regulations. In addition, we prepare * Risk management: Please refer to page 23. countermeasures for environmental risks that could be caused by various accidents. 61 Environment Supporting our partners and affiliates for the acquisition of ISO 14001 certification Since fiscal 2007, we began offering the “Fielding eco Outline of “Fielding eco Net Service” Net Service” to help our suppliers build and operate environmental management systems (EMS). This Computer assisted NEC Fielding Environmental auditing techniques secretariat consultants service is to provide EMS contents suitable for the Consulting/education and training/ Net screening business category of each supplier as well as various environmental management audits kinds of support by our experienced staff from system Fielding eco Net development through operations, thereby enabling our suppliers to build a high quality EMS unit within a short NEC Fielding Standard EMS System period, and saving them a lot of time to acquire the ISO Develop company-specific EMS Standard e-learning (customization) (environmental 14001 certification. The service also uses a computer EMS content education) assisted auditing technique* to review those obtaining Company A’s EMS Company B’s EMS Company C’s EMS ISO 14001 certification. This reduces the labor and cost of screening, enabling the company to undergo review Log environmental Log environmental Log environmental Environmental faster. By the end of fiscal 2009, fourteen companies of activities activities activities education (site management log) (site management log) (site management log) and testing our partners have joined our Fielding eco Net Service, (Net education) and of them, twelve companies obtained certification. Company A Company B Company C * Computer assisted auditing techniques: A screening system using an IT Corporate Partners and Affiliates network, developed jointly by the Japan Quality Assurance Organization (JQA) and NEC. Relationship between Fielding businesses and the environment We conduct activities that address environmental For this purpose, we have set two categories for these aspects we should consider, such as preventing global environmental activities based on our basic warming, reducing waste, purchasing green products, environmental management concept, those directly and providing environmentally-friendly products and related to our business activities and those (we call services, taking into account the characteristics of our “proactive activities”) where we can make contributions businesses and the level of their impacts on society. indirectly through our products and services. Environmental activities related to our businesses Customers/society Prevention of global Support for sustainable society Provision of supplies Recovery of parts RECYCLE warming education Maintenance parts RECYCLE Recovery of spent maintenance (Recycling resources) Commercial vehicle Environmentally-friendly products (Recycling resources) materials and spent supplies operation management and services Forestation Supporting services see page 34 Business line group (service locations) Fielding solutions business see page 33 Proactive maintenance business see page 37 NEC Fielding’s businesses Distribution of REUSE materials see page 66 (Reusing resources) and parts Equipment and material support group Distribution management of maintenance parts/ Repairing of equipment and maintenance parts see page 65 Parts repair and Equipment and servicing locations REUSE material warehouse (Reusing resources) REDUCE (Saving resources) Corporate staff/business promotion group Advance assessment of products/facilities Designing of maintenance/equipment and material specifications Preparation of technical materials Proposal of technical education/training plans Management of chemical substances Compliance Social information system Used toners Output of general waste RECYCLE REDUCE Used cartridges Output of industrial waste (Recycling resources) (Saving resources) Used ribbons see page 34 Purchase of parts, Purchase of OA RECYCLE Used cells Used batteries RECYCLE products, and materials equipment (Recycling resources) (Recycling resources) Use of electrical power Purchase of Purchase of paper stationary supplies Manufacturers RECYCLE Waste disposer (Recycling resources) Environmental Management — 2 62 Environmental management targets toward 2010 We set targets as a long-term direction of environmental management toward 2010 linking with Eco balance actual business activities, thereby promoting the transition to a sustainable business management. NEC Fielding’s Customers business activities and society 2010 Environmental Management Targets GHG GHG • Shift to a business structure with a low environmental emissions reductions burden • Reduce total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our business activities down to the same level as the reference year • Actively introduce renewable resources and energies • Encourage all employees to attain a higher level of environmental awareness (eco-excellence) • Reduce CO 2 emissions from our customers’ premises and communities through provision of eco GHG emissions in FY2010 “practically zero” IT solutions Medium-term environmental management targets improve our activities. We set specific targets with the following five Currently we are reviewing all target values taking categories as a medium-term environmental activities into consideration the absorption merger of NEC plan, based on the 2010 Environmental Management Infrontia System Service Corporation in April 2009. Targets. We also periodically self-evaluate the level of achievement on these targets in order to further Medium-term environmental activities plan FY2009 FY2010 Mid-term targets Activity topics Target Actual Evaluation Target Target Target year Zero violation of laws, zero Enhancement of environmental 0 0 0 0 − environmental accident see page 60 management Increase the number of see page 59 companies joined More than 14 companies More than More than FY2012 Fielding eco Net see page 61 16 companies 16 companies 22 companies Reduce CO2 emissions from customers and society 12,000t 13,467t 15,000t 15,000t FY2010 Provision of environmentallyNo. of eco-appeal proposals 8/person 16/person 9/person 9/person FY2010 friendly products and services Increase sales of green computer supplies* ¥4,462 million ¥4,554 million ¥4,559 million ¥4,559 million FY2010 Prevention of global warming GHG emissions from business -39% activities 12,901t 12,138t 11,829t FY2010 (vs. ref. year) see page 64 Reduce total waste emission -20% -25% (general waste + industrial -14% -25% FY2010 Recycling of waste) (vs. ref. year of 2005) (vs. ref. year of 2005) resources Zero emission of industrial FY2006 waste 99% 99% 99% 99% onwards Increase the number of employees Environment Promoting of with a high level of environmental environmental awareness 80% 98.5% 100% 100% FY2010 awareness (“eco-excellence”) see page 67 Star indicates items that were added or modified. Underline indicates points that were added or modified. Evaluation marks: Target attained At least 80% attained Below 80% attained NA 63 Environment Environmental Performance Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges We made our efforts to prevent global 1. Reduced GHG emissions by 6% more We will set our next ultra warming and reduce environmental than our target. long-term targets for the burden as far as possible by steps such as 2. Reduced CO2 emissions from reduction of CO2 emissions, conservation of resources and energy, customers and society by 12% more and work to combat global decrease in industrial waste, and increase than our target. warming. in recycling rates, for positive contribution 3. Made active proposals of to the prevention and solution of various environmentally-friendly services environmental problems. (“eco-appeal proposals”). Mass balance model We use a mass balance (material balance) modeling fiscal 2009, we have expanded the scope of the approach that clearly displays the environmental burden environmental burden monitoring to cope with the resulting from business activities, in order to measure amended Energy Conservation Law. and improve our environmental performance. Since Mass balance related to business activities in 2009 Energy consumption-related CO 2 emissions: 10,897 t (+5% YoY) OUT-PUT GHG emission other than CO 2 : 1.2 t (-98% YoY) GHG emission from company cars: 1,793 t (+9% YoY) IN-PUT GHG OUT-PUT Resources Electricity: 27.21 million kW (+3% YoY) Waste Gas: 121,474 m 3 (-33% YoY) Business Final disposal General waste: 549 t (-3% YoY) Disposal amount: Fuel (petroleum, etc.): 24.7 kl (+41% YoY) activities Industrial waste: 1,216 t (+20% YoY) 18 t (+13% YoY) Paper: 187 t (-1% YoY) of NEC Fielding Heat: 1,202 GJ (newly added) Recycling Recycling amount: 1,747 t (+12% YoY) Recycling rate: 99% (±0% YoY) Environmental accounting Environmental accounting for FY2009 Expenditures (millions of yen) Classification Items FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 Cost within the business area Resource recycling cost, waste/recycling treatment outsourcing cost 134 109 103 Upstream/downstream costs Recovery of maintenance parts 3Rs (parts maintenance cost*) 5,844 5,672 5,626 Management activity cost Personnel expenses for environmental activities (wages and attendant costs) 49 57 51 ISO maintenance and environmental auditing (costs of transportation, inspection, and registration) 1 1 1 Human resource development (training of auditors and inspectors) 2 1 1 Environmental information system development and operation 39 38 31 Other operating costs (for outsourcing of re-commercialization, environment-related annual dues, etc.) 1 1 1 R&D costs Conservation of resources and energy through IT 914 786 1,629 Social activity cost Donations (excluding political donations) 4 1 1 Total 6,988 6,666 7,444 * Repair cost of maintenance parts that can be repeatedly used upon repair. The amounts saved by repairing, instead of purchasing new parts, were ¥6,508 million in FY2008 and ¥6,232 million in FY2009. Environmental Performance — 1 64 Approach to the prevention of global warming CO2 emissions from business activities suppliers, and “service activities” through “recycling Since fiscal 2001, we have been calculating the total activities”. amount of CO 2 emissions from our business activities Overall CO 2 emissions in fiscal 2009 were reduced based on accounting data, with the cooperation of NEC around 5% (14,000 tons) compared to fiscal 2008, to Fundamental and Environmental Research Laboratories. around 247,000 tons. This is as a result of reduction in In doing business, we take account of indirect CO 2 emissions at the stage of materials procurement environmental burden off the company premises in all and service activities, and partly a decrease in sales. In phases, from “resource procurement” where we terms of CO 2 emissions per unit of output, we have procure maintenance parts and materials from outside stayed in the fiscal 2008 level. Scope of CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 emissions calculation Resources Parts/equipment Resource recycling Business Materials procurement Service activities Proactive maintenance business Recycling activities Fielding solutions business (scope of Raw materials (maintenance parts and materials), products, Fuel costs and charges for utilities (electricity, Resources recovered assessment) and fixed tangible assets newly acquired in the current year gas, and water) and recycled CO2 emissions * Figures are calculated and evaluated by using the “Business Environmental Burden Evaluation Method” developed by NEC Fundamental and Environmental Research Laboratories. (Ten thousand tons) (ton/million yen) The amount of CO2 emissions from manufacturing by other firms of the Service activities Materials materials such as maintenance parts and equipment purchased by 3.3 Fielding in each year. The calculation is based on the purchase amount for 40 Total 1.45 procurement Materials procurement each item and the input output tables, and applies LCA data compiled by 21.5 Recycling 24.7 NEC Fundamental and Environmental Research Laboratories. 30 −0.1 1.40 The amount of CO2 emissions from the use of energies such as electric Service power and gas on Fielding premises. The calculation is based on the activities consumption of each energy and LCA data. 20 CO2 1.35 emissions The amount of CO2 emissions through recycling process of certain per unit of materials less the hypothetical CO2 emissions that supposedly would output Recycling occur by manufacturing of such materials from raw materials instead of 10 1.30 1.32 using recycled materials. The calculation is based on the actual figures of resource recovery 0 1.25 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 Switch to eco vehicles Reduced CO2 emissions from customers and In fiscal 2003, we began to make the switch to eco society vehicles, mainly for leased vehicles which make up Striving to link environmental management with actual most of our company cars. In fiscal 2009, we took over business activities, NEC Fielding is setting targets for NEC Infrontia System Service Corporation and the and promoting such management to encourage the share of our fleet occupied by low-emission vehicles transition to sustainable business. dropped to 91%. We set a goal of increasing the share While reducing greenhouse gas emissions in to 100% by the end of fiscal 2014. business activities, we are also pursuing reduction of emissions from our customers and society as a whole Trends in numbers of eco cars introduced and rate of through our IT support services. In fiscal 2010, we set switch-over to eco cars our sights on the goal of reducing GHG emissions to (Number of vehicles) (%) Low-emission vehicles “practically zero”. In fiscal 2009 alone, we reduced 600 592 120 emissions from customers and society by 13,467 tons. 500 100 400 80 Trend of CO2 emission reductions from customers and society Environment Switch-over & share 300 Conventional 91 60 FY2005 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 200 vehicles 40 Amount of CO2 100 59 20 emission reduction 893 6,240 8,782 8,934 13,467 0 0 from customers and society (FY) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 65 Environment Recycling Our recycling performance under the Wider-area Treatment Certification System NEC is designated as a certified industrial wasteOur recycling performance per year treating enterprise for its wider-area operation. Having (Parts) (million yen) 1H been commissioned by NEC, we have built a system 2H 12,000 9,074 7,590 1,800 for recycling parts and components of IT equipment. Through the system, we collect used IT devices that 19,000 1,600 our customers no longer need, and remove, inspect, Value of recycled and repair their parts. 16,000 parts 1,400 Our recycling volume in fiscal 2009 decreased from 634 fiscal 2008, as an increasing volume of IT equipment is 13,000 1,200 being sold in the secondhand markets. 0 1,000 (FY) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 * Value of recycled parts is calculated based on the unit price of new replacement parts. Decrease in environmental burden through activities for production innovation In October 2006, NEC Fielding launched a campaign of Site consolidation in the activities for production production innovation. Our Repair Division, which is our innovation only unit engaged in production activities, and the Yamato Techno-center Aru Parts Kawasaki Logistics Division set about these activities, which Repair site Parts warehouse culminated in consolidation of the Yamato Techno• Repair of equipment and • Storage and management of maintenance parts maintenance parts center into Aru Parts Kawasaki in fiscal 2009. This • Reuse of maintenance parts • Storage and management of move greatly lowered levels of environmental burden. • Media PP manufacture supplies • Receipt of logistics The first step in the activities lay in tightening outsourcing for maintenance adherence to the rules about neat arrangement and Site parts of other companies consolidation fixing of placement locations, items, and quantities in each work place. The second consisted of a thoroughgoing review and improvement in each process with a view to constructing a smooth flow without any backlogs. These steps succeeded in bringing a 50-percent savings of space at both locations in addition to raising productivity and shortening lead About 40 km time. As a result, we consolidated Yamato Technocenter into Aru Parts Kawasaki in September 2009. Yamato Kawasaki The closure of the Yamato Techno-center thanks to this consolidation made it possible to reduce use of Kanagawa Prefecture electricity and city gas, and do without the four runs per day of truck transport between the two locations. As a result, CO 2 emissions were reduced by about 30 percent. In order to further lighten environmental burden inclusive of logistics, NEC Fielding is going to promote Reduction of CO2 emissions due to the site consolidation more improvement and plans to extend similar activities (tCO2) Gasoline (shippers) to parts centers across the country in fiscal 2010. 1,200 997.4 City gas 1,000 Down about 30% 1 800 684.6 1 600 Electricity 400 200 0 (FY) 2H 2008 2H 2009 Environmental Performance — 2 66 Implementing a modal shift strategy and reducing transportation costs for service parts We use a wide range of service parts (referred to as Encouraging carrying by hand parts hereafter) to maintain IT systems. It will be best if We use mainly motorcycle courier services or mini-cars we have all parts ready at service bases where they are to deliver parts swiftly to service offices and customers needed; however, there is a limitation on types and comparatively a short distance away. When there is quantities of parts we can keep at hand. enough time, however, we encourage delivery by hand When a system problem is discovered, it is using railways or other means of public transportation, important to deliver as soon as possible the needed in order to practice delivery that is fast, safe, low-cost, parts to the needed location for a prompt recovery. On and environmentally-friendly. Because this is essentially the other hand, if we give top priority to speed up the transportation by rail and foot, it can help to reduce delivery time, we will need more costs and energy costs and CO 2 emissions. We intend to continue consumption. We thus determined to adopt the actively developing it. following methods in combination to reduce our costs and CO 2 emissions. Use of Shinkansen trains (Rail Go Service) and ship transport Developed joint delivery network to supply and If there is an outage of parts at the parts centers in the collect parts Sendai, Morioka, or Niigata area, parts must be rapidly We keep a certain volume of parts stock at our parts shipped from Tokyo. In such cases, we utilize the Rail centers nationwide. When any parts are consumed, Go Service for transport via the Tohoku and Joetsu they will be restocked by the next morning from the Shinkansen (bullet train) lines for same-day delivery. parts supply center located in Kawasaki. The service accepts orders and cargo handovers during To supply parts and collect used parts, we joined a long period of time between 7:00 am to 11:30 pm, so the NEC Group’s production innovation activities and we make active use of such convenient option. In developed the NEC Group’s mixed-load truck network, addition, the recovery of parts from Okinawa at the which connects its production plants and distribution parts supply center in Kawasaki is performed by ship centers nationwide. We try to increase the efficiency of transport and NEC mixed-load trucks. Arrangements the transportation network by sharing with other group consequently strike a balance among the interests of companies. In addition, we supply parts to our service environmental preservation, transport speed, and bases by making good use of the existing network transport costs. between them and parts centers. We have adopted a full-scale modal shift to bring Express bus transport back collected used parts to the parts supply center, in We use long-distance express buses for urgent parts order to reduce both shipping costs and CO 2 emissions. deliveries. These buses are originally meant for This program is the flagship of our production passenger transport, and run regular routes traveling on innovation campaign, and we are advancing it expressways. Although we cannot use this form of throughout the company. Moving forward, we will transport for larger volumes, valuables, or items increase our load efficiency and reduce transportation requiring confidential handling, it is the perfect method costs. for shipping small parcels of parts to relatively remote locations. Nationwide distribution network with joint delivery We believe that this means of transport is safer, Mixed-load truck service (main line) Name of route cheaper, more reliable and environmentally-friendly RB Mixed-load truck Relational base Hokkaido RB with a better cost performance than using motorcycle service (branch line) TM Terminal Parts center delivery each time. NEC Group location Parts branch Akita Use of special bags for shipping parts Morioka RB Hokuriku route We devised and are Kyushu route Kyushu RB Yamaguchi Chugoku route Kanazawa RB Niigata RB Sendai RB putting to use Koriyama RB special durable Oita Okayama RB Kansai RB Kansai route bags for shipping Southern Tohoku route Shiojiri TM Kofu RB Kumamoto RB Capital region route parts. Formerly, we Chubu RB sent parts in Environment Takamatsu RB Tokyo RB Chubu route Shizuoka South TM cardboard boxes Shikoku route Aru Parts Kawasaki packed with material to absorb Fabric bags for shipping parts (medium and large sizes) shocks. The bags can be used over and over, and therefore greatly reduce our use of cardboard boxes and packing materials. 67 Environment Environmental Education Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges We continuously worked on We have achieved the foregoing target with the number of “Eco We will work actively providing four categories of Excellence” employees at 98.5% of the total, as a result of our to enable 100% of our environmental education including environmental education activities provided to all employees on employees to achieve general environmental education to an annual basis since fiscal 2005. an Eco Excellence all employees, with a target to The followings are the progress of our environmental education; level through increase the number of “Eco • General education (including basic education for new continuous Excellence” employees to more than employees; basic refresh courses every three years; and environmental 80% of the total within the company. Environmental Education 2009 for all employees): 10,772 education, in order to Eco Excellence employees are those employees enhance our who have environmental knowledge • Special education (for employees newly assigned to special environmental and action capabilities, and their works): 211 employees management achievement level can be identified • Manager education (for employees newly assigned to managers capabilities through through the NEC Group’s and promoters for environmental management): 46 employees the involvement of all Environmental Management • Auditor education (for employees newly assigned to internal employees. Awareness Survey. environmental audit and environmental patrol): 51 employees Management of environmental education status We provide environmental education through TRAINSNumber of employees receiving environmental education IV ( see page 47 ), a web-based, self-directed leaning (Persons) Auditor education system. All study records controlled under TRAINS-IV 20,000 51 are automatically incorporated into our environmental Special 15,000 education information system. We then edit and display the status 211 of environmental education for each subject and Manager 10,000 education division, for further advancement of environmental 46 education. 5,000 General education 0 10,772 (FY) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 * The number of people taking the refresh course differs each year, because employees only take the course once every three years. * Each year, 100% of target students take courses. Types of environmental education Eligibility for participation Objectives Outline of the Environmental Policy and environmental General education All employees management system, the role of employees, and understanding and awareness of workplace rules Waste managers Hazardous substance managers Understanding of roles, responsibilities, and Special education Persons in charge of advance environmental assessment procedures for persons in charge of special work and their training Persons in charge of green procurement Persons in charge of recovering CFCs and handling high-pressure gas Persons responsible for environmental management on the first-tier/district level Understanding and awareness of environmental Manager education effects assessment, plan preparation, and Promoters for environmental management on the first-tier/district level operation management in the organizational unit Internal environmental auditors Understanding of roles, responsibilities, and Auditor education procedures of auditors Persons in charge of environmental patrol Number of employees with environment-related qualifications Qualification FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 Qualification FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 Registered energy manager 1 1 1 Pollution control manager, etc. 2 2 2 Manager of high-pressure gas safety EMS auditor 13 14 11 manufacture and sales 3 3 3 Special controlled industrial waste Internal environmental auditor 157 159 154 manager 19 19 18 Hazardous materials handler 823 812 863 Organic solvent work manager 29 26 26 Building sanitation management Operation chief for specified technician 1 1 0 chemical substances 9 9 9 Environmental Education / Environmental Communication 68 Environmental Communication Fiscal 2009 Themes of activities Results of activities Future Challenges We worked on to enhance our environmental 1. Sponsored the project for support of We will work to communication activities, by offering greater sustainable education achieve amounts of information to all stakeholders in environmental 2. Carried out the following activities to an easy-to-understand format, in order to communication combat global warming: gain their understanding of our environmental capable of providing management activities. In fiscal 2009, we • Creating the Fielding Forest more information to implemented practical education, • Holding the Fielding Environment Month our stakeholders in popularization, and action initiatives in order (solicited environmental slogans and an easy-toto strengthen our brand power. posters from employees and their families) understand format. Fielding Environment Month Creating the Fielding Forest We host a slogan competition Under our medium-term environmental activities plan, for employees under the and from the perspectives of preventing global warming theme “To Live Together with and preserving the earth’s biodiversity, one of our Environment” as part of our efforts is to establish a “Fielding Forest” on the island efforts to improve of Kalimantan in Indonesia in order to recover and environmental awareness. In restore tropical rain forests* since 2006. fiscal 2009, we have received We have successfully planted total of 2,000 trees by a large number of 10,528 fiscal 2009. We also organized the 4th Fielding Forest entries. We also solicit and Tree Planting Tour, aiming to provide environmental environmental posters education to raise the awareness of the importance of containing selected slogans global environment and foster people to protect it. This from our employees and their Environmental Poster 2009 time thirteen families, and have received 111 employees and their entries for the same year. The highest awarded poster family members will be posted at all sites of our activities for one year, participated in the while advancing environmental initiatives. tour, observed the forest and planted Sponsoring the project for support of 150 commemorative sustainable education trees. Fielding Forest and Tree Planting Tour (February 2010) The project for support of sustainable education * Tropical rainforests: Tropical rainforests, where we can find various kinds distributes books that deepen understanding of the of organism species, are said to supply half of all terrestrial oxygen. They are currently in an extremely serious state of forest destruction, due to changes currently under way in the global environment forest fires and deforestation, which will cause a further increase in CO 2 and to elementary, junior high, high, and special schools decrease in wildlife species. nationwide, to prompt thought about the environment among children as tomorrow’s leaders. Endorsing this aim, NEC Fielding sponsors and supports the project. Fielding Solution Fair Held in all parts of the country, Fielding Solution Fair Earth Code 4.6-billion-year prologue proposes optimal environmental solutions to The global environment is constantly changing. customers. In fiscal 2009, the Fair was held in nine Born in this environment, our bodies, too, are cities, and included seminars and exhibits of the results of morphological changes for environmentally-friendly products and services such as survival. Our eyes, hands, feet, bones, and organs are still engraved with earth codes. This EnepalTM PC and green hybrid-type UPS. book was prepared to bring the inextricable ties between the earth Environment itself and our selves home to readers, make us keenly aware of how our bodies have been designed for the earth’s environment, and raise consciousness that we are all organisms living together with the earth. 69 Third Party Review Third Party Review After reading the Fielding CSR Report 2010 Hiroyuki Yamaguchi Chief Administrator, Waseda University Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies I have continued to read the NEC Fielding’s CSR report system for the development of customer engineers, ever since the first one, and realize that its CSR activities and closer coordination with partner companies. I was are steadily evolving by the year. In my comments here, impressed with the stance of cherishing employees I will take up new activities over the last year. represented by the meetings for employee dialogue, The feature at the beginning profiling a typical day the Employee Assistance Program, and the organization on the job for a customer engineer was a good one that of the Working Team for Promotion of Positive Action. gives the reader a close look at the activities of the It was likewise interesting to read about the increase approximately 4,300 such engineers nationwide. It was in the number of teams in the Fielding Philanthropy Club, interesting to learn how the different work corresponded which was inaugurated in the preceding fiscal year, and to a different type of CSR activity. I would also give the spread of various activities in different areas. I hope high marks to the addition of the technical center tour the Report will continue to profile these diverse doings. into the stakeholder meetings. This enabled the I would give high ratings to the consolidation of participants to see what’s behind the company’s sites that brought a big reduction in CO 2 emissions and reliability with their own eyes. the movement for carrying parts by hand and in special The Report also mentions the preparation of the reusable bags. Though unspectacular, these are steps Second CSR Medium-term Plan and the change of the in the right direction. name of the former CSR and Internal Auditing Division From this information, it is clear to me that innovation to “CSR Management Promotion Division”. I imagine is proceeding in each field and that NEC Fielding has a that these developments evidence the solid rooting of strong commitment to promotion of CSR activities. CSR activities throughout the company, which has Lastly, I would like to relate my wishes for future matured to the point that CSR is now at the nucleus of CSR activities. While NEC Fielding is aiming for allits management. Along with the change of president in points CSR activities, the basis is discharge of its June 2008, the company hammered out the basic policy responsibilities in society through its regular IT of “All-points CSR activities”. I hope to see it vigorously business. IT systems are now lifelines of the practice this policy through a companywide effort. contemporary age, and resolution of the digital divide In addition, the Report describes changes including has become an urgent task. Similarly, approaches to the establishment of income accounting centers, more prevention of global warming and other environmental thorough education in sales compliance, the problems must no longer be deferred. I would like to development of the block system into the unit system, see NEC Fielding devise technology for solution of and changes in the membership of the Crisis these problems on various levels as one of the Management Committee. I can feel the company’s companies driving the IT industry, whose people are in determination to make solid arrangements on the fronts possession of IT know-how. The initiatives for of compliance and governance, which are not very prevention of global warming contained in the 2009 visible to outside observers but nevertheless form the review took a step forward with the development of backbone of the organization. EnepalTM PC. By all means please work for the The section on the market takes up the promotion worldwide spread of this software. I am looking of core businesses with an emphasis on communication forward to continued resolute action on behalf of CSR as exemplified by the new training system, the trainer by NEC Fielding as a leading company. Hiroyuki Yamaguchi Chief Administrator, Waseda University Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies Born in Tokyo in 1962, Mr. Yamaguchi graduated from Waseda University with a degree in education. While working as an employee of the university, Mr. Yamaguchi organized the Japan Volunteers in Parks Association (J-VIPA), which began to send Japanese volunteers (himself included) to national parks in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia in 1994. Drawing on this experience, he opened the Hirayama Ikuo Volunteer Center (WAVOC) in 2002 and set about promoting activities of social contribution in the field of education on the university level. After serving as chief administrator of the School of International Liberal Studies, he was appointed to his current position in 2008. He is currently engaged in activities for environmental protection focusing on Mount Rainier National Park in the United States, and Mount Fuji and Mount Hotaka in Japan. He recently also started a campaign for preservation of the Manzanar War Relocation Center historical site where Japanese-Americans were interned during the Second World War. Fifty Years of Fielding/Postscript 70 Fifty Years of Fielding 1957-1959 1997-2010 Period as Nichiden Fudosan New Age as NEC Fielding 1957 Mar. Founded as Nichiden Fudosan, Ltd. 1997 Feb. Launched a website for customers 1958 Feb. Began designing and drafting operations for May Opened NEC Harima Techno-center as a new electrical and communications devices training center 1998 Oct. Created the Environmental Policy 2000 Apr. Merged with NEC Customer Service, Ltd. 1960-1965 May Changed name to NEC Fielding, Ltd. Sold all shares in NEC Engineering, Ltd. and ATC Period as Nippon Electric Engineering Cooperation Company System Service, LTD. 1960 Nov. Changed name to Nippon Electric Engineering 2001 Apr. Sold part of shares in Nippon Oncology Systems, Cooperation Company, Ltd. Ltd. 1961 Apr. Began adjustment and inspection operations for 2002 Jan. Acquired all shares in NDEC Co., Ltd. radio-transmission related devices, as well as Sep. Listed on the First Section of Tokyo Stock maintenance operations for microwave devices Exchange (stock code: 2322) 1962 Mar. Began maintenance operations for electronic 2003 May Created the CSR Committee computers Jul. Sold shares in Nippon Oncology Systems, Ltd. Oct. Opened offices in Beijing and Shanghai, China Dec. Created the CSR Activity Policy 1966-1972 2004 Jun. Joined the UN Global Compact advocated by the United Nations Period as Nippon Electric Engineering Company Aug. Revised the Management Philosophy Scheme 1966 Dec. Changed name to Nippon Electric Engineering Dec. Activities to improve its corporate brand power Company, Ltd. 2005 Feb. Created the Medium-term CSR Plan Spun off Nichiden Kosan K.K. Mar. Founded NEC Fielding Information Technology Transferred its insurance agent and real-estate Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd. in Beijing as a joint operations venture 1970 Founded Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. as a wholly 1971 Nov. Began overseas operations owned subsidiary 1972 Feb. Began system operations business Apr. Reorganized the CSR Committee, and created the CSR Promotion Division May Created the Environmental Management 1973-1996 2006 Apr. Promotion Office Merged ex-Business Auditing Division and Period as NEC Field Service ex-CSR Promotion Division to create the CSR 1973 Jan. Changed name to NEC Field Service, Ltd. and Internal Auditing Division Dec. Began sales of computer parts and accessories Dec. Made NEC Fielding Information Technology 1974 Oct. Transferred its maintenance operations of postServices (Beijing) Co., Ltd. into a wholly owned office automation equipment to NEC Postal subsidiary Automation Engineering, Ltd. 2007 Jun. Founded Fielding System Technology, Ltd. as a 1975 Jun. Spun off NEC Engineering, Ltd. wholly owned subsidiary Transferred operations of designing, inspection, Jul. Acquired 67% of shares in NEC Infrontia System and adjustment for communications and electronic Service Corporation, making it a consolidated devices subsidiary Nov. Began software maintenance operations Oct. Major revisions made to the Corporate Governance Scheme 1980 Sep. Founded ATC System Service, LTD. 2008 Mar. Founded the Fielding Philanthropy Club 1982 Apr. Began network business which link with individual Jun. Created the Fielding Vision & Values, and IT systems reviewed the Corporate Philosophy Scheme 1990 2009 Apr. Merged with NEC Infrontia System Service 1991 Oct. Started solution service business Corporation 1996 Mar. Founded Nippon Oncology Systems, Ltd. 2010 Feb. Created the Second CSR Medium-term Plan Postscript Thank you for reading this report in its entirety. This year’s information to all types of stakeholder. The feature article was installment is the fifth in the series. It follows last year’s a product of our efforts to find a way to profile NEC Fielding division of the whole into five categories, presentation of in terms that would be easy for all to understand. We urge all TOPICS articles in each category, and description of new stakeholders to give the article a read. approaches and their results in fiscal 2009. All of the TOPICS We remain committed to preparing reports that convey revolved around the theme of “support”. the distinctive character of NEC Fielding, and would deeply As a new step, we included a feature article on the typical appreciate any comments or observations on the report from day of one of our customer engineers (CEs), who are at the its readers. core of our business operations. Through it, we wanted to deepen understanding of our business activities and portray the CSR activities embedded in them. October 2010 We have adopted the policy of not limiting the target NEC Fielding readership of the report, which is designed to provide CSR Report 2010 Editorial Staff NECNEC Fielding Report CSRCSR Fielding Report 20102010 prepared waswas prepared in aninenvironmentally friendly friendly an environmentally manner. manner. Paper: Paper: FSC-certified FSC-certified paper paper Ink: Ink: Vegetable-oil Vegetable-oil based based ink ink Print: Print: Filmless Filmless method using method using CTPCTP (computer-to-plate) system (computer-to-plate) system
