Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Contents Profile and Strategy.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4 Collaboration and Partnership................................................................................................................................................................................ 6 Safety, Quality and Environment.......................................................................................................................................................................... 8 “Grindeks” and Society..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 12 Work Environment ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 16 Nowadays the society expects from the business that it, making a profit and increasing its competitiveness, meanwhile will promote sustainable economic, environmental and social development. “Grindeks” is a socially responsible company, which mission is based on care about the public health, employee motivation and welfare of its shareholders. We are innovation based and environmentally friendly company. “Grindeks” as a socially responsible company publishes Corporate Social Responsibility Report for 2010 to help the different stakeholders of the company to learn more about “Grindeks” activity, creating lasting solutions to public health. The Report informs on the socially responsible business and sustainable development. It describes issues that are essential to the company and to the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. Preparing the Report, internationally recognized guidelines were used. The Report is submitted to the Stock Exchange “NASDAQ OMX Riga” simultaneously with the Annual Report of “Grindeks” for 2010 and is published on the websites www.nasdaqomxbaltic.com and www.grindeks.lv. Kirovs Lipmans Janis Romanovskis Chairman of the Council Chairman of the Board 3 Profile and Strategy “Grindeks” was founded in 1946. The company continues to develop and takes the position of the leading pharmaceutical company in the Baltic states. The main fields of action of “Grindeks” are: research, development, manufacturing and sale of original products, generics and active pharmaceutical ingredients. “Grindeks” specializes in the heart and cardiovascular, CNS and anti-cancer medication therapeutic groups. The Group of “Grindeks” consists of four subsidiary companies in Latvia, Estonia and Russia, as well as representative offices in ten countries. In 2010, the total number of employees in the company, together with the representative offices and the subsidiaries was 900. In Latvia “Grindeks” has always been a driving force in its sector − with a highly skilled workforce, a strong link with science, high standards of quality and responsible attitude towards environment and society as a whole. The operating strategy of “Grindeks” is firmly based on its mission to care for human health, employees` interests and shareholders` wealth, as well as to base on innovation and to be environmentally friendly company. The business philosophy of “Grindeks” is closely connected also with the company's four key values − quality, stability, innovation and employees. It stimulates the business growth, promotes competitiveness and develops the internal culture of the company. Strategic priorities Manufacturing is one of the company's strategic priorities for action, therefore to ensure high production efficiency, “Grindeks” continuously improves its production infrastructure and introduces the newest technologies. “Grindeks” cares so that, increasing the production capacity, it would not only ensure the company’s growth of the turnover, but also would effectively care for the environment. One of “Grindeks” strategic priorities for action is a permanent improvement of the product portfolio. “Grindeks” follows the development trends of the pharmaceutical market and actively responds to the consumer needs, offering the necessary medications. To increase “Grindeks” sales of medications, the company continuously develops a targeted marketing agency network and focuses its activities both in the existing markets and new, perspective markets. “Grindeks” purposefully works on the pharmaceutical Group’s expansion and on the improvement of its action. 4 Company's sustainable development To “Grindeks” dialogue with stakeholders is important. This helps to understand the different expectations, opportunities to cooperate with the stakeholders, and to integrate the acquired knowledge in the company’s strategy. “Grindeks” regularly evaluates and analyzes the stakeholder needs and their relationship with the company’s business objectives and strategy in order to address issues that may have a significant impact on the company’s performance. Contribution to sustainability of society The annual audited financial statements of “Grindeks” for the year 2010 − the Group's turnover was 65.1 million lats, and the net profit was 7.1 million lats. Production and sales amounts provide that “Grindeks” takes a stable, high position among the companies with the biggest export potential in Latvia. “Grindeks” takes care not only about the good business performance, but like other socially responsible companies in the world, in addition to its business development allocates funds to the sustainability of the society. “Grindeks” annually supports health promotion activities, education, informs school students about the natural sciences` importance and enhances the scientific research. In dialogue with the society, the company increases its own quality and environmental protection standards. “Grindeks” business development goes hand in hand with corporate social responsibility. “Grindeks” sponsorship and support is focused on activities that promote the formation of educated, healthy and cultural society. Corporate social responsibility The implemented corporate social responsibility activities of “Grindeks” are focused mainly on: • the local society; • the environment; • the employees; • the company’s sustainable development. Every year “Grindeks” supports health promotion activities, stimulates the growth of education, introduces school students to the natural sciences` importance and contributes to the scientific innovation, at the same time increases the company’s quality and environmental protection standards, promoting two-way dialogue with the society. Each year the company carries out significant investments in the development of manufacturing technologies and infrastructure, in the high quality assurance of medications and substances, as well as in the environmental protection, public health and safety at work. It demonstrates the company’s confidence in the chemical industry's global voluntary initiative “Responsible Care”, and the UN “Global Compact” objectives. Taking strategic decisions, “Grindeks” evaluates their potential impact on the environment. In “Grindeks”, the sustainable development and corporate social responsibility are included in the job responsibilities of the Heads of the Communications Department, the Personnel Department and the Quality Management System, as well as the Quality Director. Adopting important decisions, the company's impact on the society, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, customers, consumers, environment and economics is taken into account. 5 Collaboration and Partnership Company listed on Stock Exchange Since 2 January 2006 “Grindeks” shares are listed on the Official List of “NASDAQ OMX Riga” stock exchange. From 1 June 1998 to 1 January 2006 the company was on the Second List. One of the most important operational factors of “Grindeks” are the clearly set management principles that help to achieve short and long term goals. “Grindeks” is one of the best examples of corporate governance and good practice in Latvia. “Grindeks” is conducted by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Council and the Board. Constructive cooperation between the shareholders and the company’s management enables to organize the multidimensional pharmaceutical company business efficiently and mitigate potential risks. In order to stimulate product sales and reduce the company's operating risks, the company continually works to strengthen the existing and to develop new markets, and purposefully diversifies its operations. “Grindeks” is a responsible company that operates transparently − it is reflected in the company’s “Corporate Governance Report 2010”. For the third year in a row, “Grindeks” was named the best listed company on the Baltic stock exchange from Latvia and won the “Baltic Corporate Excellence Award 2010”. In the pan-Baltic rating, which ranked 36 companies, “Grindeks” was recognized as the fourth-best company this year. “Grindeks” received the high evaluation for the previous business achievements and capability to hold its position of the leading pharmaceutical company in the Baltic states. The experts had also noted the orientation of “Grindeks” business activities towards the major shareholders, the strong product brand Mildronate® and the successful geographical diversification. To keep the honour of the best listed company on the Baltic stock exchanges from Latvia for the third year also helped such corporate quality criteria as business model, transparency and corporate governance that turn “Grindeks” into an attractive investment object. Also for the third year in a row, in the annual “Baltic Market Awards” ceremony of the stock exchange, “Grindeks” was again awarded for the Best Investor Relations Online in the Baltics in 2010 and “Grindeks” became also the best company in terms of the Best Investor Relations in “NASDAQ OMX Riga” in 2010. The members of the Evaluation Committee of “Baltic Market Awards” consisted of academics, investors, finance analysts, representatives from media and the Baltic stock exchanges. All the information, published on the stock exchange, can be found on the website of “Grindeks” www.grindeks.lv under the section “For investors”. Integrated Management System Every business depends on customers and understanding of their needs, therefore, by introducing an integrated management system, the orientation of “Grindeks” towards the customer has become even more targeted. The company and partners are interdependent and mutually advantageous relations 6 raise the additional added value. The integrated management system gives an opportunity to fundamentally link good management practice to good practice in any major field of the company. Integrated, systematic approach organizes and facilitates all of the company’s business processes and makes them more effective. This, in turn, enhances collaboration with suppliers, promotes reliability. Regular business self-assessment stimulates consistency of the internal functioning, reduces errors, thereby optimizing costs, and improves business competitiveness and profitability. The Integrated Management System is a way, how “Grindeks” works and manages its business. It is a tool, how to integrate and implement successful and efficient process and action management. Continuous improvement of activities has become a driving force of development of “Grindeks” and long-term goal. International cooperation International activities of “Grindeks” develop in both fields: manufacturing and trade. “Grindeks” is a highly export-oriented manufacturing pharmaceutical company. Total exports account for 95%. “Grindeks” exports its products to 50 countries. The main markets for the products of “Grindeks” are: Russia and other CIS countries, the Baltic states, Germany and the Netherlands. To assess and to respectively improve its activities, “Grindeks” annually carries out customer satisfaction survey in key business areas – in the business of final dosage forms and active pharmaceutical ingredients. “Grindeks” is a flexible company that is adapting to changing market conditions, choosing to work with reliable business partners in each market. To achieve successful financial management objectives, the company carries out production and resource optimization, reducing costs and concentrating production capacity, as well as purposefully supplementing the range of the offered products. Each year “Grindeks” introduces at least four new products. To effectively charge the available production capacity, “Grindeks” also offers manufacturing services to other companies. “Grindeks” focuses to its key business areas, therefore the company uses outsourcing services for the various functions. Evaluating the business processes, “Grindeks” transfers its functions, which require large investments or specific knowledge, to the outsourcing provider. Thus the company focuses the financial and human resources to the development and competitiveness in strategically important areas of the long-term. “Grindeks” successfully cooperates with both, the Latvian scientists and research institutes, and foreign pharmaceutical companies in the implementation of different research projects that promote research and development of new substances. Membership in organizations In 2010, “Grindeks” continued active participation in several associations and non-governmental organizations and contributed to the dialogue between state institutions and enterprises, and participated in the trilateral talks among the government, employers and employees. “Grindeks” is an active member and supporter of numerous organizations − Pharmacists Society of Latvia, Association of the Latvian Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry, Employers` Confederation of Latvia, Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Latvian Quality Association. On the international level, “Grindeks” is the member of “UN Global Compact”, the participant of the Global Compact Local Network in Latvia, each year the company publishes its Communication on Progress. “Grindeks” is also the member and supporter of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce in Lithuania, as well as the partner of the Global Chemical Industry Program “Responsible Care”. In 2009, “Grindeks” continued the membership at Latvian Biotechnology Association, which gives the opportunity to our company to follow all the current events of the field, take part in promotion and development of the industry, as well as to find ideas for perspective projects in biotechnologies. 7 Safety, Quality and Environment “Grindeks” follows the “UN Global Compact” principles − businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Quality and Safety The pharmaceutical production is one of the most responsible fields of manufacturing, as it relates to human life and health, therefore the pharmaceutical industry is faced with particularly high quality requirements. “Grindeks” is certified and operates under the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standard. The introduced Good Manufacturing Practice guarantees that “Grindeks” works according to the European Union’s and the world’s requirements, producing high quality, safe and effective medications. In 2007, an Active pharmaceutical ingredients scale-up laboratory was opened, which is the first laboratory in the Baltics, which received the international Good Laboratory Practice certificate. It proves that the organization of work in the laboratory meets the highest standards of laboratories worldwide. The active pharmaceutical ingredient research takes place under the requirements of the Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) and the specific customer requirements. The production plants of “Grindeks” have been audited by both, the partners and the pharmaceutical inspections of the entire world, recognizing the compliance with international quality standards. In 2010, “Grindeks” successfully passed 29 significant inspections and audits by Latvian and foreign state agencies of medicine and supervisory bodies of food supplement manufacturers, clients and institutions of environmental protection. In its turn, the employees from “Grindeks” audited and 33 upstream suppliers in Italy, Germany, India and other countries, contract-manufacturers and potential cooperation organizations. Pharmacovigilance With its responsibility towards its products and the health of the consumers JSC “Grindeks” continues to develop its Pharmacovigilance system in all sales markets. For the purpose of elimination of potential risks and health hazards, data on the effects of the medications are being summarised, investigated and evaluated and the information about medication side-effects and interactions with other medications is being gathered. To ensure the control of safe use of medications, there is a Pharmacovigilance Group at the company, which key task is to state and timely eliminate adverse/side effects from the use of medications and to report to the competent authorities. The analysis of the reports and their further submission to the competent authorities are carried out in accordance with the relevant guidelines and the pharmaceutical company practices. “Grindeks” is involved in the electronic reporting system EudraVigilance which is also the main European Risk 8 Management Strategy support between the EMEA (European Medicines Agency) and the competent national authorities. On the “Grindeks” web site www.grindeks.lv there is a permanent section “Monitoring of Side Effects.” The company also has set up a section “Health School” on the website, in which the company offers information on various health topics, diagnosis and the symptoms, possible solutions for health strengthening and recovery, as well as useful tips. Quality and Environmental Management According to the international and Latvian standards LVS EN ISO 9001:2008 and LVS EN ISO 14001:2004, “Grindeks” has introduced the Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System that covers all the operational areas of “Grindeks”. That allows continuous improvement of business processes, providing our customers and consumers with high-quality and safe products, and regular update and improvement of the product portfolio. This Management foresees a systematic research of new products and markets and development of medications; in its turn, the research of the customer satisfaction and the service are essential for the increase of sales volume and as the means of obtaining feedback from the customers. Quality Director of “Grindeks” is responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the Latvian and international LVS EN ISO 14001:2004. In its turn, the Head of the Quality Management System Division is responsible for the implementation and maintenance the Latvian and international standard LVS EN ISO 9001:2008 implementation and maintenance. They are obliged to: • provide development, implementation and maintenance of the Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System; • provide regular reports on the execution and performance improvement needs for the Quality and Environmental Management System. The Quality, Safety and Environmental Policy of “Grindeks” confirms the safety and quality of its produced products, as well as the quality of the provided services. Research, development, manufacture and sales of active pharmaceutical ingredients and final dosage forms of “Grindeks” are organized so as to ensure quality and safety of products, as well as sparing effect on the environment. The ground rules of the Quality, Safety and Environmental Policy of “Grindeks”: • Concerted actions by: ˚ expectations of shareholders and employees; ˚ expectations and satisfaction of customers; laws and regulations and other requirements. ˚ • Good practice principles and continuous monitoring of their execution. • Ongoing operational improvements in: ˚ Labour Protection System; Quality Management System according to LVS EN ISO 9001:2008 standard; ˚ Environmental Management System according to LVS EN ISO 14001:2004 standard. ˚ • Continuous environmental impact reduction of production, products and services. The Quality, Safety and Environmental Policy issues are regularly reviewed during the company’s Board and management meetings with the purpose to develop it, taking into account the market changes and customer expectations. The Quality, Safety and Environmental Policy is explained to all employees of the company. The company holds regular staff training, building a high level of environmental awareness. Employees` work safety and continued work at the risk evaluation and reduction is one of the key business priorities of the company. “Grindeks” systematically carries out an environmental impact assessment, and the Division of Quality analyses monitoring indicators on a regular basis. 9 Environmental Protection System “Grindeks” monitors the impact on environment in the entire life cycle of its products − in research, development, production and sales, and invests more and more finances in the development and improvement of the production infrastructure. Development projects are designed to maximize environmental conservation and pollution prevention. “Grindeks” is the “green thinking” company that in the created Environmental Protection System continuously seeks solutions for saving environmental resources. The company carries out regular environmental protection measures on the bases of environmental impact assessment and monitoring results. The component of the company's Environmental Protection Policy or the operating framework is the following action implementation: • environmentally friendly product purchase; • reduction of energy consumption; • waste reduction; • reduction of water consumption; • reduction of emissions into workplace environment air and atmosphere; • reduction of raw material consumption per unit of product; • reduction of product impact on the environment, improving product, its production and the innovation process. “Grindeks” as the chemical manufacturer implements the responsible environmental policy for the long-term and systematic work on environmental protection. According to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Latvia regulations No.294 of 9 July 2002 “On the declaration of A, B and C categories` polluting activities and on the procedure of giving authorizations of A and B category” (with amendments), on 1 November 2007 the State Environmental Service’s Lielriga Regional Environmental Board issued “Grindeks” a Class A License for the existing polluting activities. Environmentally friendly product purchase Therapeutic substances and medications usually cannot be made from environmentally friendly products, and complex chemical products can be obtained only from other simpler chemical products. The company tests and evaluates the most environmentally friendly technologies and raw materials, and, if it is possible to get good quality medications using them, then environmentally friendly products are purchased, such as environmentally friendly solvents (water, alcohol, etc.), water-soluble and natural vegetable dyes, etc. Reduction of energy consumption “Grindeks” is proud for its achievements in reduction of energy consumption. The following actions have been taken: regulation of heat supply; replacement of old steam boiler and of ventilation equipment to more modern equipment; heat and thermal insulation of buildings and equipment; different organizational arrangements that allow to operate the equipment more efficiently, etc. “Grindeks”, improving existing and constructing new production sites, before starting a design and construction, especially evaluates and chooses the most optimal option of the planned heating, hot water and steam cooling systems. The recuperation is widely used – the released heat is used again for the space and equipment heating system. All of the ventilation equipment of the company is gradually replaced to less energy-intensive systems. Use of the artesian water for cooling the industrial equipment, introduced in 2010, saves energy for the company, as well as previously used drinking water consumption. Waste reduction Waste reduction measures in “Grindeks” are taken by using the EU recommended best available techniques, the most significant of which is in the reaction outcome increase of processes and thereby waste reduction. 10 One such technique is the recovery of the used solvents and the valid component extraction from the liquid waste. Through small steps in the production of each product, significant results are achieved. Waste, created in the production processes, is collected in groups; hazardous waste is transferred to licensed disposal organizations, less hazardous − biologically cleaned in the wastewater treatment plant or regenerated as much as possible. “Grindeks” is the partner of the Green Dot of Latvia, JSC “BAO” and other waste management organizations. Reduction of water consumption Significant results are achieved in water consumption reduction in “Grindeks”. According to the company's environmental plan, in 2010 a modern biological sewage purification plant was opened, in which wastewater of the company’s plants are purified in the environmentally friendly manner. Thus “Grindeks” no longer uses chemical and energy-intensive treatment types − wastewater dilution with water, to reduce concentration of chemical substances to the standards set by law. The concept of the industrial wastewater treatment plant is currently one of the most modern concepts confirming that pharmaceutical industry and development of the company is consistent with careful attitude towards the nature. The technologically modern wastewater plant is a purposefully planned investment project, so that upon increasing production capacities we could not only ensure the growth of the turnover of “Grindeks”, but also efficiently take care of the environmental protection. Construction of the “Grindeks” industrial wastewater treatment plant was implemented within two years. New, closed-type purification systems not only ensure the removal of pollution from wastewater, but also help to eliminate the spreading of the smells characteristic to such systems. A laboratory is also established in the purification plant where the wastewater analyses and the result monitoring are made. “Green Thinking” and environmental initiatives provide business opportunities – in the future, “Grindeks” plans to develop and expand sewage research in the laboratory of the wastewater treatment plant, as well as to provide sewage purification modelling services to other industrial companies. In 2010 “Grindeks” artesian water collection and treatment facilities were launched, and with that the drinking water is no longer used for the technical needs, used to use mainly in the chemical plant for cooling the equipment. In this system, the water is returned to the pool, chilled and re-used. Reduction of emissions into workplace environment air and atmosphere “Grindeks” takes measures to reduce emissions into the air of the workplace environment, as well as in the atmosphere. In the company, the replacement of ozone depleting refrigerants in the refrigeration equipment is carried out. Production technologies are being redesigned so as not to use ozone-depleting solvents (carbon tetrachloride, chloroform) in the manufacturing and to make a significant reduction of other environmentally unfavourable solvents. Closed equipment prevents release of dust into the atmosphere; on the equipment and possible emission sources, dust filters are installed, receivers of acid gases and solvent vapour. These receivers also prevent odours from spreading. Even the wastewater treatment takes place in closed containers and all the emissions from the treatment plant are absorbed, so the open-treatment plant characteristic odour is not felt. Reduction raw material consumption of per unit of product To minimize consumption of raw material per unit of product in the production process, “Grindeks” makes substantial waste reduction measures. Particularly effective is solvent – which have the greatest impact on the environment – multiple use after regeneration. There are production sites, where the ratio of the fresh and the regenerated solvent, used in the process, is from 1:5 to 1:20. There is a permanent environmental issues section on the web site of “Grindeks” www.grindeks.lv called “Environment. Quality. Safety.” Similarly, the publicly available information related to the environment protection, the company includes in the Annual Reports. 11 “Grindeks” and Society “Grindeks” is a reliable social partner, supporting the development of educated, healthy and cultural society. The management of the company believes that the society is entitled to expect support from the successful, financially stable and positively oriented companies, and this position is one of the basic concepts of the development of “Grindeks”. In addition to its business development, “Grindeks” has always invested considerable resources in support for science and education, medicine and pharmacy-related conferences and publishing of industry related literature. The company sponsors various charities, including some sport projects. It actively cooperates with educational institutions, explaining the educational and career opportunities in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry. “Grindeks” regularly engages in social activities and actively informs the public about company’s news − medications, achievements, performance etc. “Grindeks” representatives regularly participate in important industry events, the company’s expert opinion is required in very different issues, not only related to the pharmaceutical industry. It helps to get feedback and promote dialogue with the important target audiences. Sponsorship and Society Support Policy The company has developed a Sponsorship and Society Support Policy that determines evaluation criteria and procedures for sponsorship and support by “Grindeks”. The aim of the Sponsorship and Society Support Policy is to promote the formation of educated, healthy and cultural society. “Grindeks” major sponsorship and support areas are: • promotion of medicine and health; • education and science; • culture and sport; • charity. According to the Sponsorship and Society Support Policy of the company, in 2010 “Grindeks” continued implementation of various social activities and supported projects both within the sector, and popularising a healthy lifestyle. “Grindeks” supported organization of Latvian Psychiatric Association’s conference, a number of Latvian Pharmacist Society`s conferences and workshops, a joint project “Patient’s Diary” together with the Latvian Society of Cardiology. Ice hockey is one of the world’s most popular sports, therefore “Grindeks”, supporting the growth of this sport, has become a sponsor of the Latvian national ice hockey team. Thus, also the Latvian national ice hockey team brings name of “Grindeks” out to the world. 12 Also the employees of the company are regularly invited to participate in the society support programs of donation/charity, not related to the professional scope of activities. For example, at the end of 2010, employees of “Grindeks” donated to children clothes, toys, sweets, etc., joining the project “Palidzesim.lv”, to give bring joy to 350 children and youngsters from low-income families. “Grindeks” Foundation “For the Support of Science and Education” Purposefully unifying the education support projects, previously implemented by the company, with the aim to promote the professional growth and education in engineering, natural sciences and pharmaceutical industry, in February of 2006 “Grindeks” set up the Foundation “For the Support of Science and Education”. This is one of the biggest private foundations in Latvia, which supports the new natural sciences specialists, awards prizes and scholarships not only to students and scientists, but also to educational institutions and training staff. “Grindeks” Foundation “For the Support of Science and Education” in cooperation with the Latvian Academy of Sciences in 2010 traditionally awarded the distinguished Latvian scientists and the best young scientists. In the prestigious nomination for the outstanding performance and lifetime achievement in science “Golden Owl” awards were presented to three remarkable Latvian scientists: • Dr.habil.chem. Edvards Liepins for outstanding contribution to the nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) method’s development in Latvia; • Dr.habil.phys. Ruvins Ferbers for the internationally significant contribution to the diatomic molecule studies by laser spectroscopy; • Dr.habil.philol. Ilga Jansone for the contribution to the research of the Latvian linguistics history. Each winner also received a bonus in amount of 1200 LVL. In the nomination “Silver Owl”, awards were presented to four new, top scientists. Each winner also received a bonus in amount of 400 LVL. Bonuses for teachers For a successful and regular training of future chemistry students, in 2010 “Grindeks” awarded three prizes to the chemistry and natural sciences secondary school teachers of Latvian schools from various cities and towns of Latvia. Premiums received the teacher Aija Vanaga from Bauska Secondary school No. 1, Tatjana Aniskovica from Riga Secondary school No. 10, in its turn, the chemistry teacher Agnese Svencicka from the National Gymnasium of Jelgava, received the special “Grindeks” award “New Talent”. 13 This kind of awards “Grindeks” in cooperation with the Faculty of Materials Science and Applied Chemistry of Riga Technical University presents to the chemistry teachers since 1999. It acts as a kind of incentive − to prepare as many as possible and as best as possible chemistry and material science specialists, to create interest about natural sciences among pupils. Support for students We help the most talented students, providing practice opportunities in the company and opportunities to develop scientific works on important topics for the company, as well as opportunities to work part time, which may be combined with studies, thus enhancing student practical skill development. In 2010, in the company almost 90 students went on practice. Investment in vocational guidance for youngsters In 2010, the joint-stock company “Grindeks” launched a new project entitled “Profession Days for Pupils” with the aim to promote youngsters` interest in chemistry and career opportunities in the pharmaceutical sector. During the project, 28 students from 15 Latvian cities and country centers got to know with professions of the company, spending one day together with the specialist of the selected profession, getting to know her/his duties, as well as asking and receiving answers to interested questions. Until 2009 “Grindeks” was actively involved in the “Shadow Days” and in other similar projects. However, given the nature of pharmaceutical production and the tight regulation, the company considered that the offer of “shadowing” various professionals on one particular day is inconvenient. So “Profession Days for Pupils” were created as an alternative, which is especially to careers in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry-oriented project within two months, during which opportunity to get acquainted with the work of the company “Grindeks” is given to about 30 young people. We will continue to implement this project in the future. During the year 2010, 664 pupils attended “Grindeks” on excursions. Contribution to industry specialist training Chemical, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and environmental industry of Latvia has long felt the need for skilled specialists, therefore the employers are more actively helping to develop the vocational training content and quality, involving in the program transformation and elaboration of new programs. „“Grindeks” in cooperation with the Olaine Mechanics and Technology College, the Ministry of Education and Science and the State Employment Agency developed a number of retraining programs in chemical technology and biotechnology for unemployed. In 2010, “Grindeks” manufacturing units received a 14 valuable addition − the first 12 program graduates with the qualifications of “chemical process technician.” Training has already commenced the next group, and in the near future a group for training analytical chemistry technicians will be formed. These specialists will be able to work in both, the chemical and pharmaceutical, and cosmetics, food, and other sectors that require quality control functions. Developed unemployed retraining programs are aimed at promoting employment and providing the industry with skilled workers. Communication “Grindeks” appreciates the principle of openness and transparency, therefore, it develops extensive internal and external communication activities. For communication with audiences, the company uses integrated methods of communication, including advertising, public relations, event marketing, interactive communications, etc. At the same time, the company complies with the restrictions, which prohibit the advertising of prescription medicines to the broad audience. “Grindeks” regularly participates in the social events and actively informs the society on the business news − medications, achievements, performance results, etc. This helps not only to increase the total turnover, but also to strengthen brand “Grindeks” and to promote public awareness of health issues. Product promotion activities in the market are complemented by informative and educational articles in specialized publications. Seminars are held for physicians and pharmacists, in which, clients of “Grindeks” can find product news, can obtain fresh information on the health sector in general and exchange views. Cooperation partners regularly receive informative issues on the company in electronic and paper format. To improve the company's operations, “Grindeks” encourages and receives feedback from stakeholders, including physicians, end users, etc. “Grindeks” as a socially active company actively speaks at conferences, and regularly receives visitors from foreign embassies, the existing and potential partners, as well as organizes excursions around the company to pupils and students of the sector, pharmacists and others interested. Latest information on the company is regularly inserted on the web site of “Grindeks” www.grindeks.lv, in which the information is posted in Latvian, Russian, English and Spanish. “Grindeks” regularly carries out sociological studies to determine the society’s attitude towards the company. Similarly, the company always responds to the society on the issues at stake by phone or writing letters of response. Various questions about medications, shares etc. are often asked through the company's web site. The company has introduced a computerized Document Management System that ensures compliance with legislation, the lifecycle and signing of electronic documents, the traceability of operations to a particular employee, the necessary validation process and the chance to determine each employee's role and responsibilities. The company has created an internal communications portal − Intranet. 15 Work Environment Professional employees, who use their knowledge and skills to achieve the set goals, are the main value and the factor to the company’s success. “Grindeks” is aware that skills of the employees, their creativity, ability to create ideas and new products are the key factors to develop the business. Therefore “Grindeks” pays much attention to the work environment. In its daily work, “Grindeks” undoubtedly observes internationally recognised human rights, respects the principle of equality of genders, religions, cultures, races and ethnical groups, freedom of speech, association and assembly. “Grindeks” recognizes employee collective bargaining rights. The company does not employ persons, who are under 18, and does not use compulsory or child labour. In 2010, the overall average number of employees in the group of “Grindeks”, which includes four subsidiary companies in Latvia, Estonia, Russia and representations in 10 countries, was 900. 660 of them worked in Latvia, abroad − 240. In 2010, 66% of all employees in Latvia were women, while, outside Latvia 76%. In 2010, among the employees were: unemployed persons, graduates from the State Employment Agency retraining program, persons who had just completed a profession or while working continued to acquire a profession, staff, to whom remain less than 5 years up to retirement age, pregnant women, persons, who have at least two dependents. Occupational Safety and Health Protection Issues on work environment and safety “Grindeks” solves methodically, and they are integrated into the work process. The company has established successful cooperation with several educational institutions, setting up training programs for youth that provide practical skills and prepare many professional and qualified workers. Occupational safety issues in the JSC “Grindeks” are solved methodically and integrated in the work process. We have established successful cooperation with several education establishments, by creating training programmes for the youth that secure acquirement of the practical skills and prepare more professional and skilled young employees. The company has a comprehensive Work Environment Risk Reduction System, involving the management and covering nearly all processes. Each employee of “Grindeks” is involved in the system of occupational safety and can report for improvements in the work environment and conditions. The company organizes the Healthy Work Environment Day, in which the company's board members, directors, department managers meet with their department staff to discuss work conditions, work environment risk reduction plans and priorities for work to be done. In order to avoid impact of dangerous chemicals on workers, the documentary procedure of work environment risk evaluation is developed, which includes all of the results of the risk tracking and 16 recording, as well as occupational safety and health activities planning and their impact monitoring. Risk assessment includes all − over 500 job positions – both in the office, and mechanical workshops, but the most important risks are associated with the chemical and pharmaceutical production. The Environmental Monitoring Laboratory measures concentration of the chemical substances in the work environment air by carrying out workplace risk evaluation in production units and laboratories. According to the measurements, emissions are reduced; ventilation systems and air-flow in rooms are optimized, protective devices are selected − thereby reducing the risks in the workplace. Environmental Monitoring Laboratory, which has demonstrated their professionalism in interlaboratory testing, also participates in the safe technological process design. At the end of 2009, the Business Continuity Management Process was implemented in “Grindeks”, which aim is to ensure safe and flexible business environment that is able to promptly and effectively respond in a case of a major incident. It promotes rapid operation restoration process and helps to protect assets and the company’s reputation. The process includes a rapid response plan, a crisis management and communication plan and recovery strategies. To ensure continuity of business operations, in 2009 the company introduced and approved the Crisis Management and Communication Plan. Its purpose is to ensure that crisis management is structured and transparent. The plan defines the problem areas, issues which may be confronted with a high probability. Understanding attitude and support by “Grindeks” management together with the involvement of each employee is a guarantee that the result of Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) System will be continuous improvement that would promote safe and health-friendly workplace. It is one of the main conditions for the long-term development of “Grindeks”. “Grindeks” has received notes of acknowledgements and awards for permanent and effective participation in the Latvian State Labour Inspectorate competitions; several times it has been nominated for the participation in competition of the European level. In 2007, “Grindeks” received the European Good Practice Award in occupational safety for training young people about safety at work. In recent years, in the materials handed in for the competitions, the company has shared its expertise with others on how to evaluate and reduce occupational risk, including all departments and product life cycle, as well as for the complex approach in risk reduction, working with highly potent substances. On the company’s website www.grindeks.lv in the section “Environment. Quality. Safety.”, it is possible to access the detailed material on Occupational Safety and Health System in “Grindeks”. 17 Annual Report 2010 Contents Management Report............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3 About Company........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 Corporate Governance................................................................................................................................................................................................... 12 Products............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 25 Production........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 31 Markets.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 35 Investment Program ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 39 Quality..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42 Personnel Policy........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 46 Communication Policy................................................................................................................................................................................................... 51 Management Report Group’s activity during reporting period Sales of final dosage forms Sales of active pharmaceutical ingredients Investment program Quality and environmental protection Main financial data of “Grindeks” during five year period (2006−2010) Development of “Grindeks” share price (Data of “NASDAQ OMX Riga”) Future expectations In 2010, “Grindeks” was recognized as the leading exporter of Latvia. Achievements and further growth are impossible without serious investment, therefore every year we invest considerable resources in the development of “Grindeks”. Kirovs Lipmans Chairman of the Council Management Report In the accounting period, the Group of “Grindeks” consisted of JSC “Grindeks” and its four subsidiaries: JSC “Tallinn Pharmaceutical Plant” in Estonia, JSC “Kalceks”, “Namu Apsaimniekosanas projekti” Ltd. in Latvia and “Grindeks Rus” Ltd. in Russia (altogether hereinafter referred to as “the Group”). The main activity of the Group is research, development, manufacturing and sales of original products, generics and active pharmaceutical ingredients. Group’s activity during reporting period The Group’s turnover amounted to 65.1 million lats in 2010, which is by 11.5 million lats or 21.5% more than in 2009. In its turn, net profit related to the shareholders of the holding company amounted to 7.1 million lats in the reporting period, which is by 3.5 million lats more in comparison with 2009 and has increased by 97.2%. In 2010, gross profit margin of the Group was 56.4%, whereas, net profit margin comprised 10.9%. Products of the Group, manufactured during the reporting period, were exported to 50 countries worldwide for the total amount of 61.7 million lats, which is by 10.9 million lats or 21.5% more than in the previous year. In 2010, ROE was 13 %; ROA was 11.3 %; liquidity was 2.54 The results of “Grindeks” for the year 2010 show a positive sales growth. Stable increases are recorded in realization of both the final dosage forms and the active pharmaceutical ingredients. Results are achieved through marketing activities and sales promotion in the key markets, strengthened strategy for the introduction and promotion of generics, as well as strict cost control. Sales of final dosage forms In 2010, the sales volume of the final dosage forms of “Grindeks” amounted to 57.7 million lats, which is by 9.5 million lats or 19.7% more than in 2009. In 2010, amount of “Grindeks” final dosage forms’ export to the main markets − Russia, other CIS countries and Georgia − comprised 50.2 million lats, which is by 8.3 million lats or 19.8% more than in 2009. In its turn, turnover of the final dosage forms to the Baltic States and other European countries reached 7.5 million lats, which is by 1.2 million lats or 19% more than in 2009. The positive results were facilitated by the stabilization of economic processes, as well as by targeted marketing and sales activities of “Grindeks” in existing and especially new markets − Eastern European countries. In 2010, a number of new generics were introduced, which has also a positive effect on the turnover growth. In addition to the existing dosage forms of Mildronate® − capsules and injections, several markets have been expanded to offer new dosage form of Mildronate® − tablets. The product range is also successfully supplemented by the non-prescription medication Sorbex® and dietary supplement Lactobex®. 5 Sales of active pharmaceutical ingredients Sales of active pharmaceutical ingredients produced by the Group amounted to 7.4 million lats in 2010, which is by 2 million lats or 37% more than in 2009. Such an outcome is achieved by the increase in demand of the active pharmaceutical ingredient − ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), introduced in the manufacture in 2009. With the increasing market demand, also grew sales of the active pharmaceutical ingredient zopiclone, manufactured by “Grindeks”. Overall “Grindeks” realized 16 active pharmaceutical ingredients. In 2010, the main export markets for active pharmaceutical ingredients of “Grindeks” were Germany and the Netherlands. Investment program Investing 1.6 million lats, “Grindeks” finished the clinical trial on the influence of the brand product Mildronate® on the treatment of angina in 2010. Results of the just-finished multinational clinical trial once more approve effectiveness and the high safety of Mildronate® in the treatment of angina in combination with the standard therapy. The results obtained will promote sales and registration of Mildronate® in new markets. In order to ensure regular development and manufacturing of the active pharmaceutical ingredient UDCA, “Grindeks” started construction of a new manufacturing unit in the middle of 2009, which was finished in June of 2011. In the project 6.34 million lats were invested, and “Grindeks” signed an agreement with Investment and Development Agency of Latvia on co-financing of 2.8 million lats from the European Regional Development Fund for its realization. Quality and environmental protection In 2010, “Grindeks” successfully passed 29 significant inspections and audits by state agencies of medicines, supervisory bodies of food supplement manufacturers from Latvia and other countries, clients, institutions of environmental protection. The inspection by the Belarus State Food and Veterinary Service for food supplement production and several audits for the active pharmaceutical ingredients production by clients from several European Union countries and Japan have taken place. In 2010, inspections by the Latvian and Lithuanian State Agencies of Medicines confirmed the new anti-cancer medication manufacturing unit’s conformity with the Good Manufacturing Practice standard. “Grindeks” successfully passed also the Complex Inspection, in which the national supervisory authorities examined observance of the working environment, fire safety and civil protection regulations. The inspections by the Latvian and Estonian State Agencies of Medicines approved the active pharmaceutical ingredients’ (zopiclone, ursodeoxycholic acid, pimobendan and milnacipran) compliance with the Good Manufacturing Practice standard. Successfully is passed also Quality and Environmental Management System surveillance audit in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 by the “Bureau Veritas Latvia”. Specialists of “Grindeks” audited and participated in the technology implementation process in Lithuania, Germany and Slovakia. Main financial data of “Grindeks” during five year period (2006−2010) Dynamics of “Grindeks” turnover Dynamics of “Grindeks” profit million LVL million LVL 2010 65.1 2010 7.1 2009 53.6 2009 3.7 2008 62.1 2008 9 2007 51.5 2007 7.2 2006 42.2 2006 6.3 6 Development of “Grindeks” share price (Data of “NASDAQ OMX Riga”) Since 2 January 2006 “Grindeks” shares are listed in the Official List of “NASDAQ OMX Riga”. Fluctuation of “Grindeks” share price on “NASDAQ OMX Riga” during 2010 was within the limits from 3.69 lats to 7.00 lats. In 2010, the average price of “Grindeks” shares was 5.97 lats. The total quantity of “Grindeks” shares, traded in “NASDAQ OMX Riga”, during the year 2010 was 583 715 shares, reaching the turnover of 3.49 million lats. At the end of the year 2010 the market capitalization of “Grindeks” shares was 64.22 million lats. The Group’s earnings per share (EPS ratio), during 2010 amounted to 0.74 lats as compared with 0.37 lats during 2009. 5.97 lats, vidējā akciju cena 0 3.69 7.00 10 lats Akciju cenas robežas 2010. gadā 64.22 3.49 Kopējā million lats 583 715 0.75 lats akciju tirgus Akciju tirgus Kopējais tirgoto EPS kapitalizācija apgrozīgums akciju skaits koeficients Future expectations In 2011, “Grindeks” plans to maintain the current sales growth. A special attention will be put on research and development of new final dosage forms, as well as their successful implementation in the existing and new markets. In 2011, Mildronate® clinical research program in China will be continued. Likewise research and development of new active pharmaceutical ingredients will be continued. In 2011, “Grindeks” will continue the following tactics: • flexible approach in the changing market situation; • cooperation with the secure business partners in every separate market; • strict control of expenses, as well as optimization of manufacturing and resources; • determined diversification of business actions: ˚ introduction of new products; ˚ entrance into new markets; increase of production capacity, offering manufacturing services to other companies; ˚ • investments for future – new business projects, research, development of medications. Kirovs Lipmans Janis Romanovskis Chairman of the Council Chairman of the Board 7 About Company Performance characteristics of “Grindeks” Factors facilitating development of “Grindeks” Strategy Mission Vision Values In order to achieve even better results, “Grindeks” will continue to carefully analyze important markets for it and thoughtfully realize the marketing and sales strategy. Janis Romanovskis Chairman of the Board About Company The position of the leading pharmaceutical company in the Baltic States, “Grindeks” has strengthened by its long-term experience in the research, development, manufacture and sales of both original and generics, as well as active pharmaceutical ingredients. One of the priorities of the company is its vertically integrated operation, namely, the company has all the necessary resources to perform the complete product development cycle using its own resources, from research and development of medications to registration and sales of the ready-made product. The geographical location of “Grindeks” in Latvia is a great advantage. We are a bridge between Europe and the East, which allows us to save on logistics costs by delivering products in both directions. “Grindeks” production is exported to 50 countries worldwide. The business philosophy of the company is closely related to the values facilitating the development of “Grindeks”, promoting competitiveness and establishing the internal culture of the company. Performance characteristics of “Grindeks”: • Vertical integration of operational processes to ensure complete development of the product by its own recourses; • Technological supply – with regard to technologically advanced equipment, “Grindeks” is among the leading world companies; • Brand products – “Grindeks” manufactures qualitative brand products by using intermediately priced services and intermediately priced raw materials; • Relations with science – close cooperation with the Latvian scientists, as well as traditional ties with the Russian scientists and scientists in other CIS countries whose high level of knowledge is beyond question; • Broad specialization, knowledge, practical experience and flexibility. Factors facilitating development of “Grindeks”: • Meeting high international standards; • Broad knowledge and experience throughout the product life cycle; • Highly qualified personnel; • New and modern technologies; • Quality assurance according to international requirements (GMP, GLP, FDA, TGI, APIC etc.); • Traditions of close cooperation with scientists and manufacturers in Latvia, Russia and other CIS countries; • A network of representative offices in the Baltic states and CIS countries, and cooperation partners in Europe and elsewhere in the world. 10 Strategy inal products orig Expansion of the pharmaceutical Expansion of the research holding, developing new represeninternational sales tative offices in foreign countries and tical ingredients network, development velopment searching for the possibilities in acquiin the new markets. s al es de “Grindeks” ring other pharmaceutical enterprises. Continuous enlargegen Continuous additions to the product ma eu ment of production e ri cs n ufa c t u rin g ac portfolio, registration of medications capacities. ph arm in many countries of the world. active Mission We are concerned about public health, employee motivation and welfare of our shareholders. We are innovation based and environmentally friendly company. Vision We aim to become a significant European company. Values • Employees – we are professionals using our knowledge and skills to achieve the determined goals. • Quality – we are responsible for the production of safe and effective medicine, ecologically clean environment and work place safety. • Innovations – we are steering development of science and research, as well as implementing latest technologies. • Stability – we are reliable partners, socially responsible and honouring traditions. 11 Corporate governance General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory Council Board Shares Development of “Grindeks” share price in 2010 (LVL) Development of “Grindeks” share price in comparison with “NASDAQ OMX Riga” index in 2008−2010 “Grindeks” shareholders (over 5%) Independent auditor’s report Satement of financial position as of 31 december 2010 Satement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 december 2010 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 december 2010 Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2010 In its activities, “Grindeks” observes high standards of corporate governance principles. The selected business model and the transparency turn us into an attractive investment object. Inese Prodniece General Accountant Corporate governance In its operation JSC “Grindeks” adheres to high standards of corporate governance and ensures that the Company is managed in accordance with the Corporate Governance Principles adopted by “NASDAQ OMX Riga” in 2008. For the last five years, “Grindeks” has submitted Corporate Governance Report to “NASDAQ OMX Riga” simultaneously with the audited consolidated financial statements, which is available at both the Company’s and “NASDAQ OMX Riga” homepages. Management of “Grindeks” is conducted by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Supervisory Council and the Management Board. “Grindeks” shareholders (over 5%)* Name Ownership interest % Kirovs Lipmans 33.29 Anna Lipmane 16.69 “AB.LV Private Equity Fund 2010” 11.38 “Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken” 10.62 “Swedbank” AS Clients Account 7.10 * “Latvian Central Depositary” data as of 31 December 2010 General Meeting of Shareholders During the reporting period “Grindeks” convened the General Meeting of Shareholders on one occasion − on 25 May 2010 was convened the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, which approved “Grindeks” Annual Report for the year 2009, decided to leave undistributed the profit for the year 2009 and use it for the development of “Grindeks” to increase its competitiveness, elected JSC “BDO” as auditor of “Grindeks” Annual Reports for the year 2010, as well as reelected “Grindeks” Supervisory Council. 14 Supervisory Council Kirovs Lipmans Anna Lipmane Uldis Osis Janis Naglis Ivars Kalvins Chairman Deputy Chairman Member Member Member of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council Kirovs Lipmans born in 1940. Kirovs Lipmans has been the Chairman of the Council of “Grindeks” since 2003. From 1996 to 2002 he was the Chairman of the Council of JSC “Liepājas Eļļas rūpnīca” and JSC “Liepājas Metalurgs”. Simultaneously K. Lipmans is also the President of the Latvian Hockey Federation, the Member of the Executive Committee of the Latvian Olympic Committee, the Chairman of the Board of “Liplats 2000” Ltd. and the Chairman of the Council of JSC “Kalceks” and JSC “Tallinn pharmaceutical plant”. Graduated from the Leningrad Institute of Railway and Transport Engineering, also the Faculty of Economics of the University of Latvia, obtaining degree as an Engineer-Economist. K. Lipmans is also one of the major shareholders of “Grindeks”. Anna Lipmane born in 1948. Anna Lipmane has been the Member of the Council of “Grindeks” since 2008. A. Lipmane is certified doctor-neurologist and the Member of the Latvian Medical Association, the Latvian Association of Internists, the Latvian Society of Cardiology and the Latvian Association of Neurologists. A. Lipmane is one of the major shareholders of “Grindeks”. Uldis Osis born in 1948. Uldis Osis has worked in the Council of “Grindeks” since 2002. Besides the position at “Grindeks”, U. Osis is also the President of “Konsorts” Ltd.. U. Osis has graduated from the Faculty of Economics of the Leningrad State University, also the post graduate studies of the Construction Economics Research Institute of the USSR Construction Committee, obtaining a diploma of the Candidate of Economics Science (Dr.oec.). Has studied also in foreign educational institutions, including the Georgetown University (in 1992, Washington D.C., USA). Janis Naglis born in 1958. Janis Naglis has been the Member of the Council of “Grindeks” since 2002. Simultaneously to the job responsibilities in JSC “Grindeks” J. Naglis is also the General Director of “Islande Hotel” Ltd., the Director of „Jānis Naglis” Ltd., the Chairman of the Board of „Purvciema mājas” Ltd., „Imantas mājas” Ltd., „Kembi” Ltd., the Member of the Board of „Puzes karjers” Ltd., „JA GRS” Ltd., „Kauguru priedes” Ltd., „Arsan” Ltd., „Nordic bioenergy” Ltd., „Kempings Gauja” Ltd., „Baltic TAXI” Ltd. As well as he is the President of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants of Latvia and the Latvian Auto Federation, the Member of the Board of the Latvian Sports for All Association and the Member of the Council of the Employers’ Confederation of Latvia. J. Naglis has graduated from Riga Polytechnic institute with qualification Engineer-Mechanic. Ivars Kalvins born in 1947. Professor Ivars Kalvins has been the Director, the Head of the Medical Chemistry Department and of the Chemistry Laboratory of Carbofunctional Combinations in the Institute of Organic Synthesis of Latvia (IOS) since 2003. Previously professor I. Kalvins was the Deputy Director of IOS. From 2006 to 2008 he was the Member of the Council of JSC “Grindeks”. Professor I. Kalvins is one of the best known scientists in Latvia, Dr. habil. chem., the Member of the Latvian Academy of Science, has received several awards. Professor I. Kalvins is involved in different professional and nongovernmental organizations. 15 Board Day-to-day operations management and strategic decision making in “Grindeks” group is carried out by the Board. Janis Romanovskis Lipmans Zeligmans Vadims Rabsa Chairman of the Board Member of the Board, Member of the Board, Director of Final Dosage Chief Finance and Forms Manufacturing unit Administrative Officer Janis Romanovskis born in 1960. Graduated from the Faculty of Economics of the University of Latvia. Has been employed at JSC “Grindeks” since 2003, having previously performed the duties of the Chief Finance and Administrative Officer, as well as being the Member of the Board. Prior to this he worked as the Chief Finance Officer at “Komerccentrs Dati grupa” Ltd. Simultaneously J. Romanovskis is also the Member of the Council of JSC “Kalceks”, JSC “Tallinn pharmaceutical plant” and “Pharma and Chemistry Competence Centre of Latvia”. Lipmans Zeligmans born in 1947. Graduated from the Faculty of Chemistry of the Riga Polytechnic Institute. Has been employed at JSC “Grindeks” since 1992, having previously worked in the experimental factory of the Institute of Organic Synthesis of the Latvian Academy of Sciences. Simultaneously L. Zeligmans is also the Chairman of the Board of JSC “Kalceks” and the Member of the Council of JSC “Tallinn pharmaceutical plant”. Vadims Rabsa born in 1976. Graduated from the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga where he studied Economics and Business. Has been employed at JSC “Grindeks” since 2007. Previously was employed at “Exigen Services” Ltd., holding the post of the Chief Finance Officer, as well as the position of the Deputy Chairman of the Board at JSC “DATI Exigen Group”. V. Rabsa also worked at JSC “Latvijas Balzāms” as the Chief Finance Officer. Besides the position at “Grindeks”, V. Rabsa is also the Member of the Council of “HBM Pharma” Ltd. Shares JSC “Grindeks” shares are listed on “NASDAQ OMX Riga” since 1 June 1998, and since 2 January 2006 JSC “Grindeks” shares are listed in the Official list of “NASDAQ OMX Riga”. ISIN LV0000100659 Ticker GRD1R Nominal value LVL 1.00 Total number of securities 9 585 000 Number of listed securities 6 245 600 Liquidity providers None Indexes B35GI, B35PI, OMXBBCAPGI, OMXBBCAPPI, OMXBBGI, OMXBBPI, OMXBGI, OMXBPI, OMXRGI 16 Fluctuation of “Grindeks” share price on “NASDAQ OMX Riga” during 2010 was within the limits from 3.69 lats to 7.00 lats. In 2010, the average price of “Grindeks” shares was 5.97 lats. The total quantity of “Grindeks” shares, traded in “NASDAQ OMX Riga”, during the year 2010 was 583 715 shares, reaching the turnover of 3.49 million lats. At the end of the year 2010 the market capitalization of “Grindeks” shares was 64.22 million lats. The Group’s earnings per share (EPS ratio), during 2010 amounted to 0.74 lats as compared with 0.37 lats during 2009. Development of “Grindeks” share price in 2010 (LVL) Open LVL 3.74 Max LVL 7.00 Min LVL 3.69 Last LVL 6,70 Change 76.32% Deals 1 160 No of shares traded 583 715 Turnover LVL 3 486 586,08 Capitalization on 31.12.2010. LVL 64 219 500 EPS ratio LVL 0.74 P/E ratio LVL 9.05 Development of “Grindeks” share price in comparison with “NASDAQ OMX Riga” index in 2008−2010 Index/Equity 01.01.2008 31.12.2010 +/-% OMX Riga 595.30 393.53 -33.89 GRD1R 5.49 LVL 6.70 LVL 22.04! 17 Satement of financial position as of 31 december 2010 Group Group Company Company 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 LVL LVL LVL LVL ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets Software, patents, licenses, trademarks 883,491 491,500 875,409 487,163 and other rights Advance payments for intangible assets 90,741 295,178 90,741 295,178 Total intangible assets 974,232 786,678 966,150 782,341 Tangible fixed assets Land, buildings and constructions 14,106,736 16,358,280 13,250,167 13,360,559 Equipment and machinery 9,119,061 10,204,746 9,028,778 10,110,362 Other fixed assets 787,502 835,899 737,120 824,524 Construction in progress 8,597,711 3,405,717 5,200,697 Advance payments for fixed assets 2,377,536 2,386,423 2,361,821 2,367,693 Total tangible fixed assets 34,988,546 33,191,065 30,578,583 26,663,138 Investment property 4,882,200 5,049,220 Non current financial investments Investment in subsidiaries 6,986,582 6,986,582 Investment in associates 22,000 22,000 Other investments 25,720 25,720 Other non current assets 1,706,200 Loan for the partner and management 896,075 710,335 896,075 710,335 Total long term financial investments 2,627,995 732,335 7,908,377 7,718,917 Total non current financial assets 43,472,973 39,759,298 39,453,110 35,164,396 Current assets Inventories Raw materials 2,828,538 3,147,807 1,683,387 2,028,556 Unfinished goods 1,980,706 1,848,574 1,980,706 1,848,574 Finished goods and goods for resale 5,936,422 5,567,468 2,238,922 1,934,830 Total inventory 10,745,666 10,563,849 5,903,015 5,811,960 Debtors Trade receivables 23,846,258 19,148,974 18,395,418 12,464,886 Due from related parties 14,717,210 12,350,475 Other debtors 4,437,538 3,432,653 2,253,850 2,154,740 Loan for the partner and management 845,096 741,893 845,095 735,543 Deferred expenses 108,191 174,661 68,492 121,646 Total debtors 29,237,083 23,498,181 36,280,065 27,827,290 Cash and cash equivalents 524,506 116,412 224,057 59,536 Total current assets 40,507,255 34,178,442 42,407,137 33,698,786 TOTAL ASSETS 83,980,228 73,937,740 81,860,247 68,863,182 20 Satement of financial position as of 31 december 2010 Group Group Company Company 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 LVL LVL LVL LVL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Share capital 9,585,000 9,585,000 9,585,000 9,585,000 Share premium 15,687,750 15,687,750 15,687,750 15,687,750 Other reserves 464,905 464,905 464,905 464,905 Foreign currency revaluation reserve 45,282 (117,972) Retained profit a) retained profit 25,580,132 22,012,072 25,497,048 21,983,733 b) current year profit 7,112,698 3,568,060 8,279,316 3,513,315 Equity attributable to equity 58,475,767 51,199,815 59,514,019 51,234,703 holders of the parent No controlling interest 56,020 55,462 Total equity 58,531,787 51,255,277 59,514,019 51,234,703 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans from credit institutions 3,687,826 3,324,869 3,687,826 1,999,258 Finance lease liabilities 770,300 1,230,828 359,912 681,476 Deferred income 3,056,775 1,084,826 3,056,775 1,084,826 Deferred tax liabilities 1,993,312 1,827,506 1,330,282 1,164,476 Total non-current liabilities 9,508,213 7,468,029 8,434,795 4,930,036 Current liabilities Loans from credit institutions 7,839,793 7,241,415 6,514,182 7,241,415 Finance lease liabilities 316,800 332,263 316,800 332,263 Advances from customers 68,891 11,922 68,891 11,922 Trade accounts payable 5,832,190 6,435,314 5,315,439 4,118,873 Taxes and social security liabilities 953,928 253,627 876,698 164,549 Other payables 356,260 635,030 278,452 420,953 Accrued liabilities 121,537 88,444 90,142 192,049 Deferred income 450,829 216,419 450,829 216,419 Total Current liabilities 15,940,228 15,214,434 13,911,433 12,698,443 Total liabilities 25,448,441 22,682,463 22,346,228 17,628,479 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 83,980,228 73,937,740 81,860,247 68,863,182 21 Satement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 december 2010 Group Group Company Company 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 LVL LVL LVL LVL Net sales 65,149,068 53,574,211 62,229,323 51,526,669 Cost of goods sold (28,427,882) (26,881,534) (28,372,965) (26,788,236) Gross profit 36,721,186 26,692,677 33,856,358 24,738,433 Selling expenses (17,820,659) (14,858,102) (16,790,938) (13,297,221) Administrative expenses (7,001,647) (6,814,185) (4,728,138) (5,218,300) Other operating income 1,790,190 82,264 1,858,330 196,449 Other operating expenses (4,744,978) (1,937,816) (4,140,838) (2,159,574) Changes in fair value 1,287,886 Interest income and similar income 87,029 41,223 104,253 131,005 Interest expense and similar expense (240,241) (195,884) (240,241) (195,884) Real estate tax (89,263) (83,105) (59,373) (51,622) Profit before taxation 8,701,617 4,214,958 9,859,413 4,143,286 Corporate income tax (1,588,361) (645,546) (1,580,097) (629,971) NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 7,113,256 3,569,412 8,279,316 3,513,315 Other comprehensive income Foreign currency revaluation 163,254 (77,936) Other comprehensive income total 163,254 (77,936) Comprehensive income total 7,276,510 3,491,476 8,279,316 3,513,315 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 7,112,698 3,568,060 8,279,316 3,513,315 No controlling interest 558 1,352 TOTAL 7,113,256 3,569,412 8,279,316 3,513,315 Comprehensive income attributable of: Equity holders of the parent 7,275,952 3,490,124 8,279,316 3,513,315 No controlling interest 558 1,352 Total 7,276,510 3,491,476 8,279,316 3,513,315 Earnings per share attributable equity holders of the parent (LVL per share) Basic earnings per share 0.74 0.37 Diluted earnings per share 0.74 0.37 22 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 december 2010 Group Share Share Other Foreign Retained Equity No Total capital premium reserves currency profit attributable to controlling translation equity holders interest reserve of the parent LVL LVL LVL LVL LVL LVL LVL LVL As at 31 December 9,585,000 15,687,750 464,905 (40,036) 22,012,072 47,709,691 54,110 47,763,801 2008 Foreign currency (77,936) (77,936) (77,936) revaluation Profit for the year 3,568,060 3,568,060 1,352 3,569,412 As at 31 December 9,585,000 15,687,750 464,905 (117,972) 25,580,132 51,199,815 55,462 51,255,277 2009 Foreign currency 163,254 163,254 163,254 revaluation Profit for the year 7,112,698 7,112,698 558 7,113,256 As at 31 December 9,585,000 15,687,750 464,905 45,282 32,692,830 58,475,767 56,020 58,531,787 2010 Company Share Share Other Retained Total capital premium reserves profit LVL LVL LVL LVL LVL As at 31 December 9,585,000 15,687,750 464,905 21,983,733 47,721,388 2008 Profit for the year 3,513,315 3,513,315 As at 31 December 9,585,000 15,687,750 464,905 25,497,048 51,234,703 2009 Profit for the year 8,279,316 8,279,316 As at 31 December 9,585,000 15,687,750 464,905 33,776,364 59,514,019 2010 23 Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2010 Group Group Company Company 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 LVL LVL LVL LVL OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net profit before taxation 8,701,617 4,214,958 9,859,413 4,143,286 Adjustments to reconcile net profit to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 2,749,194 2,500,129 2,677,482 2,426,555 (Gain) / loss on disposal of fixed assets 705,325 1,716 1,628 (751) and intangible assets Changes in fair value (1,287,886) Income from EU funding (330,018) (125,629) (330,018) (125,629) Interest income (87,029) (41,223) (104,253) (131,005) Interest expense 240,241 195,884 240,241 195,884 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Inventory (181,817) (3,406,661) (91,055) 394,264 Debtors (5,738,902) (3,925,246) (8,452,775) (3,752,078) Creditors (2,200,322) 4,455,759 (330,699) 372,135 Gross cash provided by operating activities 3,858,289 2,581,801 3,469,964 3,522,661 Corporate income tax paid 475,162 (1,345,324) 475,162 (1,345,324) Interest income received 40 1,391 40 1,391 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 4,333,491 1,237,868 3,945,166 2,178,728 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of fixed assets and intangible assets (7,130,424) (4,410,220) (6,807,356) (3,937,419) Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 306,935 6,187 13,000 6,187 Purchase of long term financial investments (267,271) (1,368,066) (263,552) (2,198,942) Other loans repaid 18,931 6,306 18,931 6,306 Net cash used in investing activities (7,071,829) (5,765,793) (7,038,977) (6,123,868) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Received loans from credit institutions 3,323,937 5,346,133 3,323,937 5,346,133 Repaid loans to credit institutions (2,362,602) (1,374,708) (2,362,602) (1,374,708) EU funding 2,537,238 2,537,238 Interest paid (240,241) (195,884) (240,241) (195,884) Net cash (used in) / provided by financing activities 3,146,432 3,775,541 3,258,332 3,775,541 Net increase / (decrease) in cash 408,094 (752,384) 164,521 (169,599) and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning 116,412 868,796 59,536 229,135 of the year CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 524,506 116,412 224,057 59,536 AT THE END OF THE YEAR 24 Products Brand products Mildronate® and Mildronate® GX Ftorafur® Generics Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients “Grindeks” is proud of its original products Mildronate® and Ftorafur® and annually expands the offer of effective generics. Ingrida Innuse-Malinovska Manufacturing Pharmacist of the Peroral Medication Forms Manufacturing Division Products There are more than 100 ready-made medications in the product range of “Grindeks”. The company is proud its brand products − Mildronate®, Mildronate® GX, Ftorafur® as well as the unique ointments Capsicam® and Viprosal B®. Important place in the company’s product range is also for its active pharmaceutical ingredients. We offer 16 types of intricate, manufactured in the multi-stage synthesis, active pharmaceutical ingredients. The main therapeutic groups of “Grindeks” are the heart and cardiovascular, central nervous system and anti-cancer medications. Forming around 51% of the total turnover of “Grindeks”, Mildronate® continues to maintain the leadership in the total product range, but in recent years the sales amount of other final dosage forms and active pharmaceutical ingredients has substantially increased. Brand products “Grindeks” is proud of its brand product of the cardiovascular group of agents Mildronate®. Thanks to its unique property, this medication is used in such cases: • heart and cardiovascular diseases − stable load angina, chronic heart failure (NYHA I−III functional class), cardiomyopathy, functional cardiovascular disorders; • acute and chronic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders; • physical and mental strain and during rehabilitation periods. Mildronate® is available in capsules and injections. In 2010 “Grindeks” introduced a new original form − Mildronate® GX 500 mg tablets. In the beginning of 2010 “Grindeks” successfully finished an international clinical trial on the influence of the brand product Mildronate® on the treatment of angina. The randomized, multinational, multicenter, double blind, placebocontrolled clinical trial on Mildronate® was performed in 37 research centres in Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Ukraine corresponding with the ICH/ GCP (Good clinical practi сe) and the EU legislation for the clinical trials of I–IV phases. Results of the international clinical trial once more approved effectiveness and the high safety of Mildronate® in the treatment of angina in combination with the standard therapy. The stable markets for Mildronate® are Russia and other CIS countries, Latvia and Lithuania. Overall Mildronate® is exported to 15 countries, including also the Balkans starting from 2010. For several years in a row, Mildronate® is the second best selling prescription medication in the Ukraine. The second most popular “Grindeks” brand product Ftorafur® is an anti cancer medication used for the treatment of gastric and colorectal oncological diseases. In 2010 the turnover of Ftorafur® reached 1.74 million lats, which is by 19% more than the results of 2009. Stable markets for Ftorafur® final dosage form are Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Hungary and Belorussia. In its turn, active pharmaceutical ingredient ftorafur (tegafur) has been successfully exported to Japan for over 30 years. Generics In addition to Mildronate®, for treatment of cardiovascular diseases, “Grindeks” also offers such medications, needed by patients and physicians, as Karvidil®, Simvalimit®, Lizinopryl-Grindeks and WarfarinGrindeks and others. The supply of oncological group products of “Grindeks” is also expanding. Currently are being offered – Bikalutamide-Grindeks, Axastrol® (Anastrazole), Fludarabine-Grindeks and Imatinibe-Grindeks. In order to expand the anti-cancer product supply, in 2010 several medication registration processes were continued. In the stage of development, there are two new anti-cancer generics; one of them is in the pre-registration phase. The most important medications of the group the central nervous system therapeutic group is the sleep medication Somnol® and other effective – Alprozolam-Grindeks, Betamaks® and Venlaxor®. One of the most successful medications in this therapeutic group is Rispaxol® – a qualitative new generation product for the treatment of schizophrenia. 28 Among the buyers, “Grindeks” over-the-counter products are also popular, in particular, the ointments Capsicam® and Viprosal B®. Capsicam® ointment contains the substances with vasodilating and irritating effect on the sensitive nerve-endings, resulting in local irritative, hyperemic and analgesic action. The ointment is used for muscle, nerve and joint pain relief in cases of radiculitis, neuralgia, rheumatoid arthritis, myositis and vertebral osteochondrosis, as well as for the treatment of episodic unilateral migraine headache. Capsicam® is analgesic and warmth-producing product for joint and muscular pain, therefore it is often used in sports medicine. In 2010, Capsicam® ointment sales totaled to 4.3 million lats, by 18% above the results of 2009. In 2010, intensive Capsicam® ointment marketing activities in Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, Uzbekistan were launched. Capsicam® ointment is marketed not only in the Baltic countries, Russia and other CIS countries but also in Albania and Kosovo. Viprosal B® ointment is unique, its main active ingredient is viper’s venom (Vipera berus), which contains phospholipase, phosphodiesterase, hialuronidase and other active ingredients. The ointment is used as topical analgesic at joint and muscle pain, namely the venom of viper acts as irritant and analgesic, if absorbed, it activates the protective mechanisms of the organism. In addition to the analgesic effect, camphor, salicylic acid and turpentine oil possess antiseptic effect, salicylic acid acts also as keratolytically agent. Viprosal B® ointment preparation is required not only in the Baltic countries, Russia and other CIS countries, but also in Eastern Europe − Hungary, the Czech Republic. It is particularly popular in Poland. In 2010, sales of Viprosal B® ointment totaled to 4.5 million lats, by 28% above the results of 2009. More and more demanded becomes adsorbent Sorbex®, which is effective for absorption and removal of toxic comBicalutamidum pounds from the human body. Each year, nonprescription 50 mg N28 product range is broadened – in 2010, the company introduced in the Baltic market new generation of probiotics Izdari pareizo g ājienu! Lactobex®. Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) are an integral element of “Grindeks” products. They are manufactured for both further manufacturing of final dosage forms within the company, and for sale to other pharmaceutical companies around the world, mainly in Western countries. The company offers intricate products created as a result of multi-stage synthesis, diversifying and making the portfolio of APIs products more attractive year by year. At present, “Grindeks” manufactures 16 types of active substances. In 2010 the most demanded products were: ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), ftorafur (tegafur), zopiclone, oxytocin, rilmenidine and the new veterinary products detomidine, medetomidine and atipamezole. Registration of zopiclone and oxytocin APIs in accordance with the requirements of European Pharmacopoeia provides export opportunities to the European Union (EU) member states. Both of these substances manufactured by “Grindeks” have been registered in the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines (EDQM). Since the beginning of 2009, “Grindeks” has taken part in a joint international project “Oxytocin in Uniject™”, conducted by the international non-profit organization PATH and the Argentine pharmaceutical company “Instituto Biológico Argentino S.A.I.C.”. Within the scope of the project “Grindeks” is chosen to be a collaboration partner, who produces and supplies oxytocin API. “Oxytocin in Uniject™” is an innovative non-reusable injection device prefilled with a single dose of oxytocin. In the second half of 2009, “Grindeks” introduced a new active pharmaceutical ingredient – ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), which is used for production of final dosage forms in the treatment of hepatic and gallstone diseases. Introduction of the UDCA product will diversify business activity of “Grindeks”, extend the product portfolio, as well as the development opportunities within a completely new medical therapeutic group for the company – gastroenterologal diseases. In accordance with the concluded agreement, “Grindeks” will have to deliver 30t of UDCA substance in 2011. In general, it will considerably extend and even double the APIs business of “Grindeks”. The high quality of “Grindeks” APIs is confirmed by the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) certificate issued by the State Agency of Medicines of Latvia and the opinion of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on conformity of the standard for the entire APIs’ production unit, as well as the opinion of the APIs’ Committee of the European Federation for Medicinal Chemistry (APIC) on conformity of production unit of “Grindeks” with the EU guidelines (ICH Q7A). The opinion of the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) is of great importance for the opportunity to export zopiclone API to Australia. 30 Production Final Dosage Forms Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients One of the advantages of “Grindeks” is the ability to carry out a full product cycle with its own resources − to develop and manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients, out of which then ready-made medications are manufactured and marketed. Valters Vilnis Area Manager of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Manufacturing Unit Production “Grindeks” has great experience in manufacture of full cycle of pharmaceutical products, starting from active pharmaceutical ingredients up to final dosage forms − tablets, capsules, syrups and ointments. The great experience of “Grindeks” in a full cycle of pharmaceutical manufacturing, starting from substances up to final dosage forms, demonstrates the company's ability to organize the multidimensional pharmaceutical business diversely. Striving for the highest international standards, “Grindeks” is constantly investing in industrial infrastructure and technological equipment modernization. Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients 11.4% Final Dosage Forms 88.6% Final Dosage Forms Production of “Grindeks” final dosage forms – tablets, capsules, injections, ointments and syrups – takes place both in Latvia and abroad. Tablets, capsules and syrups are produced by “Grindeks” in Latvia, while “Grindeks’” subsidiary company in Estonia, the “Tallinn Pharmaceutical Plant”, has specialized in ointments. Production of injections, in accordance with agreements concluded, is organized in the pharmaceutical companies of “Sanitas” in Lithuania, “Jelfa SA” in Poland and “HBM Pharma” in Slovakia. Production of “Grindeks” Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Slovakia 33 All the production processes are organized in accordance to the Good Manufacturing Practice and ISO quality standards, which guarantee the overall safety and quality of the produced medications. In the production site, a modern automatic monitoring system has been mounted that checks the microclimate in the premises, operation of the engineering systems, and monitors other production processes and provides significant savings on utilities. In its turn, the modern and high-powered technological equipment of the final dosage forms of “Grindeks” ensures convenient, safe, efficient and environmentally friendly production. “Grindeks” final dosage form production capacity is 1.5 billion tablets and 500 million capsules per year. In the beginning of 2011, “Grindeks” opened a new anti-cancer final dosage forms’ manufacturing unit, in which now a number of oncology medications are already being produced, including our brand product Ftorafur®. The new manufacturing unit will be a significant support “Grindeks” to expand the oncology product range. Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) The APIs’ plant of “Grindeks” is located in an area of approximately 10 000 m2. High-quality APIs are produced in reactors of various volumes (from 100 to 4,000 litres) for both the final dosage forms’ plant of “Grindeks” and for export to clients abroad. Due to the targeted investments, the volume of production has doubled over the last five years. The current maximum capacity of the production of APIs is 200 tons a year. In 2010, supplies to the final dosage forms` plant of “Grindeks” amounted to almost 90 tons of APIs, while 15 tons of substances were manufactured for export. According to the concluded multi-degree and long-term cooperation agreement with the German pharmaceutical company “Marenis Pharma” on the supply of API – ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), finished the construction of the new manufacturing unit in June of 2011. UDCA product development and manufacturing process is complex and time consuming. This is related to refining, hydration, replacement, crystallisation and other chemical transformation. 6.34 million lats were invested in the construction of the manufacturing unit and to increase the energy capacity. “Grindeks” has all the necessary resources to provide contract research and contract production services for APIs. 34 Markets Main export markets for “Grindeks” Markets for Final Dosage Forms Markets for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients New Export Markets The convenient location of “Grindeks” allows it to be a bridge between the East and the West, and to deliver products in the necessary directions. Janis Kalnins Head of the Procurement Department of the Logistics Structure Markets In 2010, “Grindeks” received the prize “Leading Exporter” of the Ministry of Economics of the Republic of Latvia and Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. This title has been awarded deservedly − the company's international activities and export is increasing every year. In 2010, the exports accounted for 95% of overall turnover, products of “Grindeks” are exported to 50 countries. Main export markets for “Grindeks” 14 1 25 15 6 7 16 8 20 5 17 9 10 18 23 29 11 12 19 21 22 2 24 26 30 13 35 27 28 34 31 32 40 38 33 3 36 37 39 41 4 1. Canada 9. Belgium 17. Poland 25. Russia 33. India 2. The USA 10. Germany 18. The Czech 26. Georgia 34. China 3. Guatemala 11. France Republic 27. Armenia 35. Japan 4. Argentina 12. Switzerland 19. Austria 28. Azerbaijan 36. Thailand 5. Ireland 13. Spain 20. Belarus 29. Kazakhstan 37. Singapore 6. The UK 14. Finland 21. Hungary 30. Uzbekistan 38. Taiwan 7. Denmark 15. Estonia 22. Moldova 31. Iran 39. Australia 8. The Netherlands 16. Lithuania 23. Ukraine 32. Pakistan 40. Egypt 24. Bulgaria 41. South Africa 37 “Grindeks” has opened representatives and representative offices and subsidiaries in 10 countries Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan. JSC ”Grindeks” Representative offices Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Georgia, Azerbaijan,Uzbekistan Markets for Final Dosage Forms The sales volume of “Grindeks’” ready made medications amounted to 57.7 million lats in 2010, which is by 9.5 million lats or 19.7% more, comparing to 2009. In 2010, the export volume of the final dosage forms of “Grindeks” to Russia, other CIS countries and Georgia, amounted to 50.2 million lats, which is by 8.3 million lats or 19.8% more then in 2009. The turnover in the Baltic states and other European countries was 7.5 million lats, which is an increase of 1.2 million or 19% over the previous year. The positive results were influenced by the economic stabilization process, as well as targeted marketing and sales activities of “Grindeks” in existing and especially emerging markets − Eastern Europe. Markets for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) In 2010, sales of APIs reached 7.4 million lats, which is by 2 million or 37% more than in 2009. Such a result was achieved, thanks to the increase in demand after introduction in the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient ursodeoxycholic acid in 2009. The main markets in 2010 were Germany, the Netherlands, Japan and the United States. The main cooperation partners are “Marenis Pharma” (Germany), “Eurovet Animal Health” (the Netherlands), “GDL International” (the USA), “Mylan” (France, Ireland). New Export Markets The marketing strategy of “Grindeks” has hit its mark, and the company will concentrate on both retaining existing markets, and entering promising new markets. “Grindeks” has fulfilled all the preconditions to start clinical trials on Mildronate® in China, and soon will begin work with several clinical research centers. The company continues to purposefully expand its activities in the regions of Eastern Europe, the Balkans, and the Scandinavia. We have started to export final dosage forms to Romania, Slovakia, Albania, Kosovo, Sweden and Bulgaria. 38 Investment program The close cooperation with scientists and research institutes both in Latvia, and foreign countries promote research and development of new and innovative substances. Dmitrijs Ruskovs Senior Chemist of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Research and Development Laboratory Investment program • In the beginning of 2010, “Grindeks” successfully finished an international clinical trial on the influence of the brand product Mildronate® on the treatment of angina. Results of the just-finished multinational clinical trial once more approve effectiveness and the high safety of Mildronate® in the treatment of angina in combination with the standard therapy. Results obtained will promote sales and registration of Mildronate® in new markets. A randomized, multinational, multicenter, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial with Mildronate® was performed in 37 research centres in Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Ukraine. “Grindeks” altogether invested 1.6 million lats in this research. • In the beginning of 2011, Grindeks” opened a new anti-cancer final dosage forms’ manufacturing unit, in which 400 thousand lats were invested. In the new manufacturing unit, a number of oncology medications, including our original product and one of the most important products of “Grindeks” − Ftorafur ® are already being produced. • In order to ensure regular development and manufacturing of the active pharmaceutical ingredient of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), in the middle of 2009 “Grindeks” started construction of a new manufacturing unit. 6.34 million lats were invested in the project, from which 2.8 million lats is the co-financing from the European Regional Development Fund. The project was finished in June of 2011. Investments of “Grindeks” during five year period (2006−2010) million LVL 2010 6.633 2009 4.361 2008 8.707 2007 6.953 2006 6.046 41 Quality Quality Management System Technological supply Inspections, audits and quality certificates The good manufacturing practice and the work quality of “Grindeks” each year over and over again are confirmed in the successful audits and inspections. Requirements for the pharmaceutical industry grow and stimulate us to be ever better. Natalja Linkevica Chemistry Technician-Analyst of the Raw Material Control Group of the Quality Control Laboratory Quality Manufacturing processes and the products of “Grindeks” meet global quality standards. “Grindeks” is convinced that observance of the quality principles promote industrial development, as well as provide product promotion in the market, ensuring that new and existing high quality and safe products will satisfy customers. Compliance with the Good Manufacturing Practice and quality standards are in the interests of both manufacturers and consumers. DevelopManufacResearch Registration Logistic Sales ment turing Quality control Taking into account, that quality requirements in the field of pharmacy and in the sphere of Good Manufacturing Practice increase every year, also during 2010, “Grindeks” continued to improve its operations in this field. Quality Management System The integrated Quality Management System of “Grindeks” is certified since 2006 and it covers all stages of the product life cycle, starting from research, development, production, quality control, and ending with sales, as well as labour and environmental monitoring. In September 2010 successfully was passed Quality and Environmental Management System surveillance audit by the “Bureau Veritas Latvia”. In the company is implemented computerized Document Management System, which provide effective and operative circulation of documents and information. In “Grindeks” operates the Business Continuity Management Process, which includes a quick response plan, crisis management and communication plan and recovery strategies. Moreover, attention is paid to the Business Risk Management, which aims to provide a structured and planned business risk management process and to eliminate the possibility that certain events or 44 actions, dependent or independent from the company, adversely affects the achievement of the company's goals and implementation of the strategy. Overall, the Quality Management System has an important role in working efficiency, growth and strengthening of competitiveness of “Grindeks”. Technological supply Constantly improving quality control, “Grindeks” invests in new, modern production facilities construction and replace aging equipment with more powerful. So, in 2010, the company finished construction and certification of the new anti-cancer medication production unit. Production processes in the new unit are organized in accordance with legislation, GMP and ISO quality standards. The unit is equipped with powerful modern production facilities to provide convenient, safe, efficient and environmentally friendly manufacturing process. Inspections, audits and quality certificates In 2010, “Grindeks” passed more audits and inspections than in other years. Altogether “Grindeks” successfully passed 22 significant inspections and audits by the Latvian and foreign state agencies of medicine and supervisory bodies of food supplement manufacturers and audits by clients about compliance to the GMP of the entire company and of the manufacturing units. Very successfully held were held audits by the Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian pharmaceutical inspections in the production units of anti-cancer products, and of four active pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as Belarusian and Latvian dietary supplement industry inspectorate inspections. In the history of the Latvian pharmaceutical industry and its own, “Grindeks” made important recordings in 2003, becoming the first domestic pharmaceutical company, which received the Good Manufacturing Practice certificate. At that time this certificate covered the production and control of ready made medications and, but with time − virtually all the sphere of activity of the company and the contractual organizations. In 2010, according to the pharmaceutical regulatory requirements, “Grindeks” experts participated in 33 audits in laboratories of raw material producers and partners and companies, including Italy, the Netherlands, India and other countries. 45 Personnel Policy Personnel Policy Production Relations Policy Working quality evaluation and development planning system Qualifications Rising and Training Policy Salary Policy Social Policy New Employees A small staff turnover and the demand for work and practice places confirm the success of the personnel policy and the employer's good reputation. 900 employees work for the company, out of which 72% have a university degree. Daina Klavina Personnel Database Manager of the Personnel Department Personnel Policy JSC “Grindeks” Number of employees – 900 Employees with the university degree – 72% Average age – 40 years Average service at the company – 7.6 years Our professional staff is the main company’s value and success factor, so taking care of its employees, “Grindeks” implements such personnel policy that include progressive staff motivation methods. The decreasing staff turnover, the increasing demand for employment and internships at the company is the proof of the successfully realized Personnel Policy of “Grindeks” and good reputation as an employer. Personnel Policy The main principles of the Personnel Policy are as follows: • Working conditions in line with health and safety regulations and requirements of Good Manufacturing Practice; • A well-organized work environment, technical supply required for the work (technologies, computer equipment, service cars, communications, etc.); • Open information concerning development perspectives of the company, career and personal growth opportunities. Production Relations Policy The Production Relations Policy also plays a major role in the company, including development of unified procedures and regular updates, optimisation of the work process and work assessment. “Grindeks” guarantees a clean working environment meeting all health and safety and modern technical requirements, as well as enhancing career and personal growth opportunities for its employees in line with the development prospects of the company. 48 Working quality evaluation and development planning system The company performs professional assessment of employees on an annual basis, through assessing work competence in the preceding year and gathering information related to the needs of the employee training. In 2010 “Grindeks” continued to acquire new competence models that were developed for all 230 positions in the company in 2009. It includes a performance analysis, development planning and the particular job required competencies assessment. This model is a benefit to both managers and workers, because it allows an objectively evaluate the employee’s actual competence how qualitatively the person puts her/his theoretical knowledge into practice. Assessment of competence allows to make the process more effective, accordingly planning the necessary training, further career development and so on. Competence management and development model helps to: • Selection of staff; • Work performance management; • Career planning; • Determination of training needs and management of employee development; • The wage system actualization. Qualifications Rising and Training Policy The company has invested almost 100 thousands lats in the employee training and qualification raising in 2010; the number of training hours per employee − 31.5 hours. The priority training topics are: acquisition of new technologies, medication registration, “Good Manufacturing Practice” and total quality management issues, as well as environmental protection and safety requirements. In 2010 three staff training and qualifications rising projects administered by the Latvian Investment and Development Agency were completed, which were implemented by the European Union co-financing funds. The projects aim was to increase the company's competitiveness by raising workers' skills and providing new knowledge. Training providers were selected from both local and foreign lecturers. Salary Policy “Grindeks” offers salaries and a competitive bonus system as well as project bonuses, meeting the requirements of the labour market and corresponding to the assessment of each employee. Social Policy The Social Policy for staff is of great importance for “Grindeks”. It envisages social guarantees, benefits, employees` health and accident insurance, as well as extras like subsidised meals and lunches in the company’s canteen, transportation and salaried holiday benefit. The company also has a sport complex where employees can play basketball, volleyball, attend aerobics classes, use fitness equipment as well as relax in a sauna. Relaxation from work can also be enjoyed at various events organised by “Grindeks”. Singing Ligo songs on the eve of the summer solstice organized by “Grindeks” has become a tradition, while in winter it is possible to strengthen team spirit in the bowling tournament and other events, as well as the joint holiday celebration occasions on the Christmas ball and the like. 49 Every year “Grindeks” nominates and congratulates the best employees. In its turn, the employees, who have worked in the company for many years, “Grindeks” awards with the special badges. In 2010, 15 workers for 15 years of work at the company received the silver badges, but the golden badges for 25 years of work at the company received 5 workers of “Grindeks”. Various thorny issues at the company are solved through social dialogue, and the management of “Grindeks” is always open for negotiations with the Employees’ Trade Union, which has existed since the company was established. The conclusion of the collective agreement with employees before Christmas has become a tradition, providing staff with social guarantees exceeding those prescribed by the Labour Law, for example: • leave considered as time at work for studies and examinations for employees of the company who successfully acquire higher education qualifications in specialities necessary for the company; • three days paid leave (for marriage and for fathers in the event of childbirth); • a special holiday for each employee. New Employees By organising the New Employee Days, “Grindeks” makes it easier for new employees to start work in the company. During the information day the employees are briefed on the operation of the company, the work of structural units, environmental, quality, health and safety and fire safety issues, and are also invited to go on a tour of the company's site and get acquainted with one another. 50 Communication Policy To maintain close links with doctors, pharmacists, business partners, investors, employees and the society as a whole, “Grindeks” strategically and operationally implements external and internal communication. Jevgenija Briede Public Relations Specialist of the Communication Department Communication Policy Communication Policy of “Grindeks” is closely linked to the company's business strategy and objectives. The company implements external and internal communication through a unified communications platform in all countries. In the company’s external communication, a special role is given to the communication and the feedback of the company's important audiences – the pharmaceutical industry specialists, business partners, investors and the public in general. The company regularly provides information on current events to the stock exchange and the media. Comprehensive and up to date information about the company is always found in the company's website www.grindeks.lv, while the Russian speaking doctors and specialists can find the information about the company's Mildronate® in the specially created website www.mildronat.ru. Thanks to the broad and content-rich information, the number of unique visitors of the company’s web site www.grindeks.lv amounted to 25,000 per month in 2010.The company regularly issues a newspaper “Гриндекс для здоровья” (Grindeks for Health) and since April 2009 on a quarterly bases – “Grindeks Update” – an electronic issue in English. Since 2010 on “Grindeks” has created its own profile on social networking sites – www.twitter.com, www.draugiem.lv and www.youtube.com. To maintain close liaison with doctors, specialists and business partners, “Grindeks” participates in various conferences, seminars and exhibitions of the industry. For several consecutive years “Grindeks” participates with its stand in the main event of the industry – the international exhibition “CPhI”. Particularly important is communication with the employees of “Grindeks”. The main information medium in the company is the portal for employees “Grindeks life”. Information on the company in Latvian and Russian languages is published there. Still an integral form of the communication of the company is also quarterly meetings, annual regional meeting of representatives and videoconferences. To assess the effectiveness of communication with audiences, “Grindeks” carries out monitoring of publicity, sociological researches, analyzes the web site traffic, and evaluates the benefits and returns at the end of the communication projects. 53
