2010 Sustainability Report KCSC Sustainability Report Korea Cadastral Survey Corp., Planning Office / Management Department, 141 Uisadang-ro [45 Yeoido-dong], Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-911 Tel 02) 3774-1070~8 Fax 02) 3774-1089 2010 Sustainability Report Contents 04 30 About the Korea Cadastral Survey Corp. Meaning Report 08_ CEO Message KCSC has published Sustainability Report to report the management activities so that it can acquire a foundation of trust and support among interested parties, and based on this develop further into a sustainable organization that creates new value. Through this report containing 11_ Efforts for UN Global Compact the management strategies and activities pursued from the economic, social and environmental aspects, we have internally shared the 12_ 2010 Highlights News understanding for sustainable management, and externally revealed ourselves and strengthened communication with interested parties. 14_ Activities of Interested Parties Criteria and Target of Report 16_ Materiality Test The Sustainability Report of KCSC was prepared according to the 'GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Guideline G3', and the utmost priority 18_ Introduction of KCSC was placed on procuring accuracy and objectivity of the data. This report was drafted for interested parties that may be directly or indirectly 22_ Corporate Governance affected by the management activities such as employees, government institutes, local society, customers, vendors, NGOs, etc. A third party verification agency has verified that this report was drafted according to the G3 guideline standards. 24_ Operation Structure 26_ Chances and Challenges Range of Report 44 28_ Managerial Objective This report makes a report on the sustainability activities and performances of the headquarters and branches, and for overseas projects, project activities per project were reported. The period for this report is from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. When past statistics are needed for comparison, performance of three years from 2008 to 2010 were reported, and materials drafted based on the current day of Economic Performance report has separately stated the standard date. 32_ Economic Value of KCSC Period of Report 34_ Major Public Benefit Projects This report is the third sustainability report continuing from the previous year showing the economic, social and environmental activities and 38_ Establishment of Global Competitiveness performances of KCSC. Sustainability Reports will be published annually to report the sustainability activities and performances of KCSC. Provision of Additional Contents and Information Social Performance The contents found in this report can be checked at our homepage (www.kcsc.co.kr). 46_ Customer Satisfaction Management If you need additional information or have any questions about the report, please contact the representative at the following contact 64 72 52_ Contributions to Community information. 55_ Employee Satisfaction 141 Uisadang-ro [45 Yeoido-dong], Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-911 Management Dept., Planning Office, Korea Cadastral Survey Corp. Ethical Performance TEL: 02) 3774-1070~8 FAX: 02) 3774-1089 66_ Ethical Management Environmental Performance 74_ Configuration of Green Spatial Information 76_ Environmental Management Registration Dvision Boundary Conversion Relocation Survey Survey Survey 79 Appendix We are a public spatializing in cadastral information services New Registration Best Brand Cadastral that have protected the property rights of the people and for Cadastral Status Survey Survey Survey provided national spatial information to offer accurate and efficient spatial information on the land of Korea. Cadastral Topographic Cadastral Confirmation Control Triangulation Survey Survey Survey Based on 73 years of experience, For The Past 73 Years⋯ KCSC begins Smart Work, which will illuminate the next 100 years of the Republic of Korea For more flexible, more efficient creation of value Smart Work based on high-tech IT equipment will be introduced. We will open the doors to a more innovative tomorrow that will enhance the cadastral sovereignty of Korea. 09 We will lead the Creation of Smart Land Information. About the Korea Cadastral Survey Corp. Greetings. CEO Message First of all, I am very happy and honored to be able to report the management activities and We have taken only one path performance of Korea Cadastral Survey Corp., to all of our interested parties. to enhance the value For the past 73 years, KCSC has strived to fulfill its duties as a public organization which is in charge of the protection of the people's property rights and to efficiently administer the national territory. of the land of Korea. This year, we are conducting company-wide innovation by selecting HOPE (High-tech High-touch, Ownership mind, Public interest, and customer Expectation) management as the core values to become a global leader who creates Smart Land Information and promotes a cadastral system and the spatial information industry. KCSC will continue to conduct its spatialized social contribution activities unique to the corporation Korea Cadastral Survey Corp, such as reducing survey fees for the low-income class and making free surveys for areas hitten by for the past 73 years, disasters on the other hand, we'll create continue to a base for sustainable growth with private and has been a cadastral survey company public organizations. To do this, KCSC will first increase R&D investments and concentrate on developing key personnel to that has accurately and fairly obtain the best technologies and capacities. made cadastral surveys, Second, we will strive to become active individuals and organization that innovates work through selfwhich is the basis motivated development and work, in our a harmony of authorities and responsibilities. Third, we will make a dignified corporation by escalatiug a warm corporate culture that is considerate for protection of property of vulnerable places, together with honest and fair handling of work. Fourth, all employees will establish a productive and creative corporate culture through free flowing and the backbone of communication and cooperation both inside and outside of the company to create new corporate the national spatial information industry. values. All of these efforts by KCSC is a firm resolution to take a bold step towards a new history of 100 years, and is also an honest promise to our interested parties. We hope that this will be used by everyone who reads this report as a medium for enhancing understanding our efforts for sustainability. Thank you. 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report March 2011 President Kim, Young-Ho 09 We will lead the Creation of Smart Land Information. Greetings. CEO Message First of all, I am very happy and honored to be able to report the management activities and performance of Korea Cadastral Survey Corp., to all of our interested parties. For the past 73 years, KCSC has strived to fulfill its duties as a public organization which is in charge of the protection of the people's property rights and to efficiently administer the national territory. This year, we are conducting company-wide innovation by selecting HOPE (High-tech High-touch, Ownership mind, Public interest, and customer Expectation) management as the core values to become a global leader who creates Smart Land Information and promotes a cadastral system and the spatial information industry. KCSC will continue to conduct its spatialized social contribution activities unique to the corporation such as reducing survey fees for the low-income class and making free surveys for areas hitten by disasters on the other hand, we'll create continue to a base for sustainable growth with private and public organizations. To do this, KCSC will first increase R&D investments and concentrate on developing key personnel to obtain the best technologies and capacities. Second, we will strive to become active individuals and organization that innovates work through selfmotivated development and work, in our a harmony of authorities and responsibilities. Third, we will make a dignified corporation by escalatiug a warm corporate culture that is considerate of vulnerable places, together with honest and fair handling of work. Fourth, all employees will establish a productive and creative corporate culture through free flowing communication and cooperation both inside and outside of the company to create new corporate values. All of these efforts by KCSC is a firm resolution to take a bold step towards a new history of 100 years, and is also an honest promise to our interested parties. We hope that this will be used by everyone who reads this report as a medium for enhancing understanding our efforts for sustainability. Thank you. 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report March 2011 President Kim, Young-Ho 10 From our on-site staffs to CEO, Efforts for UN Global Compact 11 KCSC has already been recognized KCSC has joined the UN Global Compact, in June 2007 which is a pledge for the company to voluntarily perform economical, environmental 2010 Highlights News and social responsibilities and we are striving to voluntarily observe the 10 main principles on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. KCSC understands that ethical management is the fundamental basis for the sustainability of a company, and has thus made various efforts such as participating in UNGC symposiums and submitting reports on sustainability to the UN Global Compact. KCSC as the best ethical management company, will continue to strive to become a global company through mutual trust and respect by communicating our interested parties, and we pledge to transparently disclose our Sustainability Report. and this is the greatest pride of all our employee. Global Compact 10 Principles Compliance and Basis Human Rights • Enact ethics charter • Human rights education Principle 1. The Corporation shall support and respect human rights • Operate a complaint handling system protection as internationally declared • Code of Conduct Article 43 (Prohibition against Human Rights Principle 2. The Corporation shall make all efforts not to be involved in sexual harassment), Article 49 (Compliance of infringement upon human rights. international business standards) Labor Standards • Operate labor-management meetings • Equal employment policy Principle 3. The Corporation shall support the freedom of association and practical recognition of collective bargaining rights. • Prevent discrimination and improve treatment of Principle 4. The Corporation shall exclude all forms of forced labor. non full-time employees Principle 5. The Corporation shall effectively abolish child labor. • Abolish forced labor and child labor Labor Standards • Code of Conduct Article 48 (Labor-Management Principle 6. The Corporation shall not engage in discrimination at times of hiring and during work. harmony), Article 14 (Exclusion of favors) Environment • Efforts to conserve energy Principle 7. The Corporation shall support preventive approaches for • Use energy-conserving machines environmental issues. • Recycling and reusing Principle 8. The Corporation shall step forward in taking more environmental • Code of Conduct Article 47 (Environmental responsibilities. Protection) Environment Principle 9. The Corporation shall promote environment-friendly technology • Environment conservation ethics standards development and its dissemination. 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report • Anti-corruption, transparent and ethical Anti-Corruption management activities Principle 10. The Corporation shall strive to stop all forms of corruption such • Code of Conduct Articles 5, 8, 15, 16, 21, 23, and 24 Anti-Corruption as dishonest acquisition and bribery. • Code of Conduct for Ethics 12 13 2010 Highlight News Achievements in Anti-Corruption and Clean Policies Ethics In 2010, KCSC made continuous efforts to establish anticorruption and clean policies. KCSC practiced clean About Korea Cadastral Survey Corp. policies such as 1) construction of an anti-corruption and clean organizational culture, 2) malcing practice movement 2010 Highlights News with the CEO, 3) establishing a transparent culture through system reforms, 4) conducting internal regulations and anti-corruption effect analysis, 4) establishing codes of conduct and promoting report-making, and 5) enhacing Kim Young-ho inaugurated as 22nd CEO transparent ethical education. In result, KCSC received a Innovation Kim Young-ho, former vice minister of the Ministry of 'excellent' grade in the anti-corruption policy evaluation. Public Administration and Security, was appointed as the 22nd CEO of KCSC on September 17, 2010. In his inaugural Opening of Labor-Management Joint speech, Kim stated, We should have the best capacities Workshop to Realize a Fair Society and evolve ourselves to uplift our class and communicate KCSC declared the 'Labor-Management Cooperation freely. On this day, a farewell ceremony was also held for former CEO Lee Sung-yeol, who completed Proclamation to Realize a Fair Society' being the first among his three year term, and this was the first time in the history of KCSC where the CEO inauguration and public corporations from November 4-5, 2010, and solidified farewell ceremony was held at the same time. its will to practice fair management. CEO Kim Young-ho, labor union chairman Cho Tae-geun, executives, directors, and managers of the labor union attended the event and Design of New Headquarter held a 'Labor-Management Cooperation Proclamation' signing ceremony, vowed to establish feasible laborThe winning design of the headquarters of KCSC, which management relations that fits the fair society such as realization of anti-corruption and transparency, practicing will move to the Jeonbuk Innovation City by 2012, was ethical management, and promoting social contribution activities based on trust and harmony. selected. KCSC opened a screening commission for the design contest on August 5, 2010 and announced the winning piece. The selected design stands seven stories Society Jang Sun-jae Repeats Victory at Asian Games 2 high with one underground floor. It has a total floor area of 11,297m , together with facilities such as Jang Sun-jae, a member of KCSC Cycle Team, who won an office, auditorium, PR hall, survey equipment inspection area, and sports facilities. three gold medals at the Doha Asian Games, competed again at the Guangzhou Asian Games and again won two gold medals. Economy Active Overseas Projects Many Events for Employees and Families KCSC actively conduets to overseas projects. It spreads Drawing contest for employees' children and KCSC Camp its field in Azerbaijan, Jamaica and Turkmenistan. As with Dad were held. well by adding the overseas project in Laos, Cambodia and Morocco in the 2010 overseas projects, this overseas projects will be focused as a new strategic business. 'Land and People' Wins 2010 Korean Challenging the Cadastral Reform Project Again Communication Awards With cadastral reform projects being selected as projects 'Land and People', KCSC newsletter, won the Minister of for pre-feasibility investigations by the government in Culture, Sports and Tourism Award for the public sector March 2010, a green light was given for conducting the at the '2010 Korean Communication Awards'. 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report businesses of KCSC. However, despite the company-wide efforts to pass the pre-feasibility investigations, they were PR For KCSC on TV unable to overcome some obstacles, and must challenge it A documentary called 'Myeongdong Cathedral in 3D' again in 2011. on Pyeonghwa TV and at 'Experience Life' on KBS1TV introduced the works of KCSC. 14 15 Activities of Interested Parties Communication with Interested Parties Communication was made with the interested parties categorized into five groups using various methods. A channel was organized for communication activities considering the characteristics of the interested parties, and at the respective department, issues of high About Korea Cadastral Survey Corp. concerns were once again checked through the participation activities. Through this, it was possible to prevent conflicts that could occur Activities of Interested Parties during management activities and procure transparency and reliability, while setting the direction for activities of KCSC. In particular, through the VOC management system and internet customer participation center, timeliness is being enhanced through channels that receive opinions in real time. In the future, by strengthening communication activities, we will make an environment that could more assertively reflect the opinions of interested parties. Perspective on Interested Parties with them. KCSC reflects issues deduced through communication Section Government Customer Vendor Community Employees KCSC understands interested parties as those groups or activities and has set the core values of interested parties. Such • KCSC Homepage • KCSC Homepage • KCSC Homepage • KCSC Homepage • KCSC Homepage individuals who effect or are affected by the corporation. Among core values are the basic principles for establishing and operating (management • Regular board announcement, • Digital Land Expo • Jidori Volunteer • Laborthem, KCSC assesses the influence or level of importance to KCSC sustainable management by KCSC, and it is beig developed into meetings Corps management customer • Transparency Survey sustainable management strategies. suggestion) associations / and has set the government, customer, vendors, community, and • Anti-Corruption • 1 Company 1 Village meetings and Civil Rights • Sustainability Report Sisterhood • Monthly journals and employees as the five main interested parties. It has composed Commission newsletters • Labor Union • Cadastral survey homepage and operated communication channels to perform continuous • Sustainability • Monthly newsletter contests Identify influence of interested parties Communication Report 'Land and People' • Employee involvement activities for each interested party, and their key • Sustainability Report satisfaction • Check interested parties per • National Policy • Customerinvestigation opinions are reflected in the strategies of KCSC, of which the Channel Audit • Community organization satisfaction survey meetings performances are reported. During such process, we are confident • Speaking with the • Management • PCSI CEO Performance • Seminars related to that the Sustainability Report is recognized as an important Report • Happy Call surveys • Employee Debates method for communication with interested parties and that it will • Sustainability Report • Customer• We-land satisfaction surveys Suggestion System enhance the sustainability of KCSC during the course of selecting • Monitoring System and managing activities of key interested parties. By connecting Identify materiality of interested parties • Sustainability Report the issues and activities acquired through communication with • Identify level of materiality per interested parties about the sustainable management of KCSC, its interested party for each organization ● Interested Parties Surveys efficiency and value are being increased. KCSC handed out surveys to interested parties to evaluate the sustainability activities in 2010. It was possible to identify the level of sustainable management of KCSC through this survey, and it was also an opportunity to check the different perspectives on major issues Key Interested Parties and Core Values between employees and outside interested parties. In addition, by deducing the major issues related to sustainable management, a The key interested parties of KCSC are the government, customers, materiality test was conducted to organize the report. Set key interested parties vendors, community and employees. These key interested parties • Select key interested parties through influence the managerial activities of KCSC on an economical, results of analysis environmental and social aspects. Thus, a systematic ally selected ◎ Sustainable management activities* evaluation* * ◎ Activity evaluation per interested party standards of key interested parties are established to communicate Employees Interested Parties Sustainable 60% Advancement of cadastral administration Section Government Customer Vendor Community Employees 40% Sustainable development Public benefit 30% • 3,724 people • National Assembly • Applicants and users • Cooperative • Head office, 20% Interested Parties • Central Government for cadastral survey partners and • Civic organizations Training Institute, Sharing management 10% CSR / NGO Research Institute 0 • Local Government services businesses • branch offices • local offices Very Sustainable Value management Global management 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Company that fully Company that can be Company that others Respected company Best place of work 23% completes the role as trusted by customers want to continue to that performs to realize capacities Win-Win Cooperative a public organization work with through socially responsible and dreams Average Customer satisfaction Green management Company win-win cooperation management Not Sustainable 16% Ethical management Social Responsibility 1% Management Public institute with Representative public Joint growth through Win-win strategy that Improve quality of life for respects the economical, employees and provide goal to pursue public institute for cadastral fair and transparent environmental and opportunity for self* Questions on a total of 10 areas related to economy, society and environment benefit information services transactions cultural characteristics of the community realization * * Scores summing up the responses of employees and outside interested parties 16 17 Materiality Test ● Contents of KCSC Sustainability Report • Strengthen land administration About Korea Cadastral Survey Corp. trust • Evaluation and reward system • Business diversification • Improved welfare Economy • Develop cadastral survey Employees • Training and career development Materiality Test technologies • Reformed organization culture • Research development of laws and policies • Labor-management culture Materiality Evaluation Process Develop and enter foreign projects In order to fill the contents of this report, KCSC conducted a materiality test. In order to set the most important topics that should be included in this report, the following structuralized approach method was used. • Customer-oriented service • Spatialized social contribution 1. Check 2. Check 4. Materiality 5. Decide key 6. Determine • System for receiving customer activities 3. Global issues suggestions internal issues external issues test issues report contents Sharing • Donations to marginalized classes Customers • Evaluation and improvement Management • Environment protection activities of customer satisfaction management • Activities in connection to the community • Protection of customer information • CEO leadership • Reduced energy usage Determine Report Contents • Effective operation of policies and • Purchase of environment-friendly KCSC selected key issues in six fields through the materiality evaluation process. KCSC organization goods has unveiled the policies and activities of the corporation related to the key issues selected Corporate Ethics Environment • Strengthen ethical capacities • Practicing of environment-friendly through this report. management • Evaluation and reward for ethical management • Reduced use of resources 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 18 19 Introduction of KCSC KCSC will strive for a today that is better than yesterday, ● History and furthermore, a tomorrow that is better than today. 1938 ~ 1960 1961 ~ 1980 1981 ~ 2003 2004 ~ 2008 2009 ~ 2010 The path taken by KCSC. Jan 24, 1938 Jan 1, 1962 Dec 18, 1981 Jan 1, 2004 Jan 23, 2009 Introduction of KCSC Established the Joseon Supervision changed from Moved the KCSC Changed to spatial Published 70 year Cadastral Foundation Minster of Finance to training center to corporation, KCSC by the history of KCSC Minister of Internal Affairs Yongin, Gyeonggi-do Law on Cadastral Survey KCSC Way May 1, 1949 Jun 9, 2009 Changed name to Dec 29, 1969 Apr 1, 1994 Dec 16, 2004 Enacted laws on Purpose of Establishment Korean Cadastral Revised statute to direct Installed Cadastral Acquired outstanding cadastral survey and Foundation appointment of directors Technology Research company certification by waterway surveys The goal of KCSC is in protecting the rights to property of the people and contributing to the development of cadastral survey technologies and and executives by the Center the Korea Service Quality improvement of cadastral systems by effectively pursuing projects according to laws on cadastral and measurement waterway surveys. May 21, 1953 Minister of Internal Affairs Sep 10, 2009 Fostered cadastral Mar 1, 1999 July 1, 2005 Won spatial award in survey technology Nov 6, 1976 Integrated the Cadastral Opened the Cadastral the National Production Foundation of Establishment center and installed Designated as proxy Technology Training Research institute Awards training institute institute for cadastral Center and Research Laws on cadastral and measurement/waterway surveys Article 58 (Establishment of KCSC) survey operations by the Center as the Cadastral Feb 29 2008 Sep 8, 2010 01. KCSC shall be established to conduct research on cadastral surveys and cadastral systems, as well as to construct a cadastral Dec 31, 1960 Cadastral Act Technology Training Transferred department Design of new head information system Regulation of basis for and Research Center from the Ministry of office building 02. KCSC shall be a corporate body conducting cadastral Jul 1, 1977 Public Administration and 03. KCSC shall be established by registration of establishment at the place of its main office. survey operations Revised Statute by the Nov 29, 2003 Security to the Ministry by proxy by the State revision of the Cadastral Acquired ISO 9001 of Land, Transport and 04. Items necessary for the registration of establishment of KCSC shall be as determined by Presidential Decree. Council Decree 176 Act, and changed name Quality Management Maritime Affairs to Korea Cadastral System Certification Survey Corp. Foundation Corporate Overview Section Corporate Overview Main Businesses Corporation Name KCSC (Korea Cadastral Survey Corporation.) Cadastral survey such as cadastral triangulation, Cadastral partitioning, restoration of boundaries, Survey confirmation, etc according to the laws on Establishment Date January 24, 1938 Topographical waterway suruey & Cadastre No. of Employees 3,724 International Overseas projects on cadastral systems, Exchange cadastral surveys, and international exchange Total Assets 291.03 Billion KRW Education/ Support projects on research and education on Research cadastral systems and cadastral surveys Total Liabilities 147.32 Billion KRW Producing Producing cadastral-related maps such as Maps cadastral maps and forestry maps Equity Capital 143.71 Billion KRW Cadastral Items related to cadastral reform and cadastral Total Sales 407.06 Billion KRW Projects incompatible area projects 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Address of Head Office 141 Uisadang-ro [45 Yeoido-dong], Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-911 Cadastral Provision and use of cadastral information services Information using cadastral maps and electronic files 20 21 Introduction of KCSC ● Location of Head Office and Branch Offices Gangwon Branch office Introduction of KCSC Head Office・Seoul Branch office Incheon Branch office KCSC Way Gyeonggi Branch office Organization Structure Branch Office Local Office As of January 1, 2011, KCSC has 2 offices, 2 divisions, 1 business group and 15 Chungbuk Branch office departments and it is composed of 12 branch offices in cities and provinces around Head Office Daejeon・Chungnam Branch office the nation and 185 local offices in other cities, gun and gu, with the Cadastral Training Cadastral Cadastral Institute and Cadastral Research Institute. There are a total of 3,724 employees (as of Training Institute Research Institute Jeonbuk Branch office Dec 31, 2010), made up of four executives, 3,460 technicians, and 86 office workers. Daegu・Gyeongbuk Branch office Organization Chart (January 1, 2011) President Gwangju・Jeonnam Branch office Busan Branch office Ulsan・Gyeongnam Branch office Auditor Vice President Business Executive Administrative Executive Jeju Branch office Planning Office Business Division Future Business Group Management Support Office Auditing Office • Future Strategy Department • Business Support Department • Business Development • Operation Support • Auditing Department Department Department • Management Department • Customer Support Department • Ethics Department • Overseas Business • Personnel Department • PR Department • Information Management Department Department • Financial Department • Cadastral Advancement Department • Welfare Department ● Seoul Head office ● Busan Branch office ● Incheon Branch office ● Gyeonggi Branch office ● Cadastral Training Institute ● Cadastral Research Institute ● Branch Offices (12) 30 114 Gil Bongeunsa-ro (164-6 Sam129 Geumgang-ro (439-2 Oncheon 28 Baenamu 3-gil (1094-15 Guwol 170 Ingye-ro (1116 Ingye-dong), seong-dong), Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-090 1-dong), Dongnae-gu, Busan 607-834 3-dong), Namdong-gu, Incheon 405-824 Paldal-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do 02)550-7925 051)554-7704 032)426-9018 442-835 031)250-0901 Cadastral Training Institute Cadastral Research Institute Branch Offices ● Gangwon Branch office ● Chungbuk Branch office ● Daejeon·Chungnam Branch office ● Jeonbuk Branch office Personnel Land Technology Operation 74 Huseok-ro (67-9 Hupyeong 2-dong), 271 Yeche-ro (Sachang-dong 242-1), 6 Boramaeseo-ro (653 Tanbang-dong), 250 Baekjae-ro (1558 Inhu-dong Training Business Support Development Support Office Information Development Division Department Chuncheon, Gangwon-do 200-955 Hongdeok-gu, Cheongju, Chungbuk Seo-gu, Daejeon 302-223 2-ga), Deokjin-gu, Jeonju, Jeonbuk Office Office Office 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 033)250-5321 361-832 043)264-1854 042)479-2115 561-832 063)240-2740 ● local offices ● Gwangju·Jeonnam Branch office ● Daegu·Gyeongbuk Branch office ● Ulsan·Gyeongnam Branch office ● Jeju Branch office Daejeon/ Gwangju/ Daegu/ Ulsan/ 102 Sangmu Jungang-ro (1213-2 8 Igokdong-ro (1252-1 Igok-dong), 6 532 beon-gil (104-2) Shinwol-dong) 92 Shindae-ro (303-3 Yeon-dong), Total Seoul Busan Incheon Gyeonggi Gangwon Chungbuk Chungnam Jeonbuk Jeonnam Gyeongbuk Gyeongnam Jeju Chipyeong-dong), Seo-gu, Gwangju Dalseo-gu, Daegu 704-928 Changidae-ro, Uichang-gu, Changwon, Jeju-si, Jeju-do 690-814 502-827 062)370-8403 053)550-2900 Gyeongnam 641-060 055)250-5310 064)746-0803 185 14 5 4 31 17 11 17 14 24 26 20 2 22 23 Corporate We have constructed a foundation for sustainable Corporate Governance of KCSC Operation of Executive Board management through management by the most transparent KCSC is a quasi-government organization with the goal of protecting The executive board, which is the highest decision-making entity, executive board Governance the properties of the people and to contribute in the development of that reviews and determines important matters for management, cadastral survey technologies and cadastral policies by efficiently is composed of 10 members (4 full-time, 6 non full-time members) Corporate Governance pursuing projects on cadastral surveys and waterway surveys in currently as of Dec 31, 2010, and non full-time members account accordance with the relevant laws. for 60% of the executive board. In pursuit of Article 18 Clause 4 of the 'Act on Operation of Public Institutions', the CEO also holds the KCSC Way position of chairman of the executive board. ● Members of Executive Board ● Executive Board Meetings Section 2008 2009 2010 Compared to previous Section Position Name Background Convened Meeting 8 11 12 1 (increased) • 1st vice-minister of the Ministry of Public Administration and Security Operation Committee 2 5 4 1 (decreased) Meeting On-site Executive Board 1 1 President Kim Young-ho • Secretary general of the Civil Service Commission Executive Board Workshop 1 1 (increased) • Governor of administration of Chungcheongbuk-do Non Full-time Executives Meeting 2 2 (increased) Attendance Rate of Non Full-time Executives 90.7% 92.9% 95.8% 2.9% (increased) Vice President Kwak Jeong-wan • Business executive of KCSC • KCSC Gyeonggi-do Office regional director ● Number of Speeches of Non Full-time Executives Executive Director Section 2008 2009 2010 Compared to previous year Business Executive Lee Min-seok • Director of KCSC Cadastral Research Institute Screening Cases 32 44 42 2 (decreased) • KCSC Gangwon-do Office regional director Reported Cases (including Operation Committee) 8 19 23 4 (increased) Time for each Case 16minutes 22minutes 22minutes • Administrative manager of the National Geographic Information Institute Full time / Non full time 77 / 118 128 / 223 104 / 225 2 (increased) Administrative No. of Speeches Lee Ho-gu • Administrative director of Busan Land Management Office Percentage of speeches 60.5% 63.5% 68.4% 4.9% (increased) Executive Revised decisions 4 11 11 • Bookkeeper of Auditing Office of the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs Revision rate 12.5% 25.0% 26.2% 1.2% (increased) Revised Decisions Number of management Ex Officio Yang Geun-woo • Current cadastral planning manager of Ministry of Land, Transport and proposals 3 8 16 8 ((increased) Maritime Affairs • Current supervising researcher of Risk Management Research Center Appointee Stronger Expertise and Independence of Non Executive Recommendation Committee Choi Han-guk • Navy brigadier general Full-time Executives The Executive Recommendation Committee is being operated for Kwak Chae-gi • Current professor of administration at Dongkuk University College of Politics and Administration transparent procedures for appointing executives. This Committee Appointee KCSC has reinforced the checks, monitoring and preventive audits on • Associate professor at Chonnam National University College of Public Administration its internal executives to prevent possible corruptions from occurring. selects persons with abundant knowledge and experience in the Non-Executive Appointee Lim I-taek • Current professor of cadastral studies at Mokpo National university In addition, based on the independence of non full-time executives, economic, environmental, social, business, and legal sectors as Director conflicts of interested parties within the executive board are being executives. The Committee is, by principle, organized by the vote of • Current CEO of Yeoi Legislation Policy R&C the Executive Board two months prior to the end of the term of the prevented, while the efficiency and expertise of the executive board is Appointee Jeon Ha-seong • Vice chairperson of Korea Communications Standards Commission executive, and through the attendance of private committee members being enhanced through the spatial committee. In order to procure • Secretary general of National Assembly Secretariat representing academia, legal sector, press, labor union, and employee efficiency and transparency in appointing executives, the Executive Recommendation Committee regulations were enacted to make opinions, as well as all non full-time executives, the impartiality and Park Dong-hyeon • Current administrative manager of Gangwon-do Green Land objectiveness of the appointment procedure is being enhanced. Appointee • Committee member of Gangwon-do Provincial Council (Gangwon-do reforms in the procedure for appointing executives. Council Tourism and Construction Committee) Position Appointment Procedure 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Recommendation of Executive Appointment Committee (multiple) ▶ Recommendation for appointment by the Minister of Land, ● Auditor CEO Transport and Maritime Affairs ▶ Appointed by the President Auditor Recommendation of Executive Appointment Committee (multiple) ▶ Screening by Public Institute Operation Committee ▶ Section Position Name Background Recommendation for appointment by the Minister of Strategy and Finance ▶ Appointed by the President Full Time Auditor Jung Yeon-seok • Vice speaker of the Grand National Party Full-time Executive Recommendation of Executive Appointment Committee (multiple) ▶ Appointed by CEO Non Full-time Recommendation of Executive Appointment Committee (multiple) ▶ Appointed by the Minister of Land, Transport and Executive Maritime Affairs 24 25 Operation Structure Appropriateness of Operation of Executive Board Evaluation of executive board performance is performed according to the 'efforts and achievements for promoting the functions of executives and auditors' in the management evaluation of public institutes, and for the evaluation of non full-time executives, the duty performance of the respective executive, whose term has come to an end (2 years), are assessed and then submitted to the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. Depending on the results of the institute evaluation (B rating) and CEO evaluation (average) in the public corporation Operation Structure evaluation, the CEO's incentive of 0% to 200% is determined, and the vice president is assessed on leadership/strategy, the business executive on main business sectors, and administration executive on management efficiency, and they receive incentives depending on the KCSC Way score and difficulty from the government management evaluation results. Operation Committee per Expertise In order to pursue feasibility of policy decisions, KCSC has established an operation committee per expertise (technical committee, Sharing of Executive Board Information management committee) and a consultant group (legal, lawsuits / HR administration / finances / cadastral system survey / legal education) In order to satisfy the rights to knowledge of interested parties and to enhance transparency of the operation of the executive board, under the supervision of the executive board, and the operation committee has direct responsibilities over the corporate performance such the profile of executives and minutes of board meetings are posted for anyone to see at KCSC homepage (www.kcsc.co.kr). In addition, as in the economic, environmental and social sectors. management information is also shared through the company intranet We-Land, in which employees can post their opinions. Operation of Auditing Office Operation KCSC is diligently participating in audits by the Board of Audit and Inspection, The Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, and Committee inspection of government offices. Furthermore, an auditing office, which is independent from the corporation's decision-making and execution entity, is in operation to perform self-audits on work and management, in our efforts for internal regulation and to enhance the level of transparency. For work audit, a general audit is performed for the head office, branch offices, and local offices, and the pointed-out items and examples are arranged by type and reflected in the business activities. Daily audits strengthen regulation for the business plans and execution phase through pre-inspections on major projects. In particular, since July 2008, an e-auditing system was constructed so Technical Committee Management Committee Consultant Group that it could be used for preventive audits for risks at all times. • 3 Non full-time executives, • 3 Non full-time executives, • Organize group for ● Daily Inspection Status ● Work Audit Accident Prevention Performance 1 full-time executive 1 full-time executive consultation for each sector of expertise Year No. of Inspections Issuance of Opinions Year Accidents Reprimands • Cadastral systems, • Pre-screening on business among non full-time technology development, goal, business strategy, executives 2008 282 5 2008 2 2 R&D strategies, business budget administration, 2009 315 4 2009 0 0 development, HR fostering finance management, legal 2010 324 5 2010 0 0 issues and regulations ● Organization of Consultant Group per Area of ● Major Consulting Performance Expertise of Non Full-time Executives Consultation Sector Consultant Executive Consulting Performance Achievement Law, legislation, organization, • Pursue legislation of • Draft proposal to pursue Jeon Ha-seong cadastral Reform project cadastral reform National Assembly Cadastral administration, • Diagnosis of integration and • Diagnosis integration/ Yang Geun-woo abolition of local offices abolition level of local offices government policy • Promotion system • Improve promotion system Politics, administration, public Kwak Chae-gi • Pursue overseas projects • Enact regulations on policies operations of overseas offices • Internal/external Spatialist and real estate environmental change • Set direction for promoting Lim I-taek 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report management analysis consulting advancement and management efficiency • Establish mid-term Finance, budget, economy Choi Han-guk management goal • Establish mid-term plan linked with the mission, • Review mid-term liquidity vision and key values Local government and Spatial Park Dong-hyeon • Performance management • Establish mid-term financial information system plan • Improve performance management system 26 Chances and Challenges Vision 2020 Through advancement of cadastral system and fostering the spatial information service industry we will procure world-class competitiveness in cadastral and spatial information sectors. 27 Global leader in the cadastral system and promotion of spatial information industry KCSC Way Vision 2020 Business Environment Analysis We create land information to make a happier future The market environment is rapidly changing due to the reduction of personnel and organizations in accordance with the government's forceful push for advancement of public companies, the reduction of general workloads caused by the severe depression in the real estate By fulfilling the government's responsibilities that private companies cannot perform such as providing optimal land spatial information, promoting the spatial information industry, market, and fierce competition with private surveying companies. Due to the increased investment in the public construction sector such MISSION strengthening trust in land administration, and protecting property rights via operation of as the early order of the government's SOC project, there is a growing demand for cadastral survey services. In addition, as 'low carbon cadastral systems and surveying the national territory, KCSC has created a sustainable land green growth' has established itself as a new paradigm and vision for national development, KCSC is also working hard in constructing an use environment, and has constructed a cyber territory in order to contribute to national infrastructure for the spatial information industry. economical development and improve the quality of life for the people. Global leader in the cadastral system and promotion of spatial information industries VISION 01. In order to create a sustainable land use environment, we will advance the cadastral system and foster the spatial information service industry. 02. We will procure world-class competitiveness in cadastral and spatial information sectors. Increased Capacities Spot Opportunities • Pursue cadastral reform projects KCSC gives HOPE to • Strengthen core competencies • Enter cadastral-based spatial information • Procure sustainable capacities The Nation, Customers and Employees • Increase overseas projects • Foster new growth engines S Pursue happiness through high technologies O T Technology of KCSC CORE VALUES W • Pursue diversification of revenue structure • Advancement of service quality Passionate work innovation • Advancement of cadastral survey project • Plans for management advancement Example of key personnel of KCSC • Strengthen public functions of cadastral sector • Increase social responsibility Selection and Concentration Cover Weaknesses Satisfaction and trust to customers Service-oriented mindset of KCSC 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Volunteer and devotion to the nation and society KCSC’s code of conduct 28 29 Managerial Objective KCSC Way Korea 경영목표 2011~2013 Mid-Term Managerial Gyeonggi-do Seoul Objective Gangwon-do Incheon MISSION We will create land information to make a happier future VISION Global leader in the cadastral system and promotion of spatial information industry Gyeongsangbuk-do Daegu Core Value : HOPE H O P High Technology High Touch | Ownership Mind | Public Interest | Customer Expectations E Gyeongsangnam-do Daegu Chungcheongbuk-do Ulsan Construct Value-Oriented Cadastral Spatial Information Service System by 2013 Chungcheongnam-do Busan Customer Perspective Business Perspective Public Perspective Management Perspective Mid-term Strategy Goal 1. Configure trusted 2. Performance through 3. Construct land manage4. Advancement of customer-first value innovation of ment infrastructure management basis and Jeollabuk-do Gwangju management cadastral projects support system HR Jeollanam-do Jeju-do • Advancement of cadastral survey • Advancement and efficiency of • Advancement of cadastral management • Maximize customer satisfaction • Promotion of business infrastructure Strategy Objectives • Enhance social responsibilities diversification • Construction of spatial • Strengthen core technological capacities • Increased entry into overseas markets information infrastructure • Strengthen HR capacities We accurately measure our national territory. We are Rulers of the Ruler 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report • Cadastral business 416.3 • Labor-management index 67 Core Achievement • Customer satisfaction 93.6 pts billion won • Construction of digital cadastral 2.3 million lots pts KCSC, an expert in cadastral surveys with 72 years experience, • Integrity 9.4 pts • Spatial information business • Development of new 62.1 billion won technologies 17 is constructing optimal territorial space information through accurate cadastral surveys and systematic cadastral management. We are drawing the happy future of Korea. Economic Value DMA Economic Performance Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Jamaica… The value of the land created by KCSC is growing every day. Overseas Business Survey Area Laos 155km Line Survey Vietnam 730 ha Morocco 1,000 ha Azerbaijan 1,000 ha Jamaica 1,000 ha Turkmenistan 30,000 ha 32 33 Economic Value of KCSC Execution of Research Tasks DMA Economic Performance Execution of Research Tasks In addition to fulfilling government responsibilities that private Advancement of Business Environment ◎ Research Project Status Unit: Cases Execution and Evaluation of Research Tasks companies cannot perform such as protecting the property rights In order to lay the foundation for the cadastral reform project, The 2010 executed research tasks were a total of 24 areas including of the people, contributing to the development of cadastral systems Basic ResearchTasks Policy, Regular, Consigned Research Tasks digital cadastral construction pilot projects are being pursued in four basic research tasks, eight policy/commission research tasks, and leading the promotion of the spatial information industry, and 17 districts, and cadastral measuring control point based on the 20 six regular research tasks, and six consigned research tasks. The the original purpose of KCSC to also contribute in the development world survey sector is being revamped, while on-site surveys and research task execution evaluation was assessed by categorizing 17 of the national economy, KCSC is increasing public benefits for reform surveys were registered on the cadastral survey system. In into the start, middle and final research screening commission various interested parties and creating new values. In order to 14 the future, we will strive for nation-wide digitalization so that it will by the research screening committee organized by internal and return this to the society, KCSC is making profits every year without 11 be possible to present accurate surveys via the cadastral reform outside experts. financial support from the government, and using it as financial special act. 7 resources for reinvestment. 4 Use of Research Tasks ◎ Survey Operations Status Unit : 100 Million Won Various activities are being conducted in order to enhance the use Survey Business Goal Performance 2008 2009 2010 of completed research tasks and to reinforce internal and external The survey business sector is the core business of KCSC and it is 4,091 PR. Every year, approximately 400 research task reports and 4,033 4,090 a technical service of conducting surveys after being employed by 3,925 2,850 academic journals for both the first and second half of the individuals, the government, and institutions. KCSC will continue 3,810 3,724 year are distributed to KCSC and related institutes. Furthermore, to create economic value through various survey businesses, and Research Project we are strengthening industry-academic-research cooperative also improve the quality of the services so that the performance With the government's policy to promote the spatial information systems by participating in academic conferences and hosting of can be used for increasing customer value. industry and increase the competitive system for the cadastral research achievement seminars, while sharing major research sector, the need for support research for pursuing new projects achievements. In addition, we are conducting consigned research and research for the strengthening of KCSC's competitiveness tasks for establishing the basic infrastructure that establishes the Enhance Efficient Execution of Business has become urgent. Thus, KCSC is striving to procure sustainable policies of the central and local governments, such as organizing Continuous efforts were made to find new areas of improvement 2008 2009 2010 growth engines for the corporation in the future by promoting borders for developing ubiquitous national standard technologies, from the perspective of establishment and processes of resource Achievement Rate 105.4% 105.8% 100.0% research for technological development of cadastral survey and construction of spatial information, development of equipment, distribution and operation planning, and in order to connect the development of laws and policies. converting street name addresses, pilot construction of grave business goal and resource distribution, personnel and equipment management system, and cadastral advancement system projects. were rearranged according to the workload. Also, in order to remove the source of the cause of errors and enhance accuracy Selection of Basic Research Tasks of surveys, two-way communication with customers are being It was found that there were nine research tasks suggested by the performed, and precision is being heightened through introduction KCSC employees and outside institutions and 147 research tasks of the latest equipment, acquisition of new technologies, and from surveys from the branch and local offices. After discussions systemization of handling procedures. Furthermore, to efficiently among working-level employees of the research tasks and review 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report provide cadastral information to the nation and public institutions, by the research institute, a preliminary research plan was drafted, while increasing businesses in the future, new contents are being and afterwards, the first and second research task selection developed, and other methods of business diversification are being committee by internal and outside expert groups were conducted. pursued. Taking into consideration the connection with mid and long term strategies of KCSC and future growth engines, four basic research tasks were selected. 34 Major Public Benefit Projects Major Public Benefit Projects of KCSC 35 DMA Economic Performance Major Public Benefit Projects KCSC is striving to realize social public values. Through the Participation in Advancement Plans for Pursuing Preventive Management System ● Need for Flood Mark Survey implementation of advanced survey (3D), we have preserved and Funeral Systems through Surveys on Graves Construction Project against Floods Construct flooded area DB to provide basic information on disaster restored cultural properties and flood DB management system In order to reform the funeral administration system, KCSC and the This is a supporting project for mapping out flooded areas by conducting management to national institutes to lead the enhancement of disaster handling abilities, and by Ministry of Health and Welfare jointly led the project. By integrating quick and accurate on-site surveys and measurements against disasterinvestigating and measuring unregistered lands in coastal areas, the Ministry's e-Sky System and KCSC's Survey Information Enhance awareness and response abilities against disasters hit areas in order to establish a quick damage repair plan in the case of we have procured precise cadastral data to contribute to the Management System (SIMS), they are proceeding with policies to being hit by natural disasters such as typhoons, heavy rains or tsunamis. efficient management of coastal areas. Aside from this, in addition discourage burials and encourage cremations for the purpose of Establish quick disaster relief plans In addition, flooding traces are marked on semi-permanent structures to its outstanding natural scenery, precise surveys were made on efficient use of the land. The Ministry and KCSC signed an MOU for to store flooding damage in the past as historical records, while letting natural caves with high value for preservation and increase support surveys on graves to fundamentally respond to social issues such residents know that it was hit in the past by disaster to heighten their ● Expected Effects of Advancement of to tourism industries. Furthermore, systematic grave surveys are as encroachment of the land and damage to the environment due awareness. Through this, residents can uplift their ability to respond to Flooding Mark Management System being conducted, while also participating in reforming the national to the increase of number of graves and negligent management, disasters, and therefore the flooding mark survey is being conducted. funeral administration system, and are faithfully executing the while conducting pilot projects in five cities and townships across Evaluation and Disaster Reduction Aspect In pursuance of Article 21 of the Natural Disaster Response Act, KCSC Improvement social responsibilities given to KCSC. the nation in 2010. Based on the national survey through the was designated as the institution in charge of mapping flooded areas • Accumulate information on pilot project, systematic construction of graves and information by the Disaster Reduction Association, and is constructing a flooded flooding prevention and flooding marks to provide accurate related to graves are provided, which will be an opportunity for area management system DB by surveying and measuring flooded 3D Cultural Properties Modeling for Preservation disaster prevention to each local government advancement of the funeral culture. and Restoration of Cultural Properties areas, providing basic information for disaster management to the KCSC has conducted 3D cultural properties modeling to manage national institutes (National Emergency Management Agency, local ◎ Grave advancement plan chart governments, etc). cultural properties and prepare for disasters. 3D cultural properties modeling is a process of acquiring 3D information Ministry of Health & Welfare KCSC (Head Office) Disaster Prevention Support Work Efficiency Aspect ● Status of cultural properties using a laser scanner and constructing a • Provide various flooding trace • Online query and acquisition system. Thus, it is possible to restore cultural properties that were City / Province Branch offices Draft Year Local Government Area information to local governments of flood trace information to and related institutes to support increase work efficiency damaged due to various disasters such as fire and damage, and 2008 19 areas 15km2 decision-making process of City・Gun・Gu Local Office disaster prevention operations therefore used in managing cultural properties. 2009 26 areas 23km2 Eub・Myeon・Dong 2010 15 areas 8km2 ● Panoramic view of ● Myeongdong Sungnyemun Cathedral in 3D Survey Institute Advancement of Flooding Mark Management System ● Flooding Mark Management System Survey KCSC has conducted system advancement projects for the flooding mark management system. As part of the advancement project, web-based Silverlite technologies were applied to provide interface convenience unlike other GIS systems. In addition, it has become Advancement of Funeral System and Creation possible to perform flood mark drafting operations using the total of Jobs for Senior Citizens survey system without the need of separate procedures or systems 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 3D Cultural Heritage Modeling Achievements During the national grave status survey, jobs for senior citizens during on-site surveys. In the future, when this flooding Mark (survey on details such as installers and relatives for preparing KCSC has signed a safety diagnosis work agreement to review Management System advancement project is completed and KCSC funeral tablets) were created, and since the work cooperation the ground safety for the restoration of Sungnyemun damaged successfully performs the policy to support on national disasters agreement for advancing the funeral culture, a pilot project was by fire and constructed a 3D DB. In addition, a 3D survey on and disaster prevention operations, it will not only fulfill its conducted for five months from February to June 2010 and placed Cheongnyeongpo, Gangwon-do, where Danjong, the 6th king of responsibilities as a public organization, but also firmly establish survey results of 47,050 graves in a database. It is scheduled to the Joseon Dynasty was sent to exile, and placed it in the cultural its role as an institute for drafting flooding mark charts. annually conduct national surveys on this in the future. properties management DB. 36 Coastal Water Surface Survey and Disaster ● Ocean Survey Project System ● Business Range and 37 Prevention Project Performance KCSC surveys and measures unregistered lands in the coastal DMA Economic Performance Major Public Benefit Projects areas of the country and acquires and manages them as (Branch offices / Local Office) 2006 2 local governments government property to support efficient coastal area management. 2007 20 local governments Ocean survey and status measurement Since the pilot project in 2006, the southern coastal area is being 2008 8 local governments surveyed and measured, and will continue to other parts every year. Enveloped area status survey 2009 4 local governments 2010 3 local governments 2006~2010 In 2010, the ocean survey, status measurement and envelopment New registration of unregistered land surveys on 1,843 lots across an area of 1,490,523m2 was completed. 37 Local Governments Submit results Orders to execute project Thus, beachside land managed as shared water area was registered in the registry making it possible for efficient use, development and preservation of coastal areas. Furthermore, by procuring precise (Head Office) cadastral data, the effective value of the coastal management General supervision of project information system is growing. Inspection and delivery ◎ Completed Projects in 2010 Expected Quantity Completed Quantity Provide basic research data Ocean: 831 lots (1,207,762m2) Enveloped areas: 70 lots (269,228m2) Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Administration MORI Newly registered: 12 lots (13,533m2) 831lots 831lots Inspection and delivery 680lots 680lots 2006 Pilot Project 2007 Project Year 1 2008 Project Year 2 99 99 68lots70lots • Ordered By: Ministry of Land, Transport • Ordered By: Ministry of Land, Transport • Ordered By: Korea Hydrographic and Research service for categorization of management type and Maritime Affairs and Maritime Affairs Oceanographic Administration • Taean, Chungnam; Buan, Jeonbuk • Incheon, Gyeonggi, Chungnam, Jeonnam • 8 local governments in Jeollanam-do 12lots 12lots (20 local governments) • Newly registered Control Newly Survey Enveloped Ocean • Newly registered (Taean, Chungnam; point survey registered area survey survey Gwangyang, Jeonnam) 2009 Project Year 3 2010 Project Year 4 • Ordered By: Korea Hydrographic and • Ordered By: Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Administration Oceanographic Administration • 4 local governments in Jeollanam-do • 3 local governments in Jeollanam-do • Newly registered • Newly registered Increased Tourism Industry Support with Underground Cave Survey Performance Cave Surveys KCSC has conducted surveys on Socheon Cave and Billemot Cave Due to the characteristics of past surveys focusing mainly on surveys in Jeju, and make detailed illustrations such as the ground plan above ground, underground cave surveys have been shunned and and side view of the underground cave using 3D scan data editing avoided due to the need for expensive equipment and difficulty of for efficient cave management. Furthermore, KCSC will conduct 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report survey due to constricted spaces. KCSC will provide highly accurate 3D cave surveys throughout Jeju-do to strive to provide accurate positioning using high-precision survey equipment for underground information for the efficient management of natural caves. caves with high value for preserving natural monuments and to promote the tourism industry in order to champion for the efficient management of caves, making global tourist attractions of cultural properties, protecting property rights and founding of new industries for the development of the national industry. 38 39 Establishment of Global Competitiveness Establishment of Cadastral and Spatial Information Pioneering Overseas Market Activities From December 2008 to December 2010, KCSC has established a In order to procure a source of momentum for growth, KCSC is cadastral improvement project plan for Azerbaijan and conducted actively engaging in entering foreign markets through PR on its DMA Economic Performance consulting operations and cadastral public employee training. This cadastral technologies and knowhow, in addition to businesses Establishment of Global project is in cooperation with the Korea International Cooperation found based on ODA funds of the Korea International Cooperation Agency and includes projects such as land registration consulting, Agency. In 2010, two cadastral experts were sent to Oman in Competitiveness pilot surveys, system develop, education, etc. In addition, a contract the Middle East (Oct '09 ~ Apr '10) and performed marketing for the second land administration management project worth activities to create overseas businesses in various aspects such 5 million dollars was signed with the Jamaican government in as computerization of cadastral maps, land registration, and As a national public organization, KCSC is engaging in overseas Reinforced System for Pursuing Overseas Projects April 2010, and a 'Jamaica office' composed of three cadastral measurement of new urban developments. In addition, experts projects putting utmost priority on pursuing public interests and In order to reinforce the system for pursuing overseas projects, experts of KCSC and local manpower was opened. Through this, were sent to Mongolia, Tanzania and Vietnam to locate cadastral enhancing the national image by teaching Korea's advanced KCSC is continuously searching for new channels of cooperation land registration projects in three states of Jamaica (St. Elizabeth, survey markets that are expected in the future and are also striving cadastral systems and survey techniques to countries with weak with overseas cadastral-related organizations. In 2010, cadastral Manchester, Clarendon) are being conducted, and in 2010, surveys to sign an MOU with SwedeSurvey of Sweden. cadastral systems and land registration rates. Also, in order to and spatial information experts from Mongolia, Vietnam, Jamaica on 2,900 sites were performed. overcome the limitations of the domestic cadastral survey market, and Algeria visited KCSC, showing great interest in the highly KCSC has strategically pursued overseas projects throughout the developed cadastral system and survey technologies of Korea. 2009 2010 world from 2005 to procure new growth engines. The international During this visit, in-depth discussions on mutual cooperation plans Goal Performance Goal Performance society including the UN recognizes cadastral systems as a mustand development directions in the cadastral sector were held. In 2 nations 1 nations 2 nations 2 nations have social infrastructure for national economic development particular, through such continuous exchange and cooperation (1.5 billion) (1.25 billion) (2.5 billion) (2.18 billion) and sustainable national land resource management, and thus, with overseas institutes, KCSC has been able to acquire major high amounts of support and interest are being given to lesser business plans of the respective country as well as information developed countries and CIS (Commonwealth of Independent needed in land registration businesses, while disseminating States). In order to become a global company that meets the the outstanding cadastral systems of Korea and the advanced national policy direction of strengthening international exchange, surveying technologies of KCSC to discover new overseas business KCSC will actively partake in ODA (Official Development Assistant) opportunities and construct social networks. Through this, KCSC is projects for underdeveloped and developing countries, and will jumpstarting its activities to heighten its international awareness. strengthen the organization's capacities to procure international competitiveness. 2009 2010 Goal Performance Goal Performance 4 countries 5 countries 4 countries 4 countries (30 people) (44 people) (30 people) (46 people) 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report KCSC is participating in various international meeting 40 41 Participation in International Conferences related to cadastral surveys to do its utmost in DMA Economic Performance strengthening its global capacities and network. 국제회의 참석 Participated in FIG (International Federation of Surveyors); Formed Global Network The FIG International Congress 2010 was held at the Sydney Convention Center in Australia joined by over 2,200 people from over 100 countries. KCSC dispatched a delegation of five members including the CEO to form a social network with persons around the world in the cadastral and surveying sector, while presenting a thesis to heighten the status of Korea. At this Congress, the delegation from KCSC participated in key decision-making areas such as voting on changing the meeting group, voting on the revision of the FIG statue and internal regulations, and appointment of the branch commissioner. In particular, it exercised voting rights as the representative of the Korean Federation of Surveyors for appointing the next chairperson of FIG (2011-2014). In addition, under the theme of 'Facing the Challenges-Building the Capacity' of this Congress, there were approximately 800 papers published in the 150 technical and invitation sections, workshop area, etc. KCSC, representing Korea, published papers titled 'Effective Cave Management Plan using Cadastral Surveying', 'Effective Land Registration Process Plan (Morocco case)', and 'Use of Network-RTK using VRS for Cadastral Surveying of Island Areas'. In particular, the paper titled 'LiDAR Use Plan for 3D Modeling and Restoration of Cultural Properties' was the center of attention among participants from different parts of the world. Section Period Place 2014 (scheduled) Malaysia 2010. 04. Australia FIG Congress 2006. 10. Germany 2002. 04. USA 2011.05 (scheduled) Morocco 2009. 04. Israel FIG Working Week 2008. 06. Sweden 2007. 05. Hong Kong 2005. 04. Egypt 2011. 09 (scheduled) Austria 2010. 09 Czech Republic FIG Commission 2009. 10 Malaysia 7 Annual Meeting 2008. 09 Italy 2007. 05 Korea 2006. 10 Slovenia 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report kcsc Sustainability 2010 kcsc SustainabilityReport Report Honorary Ambassador of KCSC Korean Broadcasting System Announcer Kim, Gyeong-Ran 42 43 Overseas Business The capacities and advanced technologies of KCSC is earning its reputation throughout the world. DMA Economic Performance Overseas Business Bulgaria Uzbekistan Turkmenistan Mongolia Azerbaijan Algeria Morocco Lao PDR Jamaica Vietnam Benin Cambodia Nigeria Malaysia Madagascar Azerbaijan Morocco Algeria Benin Nigeria Jamaica • 2006 TFT working-level survey with cooperation of the • Agreed on MOU for cadastral cooperation with • Negotiating cooperation for cadastral project • 2006 Interview with the president of Benin • Negotiating cooperation for cadastral project • Nov 2009 Agreed on MOU with Jamaican government Ministry of Knowledge Economy cadastral office • 2007 Onsite survey of project feasibility • Apr 2010 Agreed on land administration management • 2007 Dispatched cadastral expert, system reform project contract (5 million dollars) consulting, invited cadastral minister of Azerbaijan • Agreed on ODA business contract and dispatched • Agreed on MOU for development of cadastral sector personnel for the project • 2008 KOICA cadastral registration pilot project • Apr 2010 Began land administration management • 2009 Signed contract for proceeding with cadastral • 2008 Completed pilot project (ODA, 1 million dollars) project (2010-2012) registration business • 2010 Completed cadastral registration business (ODA, 1.5 million dollars) Bulgaria Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Madagascar Mongolia Lao PDR • Visit local development public business department • 2009 Preliminary feasibility survey support • 2008 Interview with national cadastral center director • Attended Korea-Madagascar Economic Cooperation Forum • 2005 Agreed on exchange and cooperation, and MOU • 2006 Agreed on MOU with national land development • Vice minister cadastral director visited corporation • 2010 Execution agreement signing support • May 2009 Signed MOU for improving cadastral (introduced cadastral system of Korea) for cadastral sector with land survey and map making corporation in the land development sector system with the National Cadastral Center and begin committee • 2010 Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs • 2010 Agreed on cadastral modernization project • 2006-2007 Began topographical survey for paving road 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Agreed on MOU with Bulgaria cadastral office contract (ODA), 1.5 million dollars) consulting to establish Cadastral Training Institute • 2008 Basic discussions for ODA project (155km) • 2010 Strengthened cooperation to pursue ODA project again Vietnam Cambodia Malaysia • 2007 Agreed on survey contract for establishing Bac • 2005 Onsite survey in Cambodia • Malaysia cadastral surveyor training (1 week/30 people) Ninh industrial complex • 2006 Cadastral personnel from Cambodia visits • 2008 Executed and completed local survey • 2007 KOICA cadastral survey training, surveyor training Social 44 Value 45 DMA Social Performance The return on KCSC's efforts for customers and society is happy satisfaction. 92.3 Customer Satisfaction Score 2010 88.9 2009 84.9 2008 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 46 47 Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Management KCSC has constructed and operated a company-wide customersatisfaction management system with the aim of maximizing We aim at becoming a company that gives customers happiness customer satisfaction by providing customized services according DMA Social Performance Customer Satisfaction beyond satisfaction to the customer group under the CS Vision of 'Providing Happy Services that Moves the Hearts of Customers'. In order to provide Management systematic and effective services that meet the needs of different customers, an innovation task group composed of CS leaders was organized to improve the overall CS activities of KCSC and Definition of Customers is continuously improving services. In addition, by procuring Customer relations in the cadastral survey service industry are different from typical customer relations. Therefore there are limitations on an employee-wide sharing and participation channel through how much KCSC can satisfy customers in each business segment. Customers are becoming diversified, going beyond general customers study groups (CoP), educational programs and questionnaires, depending on the character of the project, ranging from value-creating customers that operate the cadastral survey service market we have established a base for changing, and innovating, the CS through research and education on cadastral systems and development of survey technologies, to value-affected customers who use the organizational culture results of the developed surveying technologies. Furthermore, we are also taking into consideration potential-value customers who may potentially use cadastral survey services in the future. KCSC is striving to provide customized information to the different customer groups and is geared towards rational and balanced development of the cadastral system. ● Customer Satisfaction Management Strategy and Goal Chart ● Classification of Customers and Service Features Classification Definition Features Company-wide Vision Global leader in the cadastral system and promotion of spatial information industries Value-creating Subject for operation of the cadastral survey market, • Provide latest cadastral information and policy legislation data to make the nation's research and education on cadastral systems, and living standards higher Customer development of survey technologies • Set fair and transparent personnel policy standards, encourage welfare and benefits Subject that has the potential to utilize results such as • Various support of cadastral academic society and related schools, fulfill role as CS Vision Providing Happy Services that Move the Hearts of Customers Potential-value the cadastral survey market and research and education special corporation for cadastral survey companies such as industry-academic Customer on cadastral systems in the future cooperation and also realize win-win policies Value-purchase Subject that uses or is affected by the results • Provide services such as performance level on-site issuance and maintain friendly relations. or performance of cadastral survey technology • Operate various committees to amicably resolve land disputes and provide followAccurate Alert Assiduous Advanced Customer development up management Core Values Value-affected Subject that is directly or indirectly affected during the • Participation in management of corporation through consulting when establishing 4A Accurate services based on expertise Quick services with rational procedures Kind customeroriented services Advanced modern services course of designing, executing or decision-making on major policies or pursuing projects Customer development of cadastral survey technologies • Open management by providing materials according to the CEO management plans and current issues of corporation Establish CS organization Assertive improvement Customer-oriented system ● CS Promotion Flowchart Strategic Direction culture active in changes and of customer relations and and improved processes innovation management • Reform CS system ●Set basic CS direction • CS training support, etc ●CS progress report • Strengthen CS leadership of • Improve customer service CEO • Improve customer relations capacities Strategy Tasks • Establish customer-oriented management process • Strengthen performancecorporate culture oriented CS activities CS Innovation Committee CS Pursuance Committee Customer Support Branch Offices and • Chair: Business Executive • Chair: Regional director • Member: CS Leader Department Local Offices • Member: CS representative 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report • CS progress report • Complaint handling result report ●Set basic CS direction • CS evaluation result report • VOC handling and result report • Major CS issues report 48 Diversification of Customer By providing customized services needed by customers and preventing complaints from occurring Customer Participation Center Homepage 49 Satisfaction Channels while minimizing customer complaints for cadastral survey services offered by the corporation, KCSC is DMA Social Performance Customer Satisfaction striving to become a company trusted by customers. Management VOC (Voice of Customer) Cadastral Survey Consulting By operating a support system that can reflect customer demands in its management, KCSC is striving to provide better satisfaction by We handle questions of customers related to cadastral survey in improving all services from the worksite to the services used by customers. VOC (Voice of Customer) quickly and efficiently receives, real time. A total of 815 were handled in 2009 and 445 in 2010. handles, analyzes, and evaluates the integrated management system that is disbursed into various on and offline media. In addition, ● Cadastral Survey Consulting all employees monitor the contents in order to prevent reoccurrence of similar customer complaints and improve the quality of work. So KCSC will provide better services, furthermore company-wide customer satisfaction management. Year 2009 2010 Fluctuation Cases 815 445 370↓ ● VOC System Chart Open Complaint Handling Center Collection Channel System Information Contents Sharing Channel Usage Channel By disclosing the handling process of objections by customers Customer contact VOC VOC System VOC info Intranet (We-land) Management to the survey performance in real time via the internet, we are striving to address customer complaints and enhance the reliability Homepage visitors Market integrated info of KCSC. Through this, compared to 2009, the total number of Intranet Customer satisfaction complaints was reduced. We-land community Suggestion info management meeting Marketing policy (video conferencing) Various customer CS innovation Customer management ● Open Complaint Handling Center satisfaction surveys committee policy Regular Report BSC Market survey info Internal monitoring Index New service Year 2009 2010 Fluctuation data In-company booklet development Cases 58 51 7↓ Publications to related institutes Regular report intranet Social media info VOC integration system Research & PR booklet Development Customer Suggestion Center In order to assertively reflect the customers' various requests, policy development ideas and participation in management, we are operating a customer suggestion center. Furthermore, we also provide a place for customers to write down their experience of the cadastral survey services or share the opinions such as on employees that they would compliment. ● Customer Suggestion Center 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Year 2009 2010 Fluctuation Cases 56 32 24↓ 50 Efforts to Improve Customer Services Various Surveys for KCSC is always listening to the suggestions of customers. Through various satisfaction level surveys including 51 Customer Satisfaction customer satisfaction level surveys, we are listening to the opinions of customers and reflecting them in our management activities DMA Social Performance Customer Satisfaction Management Services that seek out customers Disclosure of Information on Services and Evaluation Happy Call for Maintaining Service Quality In order to realize more efficient customer-oriented services As a method for minimizing complaints, we have constructed By regularly measuring and managing satisfaction levels for cadastral survey services, KCSC uses it as basic materials to procure competitiveness, and to improve customer conveniences and give actual help, we survey results and related materials DB and we publish a book of and it has also established plans to enhance customer satisfaction through customer needs analysis and finding areas for improvement. provide on-site services where we come to customers who live in complaints in order to share the knowhow of representatives who remote areas or islands with poor transportation, or the infirm and actually come into contact with customers. There were no legal disabled. We went to meet our customers 20 times in 2010. violations on the information of services and no legal violations Customer Satisfaction Survey ◎ Yearly Transition of Customer Satisfaction Level Unit: Points against customer health or safety from the cadastral survey KCSC has made efforts to improve customer satisfaction service 92.3 services of KCSC. In addition, there were also no violations against qualities through objective surveys on customer satisfaction service Cadastral Survey Result Map Delivery System regulations or rules, and there were no fines levied on KCSC for levels conducted by the government and through reform activities. For customers who want to be delivered the results after violation of laws or regulations. There is an internal guideline for Through such efforts, results of the 2010 customer satisfaction 88.9 completing surveys that they have requested, we provide detailed information for advertisements and promotions distributed by level survey grew by 3.4 points compared to the previous year to 84.9 explanations on survey results and answers to questions. In KCSC, and until now, there have been no cases of violations related 92.3 points, and has thus played a positive effect on improving the the cadastral survey result map delivery system, we personally ads, promotions or sponsorships. corporate image. KCSC will continue to strive to have the best delivered 38,420 cases. services among public institutions. 2008 2009 2010 Customer Information Privacy In order to safely and legally manage customer information, KCSC has established and Phone Answering Kindness Survey ◎ Yearly Transition of Customer Satisfaction Level Unit: Points enforced a self-designed personal information protection plan, and in order to strengthen technical protection during the collection, This survey is conducted for employees in order to cover storing and transmitting of personal information, KCSC has installed hacking prevention systems and firewalls. There have been no 92.0 weaknesses by evaluating the attitude of handling customers. reports related to the disclosure of personal information. From the results of the survey, awards are given to outstanding employees and to employees who ranked poorly, level-up training 90.8 is provided. For the past three years, there has been a continuous 89.7 increase in the score for the level of phone kindness, and the average score in 2010 was 92.0 points, a 1.2 point increase 2008 2009 2010 compared to the previous year. Happy Call (Follow-up Satisfaction) Survey ◎ Yearly Transition of Happy Call Unit: Points KCSC examines follow-up satisfaction levels of customers related to the overall cadastral survey services. Whether or not the service 93.5 92.4 standards are complied with are checked through a checklist containing kindness at time of requesting survey, kindness during 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report on-site surveys, on-time delivery, and overall satisfaction. Through 86.7 this, KCSC aims at finding areas to improve in order to offer better customer-oriented services. For the past three years, there has been a continuous climb in the score, and the average score in 2010 was 2008 2009 2010 93.5 points, a 1.1 point increase compared to the previous year 52 53 Contributions to We fully practice social services unique to KCSC. Public Projects • Free boundary relocation survey service • R&D and mutual support projects through industry-academic cooperation • Installation of boundary markers and survey result map delivery service Community • Damage assessment and restoration service for disaster-hit areas Sharing • Lowered cadastral survey fees for disaster-hit areas Contributions to Community Manage• Free consulting and tech support on cadastral systems for underdeveloped countries DMA Social Performance ment • Employment of disabled and marginalized persons • Onsite service, ‘Cadastral complaint onsite handling system’ Resident Convenience • 365 day customer service, cadastral service office • One-stop handling system • Night-time cadastral consulting Social Contribution Activities via Sharing ● Social Contribution Performance Using Cadastral • Immigrant laborers and multi-cultural family support Management Survey Looking after Neighbors • Volunteer work / Blood drive of love • Day care center / Social welfare facility support There is no difference in rank or class for sharing love. With the • Child head-of-family / Live alone seniors support Section Cases Amount (thousand won) Love of • House building of love movement corporate social responsibilities being more and more emphasized, Neighbors 2010 Performance 13,826 6,598,899 all of the employees of KCSC are taking the initiative in their roles Love of Rural Towns • 1 company 1 town sisterhood relationship • Helping hands at rural towns and social responsibilities as a public corporation. Company-wide • Purchasing spatialty goods of rural towns social contribution activities are taking place to practice sharing Jidori Volunteer Corps • Environmental purification activities Environmental Protection management, love for rural areas, and love for environment, while • Making green forests The 'Jidori Volunteer Corps', which was launched in July 2006, is making a bright and healthy society for the people and the community • Damage restoration support and supplies for facilities hit by disasters such as heavy composed under the principle of one institute, one volunteer corps, snow, floods, and droughts so that everyone can live happily together without overlooking anyone. • Reviving rivers and oceans with the CEO as its leader. There is a total of 200 volunteer corps with 3,700 employees around the nation, and they are actively practicing the art of sharing love by helping needy neighbors and Scholarship Program • Cadastral scholarship program Special Social Contribution Activities of KCSC • Cadastral equipment・computer donation and education support lending their hands at farming and fishing towns at different parts Finding • New hope scholarship fund Social Contribution Activities via Distinct Operations | As part Hope of the country. In addition, through partnerships made by networks of the spatialized social contributions unique to KCSC, cadastral survey Promoting Sports • Operate cycle team with organization such as local governments and civic groups, • Operate cycle classes fees in disaster-struck areas are reduced in order to fulfill its social we are cooperating with government policies and serving the responsibilities as a public corporation in times of national hardships. people through prompt repair support for areas hit by disasters This can solidify relations with the local community and prevent land and reducing survey costs for government-led projects related to border disputes among interested parties in the disaster-hit areas. farming, and thus striving to conduct social contribution activities In addition, KCSC also conducts 'Sharing Happiness Survey' in which that correspond to cadastral information services. cadastral surveys are conducted free-of-charge to improve the ● Support to Needy Neighbors and Marginalized ● Task Force Organization Chart (as of January 1, 2011) residential environment of the marginalized class such as those in the * In 2010, 26,172 people participated in the Jidori Volunteer Corps in Classes a total of 11,025 separate occasions to engage in social contribution low-income bracket, households with children as head of the house, and activities for the weak and marginalized classes, as well as their Section Times Persons Amount Director (CEO) senior citizens living alone, though which it conducts specialized social (thousand won) community. The unique volunteer activities of KCSC will continue to contribution activities through its unique operations of cadastral surveys, grow in the future. Department Social welfare facilities 7,488 13,825 303,124 (Operation Support Department and thus we have been able to expect an improved image to the people. Child head of families 204 2,067 16,498 Live alone seniors 22 412 7,394 Families with disabilities 14 146 1,740 Alienated neighbors 737 1,857 29,594 • Head Office Branch Office Local Office Donation of goods 18 270 7,333 volunteer corps volunteer corps volunteer corps (12) (185) Scholarship grants 196 978 13,240 • Training center Disaster restoration 2 34 volunteer corps 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Blood donation 163 163 • Research center Rural town support and 221 940 26,624 volunteer corps rural goods purchases Etc 2,156 6,210 94,614 Total 11,221 26,902 500,161 54 Activities for a Society of Togetherness Employee KCSC is constructing the best 55 foundation by assertively foster and Satisfaction develop our employees. DMA Social Performance Employee Satisfaction Community Interest Activities for a Society of children's scholarship, academic achievement scholarship, and Status of employees Employment System Togetherness new hope scholarships were granted. In particular, through the As of the end of December 2010, the number of employees is 3,724 KCSC observes the principle of open competition employment, 'new hope scholarship' program, college students with families (excluding short-term part-time employees). Due to the character and it has abolished restrictions on gender, age and education KCSC utilizes the nation-wide network of the 'Jidori Volunteer under financial hardships are selected for scholarship, and thus of the corporation, the percentage of female employees is low, but it in its personnel regulations and is increasing its employment Corps' made under the principle of 1 institute, 1 volunteer corps efforts are continuously made to foster talents. Moreover, in has continuously grown in the past five years. Moreover, due to the opportunities for capable human resources so that they may fully throughout the nation, to strive to provide volunteer services order to create a new corporate culture and to fulfill its social increasing ratio of female laborers, it is expected that the ratio of highutilize their abilities. In order to enhance the fairness and objectivity that meet the demands of the community. Employees voluntary responsibilities, it has launched a cycle team, which is not a ranking female workers will also grow. The average years worked of employment, blind interviews and a variety of other selection purchase tickets to local cultural events and festivals, and the popular sports venue, in November 2006. The cycle team, which is continuously worked is 17 years, and the average age is 43. However, methods are used. Furthermore, there is a human resources regis company band Land and People give free performances or composed of one coach and six athletes, won three gold medals at due to the increase of hiring new employees, it is expected that the tration sregistration system in the homepage so that it can receive sponsor events in order to take the initiative to interact with the the 2006 Doha Asian Games, and won two gold medals at the 2010 average age will also drop. Over 4,000 people tied together with applications of persons with expertise, skills or certifications so community. The local community was sponsored together with Guangzhou Asian Games. And by winning and ranking high in other passion, professionalism and love are working hard together. that it could utilize necessary human resources in whichever a TV program at the end of the year, and in order to support various domestic and international competitions, they are leading sector they need at any time. exchange with farming areas, mileage on the corporate credit in elevating the status of the nation. card was cashed out for purchasing local foods or were given as donations. In addition, through partnerships with NPOs and ● Cadastral Scholarship Support 20s 50s 215 Gender Equality Employment Goal other public institutes, KCSC is engaging in more specialized and 777 Year Persons Amount (thousand won) As part of social equality HR management plans to hire persons based constructive directions. We will continue do our best to support 2008 486 463,387 on abilities and not gender, gender equality employment goal systems the community and to show a constructive appearance for the 2009 488 454,789 have been implemented. In 2010, the female new employment target coexistence between urban and rural areas. 2010 469 452,447 No. of Employees rate is set at 30% and from 2011, it will be set at 20%. by Age Group 30s More Support Activities for Education 1,295 Scholarship Programs and Promotion of Sports Employment of Social Minorities 40s In order to fulfill its ethical and social responsibilities as a public Through the scholarship program, KCSC fosters talented 1,437 company, KCSC has implemented social equality employment individuals in the cadastral sector, as well as the socially systems that allot the disabled and persons who won national marginalized to fulfill its social responsibilities as a public institute. orders of merit at a certain percentage for employment. In addition, Scholarships such as development encouragement scholarship, 5% of employees are being hired among persons from Jeollabuk● Personnel per Position (as of Dec 31, 2010) do province, which is where KCSC will move to. KCSC is planning to ● 2010 Cycle Team Achievements (International Competitions) continue to expand employment of social minorities in the future. Section 2008 2009 2010 Tournament Period Venue Ranking Total 3,949 3,828 3,724 ● Employment of Social Minorities Men's individual pursuit (4km) Executives 5 5 4 30th Asia Cycle Championships (Dubai, UAE) Apr 8 ~ Apr 17 Men's team pursuit (4km) Jang Seon-jae 1st place (3rd win) Regional director 13 14 14 Section 2008 2009 2010 Class 1 13 9 34 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Madison 8 sections (Yeongju ~ Yangyang) Choi Jong-gyun 1st in heat Class 2 149 152 128 Disabled employees 86 96 106 2010 Tour de Korea Apr 22 ~ May 2 KOM (mountain section) Choi Jong-gyun 2nd overall Class 3 334 341 361 Female ratio 8.60% 8.50% 9.10% Individual (Time) Choi Jong-gyun 3rd Class 4 833 829 804 Provincial employee rate 83.00% 77.40% 68.9% 2010 Tour de Hokkaido Sep 14 ~ Sep 20 Individual (Point) Choi Jong-gyun 7th Class 5 1,835 1,797 1,711 Science & Engineering backgrounds 36 25 41 2 sectors (Pyeonghwa Dam ~Tongil) Class 6 400 352 346 Persons of national merit 2 10 5 Jang Chan-jae 1st 2010 Tour de Seoul (DMZ) Oct 22 ~ Oct 24 Class 7 160 143 187 Group Point 3rd in group Men's individual pursuit (4km) Jang Seon-jae 1st (gold) Technician 66 49 40 16th Guangzhou Asian Games Nov 12 ~ Nov 17 Assistant 141 137 95 Men's group pursuit (4km) Jang Seon-jae 1st (gold) 56 Intern Employees Strengthened Connection of Internal We operate a global leader-type 57 In pursuance of the government's plans for creating jobs for youths Evaluation and Remuneration Functions in the public sector, KCSC began internship programs from 2009. KCSC reflects the performance evaluation of employees regularly Human resources fostering program There are no restrictions on academic background and gender, and and reflects it in the personnel evaluations, while linking work DMA Social Performance 189 interns were hired in 2010, who were not currently enrolled in Employee Satisfaction performance and bonuses in order to provide capacity and school, and in 2011, the intern program will be operated within a performance based personnel administration. Executives range of 4% of the capacity. and directors sign management agreements in pursuance of the management contract standard plans suggested by the government, and for the director of the Cadastral Training Institute, Preventing Discrimination of Non Full-time Fostering Human Resources the importance of the changes in the business environment and Employees and Improving treatment for them Cadastral Research Institute and regional directors of branch In order to achieve the vision of 'Global leader in the cadastral the need for self-development, KCSC expects that it will foster office, a management performance contract, in which the annual Non-full time employees are employed to handle certain system and promotion of spatial information industry', KCSC has human resources that can contribute in the development of the performance evaluation results are reflected in the reappointment operations, and by clearly defining the work of full-time and non judged that the most important matter is to foster global leadercorporation through academic research activities. of the regional directors. For employees above general managers, full-time employees according to the work and onsite assistant bonuses are given based upon individual capacity evaluations, and type human resources. Various educational and training programs ◎ Status of completed cyber education courses personnel management guideline, unfair treatment is prevented individual contribution levels for members of the department. For are offered to accumulate core capacities of employees so that to advance. Furthermore, in order to handle the complaints contract-based employees, contracts are extended, or they are they may improve their work capacities, as well as for their own 232 248 and hardships of non full-time employees, departments and self-development. given awards or overseas training. Through such methods, KCSC is 200 representatives for each branch are designated to offer a hardship constructing a performance-oriented corporate culture No. of courses handling system. In pursuance of the general non-full time ● Ability-based Performance Evaluation System Training and Education No. of people employees in the public sector of the government, as of December 107 The entire course of technical training was fully revamped into 105 113 1, 2007, persons who have worked for two straight years (146 Subject Evaluation System the 'Blended Learning' course to offer training and education persons) were rehired as full-time employees. • Executive performance contract system in connection with cyber education, and KCSC is planning • Regional director reappointment qualification screening system 2008 2009 2010 ● Non Full-time Employees Executive, to supplement courses that have not yet been developed in Regional Director • Regional director management performance contract system • Integrity evaluation cyber education through sequential development of contents. Year Full-time Non Full-time 2008 3,949 74 • Capacity evaluation and individual performance evaluation Furthermore, for the establishment of an educational service Fostering of International Cadastral Experts • Work performance contract system for localization of technical education and for the prompt 2009 3,828 218 Team Leader KCSC is fostering core personnel needed for pioneering foreign markets • Local office director performance evaluation 2010 3,724 251 • Integrity evaluation dissemination of technologies through the promotion of work and for international exchange, while also systematically fostering • Individual contribution evaluation per department training, in-company instructors equipped with both theoretical global human resources needed for expanding business fields. Team Member • Survey team leader performance evaluation knowledge and experience are being fostered and fully utilized. Promotion System based on Abilities • Researcher/instructor/contract worker performance evaluation ● Status of Training for Fostering International ※ Blended Learning By reforming the irrational promotion management method based • Capacity-base evaluation Cadastral Experts Educational and training method where offline training is conducted • Individual phone kindness survey on rank and years or work, the range of subjects for promotions Others after completing online course Type 2008 2009 2010 • Management performance evaluation per institute was expanded so that promotions could be possible in the event • Individual capacity evaluation Overseas business experts 15 14 40 ◎ Status of completed training and education that an employee has the abilities and qualities needed for Overseas training 2 4 2 promotion and when they diligently achieve a work goal. In order 49 48 to enhance the objectivity and fairness when selecting candidates No. of courses 38 for promotions, the work handling performance, in addition to the No. of people work performance, work experience and capacity, were measured 40 to operate various screening standards. No discrimination is placed on academic background, gender and hometown in determining 27 employee training, personnel shifts, promotions and positing 25 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report according to the employee code of conduct to offer fair standards. 2008 2009 2010 Cyber Education Recognizing the importance of education through reading, KCSC established cyber reading education courses in 2008 to proliferate voluntary reading courses. While becoming aware of 58 59 Operation of Study Program for Retiring Employees Results of Survey on Employee Satisfaction of Education and Training Improving Quality of Life The study program for retiring employees is being operated In order to minimize the inconveniences of students and enhance to improve work relations and enhance confidence for those the education effect, KCSC is conducting surveys on employee DMA Social Performance Improved Quality of Life expecting to retire and employees before and after retirement in satisfaction of education and training courses. Questionnaires order to provide systematic support for reemployment, starting up are handed out on the satisfaction of the contents and method businesses, or preparing for retirement so that they may contribute of lectures, satisfaction on the use of equipment and materials, to creating social value in different parts of society. Through more helpfulness when performing work, systemization of curriculum, assertive PR and support, it is expected that more employees will appropriateness of curriculum composition and education period, Salary System Construction of Selective Labor Welfare System utilize this program. satisfaction of public facilities, etc. Employees above class 3 including executives receive annual In order to increase employee satisfaction with a limited budget, ● Senior Business Startup School ● Results of employee satisfaction in education and salaries and employees lower than class 3 receive wages based the welfare card was connected to a selective welfare system Contents of Support Consulting Training training on salary classes. Incentives are given according to capacities where the individual can freely select the welfare that they want Year Target Score Final Score and performance, and there is no difference in base salary among among a list of pre-designed welfare items, in order to realize a Support Period Any Time 2 Weeks 2008 84 86.9 male and female employees. Wages are similar to other quasiuser-oriented labor welfare system. 2009 87 86 government agencies, and the wage for new employees at 40 hour Training Hours Completed per Person 2010 87 88 work weeks is 1,310,000 won, which is 145.1% of 902,880 won, The average training hours per person in 2008 was 82.5 hours (11.7 which is the legal minimal wage. Retirement Pension System days), 98.4 hours in 2009, and 111.6 hours in 2010, which is a 11.4% 88 KCSC has set the 'implementation of retirement pension systems' increase compared to the previous year. as its mid-term management goals, and in order to execute this, it 87 Final Score Welfare and Benefits Expenses is planning to systemize it through labor-management discussions 86.9 Result Score Joined four major social insurances (health insurance, employment and selecting its retirement pension business. The retirement ◎ Training Hours Completed per Person 87 insurance, occupational health and safety insurance, national wage reserves calculated in pursuance to the Labor Standard Act 86 pension), expenses-allowance, vacation allowance for parents, will deposit 30 days average wage for each year work. 111.6 scholarship fund support for middle and high school, student loans Training hours 84 ● Number of Retirees for college students, mortgage loans, use of condos and resorts, 98.4 subscription to group insurance, selective benefits systems, and Type 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 82.5 a variety of other welfare and benefits to provide a better working No. of Employees 3,949 3,827 3,724 environment for the employees, and the support is given equally to No. of Retirees 155 155 95 full-time and non full-time employees. Retirement Rate 3.93% 4.05% 2.60% 2008 2009 2010 Type 2008 2009 2010 Welfare & 74.9 billion won 71.4 billion won 68 billion won Benefits Expenses Average welfare & 18.62 million won 18.31 million won 17.21 million won benefits expenses per person Regular Health Examinations General health examinations are given every year for the health administration of employees. Employees can choose the examination type (A, B, C) that includes precision inspection, and special cancer examinations in addition to the basic examination 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report supported by the National Health Insurance Corporation. Support is also provided so that family members of employees and retired employees can also receive examinations with the same conditions (at their own expense), and ERP system is used to strengthen preventive health administration systems through systematic management according to the examination results, in order to put more efforts in managing human resources. 60 61 Virtuous Circle of Filled with Dreams and Hopes, Operation of Disaster Prevention and Risk When there is a complaint, the complaint is reported to the complaint handling committee in writing or verbally, and Management Programs the received complaint is handled by the complaint handling We can Spin the Pinwheel of In the event that employees are injured, become sick, or die at work, KCSC handles the case as prescribed by the Industrial committee within 10 days, notifying the employee of the results. Labor-Management Win-Win! Shinbaration 2010 DMA Social Performance Virtuous Circle of LaborIn the case of matters that cannot be handled by the complaint Accident Compensation Insurance Act. In the event that the handling committee, they are handled through discussions and inpatient and recovery expenses exceed the insurance coverage negotiations with the labor-management association. KCSC will Management of the industrial accident compensation insurance and group continue its efforts to enhance employee satisfaction by actively insurance, KCSC makes up for the difference. Furthermore, handling complaints of employees whenever they occur. since on-site operations take up most of the work due to the characteristics of work at KCSC, it temporarily suspends Labor-Management Cooperation KCSC observes the regulations on human rights and labor For the first time since the establishment of the KCSC labor operations in extreme weather conditions or when there is a heavy conditions explicated in the regulations and collective agreements union in 1987, the labor and management established new laborblanket of yellow dust blowing from China. on child labor and forced labor as prescribed in the Korean Labor management relationships after overcoming the waves of both ● No. of Accidents related to work such as injuries and Standard Act and ILO (International Labor Organization), and also internal and external changes, and conducted labor-management work-related illnesses (no. of approved cases) observes the principles of the UN Global Compact. There have not partnership programs to strengthen the competitiveness of KCSC Type 2008 2009 2010 yet been any reported cases of violating the child labor and force such as changing the organizational culture creatively by fostering No. of Accidents 3 8 9 labor principles. human resources with western feasibility and capacities, as No. of Employees 3 8 9 well as improvement of the organizational structure to improve productivity, heighten service quality and create jobs. Soon after the appointment of the new CEO, a labor-management cooperative Operation of Complaint Handling System proclamation was declared containing the will of the labor and ● Advancement Strategy of Labor-Management A joint labor-management complaint handling committee Relations management to create a fair society, and based on this, the 2011 is operated in order to handle the complaints of employees. mid-term management goal was established to continue mutual Mission We create land information to make a happier future Furthermore, by operating offline channels such as a personnel cooperation for a joint goal of labor and management. consultation office and various online channels such as in-company Construct cooperative labor-management bulletins (We-Land) and labor union bulletins, KCSC is preventing Vision relations that continue the virtuous circle of winwin labor-management causes of employee complaints in advance. Communicating Win-win laborCooperating Core Values labormanagement labormanagement relations management relations relations Construct Strengthen PerformanceStrategy cooperative laborexpertise of labororiented Direction management management compensation system relations system • Execute labor• Foster internal • Implement management relation experts on laborperformanceadvancement policies management based salary • Diversification of relations system Strategy communication • Improve labor • Increase range of Tasks • Strengthen reliability affairs training for salary based on Labor-Management Association through joint labormanagement on-site managers • Joint laborperformance participation management A labor-management association was organized to improve education the joint profits of labor and management through participation and cooperation, and regular talks and meetings are being held Labor Union between the executive board and labor representatives. The The KCSC labor union was established in August 1987 and it is 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report labor-management association is composed of seven members a member of the Korean Collaboration of Trade Unions, Public including the KCSC CEO and chairperson of the labor union, and Transportation Federation. In 2010, 3,036 employees have joined by reporting the management performance and work progress the labor union, and thus, the percentage of the number of at every meeting, management information is shared and various membership to trade unions to the total number of employees contributions to improving labor conditions, improving productivity, is 81.6%. Joining the labor union is of an 'open-shop' type, and reforming safety, health and work environments, and improving labor hour exemption systems have been rationally adopted and laborer welfare. operated with the execution of the time-off system on July 1, 2010. We provide value for customers, community and employees 62 ● Status of Labor Union Membership ※No. of employees based on total employees as of Dec 31 of the respective year. Section 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and are practicing corporate social responsibilities No. of Employees 3,829 3,975 3,949 3,827 3,724 DMA Social Performance Criteria for Class 3 employees or lower Class 3 employees or lower Class 3 employees or lower Class 3 employees or lower Class 3 employees or lower joining union with no appointed position with no appointed position with no appointed position with no appointed position with no appointed position through social contribution activities No. of union 2,469 2,663 2,829 2,958 3,036 members No. of full-time 7 (persons exempted by utilizing the unique characteristics of KCSC. 4 4 4 4 union members from labor hours) ● Major Revisions of Collective Agreement Collective Agreement Before Revision After Revision Article 18 (Treatment of 4. Treatment for upper-level organizations, association groups, and delegations shall be Abolished full-time union members) equal to that of full-time executives Article 63 (Long-term KCSC shall provide the following long-term service vacations to employees who have worked at the company for Abolished Service Vacation) consecutive years. 1. 10 years or longer: 3 days 2. 15 years or longer: 5 days 3. 20 years or longer: 7 days 4. 25 years or longer: 10 days Article 82 KCSC shall provide the following family event expenses for labor union members. Abolished (Family Event Expenses) 1. Death: A. Self: 3 million won B. Spouse: 2 million won C. Parents of self or spouse: 500 thousand won D. Children: 500 thousand won 2. Marriage: A. Self: 500 thousand won B. Children: 300 thousand won 3. 70th birthday of parents of self or spouse: 300 thousand won (time of payment shall be determined by KCSC) 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Ethical Value DMA Ethical Performance KCSC is evolving into a clean public corporation that can be trusted by customers Anti-corruption policy evaluation: Excellent 9.05 Public institute transparency score 2010 66 67 Ethical We will strive to become a fair and ● Roadmap by Stage Management transparent public corporation 2009 2010 2011~ DMA Ethical Performance Establish ethical corporate culture Reinforce ethical Ethical management of (2009) corporate image (2010) global standards (2011~) Ethical Management • Establish integrated ethical • Realize global standard ethical • Achieve best level of management system management transparency and integrity • Strengthen practice and PR of ethical • Realize social responsibility • Environmentally and socially management management responsible management Achieve the Best Level in Transparency among Furthermore, in the anti-corruption policy evaluation that assesses • Reinforce social contribution • Construct and realize • Strengthen win-win partnership performance management and sustainable management with interested parties Public Institutes the appropriateness and effectiveness of transparency policies of incentives system the institute was given a 'very good' rating. However, rather than In order to achieve the mid-term goal of becoming the best being satisfied with such ratings, KCSC established an ethical in transparency among public institutes by 2013, KCSC is management goal and pursuance strategy in link with its vision continuously improving the system by strengthening socially ● Ethical Management Supervision Organization Chart and management objective according to the firm principles for responsible management and establishing new corporate cultures. ethical management and social responsibilities, while pursuing Results of the 2010 transparency survey of the Anti-Corruption and Ethical Operation Anti-Corruption Ethics Practice continuous improvement of the transparency level to procure Executive Board CEO Conduct Supervisor Committee Task Force Team Manager Civil Rights Commission was 9.05 points, which is a 'good rating' customer trust. KCSC will continue to strive to become a fair and (good outside transparency 9.00, good internal transparency 9.18). transparent public corporation and a healthy institute. Director of Auditing Chief supervisor Transparency and Branch Office 10 (4 full-time, 6 non Chairperson, vice Office Supervised by of ethical Ethics Department and Local Office full-time chairman director of auditing management directors ● Strategic Map for Ethical Management office Vision Global leader in the cadastral system and promotion of spatial information industries Auditor Auditor Office Ethical Management Vision Realization of clean public corporation that is trusted by customers Ethical Management Strategy Goal Achieve best level in transparency Realize global ethics standards ● 6 Phase Practicing Process Ethical Management 1. CEO 2. Pursuance 3. Strengthen Customer Practicing Organization Ethical Capacities Leadership Customer Satisfaction Process and System (training) Strengthened Ethical Leadership • Strong will of CEO • Train and foster ethical • Continuous in-depth ethics • Participation of ethical management practicing leader education Government Evalu General Society management network • Operate electronic procurement • Provide various education Institu Ethical ation Ethical Management Pursuance tionali and multi-facet evaluation programs related to ethical Change management, Risk Social contribution, Strategy management zation Management manag Environment-friendliness management ement Strengthened Ethical Capacity 6. Evaluation / 4. Establishing 5. Monitoring an Ethical Feedback 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Environment Satisfaction to the internal customer All Employees • Make index of internal • Measure transparency • Remove corruption elements evaluation • Inspect status of compliance for and obtain transparency for Economic Responsibility Environmental Responsibility Social Responsibility • Strengthen ethical with code of conduct, and internal operations management execution self-diagnosis • Systematic social contribution Pursue Sustainable Management base for improving system activities 68 ■ CEO Leadership ■ Establishing an Ethical Environment ● Ethical Management Education Program 69 As the strategic management system for achieving the vision, E-pledges for practicing transparency through intranet popup Section Course Education Days Target Persons the will to exercise an executive board for practicing ethical windows for preventing corruption factors, procuring transparency management was drafted in a work transparency contract in internal processes, and enhancing ethical mindsets for Time to do practice, 30 days All employees 1,489 DMA Ethical Performance Ethical Management to convey and spread such will both inside and outside of the employments are conducted, while work feasibility of HR Ethical Management company, and through this KCSC is constructing an organizational management via multi-faceted evaluation systems and sharing Anti-Corruption and Directors and culture that sets an example starting from the top of the company. ethical management data via ethical management guide CoP, etc Civil Rights Commission contract-related Online Education 15 days 489 Furthermore, KCSC is striving to observe international ethics are performed for expanding such practice and exercise programs. transparency education employees standards by joining the UN Global Compact and attending the Moreover, social contribution activities unique to KCSC that reflects world congress. It is also practicing transparent management its character of work are being performed. Also, transparent Self inspection on ethical compliance All employees 3,586 by sending transparency letters and disclosing expenses for contract systems for the compliance of work transparency Enterprise Portal (We-Land) operations (monthly). responsibilities of directors and executives are conducted to offer countermeasures in the case of violations, and also, an Ethics Day Offline Education Ethical management 11days New employee, etc 360 ■ Ethical Management Driving Organization and System is designated every month to establish a transparent organization culture, on which ethical management events such as slogans, By designating an organization in charge of company-wide ethical ideas and example contests are held, or awards given. Transparency practice Managers and survey management, areas needing improvement that are weak ethically Special Education 3days 1,123 education with CS training team leaders are sought after and customary practices of internal regulations are continuously being addressed and reformed. Ethical expertise ■ Monitoring and Feedback is being procured through the Ethical Operation Committee and A Clean Report Center where instances of violations of public an Ethical Management Practicing Leader Organization is being interests can be reported is under operation for the purpose of constructed for ethics compliance guiding activities. Also, risk prevention ahead of time. Also, for pursuing and proliferating ethical factors for corruption is being removed in advance by upward management, the practice effort index and social contribution adjusting the positions of ethical management practicing leaders, activity evaluation index is measured, while constructing a producing 100% clean card systems at all offices and workplaces, dimensional and integrated inspection system for pre-mid-post operation of e-procurement systems, and implementation of stages in conjunction with the transparency execution evaluation, e-auditing systems. In addition, a CEO Hotline and Helpline were daily auditing and follow-up audits to regularly monitor the installed to open an Irregularity Reporting Center at the homepage execution status of ethical management. in order to resolve the ethical dilemmas of employees. Ethical Management Evaluation and Compensation ■ Buildup of Ethical Capacities (training) By reforming the evaluation index related to the ethical Problem-solving type action learning ethical management management of employees, the system devices were reinforced education programs of various methods for practical education through methods such as evaluation of ethical management effects are being conducted. Through remote online education, activities and compensation. Ethical management practicing efforts KCSC is operating special courses such as ethical management are directly reflected in the executive board management contract, together with CS education to heighten the mindset for ethics, and employee work evaluations. In addition, transparency efforts, and specialized education for marketing representatives related ethical management execution performance, and efforts to fulfill to contracts. Furthermore, an information room was opened and social responsibilities are evaluated in the internal evaluations is currently operating for sharing the performance of practicing of each institution, and in the case of violation of the code of ethical management and for information exchange. conduct, this system deducts 100% from the ethical management score. Moreover, a 'Clean Cadastral Award' is offered to enhance 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report customer respect, compliance with ethical standards, social contribution, and transparency in the ethical sector. By doing so, employees with outstanding ethical capacities and who have set an example in executing his or her work, are being selected and rewarded in the ethics awards. In order to fulfill fair and transparent management which is trusted by customers, 70 ● Major Activities of KCSC Ethical Management 71 Month 2007 2008 2009 2010 KCSC has established an ethical management pursuance system, • Participated in UN Global DMA Ethical Performance • Self-diagnosis of ethical • Attended transparency training January standards law (year-round) Compact anti-corruption symposium session for executives and has established an ethical corporate culture through • Attended UN Global Compact • Attended anti-corruption policy • Conduct transparency world congress workshop February execution evaluation system • Held proclamation ceremony for audit charter • Opened expenses used for operations stage-by-stage roadmaps • Held ethical operation • Attended UN Global Compact committee • Attended environment • Conducted cyber transparency education to continuously practice ethical management. March anti-corruption symposium symposium • Conveyed CEO's will for • Held ethical management transparency inside and outside workshop for each branch of the company offices • Ethical management training April • Ethical management workshop • Ethical management training for new employees • Held ethical operation for each branch office for new employees • Attended ethical management committee workshop • Proclamation ceremony • Clean model superior award • Ethical management workshop for practicing sustainable • Proposal of ethical for each branch office management • Conducted transparency survey management theme May • Establishment of pursuance • Completed construction of on employees to improve upon • Conduct transparency survey plans for strengthening ethical E-audit system weak areas against corruption on employees management • Constructed e-procurement • Self-diagnosis for ethics system compliance • Ethical management workshop • Asia Attended UN Global Compact Conference • Attended corporate ethics • Attended corporate ethics June for each branch office • Ethics spatialization training for workshop for proliferating workshop for proliferating • Join UN Global Compact contract representatives ethical management culture ethical management culture • Implemented code of conduct • UNCG business leader authentication for employees • Ethical management workshop • 1st ethics leader course, ethics breakfast meeting • Begin broadcasting July for each branch offices manager training • 1st ethics leader course transparency song training • Established plans for becoming outstanding institute for anticorruption and transparency August • Ethical management workshop • 2nd ethics leader course, ethics • with Attended breakfast meeting UN Secretary General Ban Opened anti-corruption and for each branch office manager training Ki-moon transparency e-poster • Held 1st Ethical Management • Special award for green • Operate anti-corruption Committee • Inspect execution of employee production sector at the evaluation system September • Notified main pivotal projects on code of conduct national production awards • Strengthen internal public for ethical management • Attended public organization interest reporting system management seminar • Special education for ethics • Inspect execution of employee • Ethics operation committee October practicing manager • 3rd ethics leader course, ethics on code of conduct • Self-diagnosis on corporate • Signed executive work manager training • 3rd ethics leader training transparency transparency contract course • Attended 'Sustainable management of Asia' conference • Diagnosis on perception of • Held anti-corruption and • Diagnosis on perception of ethical management, KCSC-E transparency practicing contest ethical management, KCSC-E index • Signed work transparency • Conduct transparency index • Signed work transparency contract for executives November practicing campaign • Ethical management training contract for executives • E-agreement for practicing for families of executives • E-agreement for practicing company-wide transparency • Signed work transparency company-wide transparency • Diagnosis on perception of contract for executives ethics • E-agreement for practicing 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report company-wide transparency • Self-diagnosis on social • Transparency evaluation of contribution employees • Operate We-Land 'ethical • Ethics operation committee • Transparency evaluation of management guide' banner • Transparency evaluation of December executives • Transparency evaluation of executives • Clean cadastral awards executives • Selection as good transparency • Held ethics operation • Revised personnel system institutes committee such as reprimand standards • Selection as very good institute for corruption prevention policy evaluation Environmental Value DMA Environmental Performance KCSC is harmonizing land development and environmental performance through the green spatial-information industry. Unit : % 82.2 Purchase rate of environment-friendly products 2010 80.0 2009 85.0 2008 74 75 Configuration of We have a growth engine for a sustainable national Creating a Green Spatial Information Society For Green Growth DMA Environmental Performance Green Spatial information industry and Configuration of Information creating an outstanding spatial information society. Green Everywhere, Everybody New deal Green Spacial Information • Establishment of national • Spatial information that • Linked, opened and spatial information base can be used by anyone, integrated spatial that is a foundation for anywhere information Achievements information standards, spatial information distribution (metagreen growth Creating a national spatial information policy makes it possible data, etc), spatial information technology, human resources, to establish a spatial information base and to promote the public partnerships and organizations. Also, by responding early to the and private sectors using such base. This is made by creating innovation of the e-government's administrative system, KCSC, a sustainable green spatial information society. In addition the a cadastral informationization institute, has pursued quality system for both the public and private sectors to utilize, we also improvement projects for national spatial information data. have organized a spatial information infrastructure such as spatial Spatial Information Standard Spatial information Governance Access Interoperability Integration Intelligence utilization system Spatial information industry • Mutually cooperative • Easy and convenient • Mutual operation of • Integration of • Intelligent spatial (public / private) governance access to spatial spatial information spatial information information technology information infrastructure Create Green spatial Information Pursue vision of improving the quality of life for the entire nation Law In accordance with the vision of the national spatial information, · Distribution(meta data) Technological development System Partnership 'create a society where all people can share and utilize spatial · Fundamental spatial Fostering human resources Organization information information at anytime, anywhere in order to enhance the Central Government Provincial Governments green competitiveness to improve the quality of life', it is • Execution of efficient • Reduce information Spatial information standard pursuing projects that can improve the quality of life of the national policy projects Integrated maintenance & • Real estate Record of management costs people as a key task according to the vision of 'Global leader development and Real estate • Procure accuracy management of real estate in the cadastral system and promotion of spatial information • Maximize synergy of administration data policy integration and public confidence industries'. In particular, KCSC aims at making use of proper of adminsitration real estate information possible, and becoming a firm base for Efforts of Spatial Information Executor to Unification of People and distribution that is possible to balance preservation and improving reliability and expanding official functions through Create a Green Spatial Information Society • Application and issuance development of land, great efforts are being made so that the unification of real estate administration information that can of puiblic services 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report • Integrated and In addition to governmental policies for promoting the spatial integrated and common services based on cadastral information broaden communication with various interested parties. Through customized public services information industry, KCSC has so far acted as a balancer that can be used as core information in spatial information industries maximization of accuracy of surveys and work efficiency, KCSC • Real estate information service expands the roles and functions of the private sector, which has such as GPS, navigation and internet map services. KCSC will is pursuing projects such as reorganization of cadastral records, been relevantly inactive in the green growth and green spatial diligently fulfill its role to help in improving the individual quality improving quality of continuous cadastral maps, and supporting information areas. In order to apply the green formula of growth of life through spatial information in life, though it may not be the construction of GIS-based building integration information, conspicuous. while also providing a turning point for business diversification of utilizing spatial information. 76 Environmental An environmental preservation Energy Conservation System 77 and environment-friendly DMA Environmental Performance Management management system Environmental Management is being established for the green growth of Korea. With the environmental issue of global warming and destruction Energy conservation education is conducted to enhance the ◎ Carbon dioxide emission Unit : Ton / CO2 of the o-zone becoming an international issue in the late 1980s, awareness of employees on the importance of energy and an energy Energy reducing the amount of raw materials used, as well as energy and Direct 403.9 conservation committee has also been organized and is in operation. Guard Indirect hazardous materials, that could directly or indirectly affect climate In the future, efforts to strengthen energy efficiency will be made changes became perceived as an effective method for low-carbon, 345.7 such as in conducting energy diagnosis and feedback from energy 311.2 green growth. KCSC is continuously striving to reduce wastes, companies, partitioning of heating/cooling areas in the head office, chemicals, and pollution from each of its organs. In addition, by review and application of ventilation plans to minimize heating and assertively conducting policies and campaigns for conserving cooling devices, and management of standby power. The energy Energy energy and resources, KCSC is also cutting costs and preserving conservation committee has strongly expressed their will to put into Conservation Activities the environment. KCSC will continue to minimize adverse effects to practice energy conservation. It is operated in all work areas including the environment in the community through various environmental the branch offices, and it evaluates the performance of annual energy Director of Ass. Director of activities, and also construct an environmental management use, as well as setting goals for energy conservation. The committee Department Department system to preserve the environment worldwide. operates an Energy Guard for each team, and internal goals on 23.7 21.4 energy conservation are set and put into practice. In addition, roles for 20.3 education and PR are granted to put continuous energy conservation Energy Consumption into everyday practice. The energy used by KCSC in 2010 was a total of 230Toe that 2008 2009 2010 includes direct energy using district heating and LNG (Liquefied ● Energy Conservation Committee Natural Gas) and indirect energy from electricity. A total of 425 ● Efforts for efficient energy use tons of CO2 was emitted as greenhouse gas from the head office. Through company-wide efforts to conserve energy, we will do our • Efforts for efficient energy use best to protect the environment and reduce energy consumption Switch office lighting to LED products Replace over 30% of office lighting devices to Head Branch LEDproducts by 2012 Office Office Install LED lighting fixtures in construction of ● Energy consumption per Person (total volume) new office building (30%) ※In late 2009, all incandescent lights in buildings switched to LED products Year 2008 2009 2010 Chairperson Chairperson 699,698 777,302 908,092 • Operate new renewable energy in office building (Vice President) (Regional Director) Electricity(kmh) Subject: Ulsan/Gyeongnam Branch Office building District gas(Gcal) 253,31 243,86 251,78 Vice Chairperson Contents: Reduce energy consumption by 20-30% from (Administration LNG(m3) 10,641 9,132 9,614 heat use geothermal energy Executive) Water and sewage(m3) 3,416 3,080 3,364 • Continued investment in new renewable energy sectors in Total energy use(TOE) 187 201 230 new office buildings 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Employees at head New building for head office: Geothermal and solar power 117 142 156 General Affairs Operation PR General Affairs Operation office(persons) facilities (Operation support) (each dept.) (PR dept.) (Operation support dept. ) (each local office) Total per person Wonju, Hwaseong Local Offices: Solar power facilities (TOE/persons) 1.59 1.41 1.47 • Installation of PC standby power and circuit breaker device • Establish energy • Operate Energy Guard • Publicize outstanding conservation plans • Practice energy examples Installed auto-sleep mode and circuit breaker devices for • Inspect execution conservation • Publicize conservation 20 desktops at head office items plans Reduction effect: 0.34kw per machine per day, 125kw per year • Employee training Appendix Appendix 78 Efforts for Efficient KCSC is striving to cut costs and reduce carbon emissions through efficient use of energy under 79 Use of Energy DMA Environmental Performance the vision of 'efficient use of energy' in energy management Removal of Incandescent Lights ● Efforts to Practice Green Life By pursuing the substation of incandescent lights in buildings, • Promote 'Bicycle Riding Boom' which have high energy consumption, with LED lights, energy Promote nation-wide 'bicycle riding boom' using the efficiency was maximized, and by 2012, over 30% of all lighting KCSC cycling team and promote an environment-friendly devices of KCSC will be replaced with LED lights. image for KCSC ※Distribution of green growth poster (800) • Continued operation of Green-day Adjustment of Electricity Contract Amount Designate every Wednesday as day of practicing green life for As part of the energy supply management plans, the size of office family-friendliness and conservation of resources at work buildings, number of users, and load were closely identified and • Environment Guard and Environmental Protection Activities the contracted power was reviewed. By doing so, buildings with As part of company-wide social contribution activities, relatively excessive contracted power were adjusted, and by pursue Environment Guard activities (11 times per year) adjusting the amount to a total of 215kw, it was possible to cut ※ Environment Guard: Report to authorities when discovering illegal electricity costs by 13,287,000 won per year. activities including environmental pollution (☏ 128) Pursue local environmental protection activities using the ● Application to change electricity use via cooperation organization and work characteristics with KEPCO of the respective region • Introduction and Operation of Hybrid Car for Work Section Beginning After Adjusted Car model: Avante LPi Amount Traveled distance: 9.197km Total of Electricity Effects: Compared to regular vehicles, fuel reduction 664kw 449kw △215kw Contract Amount effect of 50.1 liters • Clean Street Campaign Target: Major streets around the nation (790 streets) Introduction of Geothermal Energy Equipment Contents: 12,574 participants KCSC applied a cooling/heating system using geothermal energy, Period: Sep 2010-Dec 2010 (once a month) which is a new renewable energy, in the construction of the Ulsan/Gyeongnam branch office to positively participate in the development and implementation of alternative energy for the government. Also, for the new head office building to be built in Jeonju, designs are being made to implement new renewable energies and to make it a class 1 energy efficiency building. 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 80 81 Financial Status ● Profits and Losses [Unit: KRW] Sector 2008 2009 2010 Ⅰ. Business Profit 392,511,790,183 403,287,041,743 407,061,988,626 ⑴ Survey Fee Income 392,511,790,183 403,287,041,743 407,061,988,626 Appendix Appendix Ⅱ. Business Expenses 379,094,369,569 370,387,256,136 367,831,619,099 ⑴ Work Expenses 328,174,103,233 331,589,799,129 327,320,078,476 Overlook on Finances Due to the continuation of the stagnating real estate market caused by the global financial crisis, the work performance was relatively ⑵ Management Expenses 50,920,266,336 38,797,457,007 40,511,540,623 poor. However, with the increase of work ordered from the government such as the 4 Rivers Project and Housing projects, and business Ⅲ. Business Performance 13,417,420,614 32,899,785,607 39,230,369,527 diversification such as 3D industry and finding new businesses to tap into, KCSC achieved 100.0% of its yearly goal. [Unit: KRW] Ⅳ. Income other than from business 6,589,723,775 6,592,314,449 6,955,120,283 Sector 2008 2009 2010 Ⅴ. Expenses other than for business 7,914,223,739 7,976,425,085 8,200,154,396 Ⅰ. Current Asset 78,661,372,904 94,236,391,300 71,495,697,229 Ⅵ. Performance before deducting 12,092,920,650 31,515,674,971 37,985,335,414 ⑴ Quick Asset 77,380,938,163 92,994,625,469 70,538,217,762 corporate taxes ⑵ Inventory Asset 1,280,434,741 1,241,765,831 957,479,467 Ⅶ. Corporate taxes 2,148,803,050 3,925,532,440 6,046,165,570 Ⅱ. Noncurrent Asset 159,940,976,702 168,169,766,994 219,534,433,342 Ⅷ. Current Income 9,944,117,600 27,590,142,531 31,939,169,844 Assets ⑴ Investment Asset 18,895,707,362 19,576,448,291 25,647,972,563 ● Statement of retained earnings [Unit: KRW] ⑵ Tangible Asset 137,175,870,355 144,599,764,066 189,456,858,846 Sector 2008 2009 2010 ⑶ Intangible Asset 22,247,275 19,350,827 22,395,953 Ⅰ. Profit surplus before use 59,967,532,814 83,011,443,395 102,209,678,548 ⑷ Other Noncurrent Asset 3,847,151,710 3,974,203,810 4,407,205,980 ⑴ Surplus carried over from 50,023,415,214 55,421,300,864 70,270,508,704 Total Assets 238,602,349,606 262,406,158,294 291,030,130,571 previous term Ⅰ. Current Liabilities 23,808,653,561 30,815,754,044 29,069,622,474 ⑵ Profit after correcting errors from previous term Liabilities Ⅱ. Noncurrent Liabilities 130,609,563,774 119,816,129,448 118,247,063,451 ⑶ Current Income 9,944,117,600 27,590,142,531 31,939,169,844 Total Liabilities 154,418,217,335 150,631,883,492 147,316,685,925 Ⅱ. Import of voluntary reserve, etc 8,226,125,467 8,190,953,078 8,732,542,723 Ⅰ. Original Property 10,000,000,000 10,000,000,000 10,000,000,000 ⑴ Original Purpose Business Reserve 8,226,125,467 8,190,953,078 8,732,542,723 Ⅱ. Profit Surplus 74,184,132,271 101,774,274,802 133,713,444,646 Ⅲ. Sum (Ⅰ+Ⅱ) 68,193,658,281 91,202,396,473 110,942,221,271 ⑴ Original Purpose 14,216,599,457 18,762,831,407 31,503,766,098 Business Reserve Ⅳ. Liquidated amount of Surplus 12,772,357,417 20,931,887,769 20,891,490,240 ⑵ Unsettled Profit Surplus 59,967,532,814 83,011,443,395 102,209,678,548 ⑴ Original Purpose Business Reserve 12,772,357,417 20,931,887,769 20,891,490,240 Capital 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report A. Surplus carried over 50,023,415,214 55,421,300,864 70,270,508,704 Ⅴ. Surplus carried over to next term 55,421,300,864 70,270,508,704 90,050,731,031 from previous term B. Net profit in term 9,944,117,600 27,590,142,531 31,939,169,844 Total Capital 84,184,132,271 111,774,274,802 143,713,444,646 Business Performance 82 ● Yearly Business Performance ●Finances, Management Index [Unit: Million KRW] 83 [Unit: Million KRW] 2008 2009 2010 Evaluation Item 2008 2009 [B] 2010 [A] Fluctuation (A-B) Sector 45,000 Business Ordinary Current Performance Income Income Business Profit 392,512 403,287 407,062 40,000 Current Ratio 330.39 305.81 245.95 △59.86 Business 13,417 32,900 39,230 35,000 Debt Ratio 184.43 134.76 102.51 △32.25 Performing Ordinary Income 30,000 Safety 12,093 31,516 37,985 Interest compensation ratio Appendix Appendix Current Income 9,944 27,590 31,939 25,000 compared to sales profit ㅤ 20,000 Equity ratio 35.28 42.60 49.38 6.78 15,000 Sales Profit Ratio 3.42 8.16 9.64 1.48 10,000 Sales Net Profit Ratio 2.53 6.84 7.85 1.01 5,000 0 2008 2009 2010 Total Asset Net Profit 4.20 11.01 11.54 0.53 Equity Net Profit Ratio 12.55 28.16 25 △3.16 ● Assets, Liabilities and Capital [Unit: Million KRW] Sales Cash Flow Ratio Profitability 2.83 15.59 12.66 △2.93 Sector 2008 2009 2010 compared to Total Asset Capital Liabilities Assets 700,000 ㅤ Assets 238,602 262,406 291,030 Sales Ratio compared 600,000 to Financial Expenses Liabilities 154,418 150,632 147,317 500,000 Capital 84,184 111,774 143,713 Sales Ratio compared to Wage 84.35 79.19 75.83 △3.36 400,000 ㅤ Sales Ratio compared to 300,000 83.61 82.22 80.41 △1.81 Sales Cost 200,000 ㅤ Sales Increase Ratio 8.40 2.75 0.94 △1.81 100,000 ㅤ Sales Profit Increase Ratio △12.57 145.20 19.24 △125.96 0 2008 2009 2010 Growth Current Income Increase Ratio 28.36 177.45 15.76 △161.69 Activity Total Asset Increase Ratio 1.74 9.98 10.91 0.93 ● Sales, Ordinary Income, Value-added ㅤ [Unit: Million KRW] Asset Turnover Ratio 1.66 1.61 1.47 △0.14 Sector 2008 2009 2010 Sales per Ordinary Value-added Person income per per Person Total Capital Investment Person 150.79 145.68 130.28 △15.40 Sales per Person 95.88 103.43 106.70 Efficiency 120 Ordinary income per Person 2.95 8.08 9.96 Facilities Investment 100 293.19 289.69 237.99 △51.70 Value-added per Person 87.13 93.60 94.50 Efficiency 80 Productivity Labor Income Percentage 92.82 87.51 85.63 △1.88 60 ㅤ Wage Increase Ratio per Person 11.82 1.28 -1.22 △2.50 40 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report ㅤ 20 Value-added Increase 11.38 7.42 0.96 △6.46 Ratio per Person 0 2008 2009 2010 84 85 Evaluation of Outside Organizations Glossary and Membership Status GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Organization established centering on UNEP and CERES, which is an international relies entirely on the illustration for border points of land, and it determines the boundaries of lands in the illustration. environmental association of the US, in 1997 and is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Since the publication of the 'GRI Base Point Survey Operation for setting the base point to grant Guideline' for sustainable management reports in June 2000, the the horizontal location of land or to grant the dimensions of the Appendix Appendix 'GRI G2 Guideline' was issued in May 2002 and 'G3 Guideline' in vertical height. October 2006. The GRI Guideline is the most commonly used as a ● Awards and Certifications (2006 ~ 2010) sustainability report guideline in the world. Automatic Drawing System Since 1977, KCSC has processed various drawings and illustrations related to cadastral operations UN Global Compact Voluntary agreement under the UN in the automatic system to provide accurate cadastral surveys in Year Contents Supervision established Kofi Annan, former secretary general of the UN, at order to improve customer services 2006 Selected as outstanding institute for finance and profit sector in 2005 the Davos Forum in Switzerland in January 1999. It is made up of management performance evaluation Ministry of Planning & Budget a total of 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment, and Drawing DB Project In order to resolve the problems of anti-corruption based on the world human rights declaration, preserving and managing the original form and to have accurate 2006 Won a spatial award in the Korean Magazine and Press Awards for 'Land and People' Korea Magazine Association International Labor Organization declaration, RIO declaration and cadastral survey data resulting from new cadastral drawings, 2006 Grand Prize in customer service innovation at the 14th Korea Customer the UN anti-corruption agreement. KCSC joined this in June 2007. approximately 750,000 drawings were placed in a digital DB in a Satisfaction Awards KMAC five year project from 1999 to 2003. By integrating land registries Boundary Restoration Survey Survey for restoring boundary and cadastral drawings, a basis for using as basic information in 2006 Grand Prize in customer service innovation at the 14th Korea Customer registered in cadastral records and it requires installation of national geographic information projects was established. Satisfaction Awards KMAC marking of points. This survey is normally used when newly constructing, expanding or renovating buildings, or when wishing Continuous Cadastral Drawing Construction Project This project 2006 Awarded for in-depth intelligence model in the public sector at the 8th Maeil Economy NewspaperIntelligent Management Awards Boozallen to check the boundary with surrounding land. is for constructing separate digital cadastral drawings that were made through the cadastral drawing DB project into a continuous 2006 Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Cadastral Status Survey Survey to locate by comparing form. This project is being conducted exclusively by KCSC under Selected as Good Transparency Institute Commission structures, topography or locations of landmarks with borders the supervision of the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime registered in cadastral maps or forestry maps. This is applied for Affairs. It will be used as important drawings for basic materials 2006 Acquired recertification for good company in Korea service quality Ministry of Knowledge Economy when beginning construction and for inspection upon completion of land policies and for legislation of GIS policies. 2006 Acquired recertification for ISO9001 management quality Korea Productivity Center of construction, or when wishing to check the cadastral survey for area in the vicinity World Geodetic System This is a world center coordinates 2008 Won Stevie Award in the advertisement and media sector of the 2008 systems used by integrating the center of world mass at a center International Business Awards (IBA) IBA Subdivision Survey Survey conducted for dividing land in one let by all the nations of the world, and it is a system for conducting 2008 Grand prize in global networking at the 2008 Global Leader Awards Korea Economy Newspaper registered in the cadastral records into two or more lots. surveys, making maps and for global information service (GIS). 2009 Won 2009 National Productivity Awards (green productivity sector) Korea Productivity Center Registration Conversion Survey Survey for registering land Cadastral Reform Operation for resolving issues of cadastral registered in forest records or maps into cadastral maps. Survey inconsistencies that are causing confusion in cadastral 2010 Awarded at Korea Technology Innovation Awards (new technology sector) Korea Economy Newspaper normally made when the land registered in the forest map is management by bringing about structural obstacles in promoting 2010 Korea Company Newsletter changed in character and when wanting to register it in the land land use and protecting the property rights of the people, and Awarded in printed newsletter sector at Korea Communication Awards (public sect) Association registry. remodeling of existing cadastral systems in order to make reforms into an efficient cadastral management system by New Registration Survey Survey conducted for newly enhancing the restoration abilities for land boundaries and by ● Membership in Association and Groups registering land that is not registered in the cadastral records. clearly marking lots. Year Association or Group Activities Control point Survey Survey conducted for installing control Spatial Information Industry Industry for producing, managing, points, which is the base point for detailed cadastral surveys, and processing or distributing spatial information or providing International technological information exchange and cooperation, is a frame survey equal to cadastral triangulation surveys. services for, or constructing, systems by integrating with other 1981 FIG (International Federation of Surveyors) surveyor training industries. Cadastral Triangulation Survey Survey of finding the ground Auditor training and information collection, exchange with domestic and 1989 Institute of Internal Auditors plan, angle, length and breadth coordinates through triangulation 3D(Three Dimensions, Three Dimensional) (Three Dimensions, 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report foreign auditors methods for the location of the base point, which acts as the Three Dimensional): 3D coordinate measuring device framework for newly establishing cadastral triangulation points using scanning methods. Instead of the 1 point collimation Attend meetings on accident management, and cooperation with local 2006 Accident Reduction Measures Association governments and cadastral triangulation assistant points, as well as for control methods of total stations in the past, numerous laser point surveys and detailed surveys. It requires high precision and beams are projected in small intervals on the surface of Collect latest information on customer satisfaction management, is an important survey standard for cadastral surveys. the object of measurement, in which 3D coordinates are 2006 Korea Association for Service obtained. Afterwards, by compatibility with high-tech laser benchmarking of other institutes, exchange through workshops Graphical Cadastral Survey The cadastral map or forest map measurement devices or total stations that acquires the Attend workshops and symposiums related to human rights, labor, of land boundaries are registered in a graphic, which is kept form of the object intuitively, 3D coordinates of the object is 2007 UN Global Compact at the office having jurisdiction. It is a cadastral system that acquired, and measured by modeling. environment, and anti-corruption 86 87 Third Party Assurance Opinions Appendix Appendix 6. Findings To Employees of KCSC and Interested Parties The assurer reviewed the contents in the report draft based on review and search of data and documents, visiting department, and employee interview to suggest an opinion, and after making some necessary editing, the final issue was reviewed. • Economic Performance 1. Assurance Outline It was compared with the 2010 financial statement of KCSC, and the data contained in the report is appropriate. The Korea Productivity Center Quality Assurance (KPCQA) requested verification of the 2010 sustainability report by KCSC, and after conducting verification, the following assurance report is issued. This report was prepared by collecting information related • Social / Environmental Performance to KCSC, and thus, KCSC shall be held liable for the contents of the report. The significance of this assurance is in presenting The information contained in the social and environmental section for the scope of assurance is found to be appropriately a third party assurance report opinion from an objective perspective to check whether the report contents had appropriately described and no major errors were found. collected and listed information, without major errors, according to a logical process during the course of drafting the report. • Responsiveness The assurer has checked and reviewed the data related to internal and outside interested parties of KCSC, and identified the 2. Independence of Assurance range of the report and interests of the interested parties and checked whether it was reflected through the materiality test KPCQA and the assurer has not participated in activities for the purpose of profit-making of KCSC and has no interest in KCSC, The assurer has checked that major issues on sustainability of KCSC were all included, and did not discover any contents and therefore, maintained independence for this assurance. that could be a problem in decision-making processes for major issues listed in this report. • Reliability 3. Scope of Assurance Engagement The assurer reviewed the internal decision-making system, operation process, collection of various data, and the This report describes the efforts and achievement of the sustainable management activities (economic, social and environmental management system of KCSC, and checked samplings, but did not find any basis to suppose that there are any major errors sectors) of KCSC, and therefore, the scope of assurance engagement are limited to confirm the contents of such sectors. in the data and information contained in this report • Assurance of economic sector: Whether the financial information appropriately extracted outside auditor reports for the financial statement. 7. Issued for Further Consideration • Assurance of social / environmental sectors: Whether the information occurring from policies/operations were appropriately described The assurer, in hopes that the report issued by KCSC is widely utilized as a communication method with interested parties and a tool for improving sustainable management performances, recommends the following. • Systemization of participation mechanism of interested parties in each sector, and increased participation in the drafting 4. Criteria of Assurance procedure of the report Assurance for this report was performed according to the following standards. • Set sustainable performance index in all areas of management, and systematically manage them. • AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) • Increase efficiency of handling financial / social / environmental performance data • GRIG3 social responsibility report guideline 5. Assurance Procedure Works Undertaken • Identifying interests and requests of interested parties; review of feedback from interested parties • Review press literature related to the various social responsibilities, ethics and environmental safety of KCSC March 2011 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report • Employee interviews on the sustainability report of KCSC Korea Productivity Center • Review of performance management system and performance data on financial and non-financial performance indices Quality Assurance • Review of informationization process of data from each local office and company-wide data management Director, Chung, Suk-jin 88 89 GRI Contents Index Section GRI G3 4.6 Index Contents Reinforced process/operation committee per field of expertise to KCSC Index Independence and expertise of Page 23 Reporting level ● prevent conflicts of interested parties within executive board operation of executive board 4.7 Process that determines the standards for qualifications and Executive recommendation 23 ● expertise of executive board members committee Structure of 4.8 Mission set internally, statement of core values, code of conduct, Mission, vision and strategy 27, 28 ● Governance and principles of KCSC 4.9 Procedure for executive board to identify economic, environmental Evaluation of executive Appendix Appendix 24, 25 ● and social performances, and for supervising its management board performance ◦ Not reported ◐ Partially reported ● All reported N/A not applicable 4.10 Process for evaluating the performance of executive board Evaluation of executive 24, 25 ● Section GRI G3 Index Contents KCSC Index Page Reporting board performance level 4.11 Check if principles and approach methods for prevention were adopted, Efforts to practice UN Global Strategy and Analysis ◐ and description on adoption method Compact 11 1.1 Proclamation of final decision-maker on correlation of ● Responsibility 4.12 Outside initiative joined or supported such as economic/ Efforts to practice reporting organ and strategy with that of sustainability CEO Message 08 ● environmental/social charters and principles UN Global Compact 11 1.2 Description on major effects, risk factors and opportunity Chances and Challenges of KCSC 26, 27 ● for outside initiatives 4.13 Membership in association or national and Membership in associations Organization Profile ● international policy organizations and groups 84 2.1 Name of Organization Co. Name 18 ● ● 4.14 List of participating interested party's groups Categorization of interested parties 14 ● 2.2 Main brand, products and servicesMajor business 19 ● 4.15 Standards for distinguishing and selecting interested Selection standard of interested 2.3 Organization structure of reporting organization Business structure 20 14 ● ● parties for participation parties and major issues 2.4 Location of head office / branch offices Location of head office / branch office 21 Participation 4.16 Participation method of interested parties such as participation type, Communication with 2.5 No. of countries of major business places with a reporting Location of head office / ● of interested 15 ● participation frequency of interest party groups, etc interested parties organization, Name of countries dealt with in the report having branch office, 21, 42 parties 4.17 Key themes and interests suggested by the participation of interested Communication with correlation with the sustainability issue overseas projects 15 ● ● parties, and methods to handle them interested parties 2.6 Features and legal form of possession structure Company overview 18 ● Economic Index 2.7 Target market (by region, business field, customer/beneficiary type) Location of head office / branch office 21 ● EC1 Creation and distribution of direct economical value Work status 80~83 ● 2.8 Scope of reporting structure Business overview, 18, 20 EC2 Financial influence of climate change and risks and Pursuance of preventive management business structure, 35 opportunities of business activities system construction project for flooding organization chart ● N/A Coastal public water surface status 2.9 Major changes of scope, structure of possession 36 survey and preventive projects structure during the reporting period ● EC3 Range of pension support Retirement pension program 59 ● 2.10 Awards during the reporting periodAwards and certifications 84 EC4 Reception of government funding N/A Reporting Medium Variable ● EC5 New employee wage rate compared to the legal minimum wage of Wage system 3.1 Period for Report Scope of report and period range 2 59 ● ● major business places 3.2 Most recent report and publication date Recent report date and report cycle 2 Market Report 3.3 Report cycle Recent report date and report cycle ● EC6 Local purchase policies, customs and rates of major business areas ◦ 2 Position Profile ● EC7 Employee procedures for priority hiring of local persons, and high3.4 Contact for questions on report and related contents Additional contents 2 ◦ ● ranking managers of local origins at major business areas 3.5 Definition process of report contents Materiality test 16, 17 ● Indirect EC8 Infrastructure investment focused on public interest and service Spatial public welfare projects and 34~37 3.6 Scope of report Scope of report 2 ● ● Economic support activities and effects contribution to community by KCSC 52~54 3.7 Detailed restrictions on report range or report scope Scope of report 2 ● Effect EC9 Understanding and description of indirect economic ripple effect Spatial publicwelfare projects by KCSC 34~37 ● 3.8 Reporting standards for items that have a big influence on the Standard and target of 2 Scope and Environmental Index comparability of periods or organizations drafting report Borders for ● Raw EN1 Use of raw materials based on weight or volume N/A 3.9 Data measuring method and calculation standards Standard and target of drafting report 2 Report Materials EN2 Rate of using renewable energy N/A 3.10 Effects and reasons for rewriting information presented N/A in previous reports EN3 Direct energy consumption per primary energy source Energy consumption amount 76 ● 3.11 Change of range or borders of report compared to previous report periods N/A EN4 Indirect energy consumption per primary energy source Energy consumption amount 76 ● GRI Checklist 3.12 Chart that shows the location of standard announcement items in the report GRI Contents Index 88,~91 ● EN5 Conserved energy through conservation and improved efficiency Company-wide efforts to conserve energy 77~78 ● Energy Assurance 3.13 Policies and activities for outside assurance of the report 3rd person assurance report 86, 87 ● EN6 Efforts to supply products and services based on energy-efficiency or Company-wide efforts to 77~78 ● Structure of Governance, Responsibilities, Participation renewable energy, and energy saving through each project conserve energy 4.1 Corporate governanceCorporate governance of KCSC 22 ● EN7 Indirect energy conservation project and performance Practices for conserving energy 76, 78 ● 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 4.2 Multiple positions of executives such as chairperson of the executive board Operation of executive board 22 ● EN8 Total intake per supply source Energy consumption amount 76 ● 4.3 Number of constituents that are independent or executives Members of executive board 22 ● Water EN9 Water supply source greatly affected by intake Energy consumption amount 76 ● Structure of in the executive board EN10 Total amount and ratio of water that was reused ◦ Governance 4.4 Mechanism where shareholders or employees give or advice or Sharing information of 25 ● EN11 Location and size of land that is possessed, leased or managed in areas, or N/A suggest directions to the executive board executive board Biosurrounding areas, of protected areas or areas having high bio-diversity value 4.5 Compensation of executive board Performance evaluation of 25 ● Diversity EN12 Effects on bio-diversity through activities, products or services in N/A members and performance of organization executive board protected areas or areas having high bio-diversity 90 Section GRI G3 Index Contents KCSC Index Page Reporting Section GRI G3 Index Contents KCSC Index Page Reporting 91 level level EN13 Protected or restored habitats N/A Forced HR7 Business areas with high risk of forced labor occurring, Operation of complaint 60 ● EN14 Bio-diversity management strategy, current measures, future plans Efforts for practicing green life 78 ◐ labor and measures taken to prevent forced labor handling system BioEN15 Number of endangered species designated by the international nature HR8 Ratio of security representatives who completed human rights and Diversity Security N/A protection federation and by the Korean government in the area N/A procedures training in relation to their duties affected by the business, and its level of endangerment Rights for HR9 Cases of infringing upon the rights of native residents, N/A EN16 Total emission of direct and indirect green gas Energy consumption amount 76 ● native residents and ensuing measures taken EN17 Emission of other indirect greenhouse gas Energy consumption amount 76 ● Social Index Appendix Appendix Air exhaust, EN18 Green house gas reduction project and performance Efforts for efficient energy use 76 ● SO1 Evaluate the effects on the local society at the start, operation and waste water, EN20 Emission of o-zone destroying substances N/A Local society ending stages of work activities, and features, range and effectiveness ◦ wastes EN21 Emission of major air pollutants such as NOX and SOX N/A of the management program EN22 Emissions of wastes by type and treatment method ◦ SO2 No. of businesses analyzed to have risk of corruption and its ratio ◦ EN23 No. of cases of major pollutant leaks, and amount leaked ◦ SO3 Ratio of employees who received training on anti-corruption policies Ethical management 68, 69 ● EN24 Transportation, import, export and handling amount of wastes as prescribed Corruption and procedures training program Air exhaust, N/A by Basel Convention I, II, III, VIII, and rate of wastes exported overseas SO4 Measures against corruption Ethical management evaluation waste water, 68 ● EN25 Water area affected due to outflow of sewage from reporting organization, and compensation wastes N/A and name of related habitat, scope, protection status, and value of bio-diversity SO5 Position on public policies, establishment of public policies, ◦ EN26 Environmental influence reduction effect and performance of Public policies and participation in lobbying activities Products and N/A products and services SO6 Total amount of cash or in-kind donations per nation to political services N/A EN27 Recycling ratio of sold products and related wrapping N/A parties, politicians or related institutes Law compliance EN28 Fines and non-financial reprimands due to violation of environmental laws N/A Hindering of SO7 No. of legal dispositions on unfair competition activities or N/A TransportEN29 Major environmental effects due to transportation of products and Practicing energy conservation competition monopolie, and its results 76, 78 N/A ation raw materials, and moving of employees Legal compliSO8 No. of fines and non-financial reprimands due to violation of N/A Total EN30 Expenses and investments for environmental protection Purchase of environment-friendly goods 73 ◐ ance laws and regulations Labor Index Product Responsibility Index LA1 Employment type, employment contract, and personnel by region Employment system 55 ◐ PR1 Life-cycle stage that evaluates health and safety effects of products LA2 No. of employees who quit job and ratio No. of retirees Customer and services with the purpose of improvement, ratio of conducting N/A Employment 59 ● health & LA3 Benefits offered only to full-time employees and not temporary Improving quality of life evaluations for major products and services 59, 60 ● safety or time-based employees PR2 No. of violations against laws and regulations related to customer N/A Labor ManageLA4 Ratio of employees applicable for collective bargaining Labor union 61, 62 ● health and safety for life-cycle stage of products and services ment relations LA5 Minimal notification period for major changes in business Notification of major changes in business 61 ● PR3 Product and service information type needed for procedures, Customer category and LA6 Employee ration represented by the joint labor-management Labor union ratio of major products and services that correspond to such service features 46 ◐ 62 ● Product health and safety committee information conditions LA7 No. of Work-related accidents such as injuries, No. of work-related accidents such as and PR4 No. of violations against laws and regulations related to product and Job health and 60 ● service N/A work-related illnesses, lost days, absents, etc injuries and work-related illness service information and labeling safety labeling LA8 Education, training, consulting, prevention and risk management programs Accident prevention and risk PR5 Customer satisfaction related activities such as results of customer Customer satisfaction survey 60 ● 51 ● to support employees, families and the community about severe illnesses management -satisfaction evaluation surveys LA9 Health and safety issues that are subject to official agreement Main contents of collective bargaining PR6 Regulations, standards and rules compliance program related to Disclosure of information on 62 ● with the labor union marketing communication such as advertising, promotions services and evaluation 50 ● LA10 Annual average training hours per person according to employee type Training hours per person Marketing and sponsorships 58 ● communLA11 Work training and education program for continuous Programs for retired employees PR7 No. of violations against regulations, standards and rules related to Disclosure of information on Education and 58 ● ication employment and retirement support marketing communication such as advertising, services and evaluation 50 ● training LA12 Ratio of employees subject to regular evaluations and career No. of non full-time employees, promotions and sponsorships 56 ● development screening Capacity-based promotion system Information PR8 Violations against customer privacy and no. of complaints related to Customer information protection 50 ● Diversity LA13 Composition of executive board and employees protection loss of customer information 22, 55 ● and equal Executive board members, personnel per position Legal compliPR9 Amount of fines due to violations of laws and regulations related to the Customer information protection 50 ● opportunity LA14 Ratio of base wage between male and female employees per employee range Quality of life Wage system 59 ● ance supply of products and services Human Rights Index HR1 Cases and ratio of major investment agreements that include human N/A Investment and rights protection clauses or that have passed human rights screening 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report procurement HR2 Human rights screening ratio of major suppliers and contracted companies ◦ practices HR3 Employee education on human rights policies and procedures related to work Ethical management training program 68, 69 ◐ Non discrimination HR4 Total cases of discrimination and ensuing measures N/A Freedom of HR5 Work areas judged to have the potential for severely violating the freedom of Operation of complaint handling system ● assembly and 60 collective bargaining assembly and collective bargaining, and measure to ensure such rights HR6 Business areas with high risk of child labor occurring, and Operation of complaint handling system ● Child labor 60 measures taken to prevent child labor 92 Efforts for Continuous Improvement Level of Application of GRI G3 Guideline KCSC has set the main objective of publishing this report KCSC has drafted the 2010 sustainability report to satisfy to become a corporation that is trusted and respected by all the conditions that meet the B+ level of the G3 Guideline interested parties, and began to issue this report since 2008. application level, as determined by GRI. Through verification of Efforts were made by receiving advice and consultation from the Korea Productivity Center Quality Assurance, it has been internal and outside interested parties to plan and draft this confirmed that this report's G3 application level is B+. report, but there are still some areas that are lacking as Appendix a report that meets the expectations and interest levels of interested parties. In future reports, we will more assertively collect the opinions of internal and outside interested parties to report the performance index as presented by the G3 guideline, which is an international standard for guidelines, and thus strive to establish more sustainable management for KCSC. Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ OutCome Corp. Item: All items of level 'C' and This report can be downloaded as a PDF file at our homepage (www.kcsc.co.kr). 1.1, 2.1-2.10, 3.1-3.8, 1.2, 3.9, 3.13, Same as level 'B' If you want more detailed information on the sustainable management activities and performance introduced in this report, 3.10-3.12, 4.1-4.4, G3 Profile Corporation 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 4.14-4.15 please contact our representative (02-3774-1970~8). Standard Corporation Report Externally Assured Outside Verification of Report Outside Verification of Report We appreciate your interest in the sustainable management activities of KCSC. OutCome Corp. Item: Announce management Announce management 1.1, 2.1-2.10, 3.1-3.8, method (DMA) for each method (DMA) for each G3 Management 3.10-3.12, 4.1-4.4, index range index range Method Corporation 4.14-4.15 Must report a minimum Must report a minimum According to the OutCome of 20 performance index of 10 performance index. materiality test, report (including at least 1 of (including at least 1 of each the G3 core performance G3 Performance Index each from economic, from economic, environmental, index and industry guide and secondary index environmental and social human rights, labor, social, and index, and if not reported, per industry indices product guarantee indices) explain why 2010 kcsc Sustainability Report Production KCSC Planning Office / Management Department Supervision Planning Office Chief, Hyeok-jin Kwon / Management Department Director, Eul-sik Shin Planning and Writing Management Department, Kwang-Jae Jeong, Bit-Na-Ri Kim Tel: 02-3774-1070~8 Design and Publication IR Kudos (www.irkudos.co.kr) Tel: 02-6011-2000 Environment-friendly paper was used in the production of this report.
