careers contact us --search-go World’s Leading Producer of Aluminum Worldwide Safety Markets About Community Environment Sustainability News Invest Products Innovation Careers Vision & Values Overview United Nations Global Compact Principles Alcoa is a values-based company, and we uphold the highest standards of respect for the Human Rights Policy protection of human rights for all stakeholders. UN Global Compact In 2009, we became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact. The compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Statement of Support Alcoa is fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact. Integrity and respect for people are core values for Alcoa, and we believe that financial success, social responsibility, and protection of the environment are totally aligned and absolutely essential for long-term sustainability. Our Business Conduct Policies outline our commitment to be open, honest, and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures specifically incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, and excellence in environment, health, and safety. Our policies clearly communicate that we will not tolerate forced, compulsory, or child labor, discrimination of any kind, or any forms of corruption and bribery in our global operations. Our corporate policies apply to Alcoa-controlled operations globally. Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2010 Communication on Progress The following overview of our 2010 progress against the 10 principles is supplemented by references to information contained on our external website, www.alcoa.com. Principles 2010 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Alcoa’s Human Rights Policy is Vision & Values and respect the protection of available in 20 languages on go internationally proclaimed our corporate intranet and human rights. internet sites. We respect all Principles go internationally proclaimed human rights standards in our Human Rights Policy operations throughout the go world. Treating each person with dignity and respect is one of our core values. We value diversity and inclusion in all of our operations. In 2010, 10% of incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. We developed and deployed Human Rights Policy mandatory online compliance go training modules regarding human rights for more than 12,000 key Alcoa managers. 2. Make sure that they are not We seek to understand fully all Human Rights Policy complicit in human rights aspects of how business is go abuses. conducted where we have our operations throughout the world. Our standard is to contractually require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same internationally proclaimed human rights protections and guarantees to which we hold ourselves. We conducted supplier Supply Chain Management sustainability pilot programs in go Canada, Latin America, and the United States to ensure compliance by our suppliers with a broad set of sustainability practices and principles, including human rights standards. We will implement a Global Supplier Sustainability Program in 2011. We continued the global Community & Stakeholder implementation of the Alcoa Consultation Community Framework, which go requires each of our locations to engage with key stakeholders in and around our facilities. We seek to ensure that we understand clearly their issues and concerns and that we are operating in a manner consistent with the best interests of the communities. Human rights is a critical component of the framework, which we updated in 2010. At the end of 2010, 95% of our locations had implemented the framework and met with key stakeholders to review common initiatives, including human rights protections. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold We fully support an Human Rights Policy the freedom of association and employee’s right to choose go the effective recognition of the whether or not to join a union. right to collective bargaining. In 2010, we worked Employee Relations cooperatively and in good faith go with many labor unions that represent groups of our employees in various facilities throughout the world. 4. The elimination of all forms We forbid the use of any Human Rights Policy of forced and compulsory forced or compulsory labor go labor. within our own operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. During 2010, we conducted Supply Chain Management supplier sustainability pilot go programs in Canada, Latin America, and the United States to ensure compliance by our suppliers with a broad set of sustainability practices and principles, including human rights standards. We will implement a Global Supplier Sustainability Program in 2011. 5. The effective abolition of We forbid the use of any child Human Rights Policy child labor. labor within our own go operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. During 2010, we conducted Supply Chain Management supplier sustainability pilot go programs in Canada, Latin America, and the United States to ensure compliance by our suppliers with a broad set of sustainability practices and principles, including human rights standards. We will implement a Global Supplier Sustainability Program in 2011. 6. The elimination of Alcoa’s recruitment processes Human Rights Policy discrimination in respect of and practices ensure the go employment and occupation. protection and respect for all people and ensure that no individual is discriminated against on the basis of sex, religion, ethnicity, or political persuasion. We value diversity and inclusion throughout our worldwide operations, and we have set aggressive targets to improve the diversity of our workforce. In 2010, 10% of our incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on meeting targets to improve the diversity of our workforce with respect to representation of women and protected class employees in our global operations. Environment 7. Businesses should support a We support the precautionary precautionary approach to approach to environmental environmental challenges. challenges. We implemented new Strategic Sustainability Targets aggressive 2020 and 2030 go goals to drive our environmental performance against a 2005 baseline. During 2010, we achieved a Climate Change 37% reduction in total go greenhouse gas emissions against a 1990 baseline. Our Global Primary Products business lowered its carbon dioxide (CO2) intensity by 7% over 2009 levels and achieved a 22% reduction over 2005 levels. We reduced our freshwaterWater use intensity (consumption per go unit of production) by 19% versus 2005 levels, exceeding our 2020 goal of 10%. 8. Undertake initiatives to We commissioned a Global Sustainability Approach promote greater environmental Sustainability Working Team go responsibility. and an executive-level Global Sustainability Steering Team. We also named a chief sustainability officer reporting directly to our chairman and chief executive officer. We implemented a new set of Strategic Sustainability Targets strategic sustainability targets go to drive progress in our businesses to 2020 and, for some areas, to 2030. We initiated development of a Biodiversity requirement for all locations go with substantive land holdings to develop biodiversity management plans by 2015. We began piloting plans at two locations during 2010. We included an annual energyClimate Change efficiency target as a go component of our 2010 incentive compensation program. In 2010, Alcoa Foundation Alcoa Foundation contributed 33% of its total go giving dollars to environmentally focused programs around the world. (Among all corporations, the average allocation is 5%.) More than 29,000 employees Month of Service from 24 countries participated go in our 2010 Month of Service employee outreach campaign. Many of the activities were focused on the environment, including 16,000 trees planted and 250 rivers, parks, and recreation areas rehabilitated. In 2010, thousands of shopEthics & Compliance Program floor employees participated in go a mandatory instructor-led or self-directed multiple-language course, Environmental Awareness in Manufacturing, as part of our ethics and compliance program. The program addressed environmental, health, and safety aspects of water quality, waste water, air quality, hazardous materials, and solid and hazardous wastes, in addition to record keeping and public reporting. Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation Life Cycle Assessments became founding members of go The Sustainability Consortium. We pilot tested a draft protocol Life Cycle Assessments being developed by the World go Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development for accounting and reporting greenhouse gas emissions across a product’s life cycle. Nearly one quarter of our Make an Impact Australian workforce and more go than 1,500 of our U.S. employees were registered as part of our Make an Impact program. The program has helped families identify more than 4.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide savings through 2010. We supported various Consumer Awareness consumer recycling programs go across the United States and launched an iPhone recycling application. We conducted pilot supplier Supply Chain Management sustainability processes in go Canada, Latin America, and the United States and will implement a Global Supplier Sustainability Program in 2011. Case Studies go 9. Encourage the development We continued Red Sand Case Study and diffusion of commercialization of Red go environmentally friendly Sand™, which is derived from technologies. bauxite residue. We commissioned a process Oxalate Case Study that uses naturally occurring go microbes to eat oxalate, which is an unwanted impurity in the alumina refining process. We developed a novel NEWT Case Study ecological water treatment go (NEWT) system that uses bauxite residue for wastewater polishing, eliminates chlorine, and reduces water use by 8%, energy use by 40%, and operating costs by 60%. Case Studies go Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work Our global Ethics and Ethics & Compliance Line against corruption in all its Compliance Line provides go forms, including extortion and employees and external bribery. stakeholders with the opportunity to report confidentially any potential violations of law or company policy. We updated Alcoa’s AntiEthics & Compliance Program Corruption Policy and due go diligence procedure for contracting with intermediaries. The enhanced policy now prohibits facilitation, or “grease” payments, and commercial bribery in addition to bribery of public officials. The updated procedure is designed to ensure that company intermediaries are in full compliance with anti-corruption laws around the globe, including those based upon the OECD Convention and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The procedure includes an annual training and compliance certification process for all company intermediaries. Both the enhanced policy and procedure were issued to company employees in April 2010 accompanied by a letter from CEO Klaus Kleinfeld in which he emphasized Alcoa’s commitment to preventing corruption in our global operations. Since the 1990’s, our Legal Department has offered formal preventative law training programs and brochures covering numerous topics, including gifts, conflicts of interest, anti-corruption, and anti-bribery practices. Two awareness courses on the FCPA and OECD’s anti-bribery provisions are made available electronically to employees. Archived Reports 2009 Communication on Progress Copyright © 2011 Alcoa Inc. country sites customer login Sitemap | Privacy | Legal Notices
