PERNOD RICARD ITALIA Communication On Progress August 2011 Page 1/11 SUMMARY The United Nations Global Compact * Short description of the company * Pernod Ricard Italia’s CEO statement * Communication On Progress Covered areas Page 2/11 The United Nations Global Compact ten Principles The United Nations Global Compact, also known as Global Compact or UNGC, is a strategic policy initiative but also the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship. Announced in 1999 by Kofi Annan and officially launched by the United Nations in 2000, it aims at encouraging businesses to commit themselves in adopting responsible and sustainable policies, in line with ten core principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since 2003, one of the Global Compact commitments establishes that, every year, all participating companies have to publish a Communication On Progress (COP). This disclosure expects businesses to share their efforts in implementing the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. Pernod Ricard Italia, who joined the Global Compact in 2008, is now fulfilling its duty, and communicating on its own efforts and accomplishments trough its second COP. Global Compact 10 Principles: * Human Rights * Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. * Labour Standards * Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. * Environment * Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. * Anti-Corruption * Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3/11 Description of Pernod Ricard Italia  Presentation: Pernod Ricard Italia is the Italian subsidiary of the French group Pernod Ricard, world’s co-leader in Wines and Spirits, and number one in Premium Spirits. The company resulted from the evolution of the Distillerie Fratelli Ramazzotti, a company established in 1815 which grew up steadily to finally become leader on the Italian market. In 1985, it joined Pernod Ricard Group and kept on developing itself in Italia. A strong commercial network allowed an international success for some of its brands, among which the original Ramazzotti, number one of imported spirits in Germania; or the Sambuca Ramazzotti, number one of the Sambuca market in Canada. The plant of the company is based in Canelli (Piemont), where 26 persons are working to produce all the Ramazzotti’s range (4 products). Headquarters though are based in Milan, gathering 90 people, plus 30 more dispatched on the territory (sale forces). Apart from its brand, the Italian affiliate distributes key international brands on the Italian market such as Havana Club, Absolut Vodka, Chivas Regal, Ballantine’s, G.H. Mumm, Malibu, Perrier-Jouët, Ricard, Wodka Wyborowa, Beefeater, Jameson, or The Glenlivet.  History: 1815 Birth of the Amaro Ramazzotti with the creation of the Distillerie Fratelli Ramazzotti 1985 Ramazzotti joins Pernod Ricard’s Group 2001 Acquisition of Seagram. Chivas Regal, Martell and the Glenlivet are included into the Italian portfolio 2005 Acquisition of Allied Domecq. G.H Mumm, Perrier-Jouët, Ballantine’s and Malibu are included into the Italian portfolio 2008 Acquisition of V&S Group (Vin & Sprit). Absolut Vodka is included into the Italian portfolio Page 4/11 Statement of Noel ADRIAN Chief Executive Office Since 2008, Pernod Ricard Italia has Out of these specific initiatives, we engaged 3 adhered to the United Nation Global Compact, and structural programs : undertaken to respect and promote its ten The constitution of a “sustainable Development principles. Task Force” integrating a member of each of the Company Department, which role is to establish the Therefore, our Company has developed a number “company sustainable development action plan” and to of actions to implement the “Pernod Ricard’s follow the implementation of the initiatives engaged Sustainable Development Charter” which has been in this area. This Task Force is under the developed by our mother Company after joining responsibility of the Human Resources Director Global Compact since 2003. This document defines allowing to engage the Company on a larger scope our global objectives and responsibilities to combine than the limited one of the impact of our industrial economic efficiency with social fairness and activities. protection of the environment. A specific support program to ensure a better integration in the territory, leading a local Our first priority as a Pernod Ricard affiliate stakeholders taskforce on the implementation of a was then at Corporate and Marketing level to sustainable development plan for the city of Canelli, actively participate in the sensitization of the where our plant is located. potential negative impact on individuals and society A structured program to share with our suppliers of an excessive or inappropriate use of alcohol with the 10 GC principles both in terms of awareness and specific initiatives mainly toward young adults and implementation pregnant women. Our Corporate Vice President has actively taken part in “Committee Casa” which is a We do believe, being part of Global Compact is Think Tank of spirits producers promoting a not only a sign of our commitment but is a positive responsible consumption behaviour and we have way to make sure this commitment to sustainable furthermore developed additional specific development is not only a “wish” but part of a deep initiatives within this area. transformation process of both our behaviour and of our vision of the future of the World. A global evaluation on CO2 emissions generated by our activity put in evidence that the main impact of our activities is concentrated on glass bottle production and recycling, followed by goods transportation and materials used for packing and special on pack promotions. We therefore developed a number of initiatives at industrial level to limit our impact on environment through eco-design and eco-packaging guidelines, reduction of water and energy consumption and more efficient treatment Noel ADRIAN of our wastes. Deputy Managing Director Pernod Ricard Europe At last, as a third step, and in order to give our action on sustainable development a larger scope, we decided to coordinate our action plan under the Human Resources Department, enlarging our program to internal staff satisfaction and a better integration in the territory. This has been done in order to make sure our commitment to sustainable development is understood and shared by our staff. Page 5/11 Global Compact Principle Our commitments Progress and Results → Objectives  Further documentation available Human Rights Principle 1: To support and respect the protection of international law on Human rights within its sphere of influence. Pernod Ricard CSR strategy training In order to reinforce Pernod Ricard Italia employees awareness of Pernod Ricard engagement in CSR, this year each of them has been involved in a specific training covering the following:  the CSR strategy and best practices of the Pernod Ricard Group  the activities and the projects carried out by Pernod Ricard Italia to concretize its sustainable development policies. Furthermore, each employee will receive the new version of the Pernod Ricard Charter, the professional ethical code where the Company strengthens its commitments to transparency, mutual trust, respect for the law and the environment, safety at work, equal opportunities and non-discrimination. Responsible and sustainable sourcing Pernod Ricard Italia, with a view to extent its commitment to the sustainable development within its sphere of influence, entered into partnership with PlaNet Finance, an NGO dedicated to micro finance, and GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH), a German agency promoting international cooperation, to develop a new supply of cardamom and cloves, directly from Fair Trade and organic certified small producers of South of India. Thanks to the local support of both partners, Pernod Ricard Italia is now going further and will implement rural development projects dedicated to improve, on the long term, these small farmers’ wealth creation. This will be achieved by offering them new international market opportunities and promoting local microentrepreneurship (financial training, crop diversification, setting up of biogas units…). → Objective for next year: Monitoring the investment results and evaluating further activities like this Principle 2: To ensure that business is not complicit in human rights abuses Suppliers evaluation process In 2011 Pernod Ricard Italia, collaborating with an external certification company, has developed and launched a suppliers evaluation scheme that will be implemented in the next three years: through a specific audit plan the suppliers belonging to four strategic areas (raw materials, packaging, maintenance and services, logistics) will be audited and evaluated in respect of key Pernod Ricard CSR stakes: respect of employees, respect of environment, responsibility on products or services, entrepreneurship and culture promotion. After the audit each audited will receive a score of compliance and will be invited to agree an improvement action plan with our company. This plan will be monitored by the Pernod Ricard Italia purchasing department. → Objective for next year: Implementing the audit plan covering at least the 30% of selected suppliers. Page 6/11 Labour Standards Principle 3: To uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Improve the working environment (Vivaldi project) Lately Pernod Ricard Italia strongly increased its efforts to make the working context more balanced for its employees. In 2010 an Employee Opinion Survey with 99% of redemption has been run. The feedback has been shared with all employees who have been involved as well in working sessions organised by function and which generated 126 proposals of improvement that have been structured under a common and wider project (named Vivaldi) to be implemented in 18 months (from Sept. 2010 to end Dec. 2011). The proposed actions have been consolidated in 21 sub-projects related to 4 areas (the “Vivaldi” four seasons): Relationship Delegation & Innovation Way of working Development of human resources The four areas covers different needs come out of the survey, as internal communication, transparency, personal development, more efficient work tools… At the moment the 85% of the actions has been completed. In June 2011 the Pernod Ricard Group launched “I Say” ( our Global Opinion Survey) : its feedback will give us the opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of the actions implemented. → Objective for next year: Maintaining ongoing actions, completing the missing ones and evaluating the effectiveness of the implemented actions. OHSAS18001 certification In September 2010, the Health & Safety management system of Pernod Ricard Italia has been certified according to OHSAS18001 standard. This certification scheme supports our company to improve continuously the standards in use and also to increase more and more the participation of the employees and their representatives in the implementation of an efficient H&S management system. → Objective for next year: Offering a Safety Driving course to the Sales Force employees. Principle 4: To eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour The suppliers evaluation scheme introduced this year includes the assessment of the labour standards adopted by the audited company, particularly referred to: working hours, wages management, freedom of association, disciplinary rules. (See Principle 2) Furthermore, each contract agreed between Pernod Ricard Italia and its suppliers contains a rescinding clause that occurs in case of non respect of the international labour standards. Principle 5: To ensure the effective abolition of child labour The suppliers evaluation scheme introduced this year includes the assessment of the risk of recourse to child labour and also an analysis of the implementation of regulated form of under-age labour, as apprenticeship. (See Principle 2) Page 7/11 Principle 6: To eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Development and equal opportunities Pernod Ricard Italia dedicates a lot of efforts on people development by designing training plans based on input highlighted by employees themselves through performance appraisal process. Last fiscal year the training plan involved almost 100% of employees, offering them different courses to develop their competencies, give them additional tools for their personal growth, in current and future years, and have a positive impact on their performances as well. → Objective for next year: Defining for each role in PRI a job profile form which will summarise main tasks, managerial and technical competencies requirements, in order to support cross-functional job rotation process, offering development opportunities to employees who have communicated their interest. Furthermore, taking into account specific needs linked to the diversity of age and sex, Pernod Ricard Italia has agreed with the Trade Union representatives:  An annual health check-up paid by the company for all employees over 45 years  The possibility to work on part-time basis after the maternity leave, starting from the first child Page 8/11 Environment Principle 7: To support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Packaging and eco-design 1/ In 2011, Pernod Ricard Italia completed its plan of glass bottle weight reduction. Based on current sales, these new bottles will enable around 1.050 tons of glass savings per year, contributing to a reduction of our Carbon Footprint. → Objective for next year: Extending the weight reduction approach to cardboard cases. 2/ In 2011, Pernod Ricard Italia set up an easy computing system that allows to assess the environmental impact of alternative packaging solutions, by comparing its estimated carbon emissions. → Objective for next year: Implementing regular environmental impact analysis on each packaging project and monitoring the specific contribution of each solution implemented with regard to CO 2 emission savings. 3/ Starting from December 2010, Pernod Ricard Italia introduced the use of certificated paper (FSC, PEFC) as standard for marketing operations and office supply. Responsible drinking The Pernod Ricard Group fights vigorously against excessive or inappropriate drinking practices. Year after year, all subsidiaries are committed to promoting responsible alcohol consumption. This year Pernod Ricard Italia carried out two main initiatives on this subject: the first one to make young people aware of the potential risks linked to alcohol consumption and the second one to dissuade people from drink-driving. 1/ Responsible Party: A partnership with ESN (the Erasmus Student Network), a voluntary organization involving 40.000 students in Italy, to organize 6 parties in 6 different cities with the aim of promoting the Responsible Drinking through a mechanic that included hostess, bus service, breathalyzers distribution and gadgets. Results: 7000 participants, 18 buses rented, 2000 breathalyzers distributed. 2/ Party&Taxi, a campaign addressed to consumers through the large-scale retail trade where Pernod Ricard Italia offered a voucher for a taxi for any bottle purchased. In addition many employees acted as “responsible drinking ambassadors” on a voluntary base by explaining to final consumer how to get one safe-return-home voucher for a taxi instead of driving. Furthermore, Pernod Ricard Italia adhered to the Pernod Ricard Responsib’all Day , a day fully dedicated to the “Don’t drink and drive” promotion: during this day two trucks circulated through Milan displaying the message “Non guidare, lasciati guidare”. In the Canelli’s plant, the Pernod Ricard’s managers and employees met the local authorities for explaining the “Don’t drink and drive message” and promoting it through the community. → Objective for next year: Realizing further activities to promote responsible drinking and Don’t Drink and Drive. Page 9/11 Principle 8: To undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Safety & Environment week at Canelli For the 4th consecutive year, Pernod Ricard Italia and others companies of Canelli’s district gathered to share trainings, displays and information on sustainable development. The event covers several subjects in different ways: round-table conferences, educational at schools, meetings with institutions. This year, the main themes were:  Water management in wine industry  Don’t Drink and Drive promotion at school  Finance and sustainable development  Alcohol and drugs at workplace → Objective for next year: Repeating the event and enlarging the participation of private companies and institutions. Reduction of water consumption In 2011 the rate of net water consumption per kiloliters of finished product was 0,82. Pernod Ricard Italia fixed a target of 10% reduction of net water consumption by June 2015. → Objective for next year: Achieving a reduction of 2,5% in net water consumption per kiloliters. Principle 9: To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Water remediation In collaboration with the Commune of Canelli and 23 other institutions and companies, Pernod Ricard Italia is taking part in a large project called “Seven” (Sostenibilità sociale, ambientale ed Energetica in Viticoltura ed Enologia), aiming at developing a sustainable wine growing and oenology industry. Among others, we are involved in 2 projects promoting specifically environmental friendly technologies: experimentation of a phytoremediation system, to be implemented on a agricultural area. reduction of wastewaters total suspended solids thanks to a discontinued flotation process. Page 10/11 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: To work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Organization Model All buyers of Pernod Ricard Italia must respect the ethical guidelines sent to all affiliate by the Pernod Ricard Purchasing Department. Since Pernod Ricard Italia has relations with different stakeholders, as institutions, public agencies and others, it is important for us to assure an ethical approach in our way of working with them. In order to prevent the risk of crimes of fraud, committed or attempted, in the interests or to the advantage of the organization by a member of Pernod Ricard Italia staff, this year we decided to launch a project to introduce by the end of 2011 a structured Organization, Risk Management and Control Model. This requires:  Risk assessment about legal compliance  Rules and procedures  Disciplinary system  Internal control committee → Objective for next year: Implementing the Model. Page 11/11
