RADIOMETER CSR STATUS 2010 The beginning of an era, Radiometers blood gas analyzer Statement of continued support as an epochal invention Radiometer’s approach to sustainable development and improvement is As a company operating worldwide, we wish to improve living conditions The history of Radiometer started back in 1935. The company produced supported by the way we do business. not only for our employees but also for society, our investors, business measuring instruments to the Danish radio industry. This is where the partners and customers. name Radiometer comes from. Radiometer works with healthcare solutions, and it is our mission not only to sell products, but also to rationalize and improve the overall healthcare Radiometer Medical ApS A couple of years later, two entrepreneurs from Radiometer developed the processes of which our products form a part. first pH-meter to classify the degree of the acidity of liquids. This proved to be the foundation of an epochal invention: The pH-meter was redesigned In Radiometer Medical we engage in Corporate Social Responsibility in 1952, when Carl Schrøder and Børge Aagard Nielsen developed the activities by reference to the United Nations Global Compact’s ten world’s first blood gas instrument “the Astrup Apparatus”. principles, and we publicly communicate our progress with respect to Peter Kürstein these principles on an annual basis. President The background for this invention was a request from two doctors, who discovered that measuring the pH status of blood could prevent This communication is a tool for evaluating our progress, but also a way respiratory failure. This was a lifesaving discovery, and the blood gas of demonstrating to the communities in which we live and operate that instrument made it possible to regulate the acidity with extra ventilation, we care. which is very essential for patients who need critical care. Much has changed since 1952. However, our commitment to using advanced technology and insight into hospital processes to simplify and improve acute care testing remains the same. Today, Radiometer’s offering reaches well beyond blood gas testing into transcutaneous monitoring and testing of cardiac, coagulation and infection markers. Products and services that all aim to save lives, and to bring the power of simplicity to our customers. 2 3 Introduction Communicating on progress Through all the years Radiometer has been a company concerned In 2004, Danaher Corporation acquired Radiometer. With more than In 2009, Radiometer took a step further and entered into the United with the interests of society, taking responsibility for the impact of 50,000 employees around the globe Danaher owns some of the world’s Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles. Radiometer has mapped the the organization’s activities on customers, employees, shareholders, leading industrial brands, including Radiometer. current CSR status by setting the CSR-associated initiatives in relation to communities and the environment in all aspects of its operations. the 10 principles. The company policies at Radiometer are further supported by the Kaizen In 2000, we described our founding and underlying values and philosophy that underlies the Danaher Business System. “Kaizen” is Human rights Environment formulated five key values, which the company policies are based on. Japanese for “change for the better” or “continuous improvement”. Our commitment to sustainability and improvement is reflected in Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to these values: The Kaizen philosophy encourages Radiometer to continuously find new, internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; creative and effective ways to improve the work processes and work Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental conditions to gain lasting and positive results. abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of Labour standards environmentally friendly technologies. The five key values: Overall policies derived from these values: Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Anti-corruption the effective recognition of the right to collective Æ Æ Æ Æ bargaining; Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Respect for mankind Employment policy Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory including extortion and bribery. Customer relations Organization, management and cooperation policy labour; Quality Æ Æ Æ Æ Environmentally and socially responsible policy Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Æ Æ Æ Æ Innovation and occupation. Constructive diversity 4 5 Introduction Human rights Radiometer is dedicated to following the Human Rights principles 1-2 in Radiometer’s business operations are in accordance with: the Global Compact framework. Principles 1-2 are derived from the 1948 EU Directive 00/43/EC of 29th June 2000 on equal treatment between Universal Declaration of Human Rights. persons irrespective of racial and ethnic origin. The aim of this declaration was to set basic minimum international standards for the protection of the rights and freedom of the individual. EU Directive 00/78/EC of 27th November 2000 on a general framework The fundamental nature of these provisions is widely regarded as forming on equal treatment in employment and occupation. the foundation of international law and standards. The European Convention on Human Rights of 4th November 1950. Radiometer is in material compliance with all local and international laws and standards, and human rights are at the core of many of these laws The UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial and standards. Discrimination of 21st December 1965. Radiometer is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding violations of human rights, and strives to fulfill this commitment by The UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination complying with Danaher’s Standards of Conduct. Against Women of 18th December 1979. ‘‘ ILO Convention No. 100 of 29th June 1951 on Equal Remuneration. In Radiometer we emphasize precision, expertise and innovation. Danaher is committed to complying with all laws pertaining to freedom of association, ILO Convention No. 111 of 25th June 1958 on Discrimination. Our products and services simplify and automate all phases of acute collective bargaining, immigration, working ‘‘ ILO Convention No. 169 of 27th June 1989 on Indigenous Peoples. time and conditions, wages and hours, as well care testing, so hospitals all over the world can get fast results, reduce as laws prohibiting forced, compulsory and workload and the risk of errors, and improve cost effectiveness. child labor and employment discrimination. Excerpts from Danaher’s Standards of Conduct 6 7 Labour standards As an overall framework for business operation and initiatives, Radiometer Job satisfaction The results from the 2010 survey is based on the total response rate of 81 has committed to comply with the ILO conventions as well as to ensure % (N = 1730 employees). On four focus areas the satisfaction has gone At Radiometer we prioritize job satisfaction and a healthy work compliance with international and local legislation. up in 2010: environment for our employees. It is important that our employees feel that they improve their work, and that they are proud of working Equal opportunities for all our employees on helping critically ill patients. Therefore we focus on improving job 1) Innovation (increase from 3.4 in 2009 to 3.6 in 2010) A positive development demands driven and talented employees. In satisfaction, in order to gain motivated and satisfied employees. Radiometer we emphasize the importance of improving the abilities of 2) Customer focus (increase from 3.5 in 2009 to 3.7 in 2010) our employees of both genders. We find it important that all employees ACTION TAKEN: get treated equally, and that they have equal opportunities to excel 3) Future (increase from 3.5 in 2009 to 3.7 I 2010) Associate Survey 2010 & Personal Development talks. Since professionally. Therefore all employees at Radiometer Medical have the 2004, employee satisfaction surveys have been performed amongst all possibilities to attend different language courses and in-service training. 4) Survey (increase from 3.4 in 2009 to 3.5 in 2010) employee groups in Radiometer Medical. Follow-up meetings run through the organization to discuss status and possible actions for improved Radiometer values a diverse workforce, and believes in the many benefits The five most positive replies in 2010 are Growth (4.6), Goals (4.5), Safety satisfaction. Annual personal development talks have been performed for of providing equal employment opportunities for all. The company ensures (4.3) and Associate Involvement & Communications, which scores (4.1). years amongst employees in administration. ‘‘ equal access to employment for women and minorities and supports non‘‘ discrimination in employment, dismissal, job transfer, promotion, setting wages, work conditions and development of competencies. All decisions Danaher values a diverse workforce, and on recruitment, promotion, dismissal, pay and working conditions are believes there are many benefits to providing based on relevant and objective criteria. equal employment opportunities for all. Excerpts from Danaher’s Standards of Conduct Radiometer expects that the steps taken to ensure equal employment opportunities will contribute to further enrich the outcomes that the already diverse workforce creates. 8 9 Job satisfaction for Radiometer employees 2009 and 2010: In Radiometer, the results and action plans have been presented to the associates together with the annual workplace evaluation in 45 meetings. AS 2009 and 2010 Radiometer Subsidiaries Dashboard – Weighted total score Category / Workgroup Radiometer 2009 Radiometer 2010 The action plans contain 29 actions. 22 of them are focused on the Associate involvement 3.9 4.1 following four in categories: Communications 3.7 3.9 Supervisor 4 4.1 • Engagement, eight actions Quality 3.8 4 Customer focus 3.5 3.7 • Walk the talk, five actions Goals 4.2 4.5 • Communication, five actions Innovation 3.4 3.6 DBS 3.8 4 • Quality, four actions Walk the talk 3.7 3.8 Safety 4.1 4.3 Job satisfaction for Radiometer employees 2009 and 2010: Future 3.5 3.7 Overall satisfaction 3.6 3.9 In Radiometer Medical we have a Work Committee called SU, which is an Survey 3.4 3.5 informative and consulting organ. In this Joint Council the management Growth 4.5 4.6 and our employees can have discussions and interactions about workCompliance & Integrity 3.8 4 related subjects, which results in better communication and better job Engagement 3.7 3.8 satisfaction for all parts at Radiometer Medical. Associate relations 3.9 3.8 Number of respondents 1724 1730 Headcount 2083 2125 The Joint Council consists of an equal number of representatives from the Answering rate 83 % 81 % management side and the employee side. In Radiometer Medical we have Average 3.8 3.9 17 members in the Joint Council, and apart from that we have created local Joint Councils in the sections, who meet and discuss local conditions. Weighted 1 = Disagree 2 = Tend 3 = Neither agree 4 = Tend to agree total score to disagree or disagree 10 11 Environment Radiometer is committed to protecting and taking responsibility for the We seek to recycle as much waste as reasonably possible. All this is done environment. We do that by striving to remain in full compliance with in an effort to implement environmentally responsible business practices two key international standards. and to protect the local and global environment in which we work, so that activities carried out by Radiometer do not cause harm to the surrounding Radiometer is in compliance with EU Directive 75/442/EEC of 15th July environment in which we operate. 1975 on waste, EU Directive 91/689/EEC of 12th December 1991 on hazardous waste, EU Regulation 259/93/EEC of 1st February 1993 on Protecting the environment is an ongoing process, and Radiometer is the supervision and control of shipments of waste within, into and continuously working to improve its performance. Hence, Radiometer out of the European Community as well as the Basel Convention on Medical initiated one new energy-saving pilot-projects and expended two transboundary movements of waste. existing projects in 2010. ‘‘ Every associate has a duty to act in an environmentally responsible and safe manner, and that duty extends not only to ‘‘ fellow associates, but also to government authorities, suppliers, customers, and those who live in the surrounding community.” Excerpts from Danaher’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy 12 13 ACTION TAKEN: ACTION TAKEN: Energy-saving fluorescent tubes are installed in Radiometer’s buildings In Radiometer we consider it an honor to protect the environment, and in Copenhagen, aiming to ascertain the possibilities and advantages we are in favor of paper recycling. In Radiometer Medical, wastepaper of expanding the installation of fluorescent tubes to all Radiometer bins and paper trays are available within easy reach for all our employees, buildings. In some of the buildings the brightness is automatically and we consider it as a duty to avail ourselves of these. adjusted, and these measures constitute a total savings of 176,160 kWh for 2010, and is therefore a good approach that is both environmentally sound and cost-effective. 14 13 Anti-corruption As a company operating worldwide Radiometer opposes corruption Danaher is committed to compliance with all international and local in all its forms. Radiometer takes responsibility for the impact of the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and the Anti-Corruption Program is organization’s activities on customers, employees, shareholders and designed to help fulfill that commitment. communities in all aspects of its operations. Danaher is a signatory to the World Economic Forum’s “Partnering Against Radiometer strives to comply with all applicable international standards Corruption Initiative”. Danaher’s Standards of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and comply with local legislation against corruption. The aversion Policy and Customer Trips & Entertainment Policy are each designed to corruption, bribery and extortion is clearly stated in Danaher’s to prohibit and prevent all forms of bribery, and are implemented by Standards of Conduct, which state that neither Danaher Corporation Radiometer in Radiometer’s global business. ‘‘ nor any of its subsidiaries may engage in corrupt behavior. The Danaher Anti-Corruption Policy affirms Danaher’s commitment Payments, gifts and things of value may not be to performance with integrity, and is intended to help ensure that provided, offered, authorized or reimbursed, Danaher and its subsidiaries abide by the anti-bribery and antidirectly or indirectly through any third party ‘‘ corruption laws of the countries in which they operate. acting as an agent or representative of, or independent contractor working for, or otherwise on behalf of Danaher or any of its direct or indirect controlled subsidiaries. Excerpts from Danaher’s Standards of Conduct 16 17 ACTION TAKEN: ACTION TAKEN: As a Danaher business, Radiometer employees are trained regularly Our Distributor Screening Toolkit, which is a modified version of the one to ensure that they understand and are in compliance with Danaher’s which is provided by Danaher, helps Radiometer check that none of our Standards of Conduct. The training undertaken covers several suppliers, partners, subcontractors, distributors etc. are engaged in corrupt themes, including human rights, ethical behavior, environment, and behavior in any form. The toolkit consists of screening, checklists and anti-corruption. The training in anti-corruption deals with themes guidance documents. The aim of the toolkit is to ensure that Radiometer such as anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation on national and only collaborates with business partners that meet our basic standards of international levels. In 2010, Radiometer also initiated an international doing business and to avoid corrupt business partners. anti-corruption campaign that is aimed at eventually training all our Since the implementation of the toolkit, 48 % of the existing distributors distributors in the anti-corruption policies of the company. have been screened using this toolkit, all new distributors appointed in 2009 have been screened, and in 2010 we did also screen another 40 % By training employees and distributors in how to recognize and avoid of the existing distributors to make sure that their businesses are in line corrupt behavior, we expect to avoid and prevent corruption at every with Radiometer’s standards. We have accomplished to screen almost 90 level of our business. In addition to the ethical and legal implications, % of all our distributors, and we will endeavor to use the toolkit to screen Radiometer also recognizes the negative impact that corruption has the remaining 10 % during 2011. on a company’s business by damaging the reputation of the company involved in corruption. Radiometer not only addresses corruption internally, but also externally by taking initiatives to prevent any corrupt behavior by any existing or potential business partner. Danaher’s anticorruption policy affirms our commitment to ensure that Radiometer and its business partners abide by the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. 18 19 Partnerships for development As Radiometer’s products are directly related to saving lives, the In an effort to ensure sustainable results, Radiometer engages in ACTION TAKEN (international): company is focused on the importance and impact of its presence partnerships with governments and core healthcare institutions in Project Egypt: in developing countries, and how the company’s assets can assist in developing countries through which Radiometer disseminates knowledge Radiometer is engaged in a project with the Egyptian Ministry of Health improving the treatment of critically ill people around the world. on how to diagnose critically ill patients with blood gas analyzers. and its training institution GOTHI (General Organization for Teaching Hospitals and Institutes). Danida supports the partnership through its Through cooperation and partnership with development agencies, The training is targeted at physicians and nurses working at private, public Private Public Partnerships Programme. The aim of the projects within Radiometer actively supports the United Nations’ Millennium and faith-based hospitals and covers a wide range of theoretical as well the program is to contribute to sustainable change and development Development Goals 2015 and its efforts against child mortality and lifeas practical issues related to the diagnosis of critically ill patients who may in developing countries through partnerships between private threatening diseases in less privileged regions of the world. Our vision suffer from e.g. HIV/AIDS or tuberculosis. companies and with the involvement of public and civic institutions is: Acute care instruments should be available where needed. and organizations. The company’s long-term strategy in developing countries focuses The partnership formed by Radiometer and GOTHI focuses on building on conducting business with a high degree of Corporate Social capacity within diagnosing critically ill patients (with for example HIV/ Responsibility and we therefore engage in and initiate projects AIDS, and patients needing surgery) using blood gas analysis. With aimed at supporting a sustainable development. Radiometer’s their combined resources GOTHI and Radiometer provide the Egyptian project activities seek to address the obstacles and limitations that healthcare sector with access to the latest technology and build healthcare institutions in developing countries face in providing capacity through relevant training. Radiometer develops and provides blood gas solutions to patients. Radiometer strongly believes that it training activities targeted at Egyptian doctors and nurses at public is not sufficient just to place an analyzer in a healthcare institution; hospitals. The theoretical training is combined with practical application we believe it is vital to provide the necessary training and support to training on point-of-care testing equipment. The installed equipment physicians, nurses and other healthcare personnel in order for them to provides faster results and assures more effective treatment. provide optimal patient care. 20 21 ACTION TAKEN (international): The project activities will address the obstacles and limitations faced by ACTION TAKEN (local): Projects in Nepal, Uganda and Tanzania: the healthcare institutions in the countries, when providing blood gas At Radiometer in Denmark, we bring on 15-20 9th graders, annually, The projects in Nepal, Uganda and Tanzania are supported by Danida’s analysis to its patients. A strong cooperation with core health institutes for a week’s period. The process consists of students applying for the B2B Programme. is planned to ensure the relevance of the provided products and services. internship, like in a true job situation. During that time, they work with The partnership wishes to supply healthcare institutions with the training regular Radiometer employees in different departments, such that they The core business idea for the cooperation with experienced suppliers required to address health risks and concerns within Radiometer’s areas of can experience real-life work conditions. of equipment to Intensive Care Units (ICUs) all over the three countries expertise, hence enabling the hospitals in the countries to provide optimal is to equip the healthcare sectors with applicable knowledge and blood patient care. We also have mentoring projects in Radiometer, which are projects gas analysis solutions. we started in order to mentor “at risk”-youths, who are in increased In Radiometer we do not only initiate international projects, but are likelihood of delinquency due to home and environmental factors. The The aim of the projects and the partnerships is to fully serve the certainly also aware of our local society, and we take great pride getting youths were in Radiometer in connection with internships, and we healthcare sectors in the three countries, which will result in better involved in a lot of projects (both smaller and bigger) concerning the decided to provide help in both professional and personal matters, and patient outcome for the critically ill patients. With the technical society. When we at Radiometer Medical get into partnerships with prepare the youths for future work and education. In order to do that ability and advanced training skills in regard to blood gas analysis, the society, we focus on what we can contribute with and how the in the best and most professional way, we sent some of our employees the partnerships will be able to fully market, service and maintain employees’ competences can be used to help the society. on special courses, and trained them in mentoring. blood gas analyzers in the countries. The objective of the proposed partnerships is to make blood gas solutions available for as many ACTION TAKEN (local): patients as possible. This will in turn reduce the health risks for infants Radiometer has donated DKK 5 million to support PhD-students, who and critically ill patients, including patients with AIDS/HIV. study technology and medical science at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). With this donation Radiometer, DTU and the Danish government has created a fund of 15 million DKK that may give PhD grants to special gifted DTU candidates and projects of Medicine and Technology. Radiometer has also hired some of the DTU Medicine and Technology engineers, who now thrive as employees at Radiometer. 22 23
