The World Internet Security Company Corporate Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2010 WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 Contents About WISeKey .................................................................................................................................... 3 Message from Carlos Moreira ............................................................................................................. 4 WISeKey and the Global Compact Principles ...................................................................................... 5 Measure of Outcomes ......................................................................................................................... 8 New Goals Defined for 2011 ............................................................................................................... 8 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2 © Copyright WISeKey 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 About WISeKey WISeKey SA is a leading information security and identity management company. We provide solutions to respond to business, government and individual digital security needs, from Mobile Services to Digital Brand Management and Online Trust Solutions. Our solutions are used worldwide to secure mobile, home and office data, transactions and communications, as well as being used to provide you or your brand with a personalized digital identity to secure you against fraud and counterfeiting. Through our partnership with the OISTE Foundation, under Swiss law, we can ensure geo-political neutrality for data and communications that are secured by WISeKey. WISeKey’s digital identity management and information security is used to address a variety of day to day digital security needs, such as:  Secure electronic data exchange and storage online and locally  Secure mobile communications – voice, SMS, email  Secure mobile data  Secure financial transactions from computers and mobile phones  Distinguish authentic from counterfeit goods, anytime, anywhere (even over the internet)  Protect your customers’ data and identities when they trust your site with their information  Ensure privacy and security e-government citizen services  Securely log on to social networks  Manage all your log on details from a single, encrypted place  Leave evidence of a communication or transaction (using WISeKey’s e-notary services)  Reduce your carbon footprint with a paper-free environment and legally valid digital signatures WISeKey is a dynamic and innovative company that embraces change to stay ahead of the digital security threats and to protect its current and future clients. WISeKey’s facilitation of the mass-use of secure digital identities in everyday life allows us to promise that the millions of users around the world can trust WISeKey secured information and objects and protect their privacy. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 3 © Copyright WISeKey 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 Message from Carlos Moreira WISeKey is dedicated to securing mobile and online data and communications in order to protect people’s rights. We are also committed to using our technology to fight counterfeiting, and also to help others and ourselves work in a greener environment. This includes our work on e-Governments, replacing the traditional paper-based processes with electronic ones, giving citizens the possibility of conducting their requests and filling in their forms online, as well as following the whole process online, thus This year WISeKey has refined and redefined replacing lengthy paper-based processes and its spheres of influence in order to be able to saving time and money. best serve our current and future consumers WISeKey has also signed commitments in the ever-developing market. The digital age towards the Clinton Global Initiative in order means that people are carrying out more and to bring mobile banking to underbanked and more business and social activities online, unbanked areas of the world. WISeKey through networks, and with mobile devices. continues to work towards the 10 principles of With this shift away from face-to-face the UN Global Compact through initiatives interaction, trust becomes essential for such as this. individuals and businesses alike, who need to ensure that the person they are dealing with The UN Global Compact has allowed us to remotely is legitimate, and that the data they highlight areas of our business where are accessing or sending is secure and improvement is recommended, as well as to trustworthy. hone our solutions and business practices to be better aligned with the 10 principles of the Data protection is becoming an item that is UN Global Compact. We look forward to very high on the agenda for banks, another year of responsible opportunity in line governments and corporations, as we realize with the 10 principles. that our data, identities, and digital interactions are not as safe as they should be. WISeKey’s relationship with the OISTE Foundation allows us to guarantee geopolitical neutrality for our clients’ data and communications, setting us apart from other Carlos Moreira companies in the domain. CEO and founder WISeKey The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 © Copyright WISeKey 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 WISeKey and the Global Compact Principles Principle Progress to Date Human Rights Businesses should support and respect Human rights, occupational health and Principles the protection of internationally safety policies were already incorporated proclaimed human rights into WISeKey’s Corporate Governance. WISeKey ensures that its developers are in line with internationally proclaimed human rights, as well as its branch offices. WISeKey has also been in close collaboration with the Association for International Mobility, the Fondation Hassan II and the OISTE Foundation to establish a online Migrant Services Platform for Moroccans abroad which promotes Moroccan migrants receiving essential services by way of information and communication technologies such as remittances, online health records, access to e-government services and many others. Contracts should be signed with suppliers to ensure the same. Make sure that they are not complicit in Annual audits and controls are in place to human rights abuses ensure transparency on this principle, in both HQ and regional offices. WISeKey can ensure that they are not complicit in any human rights abuses. WISeKey also supported in 2010 a campaign to collect funds for orphaned children of Huê, Vietnam through its collaboration with the Fondation Les Enfants de Huê´ and Father Patrick-Marie Serafini. Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom Annual audits confirm WISeKey HQ and Standards of association and the effective branches’ full compliance with this recognition of the right to collective principle and our obligation to consult bargaining. openly with representative forums. This principle should be reflected in our contracts with suppliers. Businesses should uphold the Annual audits confirm WISeKey HQ and elimination of all forms of forced and branches’ full compliance with this compulsory labor. principle and our obligation to consult openly with representative forums. This principle should be reflected in our contracts with suppliers. Businesses should uphold the effective This is included in the Code of Conduct abolition of child labor. according to legal legislation and is specified by International Labor Organization legislation. This principle should be reflected in our contracts with suppliers. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 5 © Copyright WISeKey 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 Businesses should eliminate Employee data is stored locally, within discrimination in respect of the limits of legal legislation to ensure employment and occupation. compliance with EU and other data protection standards. Disabled people, women and other persons who are the target of discrimination are encouraged in our regional offices, ensuring their full their rights and allowing them to play a constructive role in the communities. This principle should be reflected in our contracts with suppliers. Environment Businesses should support a Through its digital signing initiatives, precautionary approach to WISeKey encourages businesses, environmental challenges. individuals, governments and its own employees to respect the environment, not wasting resources unnecessarily. Businesses should undertake initiatives WISeKey’s work lies within areas that to promote greater environmental promote online and mobile responsibility. communication and provide the tools to do so safely and securely. Our policies and work encourages our clients and partners, as well as our staff to take greater responsibility for the environment. Recycling bins are available for paper, photocopying and printing is controlled and digital workflows are encouraged. When not in use, machines & lights are switched off. Businesses should encourage the WISeKey supports digital business and development and diffusion of dematerialization, i.e. WISeKey provides environmentally friendly technologies. solutions to allow individuals, businesses and governments to work in a paper-free environment. This includes eGovernment solutions in order to not only facilitate the life of citizens but also to replace paper-based forms and processes with electronic processes. AntiBusinesses should work against This principle is covered by our Code of Corruption corruption in all its forms, including Conduct and anti-corruption policy. extortion and bribery. WISeKey’s contracts and legal documents support its commitment to this principle and its belief in ethical business relationships. WISeKey also launched an anti-counterfeiting solution this year in order to combat the counterfeit market in luxury goods and other areas which are frequently sources of organized crime that have a large influence on the development of corruption globally. WISeKey is currently publicizing this solution in order to help businesses fight The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 6 © Copyright WISeKey 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 against counterfeiting. Finally, WISeKey´s e-government solutions are citizen—centric which means transparency in all processes is essential, with the digitalization of processes reducing the risk of intermediaries influencing through traditional analogue methods. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 7 © Copyright WISeKey 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 Measure of Outcomes WISeKey has created more solutions and restructured the existing ones to allow citizens, businesses and governments to fight corruption, take steps towards protecting the environment, protect basic human rights and secure themselves in the digital world. All of WISeKey’s work is done in full respect to principles 3-6 on labor. WISeKey has also participated in many events in order to inform individuals and businesses about the dangers that occur in the digital space, in order to warn them against data leakage, digital identity protection, and more. The results of these actions are difficult to quantify, as the spheres of influence are large and success is measured through the smooth functioning of the solutions, rather than a recorded number of errors. WISeKey has delivered on commitments to the Clinton Global Initiative, and touches the lives of people in rich and poor countries alike, in order to help to ensure rights in the digital space. Through initiatives such as this, WISeKey strives to improve the lives of those it can reach out to, and keeps its business policies in line with such an approach. New Goals Defined for 2011 In the future, WISeKey should make greater use of the Global Compact network in Switzerland and elsewhere. Also, the principles of the UN Global Compact should be clearly reflected in the contracts signed with our suppliers. Throughout the year we shall continue to identify new challenges and work towards them, bearing in mind the 10 principles, in order to have a continued impact on the day to day lives of our current and future clients. Our goal is also to continue to spread information regarding digital security through all channels possible. Our focus will also be on digital security through mobile devices, as the world shifts into this form of work, play and communication. WISeKey will also continue to work with the initiatives stated in the 2008-2009 Communication on Progress report. ***** The Global Compact – Communication on Progress 8 © Copyright WISeKey 2011
