women who influence Communication to the UN Global Compact 2011 the comme il faut group of companies www.comme-il-faut.com Women who Influence Communication to the UN Global Compact 2011 the comme il faut group of companies Contents • Message from the CEO …………..………………..…………………… ….………. Page 3 • Our Business………………………………..………………………………………….…. Page 4 • Our Employees…………………………………………………………………..………. Page 12 • Our Customers…………………………..………………………………………………. Page 17 • Our Suppliers………………………………………………………………………….…. Page 20 • Our Community…………………………………………………………………………. Page 22 • Our Environment……………………………………………….………………………. Page 30 • Our Ongoing commitments……………………………………………….………. Page 36 • Global Compact principles index…………………………………………….…. Page 37 • Please engage – feedback…………………………………………………………..Page 38 2 Message from the CEO Sybil Goldfiner As women who influence, we remain determined to do good business with good impacts. The effects of the Global Financial Crisis became apparent to us in late 2008, causing us to rethink and reshape our business in 2009 and 2010. The effects of this challenging period continue to dominate our thinking as we reinforce our focus as a high-quality slow-fashion values-based business, against a backdrop of ever-more global fast-fashion retailers entering our local market and changing consumer purchasing habits. As women who influence, we have not faltered in our commitment to conduct our business along ethical principles and maintain our commitment to our employees, customers, suppliers, the environment and the communities we serve. As women who influence, we have implemented a program of business restructuring of all our operations. We have emerged from this process with renewed energy, in the knowledge that we have accomplished a significant business transformation that would be the envy of many small businesses. Scoping out the next 20 years of comme il faut, we have addressed every aspect of the way we do business, the way we define our value proposition to our core customers, the way we manage our supply chain and the way we influence. During this process, we were not able to maintain our Corporate Responsibility communications on the frequency we had envisaged, though our commitment to responsible business practices never wavered. This Communication on Progress will now serve as a summary update for all our stakeholders. As owner and CEO of comme il faut, I reconfirm our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the wider Millennium Goals, and confirm that we will continue to report on our progress each year. I would like to thank all comme il faut customers who continued to honor us with their custom during the past 20 years and, we hope, will continue to do so for the next 20. I would like to thank all the employees in the comme il faut family for their tireless efforts and continued support, and also our suppliers for supporting our business. Yours, Sybil Goldfiner June 2011 3 Our Business The comme il faut group of companies is comprised of three private companies: comme il faut ltd, comme il faut café and coola for women only, all fully owned by Sybil Goldfiner. The structure of the comme il faut group of companies today is as follows: comme il faut fashion comme il faut cafe F hi t Rehovot Ramat Hasharon Haifa Factory Store coola Tel Aviv Raanana Ramat Aviv Tel Aviv . surplus Harbor 4 Business update 2010 We have reduced the number of fashion stores we operate with the closure of our Givatayim and Jerusalem stores. In addition, we discontinued the Jewelry store we had opened in Tel Aviv Harbor, and also the separate store for the Radical brand which is now housed in comme il faut fashion stores. All in all, we reduced from 12 to 8 fashion outlets during this period, enabling us to manage our operations more efficiently while continuing to provide a personal, caring service to our customers. In 2010, we fully renovated and renewed our store in Ramat Aviv, modernizing fixtures and improving the display possibilities and comfort for the regular stream of customers visiting this flagship store. We also renovated our Tel Aviv Harbor and Ramat Hasharon stores to ensure the best customer experience at these locations. 5 During December 2010, comme il faut café in Tel Aviv Harbor was badly hit by the worst storms in the history of Israel, and the entire internal décor and furniture was destroyed. comme il faut café was closed for business for over three months due to renovations. comme il faut café reopened in April 2011 with a new menu, a new style and all of the appeal of its former self. We hope you will come and enjoy a meal at one of the most popular locations in Tel Aviv with one of the best views of the Mediterranean in the Middle East! 6 Coola for women only was only marginally damaged by the storms and continues to operate as a haven for hundreds of women each month who enjoy taking time for themselves and enjoying a therapeutic, relaxing body massage or facial treatment. Despite the challenges of both the economy and the weather, comme il faut remains a vibrant, growing and profitable business. We believe in the power of women to influence. Through our business, we influence the lives and the position of women in Israel and around the world. 7 Mission and Values We remain true to our mission: We believe in the power of women to influence. We choose to take a stand, based on our business and personal responsibility. Our Company is a home for learning, action and leadership, in which every woman can feel special, significant and influential. And to our core values: respect for all individuals comme il faut listening personal responsibility teamworking daring enjoyment 8 Ethics at comme il faut Our Code of Ethics remains a guiding light for the way we do business. A full copy of our Code can be downloaded from our website at this link: http://comme-il-faut.com/agenda/Code_Emp/Intro All new employees joining the Company receive a copy of the Code of Ethics and are asked to sign their confirmation that they will abide by the principles of the Code. In addition, we run ethics refreshers to remind employees of the principles and discuss the dilemmas they come across in their daily work. In 2010, refresher meetings were held with all the comme il faut store managers (who briefed their teams in all the comme il faut stores) and with staff at the coola for women only spa and treatment center. All ethical issues as may arise from time to time are discussed in full in comme il faut's monthly executive management meetings and appropriate action taken if required. comme il faut has not been in breach of any laws nor have any lawsuits been filed against comme il faut for matters relating to ethical behavior. Similarly, comme il faut has not been required to pay any fines relating to ethical behavior during 2009/2010. 9 Awards and Recognition In 2010 and in 2011, comme il faut was proud to be selected as one of the World's most ethical companies by the Ethisphere Institute, which is a leading international think-tank dedicated to the creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability. The World's Most Ethical Companies ranking takes into account the following categories: Corporate Citizenship and Responsibility; Corporate Governance; Innovation that Contributes to the Public Well Being; Industry leadership; Executive Leadership and Tone from the Top; Legal, Regulatory and Reputation Track Record; and Internal Systems and Ethics/Compliance Program. For the full list of Ethical Companies in 2011, see here: http://ethisphere.com/wme2011 For the full list of Ethical Companies 2010, see here: http://ethisphere.com/wme2010 In both cases, comme il faut was the ONLY Israeli company to be included in this prestigious list. For more about the Ethisphere Institute, see here: http://ethisphere.com/about comme il faut wins the Globes Award 2009 comme il faut was recognized by the leading national business daily newspaper, Globes, in the prestigious annual Globes Award for 2009, The 2009 Globes Responsible and Sustainable Business Strategy Award In Memory of Haim Bar-On. . This Award is made to businesses which have integrated social or environmental values in their operating model and have made a significant impact on society. Companies of all sizes including large global businesses enter their projects for this award based on a strategic business campaign designed to raise public awareness for the benefit of Israeli society and the environment. In May 2009, comme il faut, a private SME fashion business who has pioneered social change for the benefit of women and society, received the Globes 2009 Award. 10 MAALA awards comme il faut is proud to be the recipient , two years in a row, of the Maala – Business for Social Responsibility Awards, presented to companies leading the way in corporate responsibility in Israel at the Maala Annual Conference. In 2009, comme il faut received an award together with 15 other companies who had published sustainability reports and in 2010, comme il faut received the award, together with 8 SME companies, who had confirmed membership of the United Nations Global Compact. comme il faut is the only one of these companies who has produced a Communication on Progress. comme il faut has been a member of Maala since 2007 and one of the few SME's in Israel to support this not-for-profit organization which advances socially responsible business. For more information about Maala, see: www.maala.org.il Corporate Responsibility Steering Team During 2010, we decided to formalize our management of corporate responsibility by forming a crosscompany steering team. As a small company, we saw this as an opportunity to involve all those managers who have a significant impact on the way we do business, both in determining activities to be planned and executed as part of their responsibility. The Steering Team includes the CEO, The Sales Director, the CFO, the Purchasing Manager, the Production Coordinator, the Production Manager and the Marketing coordinator. The team is led and facilitated by comme il faut's (external) Corporate Responsibility consultant and met twice in 2010. A CR Scorecard is used to track and monitor the company's ongoing performance. The CR Steering Team plans to meet quarterly to review comme il faut's progress and activities and establish new goals and targets. 11 Our employees comme il faut relies on the motivation, commitment, inspiration and skills of all employees and recognizes that the company's successes are the result of their continuous efforts. We aspire to create a management culture of team-working, collaboration and openness, in which all employees are kept, informed of all company developments and invited to be a part of key decision-making processes. We believe that the ability of the Company to influence is based first and foremost on the empowerment of each one of our employees through the opportunities to influence that we provide for each individual in their working lives. We do not employ children or coerce any employee in any way. All employees freely sign a Contract of Employment prior to starting work at comme il faut and freely consent to agreed terms and conditions. There are also male employees at comme il faut, despite our female majority, and they are a welcome part of our team. Both men and women employees have an equal chance to develop contribute and influence. The progression of our employee team numbers is as follows: comme il faut employees 2007 2008 2009 2010 comme il faut fashion 97 82 57 59 comme il faut café 54 61 48 45 coola 18 21 23 19 Total 169 164 128 123 As can be seen, the number of employees in the comme il faut fashion business reduced during 2009/2010 as the company restructured its operations, reduced the number of store outlets and developed a leaner head office organization in order to adapt the company structure to the new economic conditions in the marketplace. The 25 employees that left the company were provided with full benefits over and above the minimum required by law, and where possible, long notice periods were provided. We were very sorry to release valued employees, some of whom had been part of the comme il faut family for over a decade, but we hope that their time with comme il faut was a positive experience in their lives as women who influence. At comme il faut we remain a predominantly female workforce – there are 3 male employees in the comme il faut fashion business, zero in the coola for women only spa and treatment center, and a majority of approximately 60% of male employees in comme il faut café. While we believe strongly in providing opportunities for women, we welcome applications from male employees and enjoy the value they bring to our business. 12 Spotlight on Liora Liora assumed the role of Director of Sales and Merchandising, joining the comme il faut executive management team, in 2009, after having been responsible for merchandising and store design for over 10 years at comme il faut. A guiding light in the Company's overall fashion offering, Liora ensures that all comme il faut stores contain and display both comme il faut's in-house collections and a wide range of imported wovens, shoes and other accessories reflecting the highest quality workmanship of leading European designers and manufacturers. Liora spends her time between comme il faut's studio, the company's fashion stores and annual visits to trade shows in Europe for reviewing and purchasing comme il faut imported garments and accessories which complement comme il faut's in-house collections. Liora lives and breathes the fashion scene and is a frequent contributor to the comme il faut blog, offering the stories behind the brands that comme il faut presents in Israel as well as useful styling tips for customers. 13 Thank you! No business can take for granted a team of valued employees who are dedicated to using their influence to make a difference as part of a business with a social conscience, and comme il faut makes a point of thanking employees in a formal way each year. In 2010, the annual comme il faut event took place in comme il faut café and included a popular stand-up comic who kept the team in good humor. For the first time, employee awards were presented to Sarah Brenner of Raanana store, and seamstress Jannette Yoktan , both of whom who made an outstanding difference in 2009, going the extra mile, to serve our customers and support our team objectives. o o o o o o o o o o 14 Profit Sharing Thanks to employees are also expressed by comme il faut in the form of annual profit sharing for employees. As has been comme il faut's practice for many years, 20% of the company's profits are distributed to employees as both recognition for their contribution and additional compensation for their efforts. Profit sharing is distributed to all employees who have been more than one year with the company, and the allocation is influenced by overall company profitability levels as well as personal performance in line with annual targets. Even in years which were more challenging for comme il faut due to tougher economic conditions, this commitment by the company to employees was maintained each year. Employee Performance Development All employees are encouraged to improve their competencies and skills in line with their role and performance objectives. comme il faut provides professional training for employees as required, with a focus on sales and styling, to those who serve customers in comme il faut stores. For the first time in 2008, comme il faut conducted an employee performance feedback process in which employees participated in a formal dialog about their performance with their manager. Opportunities for performance development were identified along with the establishment of specific performance targets. A workshop for managers was conducted to assist in developing listening and feedback skills. The process is maintained on an annual basis and in 2009/2010, over 70% of employees participated in this process. Employee meetings Every quarter, all the employees of comme il faut studio gather together for a House Meeting in which the CEO, Sybil Goldfiner, personally brings employees up to date with the state of the business, financial results, operational changes, new marketing programs and all activities related to the company's corporate social responsibility activities. Employees have the opportunity to ask questions and volunteer suggestions in an open and free discussion. Throughout the period of restructuring in 2009/2010, meetings were held more frequently, to ensure that all employees were informed and involved in the rapid pace of change in the company. comme il faut believes in dialog and the power of all employees to influence our direction and performance as a business. Safety Training comme il faut is committed to creating a safe working environment and safe working practices. In 2010, we conducted a lecture on safety training for employees at comme il faut studio to reinforce safe working practices. comme il faut has recorded no work accidents during the past years. 15 Spotlight on Yaffa Yaffa Pinhasi has been with comme il faut for 6 years and has a total of 17 years' experience in the fashion business. Yaffa's role is in the comme il faut supply chain, managing part of the company's warehousing operations and ensuring that all accessories, some of the most detailed and meticulously selected items in comme il faut designs, are available at the right time, in the right place, in the right quantity and quality to complete the manufacturing process. Yaffa handles hundreds of sets of buttons, zippers, patches and a range of other fine design accessories every day, ensuring that each are sorted, classified, quality checked, documented and delivered to meet comme il faut's challenging schedules. Yaffa is the right-hand woman of the comme il faut design team and plays a critical role in ensuring that comme il faut customers receive the quality they have come to expect. 16 Our customers comme il faut has always placed utmost importance on building relationships with customers for the long term, based on a strong understanding of women's needs and the changing styles required by women as they advance through life in our design approach, providing timeless, high quality styles with attention to detail and made for comfort and ease of wear and maintenance. Our approach has always been one of personal service and interaction with customers, forming relationships which transcend generations, as customers, daughters and granddaughters visit comme il faut stores and find the right fashion and style solutions for their active lives. In addition to understanding and serving customers, comme il faut has always tried to involve customers in our desire to influence. Over many years, comme il faut has achieved this through the company's social marketing campaigns which have carried a social message to create awareness for issue which prevent the empowerment and advancement of women, encouraging our customers to gain greater awareness and also take an active role, together with us, in the struggle towards women's advancement. Our campaigns over the years have addressed many aspects of women's position in society, and stereotypes of women, which we felt important to diffuse. Our campaigns and their messages can be viewed on our website: www.comme-il-faut.com as well as in our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report which can be downloaded here: http://www.comme-il-faut.com/agenda/social-responsibility/report A recent example from our 2009/2010 includes our campaign to oppose women being seen as sex objects. In our campaign, we highlighted all the symbols of women as sex objects and made it clear that these are generally dictated by males and are not inherently necessary for women to be and feel important, sexy or influential. 17 Customer feedback From time to time we engage our customers in formal surveys so that we can better understand their needs and hear their feedback to us in a formal way. In 2010, we received feedback from over 140 customers on our service, store layout and designs. 91% of customers were positive on an overall basis about comme il faut. 74.5% of customers said that our store window displays encouraged then to enter the store 83% of customers said our in-store displays were attractive 91% of customers were positive about the professionalism of our sales women and the excellent service they provide. 18 Social media – engaging customers During 2009/2010, comme il faut began to embrace social media as a major way of communicating directly with customers both keeping them informed of developments in our fashion collections, the menus in comme il faut café and the new and innovative treatments offered at coola for women only. In 2009, the company started a blog, which offers insights from comme il faut CEO, managers and also a range of guest writers who support the comme il faut agenda. The blog has become popular with over 1,000 visits a day and a strong following of customers and fashion-followers. We also take the time to introduce all of our global suppliers of wovens, shoes and accessories so that our customers can know more about what they choose to wear when they purchase at comme il faut. To visit the comme il faut blog, click here: http://blog.comme-il-faut.com 19 In addition, we have developed a Facebook page and a Twitter account. We hope you will visit and engage with us on a range of important issues relating to fashion, women, society, politics and a better world. www.facebook.com/comme.il.faut.fashion www.twitter.com/commeilfaut10 You can also see a range of comme il faut photo galleries on Flikr http://www.flickr.com/photos/comme-il-faut 20 Our suppliers comme il faut maintains close relationships over many year with a small number of suppliers who support comme il faut's operations on a regular basis. These suppliers include local garment production companies, fabric and accessory suppliers, as well as a range of European leading fashion designers for women garments, shoes, bags and accessories. During 2008-2010, we have approached all our leading suppliers, over 100 in number, to recognize and sign their confirmation to adhere to our Supplier Code of Principles. 76 Israeli suppliers and 16 foreign suppliers have signed our Code and committed to upholding responsible business principles and practices. 21 Our local and global community Our business model includes significant involvement with the local community. We invest in order to advance community involvement in many ways, increasing awareness of feminism and empowerment of women. We believe that it is important to be personally involved and to take part in community life, leveraging our core skills to assist where we can. It is also our experience that involvement in the community assists us in performing better in our business. comme il faut makes cash donations to support the community causes that align with the comme il faut agenda. Overall, comme il faut maintains a policy of allocating 10% of profits to community involvement, which includes cash and also in-kind donations. In 2010, we developed a written policy for cash donations, to articulate our approach and explain our position to the hundreds of organizations and individual who approach us each year. Regrettably, we cannot support every request but we always respond respectfully and explain our position. Some examples of our community involvement include: Being a Girl In 2010/2011, comme il faut's flagship community involvement project is Being a Girl , an initiative devised and advanced by the Bat Yam municipality near Tel Aviv. The program offers teenage girls aged 15-16 the opportunity to realize their potential through specially developed programs of personal expression through art and culture. The program has run successfully for three years, and each year, groups of young women explore the world and themselves to achieve greater personal empowerment on their way to becoming women of influence. comme il faut decided to support this program through a desire to invest in our future generation of women who influence, the daughters of comme il faut customers. We believe the future of women lies in the hands of these intelligent, brave, young women and we are committed to helping them realize themselves in the most positive way possible. During 2010, comme il faut undertook to collaborate on a new program with a fashion theme, offering participants in the program the possibility to find personal expression through a greater understanding of the world of fashion and the design of a T-shirt which expresses their personal worldview. comme il faut supports this program through the personal involvement of the CEO Sybil Goldfiner, the Chief Designer Ira Goldman and through a range of staff 22 who welcomed visits of the group of young women to comme il faut studio to hear about the way fashion works, and to receive assistance in designing their own T—Shirts. comme il faut donated T-shirts for all the participants and a range of equipment and accessories to enable each young woman to create her own unique design. comme il faut also promoted the Being a Girl program through a unique interactive game for customers through committing to donate NIS 50 ($14) for every time a customer made a purchase at a comme il faut store (with a discount for playing the game online). The game was promoted on the comme il faut website and on Facebook and was played thousands of times. Overall, this resulted in a donation to support the project of approximately $10,500. In addition, for the first time in 2010, a new group was offers to graduates of the Being a Girl program, which focuses on inspiring young women to aspire to positions of political and civil society leadership in the future. This program was possible through the funding of comme il faut and is a pilot program which will be replicated in the future. The participants in this program visited the Israeli Parliament and met with political leaders and participated in a Girls Parliament program designed to assist them in understanding and taking a stand on the social issue of the day affecting women and society in general. The participants visited comme il faut studio and met with Sybil Goldfiner, CEO of comme il faut. To read more about this program, please see: http://www.bat-yam.muni.il/show_item.asp?levelId=58165 23 Advancing the rights of women trapped in prostitution In 2009, comme il faut's flagship social campaign was advancing the rights of women trapped in prostitution. Prostitution is a reflection of the infringements of Human Rights in our society. Prostitutes are trapped in a vicious circle of abuse, violence, dehumanization and disrespect for basic human needs. Most people blame prostitutes, instead of placing the blame in the right place on those who create and support the prostitution industry. Prostitution is an extreme manifestation of systemic depression of women in our society, and one which most people prefer to avoid talking about. Determined to bring this issue on the public radar, comme il faut worked in partnership with leading organizations to protect the rights of women trapped in prostitution and developed a multi-channel campaign to support this important cause. The campaign included donating bras for charity, a charity benefit and an exhibition. The Bras During this campaign, we asked our customers to bring in old bras under the slogan We don't burn bras . For every bra brought into a comme il faut store the customer received a NIS 150 discount ($43) on the purchase of an item from our new collection and comme il faut pledged to donate NIS 50 ($14) to the Levinsky Institute, a leading organization supporting the rights of women trapped in prostitution and providing practical aid, in order to fund breast cancer tests for women trapped in prostitution. The campaign was very successful: we received more than 4,000 bras from our customers, and pledged, in turn, a donation of NIS 200,000 ($55,000). Another important impact was the dialog with customers resulting from the simple act of handing in an old bra –we were able to discuss the plight of women trapped in prostitution and the different ways of supporting them. The campaign raised awareness to this issue and received significant press coverage. 24 The Charity Benefit In summer 2009, we held a charity benefit to support the awareness of human rights for women trapped in prostitution and raise funds to assist their rehabilitation and other needs. The benefit included leading Israeli celebrities and artists such as singer Marina Maximilian Blumin, comediennes Miki Kam and Orna Gabai and others. Former Member of Parliament and a long-time campaigner for women's rights, Zehava Galon, also presented at the event. The evening was a sell-out, with 500 in attendance (maximum capacity). Over NIS 15,000 ($4,500) was collected to support women trapped in prostitution. 25 The BRA Exhibition In November 2009, we staged an exhibition which used many of the bras that had been donated by customers to reinforce the dual messages of preventing women being seen as sex objects and promoting the rights of women trapped in prostitution. The exhibition was designed by the artist Hanna Abu Hussein and attracted many visitors from all over Israel. 26 Pass-it-On Campaign For the first time, in 2008, during a period of one month, we asked customers to return clothes from former seasons that they no longer wear, to our stores. Each customer received a generous discount towards a new purchase for each garment returned. The clothes received were donated to a not-forprofit organization called Esheet who sells them at low prices in a volunteer-run second-hand store located in a low-income area. The proceeds from the sale of these clothes are used to fund women's entrepreneur programs for women who aspire to open their own business and for whom no other viable support is available. In the first year, over 2,000 garments were collected and similar numbers were collected each year, funding between 20 and 30 women per year in this program. This campaign also provides our customers with an opportunity for a conversation with our employees when they return garments to our stores, thereby enabling us to reinforce our community approach and continue to engage customers in this important activity. This campaign is now in its 4th year, with the 4th month-long campaign run in April 2011. It continues to be popular with our customers and employees alike. For more information about Esheet, please see: www.esheet.org.il . 27 The Women Index In 2005, we collaborated with five not-for-profit organizations to produce a web and printed guide for micro-enterprise business women – “Women buy from Women”. The purpose of the guide was to strengthen the women's network, enabling women to support each other in business and also gain greater exposure for each business. Over 300 businesses registered in the guide. Our investment included many hours of comme il faut employee volunteer time and marketing promotion costs. After the initial launch, the guide lapsed due to lack of funding and resource to manage the intensive updating and technical development of the site. In 2009/2010, we reinstated the Women buy from Women guide and it is now back as an important resource available to hundreds of women. For more information about the guide, please visit: www.nashim-index.co.il Gifts for women appointed to leadership positions We continue our tradition of awarding a gift to women who are appointed to positions of leadership in business, politics or civil society organizations. We understand the challenges women face in achieving such positions and recognize that those who do are in a position to influence both society and the position of women in our society. We encourage these women to succeed and to be role models for many other women of influence. Every year, we send a personal gift accompanied with a letter of congratulations, signed by employees of comme il faut, to over 250 women. 28 Support for the UN Global Compact In 2008, comme il faut was one of the first Israeli companies to participate in the UN Global Compact and subscribe to the 10 principles of responsible business. We believe that our influence increases when we form collaborative partnerships and adhere to this global framework which is adopted by thousands of other business around the world. In order to demonstrate our commitment, CEO of comme il faut, Sybil Goldfiner, attended the UNGC World Leaders Summit in 2010 to participate in setting the future direction with over 1,000 responsible business leaders from all over the world. For more about the UN World Leaders Summit, see: www.leaderssummit2010.org In addition, comme il faut has signed the UN Women's Empowerment principles. The Women's Empowerment Principles are a set of principles for business offering guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. They are the result of collaboration between the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM, part of UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The development of the Principles included an international multistakeholder consultation process, which was launched in March 2009. For more information about the Women's' Empowerment Principles, see: www.unglobalcompact.org/Issues/human_rights/equality_means_business.html comme il faut has also been recognized by the UN Global Compact in their Putting the Principles into Practice document which cites best women's empowerment practices of many leading companies: To download the full document, click this link: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/issues_doc/human_rights/Resources/Companies_Leading_the_Way.pdf 29 Our natural environment We continue to take a precautionary approach to our environmental impacts and, despite being a small business, work hard to minimize our overall footprint. Our major areas of opportunity are in the materials we use, the waste we generate and the energy we consume. Equally, we aim to carefully control our local and foreign travel to minimize use of fuel. In all other areas, comme il faut's environmental impacts are negligible. comme il faut continues to conduct all the company's activities in an environmentally conscious way. Protecting the Environment is written into our Code of Ethics: We are committed to reduce our negative impacts on the environment through reduced energy usage, reduced consumption of harmful materials, reduced waste and increase recycling. Recycling packaging In 2008, we switched all our plastic packaging into recycled paper bags, with no printing, and reduced the weight of the paper and cards. Later, in 2009, we adopted an innovative idea based on recycling unwanted packaging materials and turning them into carrier bags for customers who purchase in our stores. These bags were formed from unusable cement bags, to which we attached a short fabric handle and a comme il faut sticker. This bag significantly reduced packaging costs as well as having the benefit of all of our store packaging being 100% recycled. 30 A satisfied customer  All display materials in our store fashion windows are made from recycled materials and it is probably true to say that in comme il faut, virtually nothing goes to waste. Even the water bottles used in comme il faut café are recycled wine bottles 31 An environmental approach to fashion As a further demonstration of our commitment to the environment, we made a major eco-fashion statement with the hosting of our 2010 Winter Collection at Tel Aviv's massive landfill dump site (which has now been converted into an Industrial Recycling Park). The selection of this site was no coincidence, attempting to drive home once again the role of responsible fashion in our society, and the need for ecoconsciousness. The contrast of our beautiful designs against the backdrop of the biggest landfill dump in the Israeli metropolis was something that no-one could avoid noticing! The event was covered by all the leading fashion bloggers in Israel and the major financial and fashion press. Over 300 people came to the fashion show, which included comme il faut Store Managers and sales people who modeled our fashions, as well as professional models of all ages. For more about the Industrial Recycling Park, please see: http://www.ayalon-park.org.il/Eng Some photos of the event: 32 33 Managing our carbon footprint Our carbon footprint for the year 2010 was 595.4 tons of CO2, the lowest level it has been since we started measuring carbon emissions. This is due to a process which started in 2008 and continues today, of careful management of all energy used in comme il faut's operation across the fashion business, comme il faut café and coola for women only. Our significant carbon emission reduction of 60% between 2008 and 2010 is due to the streamlining of comme il faut operations via store closures and reduction in head office personnel, together with reduced sales volumes as a result of our modifying our business infrastructure to align with the new economic environment resulting from impacts of the Global Financial Crisis which affected our business as it did all other businesses in Israel. In 2007, we reported a carbon footprint of 1,427 tons, which we can now say was somewhat exaggerated, due to a calculation error. This figure is now restated as 878.7 tons CO2 emissions for 2007. The breakdown of our carbon emissions in tons of CO2 is as follows: Carbon Emissions Breakdown 2007 2010 Type 2007 2008 2009 2010 Electricity 766.37 868.88 651.41 490.34 Flights 14.70 6.60 5.65 4.66 Car Travel 66.00 75.78 103.85 68.84 Organic Waste 31.59 31.59 31.59 31.59 Total 878.66 982.85 792.49 595.43 34 Offsetting our carbon emissions In 2007, we offset 71 tons of carbon emissions, which after the readjustment of 2007 figures, now equates to 8% of our emissions for that year. In 2010, in addition to a significant reduction in our overall carbon emissions, we have decided to offset our emissions once again, this time at the level of 25% of our total emissions for 2010, i.e. 120 tons. The value of these carbon credits will be used for urban environmental development, in a project managed by the Good Energy Initiative to plant 1,000,000 Trees in Tel-Aviv Metropolitan Area. The planting projects deliver significant benefits including direct and indirect cooling, pollutant sequestering, and protection of green public open spaces. The project includes cooperation with local authorities and professional planting operators – and holds a carbon potential of 7500 tons of CO2 per 10,000 trees. The project has educational value as local school-children plant the trees and learn about urban environmental conservation. comme il faut's purchase of 120 tons of offset is equivalent to the planting of 112 trees in urban Tel Aviv. For more about the Good Energy Initiative, see: www.goodenergy.org.il 35 Ongoing commitments In our first full Corporate Responsibility Report and Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact published in 2007, we identified areas for future work and set ambitious expectations. We have not been able to complete our progam in full, mainly due to our focus on restructuring, though we have made progress in many areas. Corporate Responsibility Management We created a steering team in 2010, comprising the CEO, comme il faut's (external) CR Manager, the Company's Sales and Marketing Director, CFO, Chief Designer and other staff. The team has met twice and developed a CR scorecard to track ongoing performance in all areas of sustainability management. We will continue this process in 2011 and beyond. Influence on employees We held a workshop on safety for employees in 2010 and this highlighted areas for focus as we maintain safety practices in all our locations. We have maintained regular dialog with employees, especially throughout restructuring programs, and will continue to invest energy in ensuring frank and open discussion in the workplace. We will continue to look for diverse candidates as we recruit for roles in the company as they arise. Influence on customers We have deepened our understanding of our customer needs and updated our thinking about our targets customers and why they prefer comme il faut. At the same time, we have broadened our range to ensure we provide what our customers want. We have maintained our dialog with customers and conducted surveys to understand more about their in-store experience and fashion preferences. We continue to involve our customers in our social campaigns. We will continue to maintain a high-quality customer experience and tailor our offering to meet changing needs. Influence on suppliers We have progressed the adoption of our Supplier Code of Ethics with over 100 suppliers having confirmed their adherence. In 2011 and beyond, we will spend more time with suppliers understanding how they apply the principles and asking for environmental and other data so that we can be sure that our supply chain is as sustainable as possible. Influence in the community Community involvement has always been part of comme il faut's DNA and our objective is to continue to support the advancement of women and women's position in society through our social campaigns. Our target is to work with community partners on a flagship project at least every two years, while maintaining involvement in other areas of social and economic need. Influence on the environment We are proud of our environmental achievements and believe our impacts are as low as they can be. Our ongoing target is to not exceed our 2010 absolute carbon footprint and continue to offset emissions at 8% per year. We continue to investigate sustainable fashion design options and will to use more recycled content and other environmentally friendly fabric and accessory options as we design our collections. Reporting and transparency We will continue to be transparent in the way we work and in our communications. We will produce a Communication on Progress annually and plan to publish a second Sustainability Report by 2013. 36 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Principle Reporting Principle One: Businesses should support and respect We respect human rights in all ways. Our code of the protection of internationally proclaimed human ethics promotes awareness of our employee to rights . human rights issues We have an anti-discrimination policy, and we Principle Two : Businesses should make sure they are have developed a supplier code to ensure not complicit in human rights abuses suppliers adhere to this as well. There has never been a request for employee Principle Three: Businesses should uphold the freedom association or for collective bargaining. However, of association and the effective recognition of the right all employees have the opportunity to approach to collective bargaining. management at all times on any issue. We do not condone forced labour. All employees Principle Four: Businesses should uphold the have open channels of communication relating elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. to their work with the company. We do not employ children. We have developed Principle Five: Businesses should uphold the effective a supplier code to ensure suppliers adhere to this abolition of child labor. as well including an explicit declaration. We maintain a policy of inclusion. We have a Principle Six : Businesses should uphold the elimination majority of women, given the nature of our of discrimination in respect of employment and business but recruitment processes are open to occupation all and fair and equal opportunity is maintained. We select all our activities on the basis of an Principle Seven : Businesses should support a objective to operate in an environmentally precautionary approach to environmental challenges friendly way. This report describes our activities to promote Principle Eight : Businesses should undertake initiatives environmental responsibility, use of materials, to promote greater environmental responsibility recycling and carbon offsetting. Principle Nine: Businesses should encourage the We use natural materials in our designs as far as development and diffusion of environmentally friendly possible. Our business is not involved in technologies. technology development. Principle Ten : Businesses should work against We do not comply with corruption in any way. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Our Code of Ethics makes this clear. bribery This report covers comme il faut activities for the years 2008-2010, including updates through to May 2011. Data is provided to the end of calendar year 2010 or as noted in the narrative. 37 Feedback We would welcome your feedback on this report. Please write to sybil@comme-il-faut.com This Communication on Progress has been prepared with the support of an external specialist in Corporate Responsibility practices who verifies that all contents are a true and accurate representation of the way comme il faut adheres to UNGC principles. Elaine Cohen, CEO of Beyond Business Ltd, www.b-yond.biz/en, January 2011 www.comme-il-faut.com 38
