sustainability repor t 2010-11 C a mfi l Far r Sust ainabilit y Rep o r t 2 0 1 0 1 1 C a mfi l Far r – Cle an A ir Solut i o n s Letter from our CEO: Sustainable air filtration solutions are our contribution to society Camfil Farr is an industry leader in European Road Show initiative road all over Europe (see page 7). The sustainability and a champion of enviClean air is one of the most essential purpose is to inform decision-makers ronmental protection. Our mission is products on the planet and we deliver and the general public about the imporcrystal-clear – we aim to become the it all over the world. Do people have tance of clean air for life. It all starts greenest and cleanest air filtration a right to clean air? We think so. We with good ventilation and effective company in the market. are now taking this message on the and sustainable filtration solutions and During our nearly half century of emissions control to eliminate air polluoperations, we have been constantly tion sources. making our operations more sustainOur European Road Show is a able and environmentally friendly by unique mobile exhibition and you can reducing our energy consumption and read and follow it on our website as it waste, establishing best practices and rolls throughout Europe in Central and developing, producing products for Southern Europe, the British Isles and better health and comfort and to proScandinavia. It is our contribution to tect people and the environment. society and a way to raise market and We are also leveraging our public awareness about the importance industry leadership to expand our of clean air and high indoor air quality. reach beyond the present position and We launched the campaign “at broadening Camfil Farr’s value offering. home” in Europe, but the message We want to ensure that our customis global and relevant to all human ers better understand the possibilities beings. In Europe alone, air pollution they have to use our solutions to save is reducing life expectancy by almost energy, improve health, performance nine months and short-term sick and productivity, and reduce their envileave can be reduced up to 35% if we ronmental impact. improve ventilation rates and filtration In Camfil Farr’s view, sustainability in work spaces. is vital for our continuing growth. We Keep in mind that we breathe recognize that climate change and a around 25,000 litres (6,600 gallons) of growing awareness about conservair a day and we should be as careful ing resources in society also requires about our air as our food and drink. responsible actions and solutions from We spend more than 90 percent the air filtration industry. of our time indoors, where air can Delivering high Indoor Air Quality be up to more than 50 times more (IAQ), reducing the energy consumption polluted than outdoor air. The energy of air handling systems with better filcost of a filter is also four to five times ters, and continuing our cradle-to-grave higher than its initial purchase price, approach to product management all and when customers use our filters – play a vital role in this process. the most efficient on the market – they are saving energy and reducing their environmental footprint. S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 2 Filtration for health and well-being Highlights of the 2010 financial year When filtration gives us better control over the indoor environment of our • Sustainability: Camfil Farr reduced its own environmental footprint further and homes, offices, hotels, shopping cencontinued the internal Camcairing programme. A dialogue is being developed with tres, schools, and other buildings, we policymakers at European level, HVAC professional associations, expert groups are healthier, feel better and perform and institutions mandated by the EU. The objective is to share our experience more effectively. and ­support the preparation of a new regulation framework that will impact the air By virtue of our leading tech­­ ­filtration business in the future. nology, expertise and broad market • Road show: Camfil Farr has embarked on a road show in key European countries reach, Camfil Farr is defining and delivand cities to inform politicians, decision-makers, the press and the public about air ering sustainable indoor and industrial pollution, poor IAQ and the impact on human health and performance. The vehicle for air quality. But we also need uniform this is a mobile lab and exhibition on wheels with information resources, equipment standards to meet the requirements to test air quality, and facilities to demonstrate and measure filter performance and for air quality in a sustainable way. For efficiency. example, every public building should • Results: Camfil Farr recorded another successful year of higher sales and have standardized IAQ requirements ­earnings – the 47th consecutive year of profitability since the company was founded meeting public health and energy effiin 1963. Net sales amounted to SEK 4,575 M (4,503), an increase of SEK 73 M, ciency goals. compared with 2009. Sales in fixed currency increased by 7%, or SEK 291 M. Our Road Show and programmes Operating profit amounted to SEK 471 M in (417). for sustainable air filtration are all part • New organization: Camfil Farr introduced a new structure to leverage market of this. opportunities more effectively and serve customers better. Group operations In conclusion, we are pleased to are now conducted through six business units – Comfort & Clean Processes, Air present this third Sustainability Report Pollution Control, Power Systems, Railroad, Nuclear & Containment and Airborne and don’t hesitate to contact us, or Molecular Contamination. visit our website, if you have any questions concerning our programme and • Internal programmes: A new aggressive five-year business plan is in progress. initiatives. The Group-wide First Choice programme was also launched to expand Camfil Farr’s reach beyond the present position and move actively up the value chain. An important goal is to ensure that customers better understand how they can save energy, improve health, performance and productivity, or reduce their environmental impact Alan O’Connell with Camfil Farr solutions. President and CEO • R&D: A new state-of-the-art Technology Centre and innovation hub was established Camfil Farr Group in Trosa for product and process development. This facility is probably the largest and most advanced IAQ lab and development centre in the air filtration business. Caring for customer sustainability By providing clean air solutions, we help our customers to become more environmentally friendly. On a daily basis, we advise them on the selection of the most energy-efficient filters in order to lower energy consumption, for the sake of their businesses and the future of our planet. Today, we are focused on developing sustainable solutions, taking into account the entire product life cycle. We are also committed to maintaining and strengthening a partnership of trust with our clients by respecting the highest standards in business Camfil Farr’s air filtration solutions deliver optimum air quality, with the ethics, ranging from respect of intellectual property to fair competition or transparency lowest possible energy consumption, in business affairs. helping our customers to improve All these principles are stated in our Code of Conduct and are applicable to all Camfil health and productivity. Farr entities. S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 3 Camfil Farr’s business segments Camfil Farr’s business concept is to provide customers with Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and clean emissions in line with customer needs. This will be achieved with sustainable best-in-class filtration products and services, as well as through local presence. These solutions, products and systems are developed, manufactured and supplied internationally within the following key business segments: Comfort Air – filtration to protect people: Air filters for ventiClean Processes – filtration to protect production: lation systems in public and commercial facilities to provide clean Camfil Farr’s filters and clean air solutions are used in most indusair for high indoor air quality (IAQ), well-being and a healthy and tries where demands for extremely clean air are crucial for manuproductive working environment. These products are also the facturing processes. Customers include the microelectronics, most energy-efficient filters in the market, helping building ownpharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and automotive industries. ers to reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint. Power Systems – filtration to protect gas turbines: Safety & Protection – filtration to protect the environment: Camfil Farr is a leading supplier of heavy-duty filtration and noise Camfil Farr is the industry leader in high-efficiency particle/gas control equipment for the gas turbines used by major powerfiltration and containment systems for nuclear power plants and generating and offshore operators worldwide. Solutions include also specializes in biocontainment systems and filter housings for air inlet filtration systems, acoustic enclosures and ventilation, high-risk facilities, such as biosafety labs studying disease. Camfil exhaust systems, diverter dampers, ducting, silencers, de-icing Farr filters are also used in the chemical, biological and space systems, and service and refurbishment. industries. The business segment includes Air Pollution Control (APC) products for dust collection and the CamCleaner series for large indoor premises. For a complete description of Camfil Farr’s operations, please refer to the company’s corporate website (www.camfilfarr.com) and 2010 Annual Report. S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 4 Camfil Farr around the world • HEA D Q UA RTERS • PRO D UCTI O N UN I T, I N CL . S AL E S • S A L ES O F F I CE • A G EN T F i lter B u siness Key figures in 2010 EU RO PE Sales and profit performance 2008-2010 N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 1,613 SEK M ILLIO N S: 2, 290 A M E R IC A S N U M BER O F SALES IN S ales 2 0 0 8 S ales 2 0 0 9 SALES 2010 EM PLO Y EES: 627 SEK M ILLIO NS: 791 S E K M I LLI ON S : 4 ,3 6 1 S EK MI L L I O N S : 4 ,5 0 3 SEK M ILLIO N S: 4,575 A S IA PA C IF IC N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 608 SEK M ILLIO N S: 378 Po w er S y s te m s B u siness Profit 2 0 0 8 P rofit 2 0 0 9 PR O F IT 2010 S E K M I LLI O N S : 4 0 0 S EK MI L L I O N S : 4 1 7 SEK M ILLIO N S: 471 N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 216 SEK M ILLIO N S: 772 O th er B u siness Air Pollution Control (APC) and Railroad N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 299 SEK M ILLIO N S: 344 S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 5 Sustainable air filtration for health, well-being and performance For nearly 50 years Camfil Farr has been in recent years have research and studsingled out as a factor causing premature helping customers recognize that energy ies made the clear connection between death and increasing the risk of respiracosts, maintenance, disposal and purgood indoor air quality and higher worker tory or cardiovascular disease. Far from chase price are all important elements of productivity in buildings. being anecdotal, air pollution, according the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) for our It started with the sick building synto the World Health Organization (WHO), air filtration products and solutions, which drome in the 1980s and became meascauses 2 million premature deaths worldreduce their energy consumption, carbon urable through large-scale productivity wide alone and is a growing threat in counemissions, transportation costs and solid studies in offices and schools during the tries with fast-developing economies. waste disposal. late 1990s. This research has proved that In Camfil Farr’s view, sustainability is a good ventilation system can increase Political will is missing vital for continuing growth. We recognize office productivity by up to 10% and also The link between good air quality and that climate change and a growing awarereduce absenteeism due to illness. better health and performance has been ness about conserving resources in socie­ Due to growing evidence that polluted clearly identified, yet very few policymakty also requires responsible actions and air is harmful, providing high air quality ers have taken a comprehensive global solutions from the air filtration industry. has evolved from “good-to-have” in the approach towards ventilation systems, indoor environment to “must-have” to which account for up to one-third of the Air quality, health and productivity ensure occupational health, productivity total electrical power used by buildings. and other tangible benefits in buildings. Clean air is an invisible product. Its posiThe current narrow focus on energy In recent years, air pollution has also tive impact on the indoor environment conservation is only serving to encourage become a public health issue. It has been cannot be seen with the naked eye. Only building owners, users and advisors to S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 6 reduce the amount of energy allowed for new regulations for the energy efficiency air quality experts are tracking and comventilation purposes. They must not forget of ventilation systems, policymakers from paring live air quality data and providing that the primary role of ventilation is to the EU Commission and government ageninformation about the harmful effects of create a sound indoor environment and cies. We want to share our expertise on air pollution, which directly affects air especially good IAQ. The consequences the best available technology for air filtraquality indoors, where people spend about for public health are already measurable. tion and the options for ensuring that IAQ 90 percent of their lives. It is our way to Sustainable policies should always aim and public health will not be compromised provide direct evidence that air filtration to deliver benefits from an economical, by the next set of regulations that is now can create a better indoor environment in environmental and social aspect. Energy being developed for the energy efficiency an energy-efficient way. policies for buildings should therefore be of buildings and ventilation systems. To learn more about this IAQ and susdeveloped with the careful intention to tainability initiative, please visit our Road improve energy efficiency without comproClean air as a human right Show campaign pages on our corporate mising health and IAQ. website www.camfilfarr.com. Raising awareness about the harmful Health and energy policymakers still effects of poor air quality is also crucial to live in two separate worlds. The principle spread Camfil Farr’s message and better of sustainability requires that they increase inform the general public, politicians, user and improve their collaboration and develassociations, and NGOs in the environop common transverse approaches to the mental and health fields. For this purpose regulation development process, when­ we have launched a unique initiative – The ever human health and the environment Camfil Farr IAQ Road Show – to promote are both at stake. The ­scientific knowlunderstanding for the importance of IAQ, edge and technical expertise are available demonstrate the benefits of effective to accomplish this. air filtration and explain how sustainable We need a stronger political will. IAQ and lower energy consumption are achieved with the right choice of filters. Initiating a dialogue with new Myriam Tryjefaczka The vehicle for the show is a large stakeholder groups Corporate Sustainability Manager trailer truck displaying the text “Clean Camfil Farr Group In 2010, Camfil Farr started to develop a air – a human right?” This new mobile lab myriam.tryjefaczka@camfil.fr dialogue with stakeholders involved in the and exhibition is now wheeling around policymaking process in Europe, including highways and major cities in Central and members of the European Parliament, Southern Europe, the British Isles and expert groups mandated for developing Scandinavia. During stops, Camfil Farr Rolling out the message Camfil Farr has embarked on an IAQ Road Show in key European cities to inform politicians, decision-makers, the press and the public about air pollution, poor IAQ and the impact on human health and performance. This rolling mobile exhibiAIR Quality tion and air quality control laboratory provides a window on our world and our goal to improve air quality in an energyefficient and sustainable way. The vehicle is a Scania truck with “Ecolution” package for the highest possible bio-fuel efficiency and the lowest possible carbon dioxide emissions. www.camfifarr.com/RoadShow S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 7 Improvement of product Energy savings potential in Europe Today, Camfil Farr’s eco-designed and energy-­ life cycles helps customers efficient range of products can make even more of a difference for conserving energy­ become more sustainable and for supporting global efforts to fight against climate change by reducing the energy needs of building ventilation systems. and reduces their Converted into CO2 emission data, air filtration becomes one of the easiest, cheap­environmental impact est and available forms of “Clean Tech”. Unfortunately, few policymakers are aware of this potential energy savings. However, Camfil Farr can demonstrate that it is possible to improve the energy efficiency of ventilation systems without compromising IAQ and while protecting human health as well. In 2010, Camfil Farr launched an outreach programme towards governments, European Union Commissioners, experts and policymakers as a strategy to raise awareness about this potential energy savings. Camfil Farr’s sustainable contribution makes a difference Camfil Farr plays a primary role in the design of filters with low Our customers can find the optimum air filtration solution for their needs by consulting the energy average air resistance for all efficiencies of filters used in air condiand air quality rating systems we first developed tioning and ventilation systems. Camfil Farr was also the first filter in 2006. manufacturer to perform product life cycle assessment and develop life cycle costing software that optimizes filter selection to reduce energy running costs for our customers. Product design and process control Eco-designing products In 2010, our most energy-efficient filter solutions integrate a number of eco-efficiency for air ventilation accounted for 67% of our global Designing environmental aspects considerations, including: sales in the Comfort Air products segment. This into the company’s air filters has share has grown 8% since 2007. Since 2007, 21% • preservation of natural and been a Camfil Farr priority for years. of our Comfort Air product sales volumes have By maintaining a constant dialogue fossil resources, been converted into energy-efficient filters that also with filter media suppliers and evolvimprove IAQ. • reduction of waste and ing our filter designs, we have been emissions, able to reduce the air-flow resistance of our filters, directly improving According to national energy consumption esti• operational energy efficiency, the energy-efficiency of ventilation mates in Europe, 197 TWh of electrical power • pollution risk prevention, systems that use our products in is consumed by ventilation systems in the air handling units and other filtration building sector. Based on this figure, fans need • reduction and substitution of systems. an average of 31.5 TWh of energy to move hazardous substances, and air through filters. If the air filter maintenance • use of recycled materials market converts to energy-efficient air filters, and the development of energy needs would be reduced by a minimum alternative product recycling of 10%. This is equal to a minimum reduction of 190,000 tonnes of CO2, the amount emitted methods. by 612,500 vehicles in Europe*. * Eurovent Data S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 8 Developing Camfilcairing – our vision and approach to sustainability Camfilcairing is the framework and name of our internal programme to integrate sustainability and corporate citizenship in every aspect of our business strategy. The Camfilcairing name is built around Camfil, our environment, caring and air – key words that are to be associated with the Camfil Farr name. Camfilcairing is designed to communicate our long-term commitment to care about our people, our shareholders, our customers, their processes and the environment. Camfilcairing pillars In 2010, risk management processes were secured at local management level through benchmarking practices and training at Camfilcairing Network Seminars in various countries. These seminars focused on safety and environmental risk management in operations and also evaluated emergency procedures and local disaster recovery processes. The outcome C ON TI N OU S IM P R O V E M E N T of these efforts will be the development and establishment of I ND OO R AI R Q U A L I T Y STAKEHOLDER’S DIALOGUE ENER GY EFFICIENCY R I S K MAN A G E M E N T G R EEN PR O D U C T S E NE RGY EFFICIENCY a common methodology for risk analysis, mitigation measures, prioritization and evaluation. At corporate level, a comprehensive global business risk assessment session has been given a more structured approach that is updated every six months. This process will lead to action plans for mitigation and control actions. The risk assessment process allows global involvement of management at both local and corporate level to establish the decision-making process at the right level. Camfil Farr supports the United Nation Global Compact initiative and has integrated its principles in the Camfilcairing Code. Camfil Farr reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative. The GRI matrix is available on our sustainability pages at www.camfilfarr.com. S US TA I N A BI L I TY RE P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 9 Sustainability achievements -10 Award category at MITIE’s 2011 Supplier Forum, which was dedicated to issues related to sustainability and supply chain diversity. This required demonstrating Steady improvement in plant in Saint Martin Longueau – have Camfil Farr UK’s sustainable approach to eco-efficiency been granted EN 16001 certification, giving the Camfil Farr Group leading-edge procurement. Camfilcairing network members have been In addition, Camfil Farr’s British comexpertise in energy management system benchmarking energy-efficiency measures pany also recently won an award for Air implementation and best practices. These and focusing more intensively on natural Conditioning Product of the Year at the certifications recognize commitment and resource conservation. These members Heating & Ventilating News Awards 2011. tangible results that were achieved after act as local ambassadors for “doing The winning product was Camfil Farr’s lowseveral years of intense focus on improvmore by using less”. Their efforts have energy Hi-Flo M-series filter. ing energy efficiency within manufactursuccessfully generated enthusiasm and ing, even prior to the release of the new commitment for eco-efficiency at all levels How far and for how long will standard in 2010. of the organization. we keep on improving? Efforts have been pursued to lever­ Examples of sustainability This question is important. Air filter proage every opportunity to reduce and initiatives duction is not classified as an “eco-intenmanage energy, water consumption and sive” industry. A large part of our manuwaste. Camfil Farr in the UK is one example of the facturing process consists of product The focus on safety, introduced Group’s efforts in energy conservation. assembly and water usage is limited to through the “Green Tornado programme, The subsidiary recently became the first domestic use of water. However, all Camfil has been reviewed from a sustainabilmanufacturing company in the UK to be Farr Group companies and employees ity perspective to introduce standardized awarded Energy Management Standard understand the importance of conducting methodologies for risk assessment. BS EN 16001 and join The British sustainable operations and reducing our Our indicators for energy, water and Standards Institution’s (BSI*) Kitemark environmental impact. Every little contribuwaste management all showed steady scheme for Energy Reduction Verification tion counts. improvements in 2010 and are continuing (ERV). Camfil Farr UK succeeded in reducin 2011. The Group’s eco-efficiency index ing its total energy bill by over 22% in has also improved, indicating that Camfil 2008, and in the verification year (2009), Farr is becoming even more efficient at by a further 14.6%. According to our most the same time as volumes grow. The British company also focuses recent product life cycle on educating facility, property and asset assessment, production of The following are examples of recent management professionals about the Opakfil filters requires 400 environmental, energy and work environsubstantial energy-saving opportunities ment measures at Camfil Farr facilities: to 500 times less energy (25-50%) that can be made by replacing than steel and 100 times existing filter assets with low energy air EN 16001 certifications less than plastic injection filters. The Group’s UK factory in Haslingden in In this area, Camfil Farr UK was the processes, per kg. 2010 – and more recently, the French overall winner in the Carbon Reduction Energy use Water use Waste ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF FACTORIES gwh 3 3 total waste tonNEs ee index ksek/tonNE total water use m eei ksek/t water m eei = cogs/energy use SEK M/gwh 3 EEI Total water use m kSEK/TONNE Total waste TONNES 80 50 100000 6400 520 60 38 75000 4800 390 40 25 50000 3200 260 20 13 25000 1600 130 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 10 Sustainable operations is used to warm the coils of the heat pumps to save even more energy. When rebuilding the factory, all and the supply chain aspects of construction were studied to reduce the environmental impact. To avoid waste and disposal, stones and rocks excavated to build the new warehouse Examples of internal sustainability tion corridors for greater safety. The work environment has been were crushed on site and delivered to improvements improved by using several CamCleaner local construction sites for reuse. Sustainable rebuild in Sweden units in production halls and better lighting The media waste aspiration system systems. for the old bag filters was also replaced Camfil Farr’s production facility in Trosa, Thanks to the Camfil Farr Comfort with the best possible APC dust collector Sweden has been redesigned to house Climate Chamber, indoor air is cleaned in and compactor, which are more energyproduction and warehouse operations HEPA filters and requires three times less efficient and dramatically more silent. The under the same roof. Two years of intense energy than a conventional HVAC system. power consumption of the dust collector reorganization work have resulted in the An extra heat pump is intermittently used is 30,000 kWh per year, compared to design of more logical material and prodto cool the air. 220,000 kWh for the former system. uct flows. A number of other improvements have also been introduced, such as Systems are connected for heat recovery. In the winter, factory air exhaust Lean and sustainable isolating employees from forklift circulain the U.S. For several years Camfil Farr has been reducing the environmental impact of its Notable achievements U.S. manufacturing operations accordIn 2010, Camfil Farr Sweden also celebrated 10 years of ISO 14001 environmental ing to the LEAN continuous improvement certification. Ten notable sustainable achievements were highlighted: process. Measures have included the renovation of HVAC systems, internal ener• 63% less isocyanate per pleated filter gy savings programmes, investigations, • 43% less CO2 emissions from company cars identification of potential improvements • 38% less CO2 per tonne of delivered goods and decision-making and follow-up based • 18% less electricity per produced filter on a structured lean-event framework. As • 74% of company cars use mixed fuel (ethanol/petrol) a result of these initiatives, overall electric• 41% less waste ity consumption has been reduced 5.8 % and gas consumption by 20%, compared • Direct deliveries save 10,000 km in transportation to 2009. • All raw materials from Germany are delivered by train • All consumed electricity is based on hydropower or wind power • 60% reduction in short-term sick leave rate Waste destination 2008 2009 2010 31% 41% 45% 41% 41% 40% 24% 18% 19% LANDFILL incineration recycling LANDFILL incineration recycling LANDFILL incineration recycling S US TA I N A BI L I TY REP O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 1 1 Occupational health and safety Sweden For more than 10 years, Camfil Farr Sweden has developed a human Our focus on health and safety is an important driver towards sustainable resources-­based approach to raise employee ­awareness of employees about and responsible business. It provides safer working conditions, making safety risks by conducting a continuCamfil Farr a better place for people to work. Comparable results obtained ous dialogue between management and in Asia, Europe and the Americas prove that people safety is a universal employees, and improving work station asset wherever Camfil Farr operates. ergonomics. The effect of initiatives in Sweden is visible in the company’s sick Occupational Health and Safety Management System: leave rates. In 2010, short-term sick leave was reduced by 50% and long-­ A tool for continual improvement for Camfil Farr’s term ­absenteeism due to illness by 80%, operations worldwide compared to 2000. Camfil Farr’s focus on occupational health and safety (OHS) is an important driver towards United States establishing a sustainable and responsible business. It provides safer working conditions, Since 2005, there has been a 76% reducmaking Camfil Farr a better place to work for people. tion in Occupational Safety and Health At its operation sites, Camfil Farr continuously uses risk management methodologies Administration (OSHA) recordable accito identify OHS risks, evaluate them and define mitigation measures to prevent them from dents for all plants in the United States. occurring. Safety managers and safety commitSafety has been integrated in Camfil Farr’s operational policies and management tees played an essential role in dissemisystems as key performance criteria. Safety is therefore integrated in all transverse nating knowledge and training. “Safety ISO 9001 and 14001 management systems and uses the same tools for continuous First”, as a strong policy, has been inteimprovement, especially the Green Tornado programme, the basis of continuous improvegrated in all Lean initiatives and projects ment processes in Camfil Farr’s operations, regardless of whether they were motivated to systematically improve ergonomics and or not to obtain an OHSAS 18001 certificate. behaviour. As an example, filter assembly tables have been redesigned from an ergonomic er Satisfact standpoint, reducing Carpel tunnel injuries stom ion – the No. 1 cause of injuries – to nearly Cu non-existent. A dialogue with the OSH Administration e Sta in the form of voluntary independent OSHA Commit nc nd te ent ar pe pm SAFETY ility d annual inspections, as well as active me lo liab C De om ion hands-on involvement of safety commitve at is Re QUALITY & nt SUSTAINABILITY DELIVERY tees with support from the Loss Control THE services of the Workers Compensation GREEN TORNADO carrier, have continuously improved worker safety. u Vis Malaysia vem M me al en t a na oov In 2007, Camfil Farr Malaysia started a ge COSTS prr m mp Im l ent project to implement and maintain an OHS ca Lo P rk Management System. The Malaysian facre o tory has been certified in 2009 according se w n ce Te am to the OHSAS 18001 standard. Compared to 2009, the number of accidents dropped by 62.5% in 2010 and the number of lost work days dropped by 69%. To celebrate and maintain its focus on occupational health and safety, Camfil Malaysia participated in the World Day for S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 12 Safety and Health at Work event organized by the International Labour Organization (ILO), an international campaign to promote safe, healthy and fair work around the globe. Canada Efforts are also being made to improve safety at other Camfil Farr plants. In Laval, Camfil Farr Canada formed a Machine Safety Committee in September 2008 whose members included two mechanics, two operators, a Human Resources Counsellor and the Maintenance Supervisor. The committee’s mandate was to improve machine safety at the Laval production facility. The committee used risk assessment methodology to identify and plan machine improvement. Forty-six staff training sessions were organized as well. As a result, days lost due to workrelated injuries dropped by 55%. In early 2011, the plant was also a finalist for the Machine Security Innovation Award in Quebec which recognizes employers that implement innovative safety and ergonomic methods and eliminate dangers in the workplace. France Since 2007, when the Safety Manager at Camfil Farr France implemented a systematic safety risk analysis, lost work days due to occupational injuries dropped from 280 to 102 in 2009 and 70 in 2010. Today more than 75% less accidents ­happen at the plant and injuries are also much less serious in nature. Lost work days due to work-related injuries Number of sick leave days per 100 work days per 100 work days 0.35% 6. 00% 0.30% 5. 00% 0.25% 4. 00% 0.20% 3. 00% 0.15% 2. 00% 0.10% 1. 00% 0.05% 0. 00% 0.00% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 S US TA I N A BI L I TY REP O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 1 3 Good corporate citizenship a money box to purchase a solar system that could light up a night school in a small rural village in South India. This project was realized and the Camfilcairing is a way of keeping our sustainability mission on a steady system was supplied in partnership with course and each year the programme is driven by our belief in creating a Auroville Energy Products (AEP), a combetter world for future generations. Each Camfilcairing project, each small pany based in the international township contribution helps spread the important message that CamfilFarr is a of Auroville in South India. ­champion of environmental protection and sustainability. The initiative has provided affordable Other initiatives – such as informing customers about our energysolar electricity to community groups for efficient filters – also help profile us as a green enterprise. These efforts local development, improved local education and increased the income of villagers, also support our overall objective to increase awareness about the particularly women. importance of filtration and the benefits of having Camfil Farr as a partner Camfil Farr France chose the Gandhi and supplier. Nagar Night School for the project because there was an ongoing land dispute and an Sustainability actions in UK Helping a local school electrical connection could not be applied To maintain the Camfilcairing spirit all year, Camfil Farr’s Slovakian company has been for. Solar lighting was therefore the only every month Camfil Farr UK organizes a co-operating for two years with the 2nd solution. community-oriented action from gifts to Primary School. The collaboration aims to The school is multi-purpose and funclocal charity to volunteer activity or sport establish closer ties between the Camfil tions as a day-care centre in daytime, competition to collect funds. Most of the Farr Group and the school in order to a night school in the evening, and as a initiatives come from employee suggesspread knowledge about our operations meeting place for a local women group. tions. This year, several Camfil employees and business. For example, students supported breast cancer research and learn about the importance of filtration, Donating blood in Slovakia participated in the Race for Life. indoor air quality and the filter production “Don’t just say that you want to help – Do Camfil Farr UK employees also raised ­process. it!” was the theme behind Camfil Farr money to help fund an operation for Camfil Farr Slovakia has also help Slovakia’s blood drive initiative during a local primary school pupil diagnosed improved air quality in the school’s sport Camfilcairing Week in 2011. with a rare cancerous tumour. Any of the facilities by replacing an old filter unit with The project, titled “Camfil DROP OF ­monies raised but not used by the fund a new one equipped with an F7 bag filter BLOOD”, was organized in co-operation will be wisely donated to other children at from Camfil Farr. with Red Cross Slovakia and the National the Royal Manchester Children’s Hospital. Transfusion Group from Nitra. The blood Social and humanitarian action donation station welcomed 46 employees The company has also collected funds for The British Heart Foundation. In connection with the 2010 Camfilcairing from the company and a total of 20 litres program, all employees at Camfil Farr of blood were collected. Family Day and step competition France were encouraged to contribute to in Malaysia In 2010, Camfil Farr Malaysia arranged the company’s first Family Day, an event organized by the Sports Club for staff and families. The fun-filled event was held at a golf resort in Batu Gajah with a good turnout of 220 employees and their families. The day was full of games, a prize ceremony, buffet luncheon and other events. Overall, it was a good day of bonding and an opportunity to get to know one another and meet the families of staff. Camfil Farr Malaysia also launched a “Step Competition” for all office staff to exercise more for a healthier lifestyle. Some 50 employees participated and the winning team walked some 600 km. S U S TA I N A B I L I TY REPORT 2010-11 / 14 Camfil Farr in brief The Camfil Farr Group is a world leader in the development and production of air filters and clean air solutions. Camfil Farr is also one of the most global air filtration specialists in the world with 23 production units and R&D centres in four countries in the Americas, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. The Group, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, has approximately 3,350 employees and sales in the range of SEK 4.6 billion. International markets account for almost 90 percent of sales. The company’s business is to provide customers with sustainable best-in-class air filtration products and services within four main segments: Comfort Air, Clean Processes, Power Systems and Safety & Protection. With 47 years of experience in air filtration products and solutions, Camfil Farr delivers value to customers all over the world while contributing to something essential to everyone – clean air for health, well-being and performance. For further information about Camfil Farr’s global sustainability programme, contact: Myriam Tryjefaczka Corporate Sustainability Manager Camfil Farr Group myriam.tryjefaczka@camfil.fr Phone: +33 3 44 29 33 40 www.camfilfarr.com S US TA I N A BI L I TY REP O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1 / 1 5 O n w or l d standards... ...Camfil Farr is the leader in clean air technology and air filter production. Camfil Farr has its own product development, R&D and world-wide local representation. Our overall quality goal is to develop, produce and market products and services of such quality that we aim to exceed our customers’ expectations. We see our activities and products as an expression Artwork: Ymer Reklambyrå AB. Text: Thorn PR Sweden and Camfil Farr. Printer: Trosa Tryckeri AB, Sweden. ©Camfil Farr of our quality. To reach a level of total quality it is necessary to establish an internal work environment where all Camfil Farr employees can succeed together. This means an environment characterised by openness, confidence and good business understanding. www.camfilfarr.com Camfil AB, Sveavägen 56E, SE-111 34 STOCKHOLM, Sweden. Phone: + 46 8 545 12 500. Fax: + 46 8 24 96 50.
