Newmont Mining Company Beyond The Mine Sustainability Report and Global Reporting Initiative G3 Indicators Home About Newmont Managing for Sustainability Assurance Community Environment Health & Safety People Case Studies GRI Content Index Report Summary Community Relationships Review Newmont Sustainability Report 2010 Enter Search Term Welcome to Beyond the Mine, Newmont's Global Sustainability Report for the year 2010. Transparency is a critical aspect of Newmont's business processes, and of our approach to sustainability. We designed this report to be as simple as possible for our many stakeholder groups to find the information they need. On the left side of this page, you'll find background information on the company in the About Newmont section, and our approach to sustainable business practices in Managing for Sustainability. You can also learn more about the processes we use to assure our practices and performance in the Assurance section. We organize our sustainability efforts into four broad areas: our local Communities, the surrounding Environment, our People, and their Health and Safety. In most of these sections, we provide brief Snapshots illustrations of our sustainability programs in action. We also have compiled a collection of longer Case Studies, with a more in-depth look at these initiatives. To provide a comprehensive report we include descriptions of ongoing programs, new programs initiated during the reporting year, and examples of site-level practices from prior years that are useful illustrations of the specific topic or issue being discussed. Our landmark Community Relationships Review is available on this site as well. Finally, we offer the GRI Content Index to help you navigate to the areas of most interest to you and which are aligned to the performance indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative and other global initiatives to which we have committed. Finally, in our Report Summary section, we discuss at a high-level the overall report content as well as our 2010 performance. In addition, you can download a summary of this year's report in Adobe Acrobat format that can be printed in hardcopy. http://www.beyondthemine.com/2010/[4/27/2011 10:18:20 AM] Newmont Mining Company Beyond The Mine Sustainability Report and Global Reporting Initiative G3 Indicators About Newmont • Sustainability • Assurance • Community • Environment • Health & Safety • People • Case Studies • GRI Content Index © Copyright 2011 Newmont Mining Corporation www.newmont.com • Contact Us • Annual Financial Report • Terms of Use • Cautionary Statements http://www.beyondthemine.com/2010/[4/27/2011 10:18:20 AM]
