United Nations Federal Credit Union (UNFCU) Communication on Progress (COP) Presented to the UN Global Model Compact, 2 September 2011 1 Table of Contents I. Statement of Continued Support ……………………………………………………3. II. Actions ……………………………………………………………………….….4-18. Commitment to the Environment …………………………………………………..4. Commitment to Labor …………………………………………………………….12. Commitment to Partnerships/Furthering the UN Millennium Development Goals.14. III. Outcomes …………………………………………………………………………………….19. IV. Appendix: Additional Resources ………………………………………………….. 2 Element 1: Statement of Continued Support By: Michael J. Connery, Jr., president/CEO, United Nations Federal Credit Union UNFCU joined the UN Global Compact in September 2010 standing firmly behind its Board mandate to conduct its business as a good citizen of the world and advance the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (UN MDGs). This ENDS policy stems from the fact that the Credit Union is imbued with the spirit of the vocation of its members through the UN organizations to which they belong. Moreover, UNFCU is regarded as an industry leader with a moral obligation to contribute to the betterment of the human condition. To that end, over the past 12 months, we aligned our corporate social responsibility program more closely with the UN MDGs, viewing this as an extension of our mission, Serving the People Who Serve the World®. We financially supported, mentored or partnered with a range of organizations large and small to empower women, build safer cities, green communities and fight disease. In concert with UN Global Compact principles protecting the environment, we made our headquarters more energy efficient, and for this effort, won two U.S. nationallyrecognized awards. In terms of labor, our Learning and Development programs for staff furthered the creation, implementation and maintenance of new technologies, all the while enriching our service culture. Adhering to sound financial practices, we re-affirmed our safety and soundness in the midst of a global economic storm. With the United Nations declaration of the International Year of Cooperatives in 2012, UNFCU is more deeply resolved to build positive change. Involvement in UN Global Compact activities will encompass local networks where we have branches, representative offices and volunteermember liaisons. Campaigns to raise UN MDG awareness via a wide array of communications channels will continue unabatedly. Our members, who are often on the front lines in areas of great devastation or developing policy solutions across UN hubs, as well as their families located in more than 200 countries and territories, deserve no less. ### 3 Element 2: Actions Commitment -Environment UNFCU moved strongly ahead on its Board’s mandate to operate as a good citizen of the world very much in sync with plans for 2012, which is being recognized by the United Nations as the International Year of Cooperatives. Whether joining in New York City’s Million Trees campaign in Cunningham Park, Queens, N.Y. or contributing to World Wildlife Fund’s Regional Education for Sustainable Development Day in Mwanza, Tanzania, UNFCU continued to make corporate social responsibility (CSR) an integral part of its operational fabric. To underline the United Nations International Year of Forests, World Environment Day at headquarters featured a special celebration with speaker Mita Sen, Communications Team Leader, UN Forum on Forests Secretariat, as well as local composting experts and UN staff member-neighbors in Long Island City. (At the event, 50 staff pledged to plant a Blue Spruce Tree seedling and over 150 electronic items were received for proper recycling; more than 30 staff pledged to go meatless on Mondays.) In appreciation of the more than 1,000 new eStatements enrollees, who answered the call to “Go paperless,” UNFCU contributed 5,000 USD to Ocean Conservancy, a global non-profit organization. Indeed, UNFCU’s financial contributions and mentoring programs went a long way towards helping others. With funding from UNFCU, youth in Mathare Valley, a slum in Nairobi, Kenya have become filmmakers through courses offered by the Mwelu Foundation and are already expressing their creativity to show the world their communities via documentaries. As evidence of members’ interest in the institution’s CSR outreach, UNFCU crested a milestone 1,000 Facebook fans since its social media debut earlier in the year. Members’ input to weekly UN Millennium Development Goals polls on Facebook also provided a new dimension on engagement. We are committed to the UN MDGs, as gender equality and the environment represent key elements of our CSR platform. Moreover, having joined the UN Global Compact, UNFCU is determined to add new teeth to its risk assessment Vendor Management Policy, adopted in 2009. Our business services vetting questionnaire will now include three questions: Do you have a CSR policy? “If so, what do you do/require? What are the results, examples? Systems: This spring and summer UNFCU earned two prestigious, nationally-recognized awards, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Energy Star®, and the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program, LEED® Silver certification. The following press release to-date generated more than 210 news stories, blog posts and tweets, underscoring interest in UNFCU’s CSR activities. Charts included at the end of this report illustrate UNFCU’s energy-savings over the past year compared to the previous three at its headquarters Court Square Place. Actions: The following excerpt is from a press release deployed on 23 August 2011. In keeping with its efforts to protect the environment, United Nations Federal Credit Union 4 (UNFCU) today announced that its headquarters received the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program (LEED®) Silver certification for its energy-saving, eco-friendly programs. Owned by UNFCU and managed by Cushman & Wakefield, the 16-story, 274,000-square foot, Class A office building, known as Court Square Place, was completed in 2006. Having earned the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Energy Star® in 2010, the Long Island City-based financial cooperative, performed several systematic upgrades and continued its ongoing rigorous monitoring program to effectively address five main areas: Sustainable Site, Energy/Atmosphere, Water Efficiency, Materials and Resources and Indoor Environmental Quality. Coming in under budget, UNFCU realized a total 58 points in the LEED for Existing Buildings: Operations & Maintenance rating system; out of a possible 59 points in its “Silver” category. “Attaining the distinguished LEED certification fits our service mission and is a testament to our hard-working team,” said Charles Bellotti, assistant vice president, Facilities and Real Estate Management at UNFCU. UNFCU specifically achieved a 40,377 watt energy reduction by removing 1,077 non-essential lights, changing 186 of these to more efficient Light Emitting Diode (LED) lighting for a total reduction of 42,981 watts during the first six months of 2011. “This is a well-designed and air-tight building which holds the heating and cooling, enabling the building engineers to operate efficiently by starting the building up later and shutting it down earlier thereby saving energy,” said Thomas Holland, property manager, Cushman & Wakefield. Moreover, the institution took steps to control interior and exterior lights via motion sensors and elevators are in “sleep” mode during low demand periods; installed water conserving fixtures to save water by restricting flow; reduced emissions in accordance with a ASHRAE Level II Energy Audit; introduced a total waste management system that saved 85% of its items from reaching landfills, purchased energy credits. “Because it is difficult to attain, LEED certification really sets the property apart,” said Katy Koehler, LEED Consultant, LEED AP, Envision Realty Services. “We hope that Court Square Place encourages other building owners to take action.” UNFCU also implemented a sustainable purchasing policy to include paper products and office supplies and uses only green cleaning solutions that are Energy Star ® certified products. “We constantly review data on gas, electricity and water and are finding that despite changes in extended tenant operating hours, and swings in weather patterns, we have been able to achieve reduced operating costs,” said Walter Symanski, Chief Engineer, Cushman & Wakefield. Over the past year, the UNFCU Green Team became a Green Movement with 30 staff members regularly contributing ideas, organizing eco-fairs, recycling activities and participating in a local farming cooperative. What is more, according to a recent tenant survey conducted by UNFCU, at least 90% of building occupants use public transportation. More than 250 UNFCU back office and executive staff occupy seven floors. Tenants, including the United Nations, lease the remaining space. The building is currently 93% occupied. 5 UNFCU’s Court Square Place is the second existing building in Long Island City to receive LEED Silver certification. As of 1 June 2011, a total of 34 existing buildings in all of New York City were deemed LEED EB certified. Going forward To reduce energy consumption, UNFCU headquarters will consider converting to a full emergency back up facility and seek approval from New York City authorities accordingly; reevaluate wind generators and determine viability of new efficiency improvements, such as the installation of photovoltaic cells on the roof to store electricity from the sun. Charts indicating energy saving will be monitored monthly to assess the impact of changes in weather conditions and occupants' air-conditioning/heating needs. It is worth noting that UNFCU’s energy costs have continued to decrease despite a colder winter and warmer summer in 2011. Commitment – UNFCU Green Team Mission statement: to increase UNFCU’s positive impact on environmental preservation and resource conservation. Over the past 12 months, the UNFCU Green Team has blossomed from six to 33 staff members, representing all UNFCU business lines on three continents. We bolstered this commitment via a Team Charter, which we initiated in 3Q2010. During this time, we also re-branded our image from the “Green Team” to “Greening UNFCU” which effectively transformed the image of a “team” of a few individuals into a cross-organizational “movement” by all UNFCU staff. Systems: The UNFCU Green Team coordinates the Credit Union's efforts towards making a positive impact on environmental preservation and resource conservation. In keeping with our serving the world philosophy, the objectives of the Green Team are to introduce sustainability, environmental preservation and social responsibility as a core value. We are accomplishing this by increasing employee education about their role in environmental stewardship and implementing sustainable actions within the community, namely identifying opportunities to be more sustainable within the individual worksite and the surrounding area. To this end, we launched a Green Team suggestion dashboard on our Intranet, so that staff can submit their ideas on innovative ways that UNFCU can improve on resource conservation – and they are! Actions: Charter Implementation As an important attribute of the Green Team, the Charter has provided a clear sense of purpose and mission shared by the stakeholders, as well as a common vision of what it means to be on the UNFCU Green Team. It guides the decision-making process in every aspect of planning and operations; gives Green Team members clear indications of what will be expected of them; provides a basis for decisions by the Board and Senior Management to support the Green Team; conveys to prospective supporters the confidence that the Green Team members have the level of commitment and purpose necessary to make the mission and purpose viable. 6 The main role of each member involves advocating and educating colleagues regarding sustainability in their work units, developing practices to support these goals, acting as liaisons for other employees to bring forward Green ideas and suggestions and providing and facilitating recommendations on how to reduce UNFCU’s environmental impact. Over the past year, the Green Team arranged its members into seven sub-groups to concentrate on specific areas: 1. Energy Conservation 2. Pollution Prevention & Solid Waste Reduction 3. Education & Outreach 4. Representative Offices 5. Member Participation 6. Re-use & Recycling 7. Staff Engagement & Participation Energy Conservation: Changed the printing culture at UNFCU to encourage more mindful printing practices by ensuring users have the most knowledge possible about printing efficiently. Specifically, the Green Team worked on developing effective measures to identify waste within the printing process and encouraged printing efficiencies and responsible printing behaviors throughout the organization. Focus on reducing waste, for example, marketing materials/printing, credit card manufacturing, reduce shipping and other goods and services will endeavor to be sourced locally. Use Energy Efficiently: The Information Technology department implemented an automatic shut down of PCs at every work station at the end of the day at the disaster recovery site and in remote offices to reduce energy consumption. Impact analysis is underway to understand the pros/cons and the feasibility of making the change at UNFCU offices globally. In addition, IT • Implemented virtualization technology and used it extensively to eliminate physical servers, thereby reducing the energy use. • Consolidated individual servers into redundant high availability servers to reduce energy use and increase availability. • Holds Executive Board Sessions via video conferencing technology to reduce our carbon footprint; The Marketing Department/Business Development also regularly conducts video conferences to UN duty stations globally. Additional Green Team Activities: Joined the LIC-CSA Program (Long Island City Community Supported Agriculture) The Green Team facilitated 22 consecutive weekly deliveries of organic farmer's produce to Court Square Place for 11 employees, including four senior managers who joined the LIC-CSA Membership. As members, UNFCU staff supported a local upstate NY farmer (providing a guaranteed income for the season), as well as completed 4 hours of volunteer service over the 2010 harvest season. CSA members join their farmers in both the risk of farming (crop failure, 7 poor weather, etc.) and its benefits (a bountiful harvest season). Results included bringing healthy, locally grown food to their families, supporting alternative agriculture, building community and helping the environment. UNFCU continued to support the LIC-CSA with additional staff purchasing vegetables and fruits during the spring and summer 2011. Established a Battery Recycling Program and Held Monthly Drawings Facilities Management organized the placement of the Royal Waste battery pails throughout the building to allow UNFCU staff members (and tenants) at Court Square Place to properly dispose of batteries which contain environmental contaminants. The Green Team promoted the use of these battery-recycling tubs with a special monthly prize drawing. In addition, information about the importance of recycling batteries, as well as details about the program, was posted on the staff Intranet. Visited a Community Roof Farm in LIC Green Team members journeyed to a real, working urban farm on the roof of an old motor warehouse building in Long Island City, NY – less than a mile away from UNFCU. They toured the 40,000-square foot farm and spoke with an urban farmer and sustainable food advocate. The group learned about the organic farming business, how the vegetables are grown and distributed as well as the steps taken to fertilize and protect the integrity of the produce. Photos and an article were shared with other Green Team members and staff. Educating others on how to improve access to locally-grown food, connecting city people more closely to farms and food production, and understanding that urban farming is a viable enterprise and livelihood were realized objectives. Visited Royal Waste Recycling Facilities Green Team members, along with Facilities staff learned how 85% of UNFCU HQ waste is recycled at the Royal Waste Recycling Plant. They saw how effective the post-source separation system works and reported back to Green Team members and UNFCU staff. The group took photos and produced an article to share with the other Green Team members. Hosted the 1st Annual Fall Green Market Staff participated at a building-wide event to raise awareness on the importance of supporting local vendors. This provided an opportunity for individuals to recycle specific items that are not recyclable through curb-side recycling programs, but are still able to be recycled and re-used. The well-attended event took place on Friday, 8 October in conjunction with the 350.org movement. The UNFCU Green Market was one of thousands of global events taking place to mark 10/10/10 as a global day of action. This highlighted the importance of reducing our carbon emissions in order to sustain life on this planet. (350 is the number of parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that can sustain human life.) All of the vendors who participated at the UNFCU Green Market were from the Long Island City vicinity. Buying locally grown and processed foods reduces the carbon emissions associated with the transportation of food. Local 8 vendors who participated offered a range of products, including: organic fruits and vegetables raised on a roof farm in LIC; hand made soaps and body wash; organic jams, pickles and canned goods; and jewelry made from recycled products, plants and herbs. We encouraged Green Market attendees to bring in old, incandescent light bulbs in exchange for free CFL light bulbs. (Switching to CFL light bulbs can reduce the energy consumption of each light by up to 75% to reduce atmospheric carbon produced by traditional forms of energy generation.) The Green Team also sold limited edition UNFCU Green Bags. All proceeds were donated to The Millennium Institute, an independent and non-partisan nonprofit organization committed to promoting systems literacy and dynamic modeling tools to attain sustainable development worldwide. Event statistics: Nearly 300 attendees, over 120 items were received for recycling, including 22 light bulbs. More than 160 lbs. of apples and pears 93 plants were purchased. Implemented the Lamp Removal/LED Program As part of the Energy Star, Change a Light, Change the World Program, the Green Team and Building Management implemented a Lamp Removal and LED Lighting Program. Over the past year, Building Management has removed unnecessary light bulbs, and in some cases, replacing fluorescents with LED technology. (Please see press release on page 5.) Also, in both fire stairs, they reduced the number of lamps by 50% and replaced the remaining lamps with LED lamps. In total, UNFCU reduced consumption by 140,000 kWh per year. These changes have produced significant savings on energy consumption. The program also involves reducing the number of light bulbs in individual offices. RX disposal Researched, wrote and posted an article on staff Intranet on how to safely dispose of un-used medicine inventory. The piece on RX disposal increased awareness/educated staff about the side effects of improper medicine disposal and the benefits of eco-friendly options. Reducing Paper at the branches Collaborated with various departments to implement DocuSign, an electronic signature option for loan documents. Members now receive all of their required consumer loan documents in an electronic file format, which they can digitally sign and return to the posting clerk. In this way, UNFCU can then post the loan and complete the loan process saving paper and members’ time. Introduce Green Education to New Employees during Orientation Worked with Human Resources to incorporate “Green” education into new hire orientation. New hires are informed about the team’s mission, milestones and goals and how they can become involved. Additional greening ideas submitted to the Green Team's dashboard are just one positive result. Green Team members also conduct follow-up discussions with new employees. Eye-Glass Drive Organized the collection of un-used eye-glasses to be donated to developing countries. Goal was 9 to enable visually-impaired children to lead a more fulfilling life by realizing the dream of education. During the month of June alone, the initiative exceeded its 60 pair goal by collecting 64 pairs on behalf of New Eyes for the Needy, a non-profit organization which has improved the eyesight of more than 7 million people worldwide since 1932. School Visit in Rome on Earth Day The manager of our Rome Representative Office and a Green Team colleague gave a lesson on the importance of protecting the environment to local elementary school students. They stressed three points: Forests, Recycling and Water. The young students participated by creating artwork that reflected kindness towards nature and efforts to protect the environment. Through the discussion and these activities, they developed the slogan, 'WE LOVE TREES.'” Recycling Cell Phones in Geneva The UNFCU Geneva Representative Office held a cell phone recycling drive at their three locations Palais des Nations, ILO and ITU. The collection was open to UN members and UNFCU employees and organized through a partnership with Solidarcomm. All cell phones collected were sent to “Realise,” an association in Geneva, where they will be sorted and either reconditioned, recycled or destroyed in accordance with Swiss laws governing the protection of the environment. Mobile sets, which can be reconditioned, are earmarked for overseas markets, enabling individuals to gain access to new technology. Going Forward Green Bags in Nairobi The UNFCU Nairobi Representative Office is organizing the production and distribution of environmentally-friendly canvas bags. Proceeds from the eco-bag sales will go towards a local greening cause. Conduct an Analysis of Statement production and Statement delivery Goal is to reduce paper statement delivery by 25% for accounts where paper statements can be suspended or frequency reduced by the end of 2011. E-cycling Organize electronic recycling events at the Fall Green Market and World Environment Day 2012, providing two additional opportunities for UNFCU staff to recycle their un-needed electronic devices, such as cell phones and computer accessories. In addition, the IT department will once again erase any data files on hard drives before safely disposing of the devices. 10 Go Greener DVD Series Host a series of “Lunch & Learns” to view the award-winning public broadcast television program Go Greener. Following simple steps and low-cost ways to make the most of resources used everyday, staff can adopt practices that will become automatic, second in nature. 2nd Fall Green Market – 7 October 2011 Continue to provide employee education about the environment and sustainable actions within the community and introduce sustainability programs to which employees and the organization overall can participate. The Fall Green Market is organized with the aim to raise awareness on the importance of supporting local vendors. Buying locally grown and processed foods reduces the carbon emissions associated with the transportation of food. Restructure the Sub-teams To streamline the efforts and resources of Green Team volunteers, the number of sub-teams was reduced from 7 teams to 5 teams with the goal to increase efficiency and execution of initiatives in 2012. 11 Commitment to Labor At UNFCU, the management team consists of 48.8% females and this percentage is growing. Additionally, four out of nine Board members are women. UNFCU continually seeks diversity among its employees, who mirror the members they serve. A total of 32 languages are currently spoken at UNFCU. Actions: Human Resources programs put forth by UNFCU continually strive to empower all 350 employees. In 2011, the organization inaugurated a Career Development Program, CDP, to advance staff members' learning and growth. In this way, employees can learn to create their own career plans and approach various managers across all business lines to discuss options. Senior managers attended a series of leadership training sessions to enhance their ability to determine and execute strategy, and successfully lead the organization into the future. UNFCU continued to place great emphasis on its employee driven Service & Sales and President's Awards, which recognize top achievers and map to one of the institution's core values achieving success together. Employees are further empowered via a grassroots initiative the Green Team (as outlined in the preceding pages.) Understanding UNFCU’s Code of Ethics (the “Code”), written in 2006, remains an important component of staff training for every employee upon joining the institution. The Code is in keeping with the institution's core value to operate with the highest levels of integrity. Moreover, an anonymous employee hotline, instituted at the Code’s inception is made available to employees. UNFCU Ethics Officer receives multiple queries and requests for guidance on a monthly basis. This illustrates that staff is aware of the need to ask questions and that they consider the Code of Ethics in how they conduct themselves at UNFCU. UNFCU also recently introduced an Advanced BEST (Bringing Excellence to Service and Teamwork) program so that staff can take their problem-solving, business and communication skills to new levels, serving members on six continents. The initiative further embodies the spirit of our core values by encouraging holistic integration of these principles in all things UNFCU – from volunteering, to attending training, even collegial mentoring and participation in our softball and running teams. Systems: Over the past year, the institution moved to a new 401(k) plan provider, offering employees progressive self-service tools. As of this writing, 86% of staff, an exceptional rate by U.S. industry standards, participates in the 401(k) program spurred on by a UNFCU match. With an active pension plan overseen by a Retirement Planning Steering Committee, ongoing “lunch and learns,” workshops on a range of financial management topics and health fairs, the Credit Union added to its comprehensive benefits package over the past year. Additionally, in early 2011, staff was encouraged to take a Health Risk Assessment for which they received an incentive. A longterm disability policy and a new Health Advocate service, whereby staff can ask questions about a wide range of matters from health care facilities to elder care, also debuted. The new Managers' Tool kit with budgeting, training and accountability standards offers another body of knowledge to which staff can readily avail themselves at UNFCU. 12 Outcomes: In 2012, UNFCU plans to introduce a Total Employee Wellness program to be jumpstarted by a new Wellness website. Benchmarks on participation, including a points system that generates rewards for engaging in healthy behaviors, are currently being established. UNFCU staff will continue to become even more familiar with different cultures via ongoing training. While continuing to be less U.S.-centric, the institution is pursuing offering a full suite of products and services in multiple currencies. To mitigate risks and protect members' assets as its primary goal, UNFCU abides by a set of core values and a conservative lending and investment approach. As a result, the institution remained financially safe and secure, despite the downgrade by Standard & Poor's credit ratings agency, and ongoing economic turmoil among banks, countries and financial markets worldwide. While technology sparked many of our achievements in 2010, human capital, as evidenced by the breadth of knowledge and commitment to service is a source of energy that will never dim. 13 Commitment to UN MDGs (Partnerships) How much water do we need? What is the current global deforestation rate? How big a problem is child labor? These were just some of the Fair Trade issues that we and several hundred UN staff members explored at the first annual United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) educational form, which took place at the Rotunda of the Vienna International Centre (VIC) last November, hosted by UNFCU Advisors GmbH, a UNFCU subsidiary, and Danish Fund Management Group Sparinvest. Additionally, over the course of the past year, we increased our greening efforts and members responded enthusiastically to our eco-friendly shopping bags created for the FAO Commissary in Rome. We contributed to an array of humanitarian causes. These included sponsoring the Business Council for Peace (BPeace’s) first entrepreneur or “Fast Runner,” in El Salvador as part of its One Million Jobs Campaign; International Energy Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy (PACT); the Food and Agricultural Organization-led Run for Food in Rome; and the Barbaro Johansson Model Girls’ Secondary School in Tanzania to name a few. We were also involved in several other projects important to our members, from raising funds and visibility across our membership base for the UN’s Japan Relief effort to raising awareness about HIV/AIDS at specialized agency events in Vienna and Bangkok. For the third consecutive year, we supported the United Nations Department of Information’s Global Model UN, enabling students from Tanzania, Bolivia, Uganda, Tunisia, and for the first time, the Philippines to participate. In August, UNFCU was named to the YMCA of Greater New York’s Chair’s Round Table based on its continuous support of the Teen Career Connection Program at the West Side YMCA in New York City. Members of the East River Development Alliance Federal Credit Union, which serves the residents of the Queensbridge Houses, the largest public housing complex in the United States, held its Annual General Meeting at UNFCU headquarters last spring. “Having worked closely with ERDA FCU from its beginnings, we were proud to have hosted such an inspirational event with so many real life stories of great, personal achievement,” said John Lewis, senior vice president, Corporate Affairs and General Counsel at UNFCU, who provided opening remarks and also serves as a volunteer on its board. Several other UNFCU managers and subject matter experts have mentored ERDA FCU staff in areas such as Consumer Lending, Information Security, Human Resources and Facilities Management. UNFCU also periodically invests in public finance issues that are concerned with economic development [and own NY State bonds so categorized]. In addition, we have considerable exposure to low income multifamily housing, and senior and health care housing supply through the U.S. government’s GNMA guaranteed lending programs. Additionally, UNFCU Board of Directors contributed funds to a variety of charitable organizations, including the Floating Hospital, our Long Island City, NY neighbor, which is the family doctor for many vulnerable women and children in the shelters of New York. In addition, UNFCU supported SEKOLO Projects, a non-governmental organization which provides assistance to young people living with HIV/AIDS in Namibia; PLAY SOCCER Non-Profit International, which has improved the lives of over 40,000 young people in six African countries as a result of its health, recreational and leadership programs, Snack & Friends, which through its special needs activity center fills a void for children in New York City with autism spectrum 14 disorders and other developmental disabilities; Women in Need International (WIN), which funds scholarships for young women in Asian countries to provide access to educational opportunities; and Start Smart, which awards scholarships for academic excellence through essay contests for children and grandchildren of UNFCU members. Students from Colombia and Kenya earned the scholarships in 2010. UNFCU/ UNIFEM-UN Women Say NO UNiTE to End Violence against Women Partnership Description To promote gender equality and women's empowerment, UNFCU developed a series of initiatives over the past year working closely with UNIFEM, which in February 2011 joined forces with other UN entities to officially become UN Women. We were proud to attend the launch of UN Women which took place at the General Assembly last February. Actions: During 4Q2010, we generated contributions and awareness via an “Action Page” for the “Say NO-Unite to End Violence against Women” campaign, a UNIFEM/UN Women’s initiative endorsed by the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Every dollar raised and signature collected counted as a CSR action towards ending violence against women and girls. UNFCU deployed email communications to all of its members; conducted a video series at its branches which showed UN Women's tremendous efforts in Africa, Jamaica, Thailand and Latin America; held a special UNFCU-UNiTE to Say NO fundraising event in Manhattan, featuring a speaker from the United Nations, and published information about the campaign in Connections news magazine for members globally. Outcomes: UNFCU matched donations up to 3,000 USD, bringing the total to 11,000 USD. The campaign led to a Say Know Action Page, entitled, Every Mother Should be Safe From Violence launched in connection with Mother’s Day (global celebrations), which took place from 1 April to 31 May 2011. We asked our members to take the Say NO – UNiTE Quiz to test their knowledge about the issue and share it with others to raise awareness. We also posted the quiz to our Intranet to encourage staff participation, and provided updates on our Facebook page, which also pointed members to UNFCU’s Action Page. For the first 5 weeks of the initiative, the actions were recorded in UN Women's global counter; UNFCU's individual counter, developed after this, showed 373 actions. UNFCU / Kilimanjaro Initiative Partnership Description Kilimanjaro Initiative (KI) is a Kenyan-based Non-Governmental Organization founded in 2005 by UNFCU Geneva, Switzerland-based staff member Timothy Challen after he was shot during an armed robbery in Nairobi, Kenya. The main objective of KI is to assist youth to become agents of constructive change in their communities. KI does so by organizing an annual climb of Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa, bringing together community stakeholders 15 and highlighting issues/themes which concern young women and men. KI also organizes a number of community-based activities, including: sport field upgrades; garbage clean-ups; and workshops on crime-prevention with the goal of promoting safe and sustainable development in urban areas. UNFCU has been supporting KI since its inception, sponsoring youth from disadvantaged communities in Africa to participate on the climb and related activities/events. Its CEO/President Michael Connery has twice climbed the mountain, as have several UNFCU staff members from across the organization. In 2010, Alan Potter, Chairman of the Board of UNFCU, visited youth in Kibera slum, the largest informal settlement in sub-Saharan Africa. The mother of one of the climbers told him that KI had changed her son’s life. Actions: UNFCU has supported KI via numerous outreach activities conducted through its social responsibility program, a Board mandate: • To mark UN Day, on 23 October, UNFCU United, a staff running club, organized a walkathon and 11-hour running relay around UNFCU headquarters in Long Island City, NY with 148 participants amassing 225 miles in some 20 mph winds! The event netted more than 4,000 USD for KI activities. • On 19 February, UNFCU donated funds USD towards a tree planting organized by KI and the UN Environment Program (UNEP) in Nairobi, Kenya. The event conducted at the Banana Hill Settlement brought together 2,000 local school children, approximately 100 youth from neighboring slums, UN, UNFCU and KI officials. Together they planted 560 trees throughout the compounds of two primary schools. The tree planting, a prelude to the Mount Kilimanjaro climb (28 Feb. – 4 March 2011), was organized by KI with the goal to raise awareness about the need for sustainable development in communities. • On 24 February, UNFCU donated funds towards a garbage clean-up event in Arusha, Tanzania. The activity, a prelude to KI’s Mount Kilimanjaro climb, brought together more than 500 local school children and community stakeholders who removed more than a ton of garbage along a 3-mile stretch of highway. • On 27 February, UNFCU donated funds towards a tree-planting activity in Marangu, at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, 30 community leaders planted 25 trees. • UNFCU sponsored 10 young women and men from Kenya and Tanzania to participate in a 10-day training camp in Kenya and to then climb Mount Kilimanjaro. The youth were fully equipped, as well as physically trained for the climb. Moreover, they were taught leadership skills that they then took back to their communities. • Last June, the Geneva branch of UNFCU Financial Advisors, a UNFCU subsidiary at Le Palais des Nations, conducted a golf tournament in cooperation with the International Golf Club at the Evian Masters Golf Club in Evian-les-Bains, France with approximately 3,000 USD in proceeds going to KI. Additionally, nearly 35,000 USD was raised at the Second Annual KI Golf outing which took place in Westchester, NY last September with over 120 players. The Third Annual event will take place on 6 September 2011. • For its part at home, the UNFCU Green Team conducted a Celebrate Forests, Celebrate 16 KI Climb last March to coincide with the climb to the summit a 1,970 meter ascent. Staff not only met the target of climbing 20,000 steps, but more than doubled UNFCU’s goal, reaching a grand total of 41,769 steps! With 97 individual climbers, this was underscored staff members’ ability to meet a shared challenge and achieve success together. Outcomes: Thanks to UNFCU's support, KI has steadily grown as an organization. In its office in Nairobi, Kenya, five youth from previous climb are employed to work on KI full time. They bring their community experiences to the program and, in return, are offered a platform to put forward their vision of safer and better communities. As an integral part of KI, they are learning valuable professional skills, such as how to lead groups, develop plans, provide reports on projects and lead discussions/make public speaking appearances at community centers and at partnership events. As a recent example of the scope of KIs impact, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)’s National Committee of South Korea is interested in collaborating on a future climb to Mount Kilimanjaro, “the rooftop of Africa.” KI has now organized six climbs and brought more than 200 people to the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro, including 60 youth from East Africa, UN members of staff and representatives from the private and public sectors. Timothy Challen has conducted presentations about KI for school and community groups in Switzerland, Kenya and Tanzania. Students at the International School in Geneva were so enthusiastic that they have coordinated their own fund-raising events. Additionally, students at the International School in Nairobi organized a soccer match against youth from Kibera. Going Forward The experience and credibility gained by KI, in relation to its climbs garnered the attention of UN Women. As a result, in March 2012, UN Women and KI in partnership with UNFCU will organize a Mount Kilimanjaro climb to highlight the Africa Unite – To End Violence against Women campaign. UNFCU will also lend expert counsel on climb logistics and needs. The campaign is slated to launch in November 2011 to coincide with the International Day to Say NO to Violence against Women. Eighty climbers, including representatives from each (54) African country, the private and public sector, and celebrities will join forces to raise awareness and encourage each African country to make a national commitment to end violence against women – reaching the summit on 8 March the International Day of Women. Activities to further women's empowerment will continue with post-climb events in March 2012. Participation in UN Global Compact Events Since joining the UN Global Compact, Michael J. Connery, Jr., UNFCU president/CEO, has also participated in the UN Private Sector Forum in New York. The institution looks forward to contributing to the forthcoming discussion on Sustainable Energy, sharing ideas and raising 17 awareness from a grassroots perspective. Cooperatives are a reminder to the international community that it is possible to pursue both economic viability and social responsibility, said United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, as he announced that 2012 would be the UN International Year of Cooperatives. Not only are we proud to join the UN, as well as cooperatives large and small from all sectors to mark this historic initiative, we will endeavor to let the Compact's practices shine through in our work to serve a truly dynamic membership. 18 Element 3: Measurement of Outcomes • Energy Consumption updates on usage and costs are monitored monthly and provided to UNFCU by Cushman & Wakefield, property manager. Goal to continually reduce energy consumption and costs over the next five years. UNFCU will remain up-to-date on the latest standards and once again seek to achieve Energy Star certification next year. • Vendor Management Report – data on CSR involvement will be requested of new third party resources during the vetting process. Goal to work with a majority of partners that take CSR seriously. • Green Team – activity reports to be developed by all five sub-groups and submitted to the Green Team Leader quarterly. Goal to continually involve staff across all departments and implement suggestions. Obtain a 25% increase in eStatements (online statement) users over the course of the next year. • Broadening leadership and career development – statistics to be created by UNFCU Human Resources Department. Goal to develop, reward and retain high performing employees to contribute to the execution of our strategy over the next five years. • Engage at least 50% of employees in the new Total Wellness and Advanced BEST initiatives in 2012. • UN Women-KI-Africa UNiTE Partnership – success of awareness raising to UNiTE to End Violence against Women to be determined by governments’ involvement, number of new signatories, as well as tallies on UN Women and UNFCU “Action Pages” in support of the Say NO initiative. Goal to see the majority of governments throughout the African continent commit to take action to prevent violence against women and girls; grow action counts by several hundred. • UNFCU will participate in UN Global Compact Network events globally. Goal is to engage more than half of the representative offices (in four countries – Italy, Kenya, Switzerland and Austria) in UN Global Compact activities. • Provide funding to two primary UN MDGs: gender equality and environmental sustainability over the next year. Outcomes in the areas of Human Rights and Anti-Corruption are not included in UNFCU’s COP, as these principles do not readily apply in terms of actionable items. The institution supports and respects the protection of human rights and as a financial institution with fiduciary responsibility, supports the UN Global Compact’s principle to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Element 4: Please see the reports on Energy Consumption/Costs which follow in PDF format. 19
