Communication on Progress 2010 | i ORGANOGRAM Unisa Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Barney Pityana Chairperson: Management Committee Vice-Principal: Strategy, Planning and Partnerships Professor Bajnath Chairperson: Unisa/UNGC Steering Committee Executive Director: Strategy, Planning and Quality Asssurance Ms Liana Griesel Chairperson: Unisa/UNGC Working Committee UNGC Researcher UNGC Researcher Ms Mary Nortje Ms Nana Agyepong ii UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT United Nations Global Compact Project Communication on Progress 2010 Communication on Progress 2010 | iii TABLE OF CONTENTS iv UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Message from the Principal and Vice-Chancellor 2 Preface and future strategic intention 4 Executive summary 6 1 Introduction 7 1.1 Background 7 1.2 Layout of the report 7 2 Vision, mission and Unisa’s geographical reach 8 2.1 Background 8 2.2 International partnerships 11 3 Commitment towards institutional sustainability 13 3.1 Context 13 3.2 Assessments conducted in support of the movement towards sustainability 13 3.2.1 GUNI Survey 13 3.2.2 Global Compact Self-assessment Tool 13 3.3 Risk management 13 3.3.1 Human rights 14 3.3.2 Labour standards 15 3.3.3 Environment 15 3.3.4 Anti-corruption 16 3.4 Quality management and assurance 16 3.5 Women empowerment 19 4 Institutional achievements – 2010 20 4.1 Social sustainability 20 4.1.1 Institutional achievements 20 4.1.2 College contributions to social sustainability 22 4.2 Environmental sustainability 24 4.2.1 Institutional achievements 24 4.2.2 College contributions towards environmental sustainability 26 4.3 Economic sustainability 26 4.3.1 Institutional achievements 26 5 Future commitments 31 5.1 Human rights 31 5.2 Labour 32 5.3 Environment 32 5.4 Anti-corruption 33 6 Conclusion 34 7 Acknowledgements 34 References 37 Appendix 1: Global Compact Self-assessment Tool 35 Appendix 2: Global Compact Self-assessment Tool Percentage Analysis 36 References 37 List of acronyms and abbreviations 38 Communication on Progress 2010 | 1 MESSAGE FROM THE PRINCIPAL AND VICE-CHANCELLOR It is by no means insigniﬁcant that the end of my ten-year tenure as Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of South Africa (Unisa) should coincide with the conclusion of this university’s three-year project initiated to give effect to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The success of Unisa’s association with the UNGC can be seen in the culture of accountability, recognition of human rights and responsible behaviour that is evident in its staff and students. This will continue even after Unisa’s three-year UNGC project comes to an end. With a background in theology and law (speciﬁcally human rights and international law), I made it my personal objective to place Unisa on the path of economic, social and environmental sustainability. My vision was for Unisa to serve humanity by ensuring the continued existence not only of the people (of Africa and South Africa), but also of the planet and proﬁt, without forfeiting the principles of sound corporate governance. This commitment is reﬂected in the principles of the UNGC. When Unisa resolved to become a signatory of the UNGC in January 2007, I saw this as a means of furthering this university’s dedication to sustainability, and to inﬂuencing an even larger population with its institutional activities and achievements. This relates speciﬁcally to the principles of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. My vision with the signing of the UNGC was, within the “My vision was for Unisa to sphere of its inﬂuence, for Unisa to infuse the principles of serve humanity by ensuring respect, dignity and justice into all its academic activities and institutional operations. the continued existence not only of the people (of Africa As a member of the inaugural committee of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), I noticed that the concept of and South Africa), but also of reporting on more than just ﬁnancial performance in order to the planet and proﬁt, without develop a culture of accountability was beginning to emerge as one of the responsibilities of states. forfeiting the principles of sound corporate governance. Unisa had already established a Centre for Corporate This commitment is reﬂected Citizenship, and the UNGC provided a context for the University to give effect to the principles of responsible in the principles of the citizenship according to which it was conducting its academic, UNGC.” research and community engagement activities. It is important for Unisa to lead by example in order to encourage its staff and students to act responsibly. As the ten principles of the UNGC were consistent with the principles to which the institution was already subscribing, it was not difﬁcult to commit to them. Reporting annually on its adherence to the principles of the UNGC is aligned with Unisa’s vision to be a progressive African university that is aware of the responsibilities it has 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT to its employees and its communities, as well as to the particularly applicable in the case of collaboration agreements environment. The biggest contribution that Unisa can make and partnerships with governments and individuals from to the sustainability of the planet is to effect a change of countries with a poor human rights record, where Unisa behaviour in its graduates and the way they view the world can infuse the principles of responsible citizenship and good around them. When one considers the unique characteristics corporate governance into the lives of these people. that Unisa wishes to cultivate in its students, being a responsible graduate is certainly at the top of the list. As the only university in South Africa to be a signatory to the UNGC, it has been a great privilege for Unisa to be part of The ten principles of the UNGC capture the essence of the global compact and to be recognised worldwide for its Unisa’s deﬁnition of “graduateness” and being part of a world achievements. Although the project is coming to an end, this community. The shift in the institution’s academic activities university is committed to further contributing to the lives of and research focus areas to human rights, anti-corruption on its communities as it holds its staff and students accountable fraud and labour practices since signing the UNGC, as well for their behaviour. as the community engagement initiatives being undertaken by the University, reﬂects the success with which Unisa has The model of accountability that was established with the managed to inﬂuence the behaviour and scholarly thinking of UNGC is a reﬂection of the integrity of the institution. As its staff and students. a result, Unisa has succeeded in developing an identity that infuses the behaviour of its people into the values of the Its commitment to comply with the principles of the institution. This will extend beyond the lifetime of the UNGC UNGC even extends to Unisa’s non-academic departments. and illustrates what a degree from Unisa is all about. Maintaining a position on human rights, responsible labour practices and anti-corruption in its dealings with service Prof Barney Pityana providers and institutional partners plays a role in inﬂuencing Principal and Vice-Chancellor the actions of these individuals and communities as well. This is University of South Africa The Unisa mosaic staircase Communication on Progress 2010 | 3 PREFACE AND FUTURE STRATEGIC INTENTION In December 2006, Unisa’s Management Committee approved a proposal to support the UNGC for responsible corporate citizenship. The signing of the compact signiﬁed a vital step in the University’s demonstration of its commitment to human rights, fair labour practices, environmental preservation and anti-corruption. It also ensured that the sustainable use of natural resources would enjoy heightened attention in the day-to-day teaching, research and community engagement activities of the University. As we know, universities are leading social agents that give intellectual content and form to the choices made by society. Unisa is acutely aware that the graduates it produces will – through their top-of-mind consciousness, day-to-day actions and the decisions made in the world of work and in civil society – eventually have an impact on society by raising an awareness about responsible citizenship. As such, they are important agents of change. While under its inﬂuence and tutelage, the University has a duty to cultivate an understanding about and awareness of the environment and the sustainable use of resources. With the conclusion at the end of 2010 of the University’s three-year project initiated to give effect to the UNGC, it is perhaps opportune to look back at some of the highlights that have been achieved in propelling the institution along the pathway of sustainable development. Currently, there is strong institutional support for human rights and anti-corruption. “Unisa has an important role However, labour and environmental issues need more attention. to play in the South African Efforts to conserve energy, to utilise environmentally friendly technologies and to implement anti-corruption measures have higher education landscape. increased exponentially over the past two years. Because of its geographical reach nationally and on the Unisa’s commitment to the principles of the UNGC has had a positive impact on its internal community, as well as on society, continent, as well as its high by placing sustainability issues prominently on the agenda. An public visibility, anything it awareness has been created of scarce resources and the crisis that is brought about by the irresponsible use of water and does has a high potential energy, not just on human health through the contamination to inﬂuence the actions of environmental resources, but also on the economy. As a result, Unisa can succeed in achieving its primary objective of of others. It can therefore producing knowledge and contributing to a better life for all. succeed in advocating and Within a well-deﬁned governance structure, important policy advancing the cause of advances that give effect to the principles of the UNGC include sustainability.” institutional policies on corporate citizenship, the environment and stakeholders. Existing policies are being systematically revised to ensure the inclusivity of all stakeholders and to include aspects of good corporate citizenship. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Once it has raised awareness at the institutional level, Unisa management decisions, achieving institutional sustainability can proceed to make an impact in the public domain and by contemplating the effect of its actions on the sustainability inﬂuence the greater society. Giving the principles of the of its people, the planet and proﬁt. UNGC, sustained impetus will lead to a conﬂuence of efforts and advocacy, which will force sustainability issues onto the Unisa has an important role to play in the South African national agenda and the agendas of various institutions in higher education landscape. Because of its geographical reach order to ultimately make an enormous impact on society. nationally and on the continent, as well as its high public In this way, Unisa will lead the way for institutions of higher visibility, anything it does has a high potential to inﬂuence the learning to contribute to social welfare, social justice and the actions of others. It can therefore succeed in advocating and sustainability of South Africa’s political, social and economic advancing the cause of sustainability. activities. In addition to merely articulating a commitment, Unisa In all it does, Unisa strives to give expression to its vision of has succeeded in infusing the principles of the UNGC into being in the service of humanity. Without doubt, the slew of every aspect of its core business, which, in turn, make them efforts precipitated through the UNGC project places Unisa performance imperatives for managers. This is a vital step in at the leading edge of promoting corporate citizenship and demonstrating commitment. sustainability at the national level. The investment of resources to develop the necessary knowledge base of the institution Unisa’s commitment to the principles of the UNGC is ﬁnding and the lessons learned from our pioneering initiatives expression at the level of decision-making and policy, thereby place us in a good position to inﬂuence other organisations, shifting from advocacy to action. particularly in the corporate sector. By doing things right and doing the right things, Unisa Unisa’s primary strategic agenda is transformation on various serves as a benchmark; its actions inﬂuencing those of other levels and the UNGC provided the ideal framework to actively institutions. In this regard, the principles of the UNGC are address important governance, societal, environmental and seeped into Unisa’s thinking and strategic planning. It is broader economic issues. With the consciousness that has therefore a leading light for other higher education institutions been raised, issues such as the efﬁcient use of energy resources, and the nation in general. the minimisation of waste, recycling and implementing green building practices are permeating the decisions and actions Prof Narend Baijnath of the University’s management committee at every level. Vice-Principal: Strategy, Planning and Partnerships As an institution, Unisa adopts an integrated approach in all its University of South Africa The Unisa main campus, Pretoria Communication on Progress 2010 | 5 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY This desire for institutional sustainability requires a continuous commitment to uphold not only the principles of the UNGC, but also the principles stated in the GRI and the King III Code. Unisa remains committed to advocating these principles throughout its sphere of inﬂuence, not only at the University, but also to share its experiences with the world out there. This commitment is underscored by a bid to promote sustainable development by sub-Saharan African higher education institutions (HEIs), where Unisa was invited to participate in a survey earlier in 2010. The survey was conducted by the Global University Network for Innovation (GUNI), the International Association of Universities (IAU) and the Association of African Universities (AAU). This opportunity to participate in the survey enabled Unisa to take stock of its sustainable issues and identify what could be improved in order to facilitate the fulﬁlment of the institution’s responsibility with regard to sustainability. As a thrust to further integrate sustainable development in the institution’s curricular and operational activities, the newly launched Global Compact Self-assessment Tool (GCSAT) was used to measure Unisa’s performance across all four principal areas of the UNGC. A follow-up report was generated and areas of improvement were identiﬁed. Improvement actions have been agreed upon and a detailed plan of action has been tabled for implementation in 2011. Unisa’s extensive geographical footprint requires quality to “As the only higher be included in all its operations. In order to remain at the education institution (HEI) forefront in the national and international higher education arena, the range of initiatives undertaken by the University and in South Africa to be a the aspirations outlined in Unisa 2015 Revisited bear testimony signatory to the UNGC, to the deepening of the institution’s ability to promote a culture of continuous innovation and improvement. To ensure Unisa has become a proud sustainable and cutting-edge innovation, Unisa operates within and dynamic leader in the an established planning culture of integration and alignment country when it comes to bring about further innovation and renewal of its processes and systems. to advocating the core principles of being a good The publication of this Communication on Progress (COP) increases its competitiveness in the academic ﬁeld. It serves corporate citizen. The as a public and visible record of progress and future planning UNGC’s stated principles in Unisa’s sustainability journey, and presents a valuable opportunity to engage with all stakeholder groups. It is hoped permitted the University that the information chronicled in this third COP will be of to embrace these into interest to all readers. its institutional academic Ms Liana Griesel activities and support Executive Director: Strategy, Planning and Quality Assurance functions.” University of South Africa 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 BACKGROUND The UNGC’s code of corporate conduct is based on the principles In doing this, it aims to further inculcate the UNGC and King III of sustainability and corporate citizenship, emphasising the Code into all relevant university activities. This highlights responsible role of organisations in contributing to their its endeavour to promote sustainability by developing an economic, social and environmental sustainability and to the integrated strategy for corporate social responsibility in respect societies and communities in which they operate. of economic, social and environmental areas and reporting on its responsibility in terms of the requirements agreed to by Council The GCSAT, which was developed by the UNGC in partnership and the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET). with the Confederation of Danish Industry, the Danish In its recently revised strategic plan, Unisa 2015 Revisited, Ministry for Economy and Business Affairs and the Investment the University emphasises its social responsibility, not only Fund for Developing Countries, was launched at the UNGC through its inspiring vision, but also in striving to embrace Leaders’ Summit in New York in June 2010. It is designed the core values of social justice and fairness, and excellence for organisations and institutions that are committed to with integrity. upholding basic social and environmental standards in their operations. It is against this backdrop that this COP reports on institutional activities and achievements, and the governance of the As a signatory to the UNGC, Unisa is committed to UNGC within the institution, and makes recommendations establishing itself as a leader in sound corporate governance. and institutional commitments for 2011. In the light of this, Unisa used the GCSAT to conduct a study among its major internal stakeholders to establish 1.2 LAYOUT OF THE REPORT the institution’s current sustainability score and to develop guidelines indicating what remedial actions are required for This report complies with the stipulations as reﬂected in the planning, monitoring, reviewing and training in the institution. general COP layout by the UNGC and comprises the following sections: This benchmarking will take the institution to another level by further facilitating the following: Section 1: Introduction and layout of the report • The improvement of existing policies and systems Section 2: Vision, mission and Unisa’s geographical reach • The building of staff awareness Section 3: Commitment towards institutional sustainability • Stakeholder engagement to improve internal and Section 4: Institutional achievements – 2010 external reporting Section 5: Future commitments • The tracking of improvements, demonstrating progress Section 6: Conclusion and planning ahead Section 7: Acknowledgements Unisa Music Foundation community engagement project. Communication on Progress 2010 | 7 2. VISION, MISSION AND UNISA’S GEOGRAPHICAL REACH 2.1 BACKGROUND Unisa plays a vital role in South Africa, on the continent geographical footprint. Enrolment ﬁgures for 2009 show and internationally and has an important social mandate to that registered students are dispersed across 38 countries, serve those who would otherwise not have had access to totalling 263 559 students across the ﬁve colleges. The higher education. Unisa is becoming increasingly involved in African dispersion is found across the African continent, providing quality higher education throughout Africa, building while the global pattern reveals that the rest of the students capacity and sharing expertise through its core institutional are situated mainly in European countries, North and South activities. This gives expression to Unisa’s inspiring vision: America, Asia, Australia and Oceania. Unisa is therefore in a “Towards the African University in the service of Humanity.” position of considerable inﬂuence to advocate and advance the cause of sustainability (see Figure 2). The vision, mission and core values Unisa aspires to uphold are carefully woven into its core educational processes and The following table and diagrams illustrate the geographical systems and consequently have standing in Unisa’s extensive dispersion of Unisa students. Table 1: Total number of enrolments from 2004 to 2009 Classiﬁcation of the Average annual Actual enrolments Educational Subject Matter increase: 2004−2009 (CESM) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Science, engineering, 21 764 25 871 26 283 27 034 30 851 28 529 4.61% technology Business/management 101 915 85 639 95 605 103 804 112 302 108 286 1.02% Education 23 129 23 641 25 513 25 803 34 964 43 175 10.96% Other humanities 59 379 72 780 80 138 82 740 83 810 83 569 5.86% TOTAL 206 187 207 931 227 539 239 380 261 927 263 559 4.18% Figure 1: Percentage of enrolments per college for 2009 Figure 2: College contribution towards the 15% alignment (CEAS) (CEMS) (CHS) (CLAW) (CSET) 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Figure 3: 2009 Student headcount enrolments by nationality Unisa supported the Soccer World Cup in 2010. Communication on Progress 2010 | 9 For the ﬁrst COP for the UN Unisa conducted desktop such an analysis on the current and product range for the research to determine the alignment of its 2007/08 modules University. It was found that the awareness and incorporation with the UNGC principles. This assessment concluded that of the UNGC principles into the critical leaning outcomes has 7% of Unisa modules were already aligned in some way resulted in an increase from the 7% in 2007 to 15% (644 or the other to the principles and it was decided to repeat modules of the active 4180 modules) in 2010. College Academic level Number of Total number of Percentage Percentage UNGC-aligned modules offered per alignment per of University modules college college total Undergraduate 92 391 24% College of Agriculture Honours 24 61 39% and Environmental Master’s 0 17 0% 18% Sciences (CAES) Doctorate 0 4 0% CAES total 116 473 25% Undergraduate 132 557 24% College of Economic Honours 22 167 13% and Management Master’s 3 39 8% 24% Sciences (CEMS) Doctorate 0 17 0% CEMS total 157 780 20% Undergraduate 188 1386 14% College of Human Honours 54 283 19% Sciences (CHS) Master’s 1 138 1% 38% Doctorate 0 67 0% CHS total 243 1874 13% Undergraduate 62 215 29% College of Law Honours 30 100 30% (CLAW) Master’s 0 74 0% 14% Doctorate 0 8 0% CLAW total 92 397 23% Undergraduate 30 430 7% College of Science, Honours 6 201 3% Engineering and Master’s 0 19 0% 6% Technology (CSET) Doctorate 0 6 0% CSET total 36 656 5% University total 644 4180 15% 100% A further analysis was conducted to determine each college’s university, the University believes that it is its duty to cultivate contribution towards the 15% alignment with the UNGC an understanding and consciousness about the environment principles. It is noted that some colleges are more inclined to and sustainability issues (Baijnath, 2010). be associated with the UNGC principles than others, but the analysis clearly showed that the principles are represented in This re-emphasises the vision of Prof Barney Pityana, Principal the product ranges of each college, with the College of Human and Vice-Chancellor, when signing the UNGC on behalf of Sciences contributing 6% towards the 15% alignment. the University on 17 January 2007. The success of Unisa’s association with the UNGC can be seen in the culture of To promote social, economic, and environmental sustainability accountability, recognition of human rights and responsible within its geographical reach, Unisa is acutely aware that the behaviour that is evident in its staff and students. This will graduates it produces will eventually, through their top-ofcontinue even after the Unisa/UNGC Project comes to an end. mind consciousness, their day-to-day actions, and decisions in the world of work and in civil society, have an impact on the In his opening address at the International Seminar on Education environment and society. As such, they are important agents for Sustainable Development (ESD): Strategies and Experiences of change. While under Unisa’s inﬂuence and tutelage as a from Germany, India, Mexico and South Africa on Friday, 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 12 November 2010, Prof Baijnath indicated that “as an cooperation at institutional, organisational and government institution whose primary strategic agenda is ‘transformation’ on level. In pursuit of its vision and mission, Unisa seeks to various levels, the UNGC initiative provides an ideal framework promote open and distance learning internationally and, more from which important governance, societal, environmental and speciﬁcally, on the African continent. In this way, it contributes broader economic issues can be actively addressed”. to the reconstruction and development of Africa, promoting networking among African scholars, and addresses the 2.2 INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS knowledge and capacity development needs of Africa”. Fruitful and meaningful partnerships are the pillars of Unisa’s To give expression to our vision, mission and strategic goal, International Relations and Partnerships Policy, also referred Unisa’s International Relations and Partnerships Policy states to as its foreign policy. that “as a comprehensive dedicated distance education university, Unisa strongly promotes strategic partnerships and Unisa Library Communication on Progress 2010 | 11 Furthermore, to promote its endeavours, the University • Collaborative research established the Directorate: International Relations and • Knowledge transfer Partnerships with the following key functions: • Capacity-building for open distance learning • To strategically position Unisa as a leading open distance • Speciﬁcally designed projects learning (ODL) institution • Collaboration with international organisations • To advance ODL on the African continent and inter• Cooperation with and participation in international nationally. professional bodies • Consortia (for tendering purposes) These objectives can be achieved by establishing mutually • Material development and exchanges beneﬁcial partnerships with African governments, tertiary • Pulling/exchange of resources institutions, national and regional institutions, donor agencies and international organisations that have a special focus on Unisa has collaboration agreements with institutions in and African issues, such as the African Union (AU), the AAU, outside Africa, situated in Mauritius, Botswana, Zambia, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), Zimbabwe, Kenya, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Mozambique, Namibia, the Southern African Development Community (SADC), the Rwanda, Ghana, Swaziland, Canada, Germany, the United African Development Bank, United Nations (UN) agencies Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Furthermore, and the African Council for Distance Education. collaboration agreements exist between Unisa and various colleges throughout South Africa. Possible forms of partnerships and cooperation include the following: The following are a few of Unisa’s highlights and achievements • Academic cooperation in its international sphere of inﬂuence: • Staff and student exchanges New developments Purpose Signing of a memorandum of agreement with the Thomas To strengthen relationships with existing university partners, Edison University in Trenton, New Jersey to cultivate new relationships with role-players in the ﬁelds of higher education and training, especially in open and distance learning Discussions with Virginia Tech To promote student exchange and sharing of knowledge in various ﬁelds Discussions with Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute To implement a partnership to promote democracy-building of Technology (MIT), Howard University and selected agents in Africa and other related projects of mutual interest in the of the United States Department in Washington DC furtherance of quality services to humanity Strengthened ties with the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam To host a number of soccer clinics and academic seminars (VUA) before and during the 2010 FIFA World Cup at Unisa at selected regional centres A visit by a NEPAD delegation to the School of Business To examine the SBL’s facilities and offerings, thus exploring the Leadership (SBL) possibility of a partnership to enable the SBL to be part of the capacity-building initiatives of the NEPAD Secretariat in Africa. The SBL signed a capacity-building agreement with the To enable the SBL to assist AMISOM in its capacity building African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) for Somali civil servants A visit by the Mexican Youth Institute Delegation To share experiences and insights with regard to training and the education of youth workers Memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with the West To assist with the training of accountants in West Africa African Insurance Institute in Gambia Hosted the 2010 Standing Conference of Presidents (SCoP) To give rectors, presidents, vice-chancellors and chief and the Policy Forum of the International Council for Open executive ofﬁcers of open and distance learning universities and Distance Education (ICDE) an opportunity to meet with peers from around the world Signed MoU with Hamdan Bin Mohammed e-University To promote a staff and student exchange programme Signed MoU with the Eduardo Mondlane University To support the development of the Injury Prevention and (Mozambique) Safety Promotion Unit at the University 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 3. COMMITMENT TOWARDS INSTITUTIONAL SUSTAINABILITY 3.1 CONTEXT The main objectives of the project are as follows: • To develop an overview of major actions, experiences According to the United Nations’ 1987 Brundtland and practices that sub-Saharan HEIs are developing to Commission, sustainability is deﬁned as “meeting the needs integrate sustainable development considerations within of the present without compromising the ability of future their activities. generations to meet their own needs”. To sum it all up, • To identify the emerging trends and the priority lines of sustainability could be viewed as a goal to be reached by action for the integration of sustainable development working equally towards the environment, society and the considerations in the work of sub-Saharan African HEIs. economy. • To raise awareness about the important role of HEIs in promoting sustainable development in the region. There is therefore a signiﬁcant challenge for organisations to strive for a sustainability approach, not only as “the right Unisa was invited to participate in the survey. The questionnaire thing to do”, but also to lean closer to sustainability being was found to be very useful to the institution. In answering obligatory. the questions, it was realised that Unisa engages in a number of sustainability issues, although these issues are carried out In Unisa’s bid to establish itself as a leader in sound corporate in pockets of isolation. The move to establish a sustainability governance and sustainability by inculcating the King III Code ofﬁce in the institution would therefore coordinate all and the UNGC principles into all relevant university activities, institutional sustainability activities from a central point. a workshop on sustainability reporting was organised by the Vice-Principal: Finance and University Estates in 3.2.2 Global Compact Self-assessment Tool February 2010. The aim of the workshop was to promote sustainability by developing an integrated strategy for The GCSAT enables organisations to measure their corporate social responsibility in respect of economic, social performance across all four UNGC issue areas (human and environmental areas, and reporting on its responsibility rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption) and inspire in terms of the requirements agreed to by Council and the continuous improvement. Unisa scored 44.44% across all Department of Higher Education and Training. four UNGC issue areas when the GCSAT was used to assess the standard of operations (see Appendix 2 and Appendix Combined with the move towards sustainability is a 3). By using the GCSAT, a number of follow-up actions strong recommendation to take a calculated step towards were generated that formed the basis of the institutional sustainability reporting in conjunction with other initiatives in recommendations for 2011. the GRI, as well as the AA1000 (an assurance standard on stakeholder engagement) and the Millennium Development 3.3 RISK MANAGEMENT Goals (MDGs). The recommendation to adopt sustainability reporting in the form of a discussion document has been Recently the University adopted an integrated planning and submitted to the management of Unisa and the process is enterprise risk management methodology that is in line with now open for consideration by the various stakeholders the institutionally accepted deﬁnition of risk management, involved. which states: “Risk management is a systematic application of management policies, procedures and practices, effected by 3.2 ASSESSMENTS CONDUCTED Council and management, aimed at protecting the University, IN SUPPORT OF THE MOVEMENT its people and its assets against the physical and ﬁnancial TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY consequences of risk. It involves the managing of risks to be within the agreed risk appetite of the University and to provide 3.2.1 GUNI Survey reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives.” The GUNI, the IAU and the AAU initiated a project entitled Integrated planning and the optimal management of risks Promotion of Sustainable Development by sub-Saharan African supports University management to be responsive to Higher Education Institutions. changing priorities shaped by both internal and external factors to achieve Unisa’s desired strategic goals and to preserve Unisa’s vision and mission. In so doing, the University follows a dual planning approach that comprises an “insideout” view (looking at the unique and core competencies of Communication on Progress 2010 | 13 the University as an ODL institution) and an “outside-in” view immediately after the Lekgotla (the University’s strategic (analysing the external opportunities and threats and the planning meeting − “lekgotla” is a Setswana word meaning internal strengths and weaknesses). “a gathering of elders”). This group clusters the risks with similar characteristics and aligns them to the proﬁle of the key processes and process owners. Furthermore, the expert group considers the scale of impact and ranks the risks in terms of their net potential effect on the realisation of the strategic vision. The outcome of the risk assessment process is the compilation of the institutional risk register. Control requirements: The Institutional Operational Plan (IOP) is the mitigating medium for the key risk register. Mitigation actions are identiﬁed through a series of discussions with the relevant process owners and are then incorporated into the IOP. At this stage, milestones and targets are identiﬁed and responsibilities are assigned. Documenting risks: The key risk register contains a consolidated view of the actions aimed at improving or changing risk mitigation measures. It is kept as a main The integrated enterprise risk methodology consists of the source document. The IOP creates awareness among all following steps, which form an integral part of the University’s stakeholders and assigned responsibilities that translate into planning framework. The key activities and their insertion into performance agreements. the planning rhythms are explained below: Integrated reporting and feedback: The referencing Risk identiﬁcation: This takes place during the University’s to risk mitigation actions in the IOP enables the University annual planning cycle. The strategic and functional risks of the to consolidate its annual reporting into one single University are veriﬁed and new risks are identiﬁed during the comprehensive report to Council and management. This annual management team-building planning session. Once reporting approach will ensure that Council and management agreed on, the key risks are documented and circulated for have a clear understanding of and are able to effectively ﬁnancial scrutiny. monitor developments regarding risk and risk management at Unisa. Risk assessment: An expert group, which comprises key stakeholders, analyses and evaluates the identiﬁed risks The following risks, which ﬂow from the key risk register and the departmental risks, have been categorised in accordance with the UNGC principles. 3.3.1 Human rights Risks Existing controls Proposed mitigating actions Instability in partner countries could • The Quality Management System • Assess the proﬁle of the country lead to closure of school for Partnership Collaboration and or the potential partner looking at Licencees their ﬁnancial and political stability • Due diligence process • Undertake visits to the proposed partners to ensure that Unisa sees their facilities and gets ﬁrst-hand information about the particular institution • Implement the Quality Management System for Partnership Collaboration and Licencees Non-compliance to Occupational • Safety committees. Legislative ap• Include OHS function in key Health and Safety (OHS) Act pointments. OHS Inspections. performance areas of appointees Health-sensitive employees falling ill • Department of Labour inspections (managers and directors): regular due to renovation and construction reporting waste (fumes, dust etc) • Awareness training, comply with regulations, ie quantity storage 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Suppliers and Procurement Policy do • Educating Procurement on • Constant communication with not cater for the department’s speciﬁc necessity of correct audiovisual Procurement needs equipment Possible fraud and corruption in procure• Relevant committees, policies, • Supplier database must be reviewed ment practices procedures and systems are in annually or when a supplier is being place, such as Tender Working awarded a tender or project Committee, whistle-blowing facility • Verify that new suppliers are not and well-trained staff blacklisted • Relevant documentation is available to all staff on the intranet, including the Code of Ethics 3.3.2 Labour standards Risks Existing controls Proposed mitigating actions Non-compliance with employment • Operations have been restructured • Human Resources to follow up equity (EE) targets in such a way that they are able with other stakeholders in the to operate within the University’s industry in terms of critical and human resource capacity by multiscarce skills tasking and personal development • Working on a plan to have Unisa become the training service provider for the industry 3.3.3 Environment Risks Existing controls Proposed mitigating actions • Non-compliance with policies • The Physical Accessibility Advisory • To conduct an audit of the relating to the maintenance of Committee has been established existing buildings to determine buildings and meets regularly to discuss the the compliance status of buildings • Outdated equipment in halls statutory requirements to statutory requirements, as well • Biodiversity damage, for example, as to obtain and implement the cycads that are uprooted and poor recommendations from the auditors maintenance of gardens • Planting of drought-resistant plants • Gathering of rain water from the roof Toxic waste and contamination of the N/A • Toxic waste programme environment • Toxic waste dump area • Conduct awareness programmes on toxic waste High noise levels • Hearing conservation and • Conduct awareness programmes to audiometrical screening programme ensure that management is aware • Hearing protection to employees, and takes responsibility to enforce • Personal protective equipment safety standards and procedure (PPE) • Wear PPE • Finalise policy and introduce penalties for non-compliance Resistance to new technologies Standard operating procedures (SOPs) • Install ﬁre alarms and smoke detectors • Improve monitoring and tracking through a computerised system, for example, Bookmaster Communication on Progress 2010 | 15 3.3.4 Anti-corruption Risks Existing controls Proposed mitigating actions Theft • Establish systems and procedures that will prevent, detect and mitigate risks relating to theft • Establish effective perimeter controls and control over granting, revoking and limiting access to the premises, in particular to sensitive areas Unstable infrastructure N/A • A competent workforce is acquired and maintained for the creation and delivery of IT services to the business. This is achieved by following deﬁned and agreedupon practices that support recruitment, training, evaluations performance, promotions and terminations. This process is critical, as people are important assets, and governance and the internal control environment are heavily dependent on the motivation and competence of personnel. Theft and damage, abuse, vandalising of • Security cameras • 2015 Library Plan to address the institutional resources • Security staff physical requirements • 3M system in place • Communicate the Information and • Access control Communication Technology (ICT) • Internal Control Ofﬁcer Access Policy to students, staff and • Staff monitoring other stakeholders Inability to develop and institutionalise A dedicated ODL task team in place ODL task team has made extensive a ﬂexible and cost-effective learner recommendations that have been support model approved by Senate Failure to adjust to policy changes on Evaluation and monitoring system in Evaluation and monitoring system in the Funding Framework place place 3.4 QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND core area. The IQMAF serves as the implementation vehicle ASSURANCE for the provisions of the Quality Assurance Policy to fully The Quality Management and Assurance System is an institutionalise all planned quality management and assurance expression of the quality objectives as encapsulated in Unisa initiatives at Unisa in an ODL context. 2015 Revisited, the Quality Assurance Policy, and the Institutional Integrated Quality Management and Assurance Framework The framework makes provision for creating a supportive (IQMAF). A key concept in managing quality is the studentenvironment where expectations and quality standards centred nature of Unisa as a dedicated and comprehensive are deﬁned, continuous improvement and innovation are ODL institution. This requires the institution, its subsystems and encouraged, and development and training opportunities individual staff members to place student needs and aspirations provided. in the foreground when designing procedures and services. Unisa will monitor and evaluate (review) quality management The framework facilitates the development and implementfor teaching and learning, research and community engageation of integrated quality management to enable the ment by means of a quality evaluation instrument (QEI) establishment of a responsive quality assurance regimen. in each core area. The quality measuring instrument will It is important to note that – within the three core areas of determine whether quality management in each area is teaching and learning, research and postgraduate education, effectively implemented and whether it is able to achieve and community engagement – a tactical distinction is made the stated criteria and standards in an ODL environment and between quality management and quality assurance in each ensure a quality learning experience for the student. Feedback 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT is actively sought from students and other major stakeholders and plans to respond to the recommendations for quality and any duplication of effort is strenuously avoided. Quality improvements contained in the different feedback reports. In improvement at Unisa takes place in a planned, systematic, addressing the commendations and recommendations, Unisa conscientious and repetitive cycle to ensure that the institution is compelled to rethink its practices, systems and processes in learns from its performance outcomes, standardises its an attempt to sharpen emerging improvement initiatives for operations in a well-documented manner and improves steering the University towards the desired state of providing operations and outputs through self-reﬂection. Unisa has quality service and a quality learning experience for students. consciously embarked on subjecting its institutional quality The improvement initiatives in the quality improvement plan assurance arrangements to external scrutiny since the 2007 are not detached from the institutional planning processes, Commonwealth of Learning (CoL) Trial Audit and the 2008 but are seamlessly integrated into Unisa’s medium-term Higher Education Quality Committee (HEQC) Institutional and long-term plans that set the direction for the next ﬁve Audit, as well as different national and professional council years and provide a heightened responsiveness to a series of reviews. The institutional audits, as well as the national and transformational challenges. professional councils’ programme reviews, essentially provide a heuristic framework to facilitate a systematic engagement The Professional, Academic and Administrative Quality Assurance with identiﬁed quality improvement challenges. Committee (PAAQAC), a subcommittee of management, is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation Within this framework, the institutional quality improvement of Unisa’s Quality Improvement Plan and submitting regular plan is prepared, which demonstrates how Unisa has met progress to management, as well as to the HEQC. Theme 1: Strategic and sustainable repositioning (Rec 1, 2 and 1. Determine the carrying capacity of Unisa as an ODL institution, identifying areas for growth in portion of 20) relation to enrolment targets for the development of a system to monitor Unisa’s rapid growth and expansion in accordance with its strategic direction, globalisation and market trends, ensuring the provision of adequate support to local and foreign students. 2. Develop an inclusive international partnerships plan that deﬁnes and prioritises Unisa’s position on the African continent and internationally, and ensure effective coordination, implementation and monitoring. 3. Reassess research and innovation aspirations by facilitating structured and beneﬁcial engagement with the global knowledge economy so as to systematically build excellence through exposure and engagement for all levels of researchers. 4. Urgently ﬁnalise the organisational architecture in accordance with Unisa’s business model and assure management of a more proactive university property planning regimen so as to ensure informative trends analysis and costing scenarios for maintaining, improving and renovating institutional infrastructure (local and foreign) in support of Unisa’s strategic intent and enrolment targets. Theme 2: The reconceptualisation of ODL teaching and learning 2.1 PQM 5. Monitor the new PQM, statement of graduateness and revised policies governing teaching, learning, revitalisation student support and assessment so as to ensure that the critical learning competencies and graduate capabilities are attained through coherently designed curricula, applying the ODL team approach. (Rec 3, 11 6. Deﬁne and develop the new and integrated ODL assessment practices, with student support at and 18) critical points, and monitor and evaluate the effective management of assessment so as to promote student learning progression. 7. Implement a series of cohort studies in academic, vocational and professional programmes to ascertain the extent to which students’ learning experiences yield the type of graduate the institution wishes to produce. 8. Develop a monitoring system to ensure that the comprehensiveness of the PQM remains at a 70:30 level, ensuring articulation and learning pathways across the full spectrum of qualiﬁcations (academic, formative, vocational and professional). 9. Conduct a benchmarked review of all WIL programmes to correct current inefﬁciencies and to ensure that students acquire the knowledge, skills and applied competencies needed for the workplace. 10. Develop and implement an ODL customised and web-enabled quality evaluation system (UQES) for annual review of the quality of teaching and learning from multiple stakeholder perspectives in the second-order CESM category. 11. Develop and sustain an external stakeholder impact assessment, monitoring and evaluation system to evaluate the impact of Unisa’s graduates and contributions at systemic levels. Communication on Progress 2010 | 17 2.2 ODL staff 12. Investigate staff and organisational capacity in DCLD and all support units so as to be able to impledevelopment and ment the team approach. delivery model 13. Implement the team approach for curriculum redesign so as to ensure the improvement of ICTenhanced learning and provision of signiﬁcant inputs into the use of appropriate technologies to (Rec 9, 10, 13, 14, support students, such as MyUnisa and mobile technologies. 16 and 17) 14. Offer training opportunities for academics and tutors in the use of ODL technologies to deepen the pedagogical purposes of all ICT platforms, and allocate the necessary resources. 15. Conduct an audit of the optimal utilisation of all technology in respect of all core institutional processes, and develop a set of internal benchmarks. 16. Further consolidate the evolving monitoring system so as to assess the extent of utilisation and impact of technology for effective teaching and learning. 17. Conduct an investigation into the effect of semesterisation on learner support activities, focusing particularly on the delivery of diverse services and dedicated support for struggling learners. 18. Create a means for continuously monitoring and improving the learning experiences of students during the semester. 19. Develop an online tutor training and administration system to effectively implement the new tutor management framework. Theme 3: Organisational redesign and allocation of resources (Rec 4 ) 20. Conduct an inclusive workload analysis per college for all core functions and align the academic and student support staff job descriptions to incorporate tutor management, the development of tutorial materials, training, mentoring and performance evaluation of tutors. 21. Modify and integrate the resourcing models Academic Human Resource Allocation Module (ACHRAM) and Subsidy Resource Allocation Module (SRAM)) as a result of the analysis. The analysis should also serve to redeﬁne leadership and provide a basis for all job descriptions, performance management and training for senior managers and staff at all other levels. 22. Implement a talent management plan and integrated performance management system so as to investigate developmental career pathways for all sectors in the University, in accordance with ODL innovations. Colleges will conduct climate surveys as a basis for the implementation of effective talent management, the improvement of staff morale and the reduction of turnover rates. This would ultimately occur throughout the institution. Theme 4: Improved system effectiveness and enhanced service delivery (Rec 5 and 15) 23. Investigate how to effect the integration and articulation of all systems at Unisa, reporting on the immediate actions required to improve Unisa’s efﬁciency and service delivery. Ensure alignment and coordinate contribution to Action 3 at strategic level. 24. Analyse all student satisfaction surveys in relation to promises made in the service charter, identify key institutional processes, and set and integrate standards for enhancing service delivery. Generate a range of recommendations from this process to be included in the 2011–2013 IOP. 25. Finalise the implementation of the regional library infrastructure, and implement and review planned innovations such as mobile libraries and expanding holdings to improve the quality of service delivery. 26. Conduct a detailed assessment of student needs and review the costing and sustainability of the current library service delivery models. Theme 5: Governance structure redesign for the creation of a transformative, innovative and enabling environment (Rec 6, 7, 8, 12 27. Develop an institution-wide committee review framework and cycle, supported by policy and imand 19) plementation procedures, to evaluate the strategic impact and effectiveness of all governance and decision-making structures. 28. Create an enabling environment that will support executive deans in executing their strategic and academic leadership roles at all levels and ensure expanded training and continuous opportunities for all levels of staff so as to bring about the best possible performance. 29. Review the current strategic project platform to ensure closer adherence to Unisa’s strategic intent and goals, and facilitate more effective engagement, coordination and management so as to improve efﬁciency and impact. 18 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Theme 6: Research and innovation (Rec 20, 21 and 22) 30. Reconsider and benchmark Unisa’s research policy and programmatic foci in view of imperatives of Unisa 2015 Revisited through a comparative analysis of ODL contemporary trends. 31. Develop more equitable incentives and a reward system to achieve a balance between ODL reﬂective, teaching and learning research and the current mainstream arrangements so as to exceed the DHET norm of 1.16 research outputs per capita. 32. Develop a model for online postgraduate admissions and management, ensuring alignment between intake and supervision capacity, simpliﬁcation of curricula to facilitate academic progress, and effective monitoring of student performance. 33. Benchmark the effectiveness and quality of research processes and outputs, improve the quality and standing of Unisa’s journals, and focus on reputation and increasing the number of patents and citations. 34. Improve the research proﬁle so as to attract and retain high-quality staff and facilitate the equal participation of rated disciplinary and ODL reﬂective researchers in all strategic reconceptualisation and planning initiatives. 35. Improve the administration system with regard to information management and data analysis so as to achieve meaningful reporting on and planning for postgraduate education and research. 36. Conduct regular postgraduate student and external stakeholder evaluation exercises to assess postgraduate capability and impact. Ensure alignment with and investigate later integration with Action 8 once both systems have been piloted and reﬁned. 37. Benchmark the general effectiveness of research, focusing on research outputs, patents, citations and improved research standing. 3.5 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT As a leading ODL institution in Africa, Unisa is committed In addition, the institution has a vibrant Unisa Women’s Forum. to institutional change and has, for a considerable period, This is an institutional body that seeks to do the following: addressed women’s issues and concerns as a key ingredient • Actively engage with the Unisa community to promote for achieving transformation. To this end, Corporate women’s issues. Affairs, on behalf of the Ofﬁce of the Principal and Vice• Celebrate the contributions of women to Unisa and the Chancellor, developed and consulted broadly with staff and community. student representatives to conclude a substantive Women • Create opportunities for women to learn from role Empowerment and Gender Mainstreaming Framework. models, as well as initiate mentorship and other structured programmes. The framework, approved by the Executive and extended management committees, seeks to achieve the following For the past six years, the Ofﬁce of the Principal and Viceobjectives: Chancellor and the Unisa Women’s Forum have collaborated by jointly addressing the condition and position of women • Translate the vision and mission of Unisa into clear equity at the University. Hence, women empowerment and gender goals and realistic targets equity are integral to the broader social transformation of • Create a Unisa Women Empowerment and Gender the institution. The fundamental strategic choice to promote Mainstreaming Framework that is an integral part of the women empowerment and gender equality through equal academic, professional and administrative functions at the access to resources, opportunities and outcomes for women University and men further highlights Unisa’s commitment to promote • Align the goals of women empowerment and gender sustainable change and transformation throughout its sphere equity with the planning and performance cycles of all of inﬂuence. structures and employees at Unisa • Support the integration of systems and processes for continuing improvement of gender equity at all levels at Unisa • Transform the institutional culture with respect to gender relations • Correct gender imbalances towards more equitable power relations • Enable Unisa to achieve gender equity in line with broader national priorities related to the social justice agenda • Equip staff with the requisite knowledge and skills to understand the value of attaining women empowerment and gender equity. Communication on Progress 2010 | 19 4. INSTITUTIONAL ACHIEVEMENTS – 2010 Unisa upholds the deﬁnitions of sustainability according to the • Economic and environmental sustainability Brundtland Commission of the United Nations. Sustainability • Open distance learning”1 will therefore be deﬁned as “meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet Human rights their own needs”. The theme of human rights in the UNGC principles not 4.1 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY only overlaps with the remaining three focus areas (labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption), but actually The social dimension of sustainability concerns Unisa’s impacts forms the foundation of all the principles. Furthermore, human on the social conditions of its stakeholders and on social rights permeate throughout the United Nations’ declaration systems at local, national and global levels. The following broad of three special observances for 2010. criteria are linked to this category to promote sound reporting in this COP: This ﬁrst year of the new decade has been declared International Year of Biodiversity, International Year of 4.1.1 Institutional achievements Rapprochement of Cultures and International Year for Youth: Dialogue and Mutual Understanding. Research The theme of biodiversity focuses on the value of biodiversity Prof MC Maré, Vice-Principal: Academic in life as the world is urged to take action to safeguard the and Research variety of life on earth. Teaching and learning, research, The second theme recommends that interreligious and intercommunity engagement and outreach cultural dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace are Unisa’s key business areas. As be undertaken in an effort to establish harmonious relations. research represents one of the central By dedicating the year to young people, the United Nations characteristics of academia, much has aims to encourage dialogue and understanding across been done at Unisa in the last few years to establish and generations, and to encourage young people to strive to promote a research culture aligned with the UNGC principles. achieve the objectives of progress and development, including the Millennium Development Goals. It was against this In the Unisa Research Report 2009, Prof Rita Maré, Vicebackground that Unisa celebrated Human Rights Day in South Principal: Academic and Research, discusses some of the Africa on 21 March, which coincided with the United Nations’ exciting initiatives around research at Unisa: “Inspired by the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. discussions around Unisa 2015 Revisited, in 2009, the Academic and Research portfolio resolved to revisit the institutional Human rights are embedded in Unisa’s core and societal research plan and align the plan with the redeﬁned mission values. However, Unisa is cognisant of the fact that human of Unisa, namely to ensure, among others, that the research rights is an umbrella term and that the perception and agenda produces excellent scholarship that contributes to the understanding by stakeholders of the wide spectrum of issues knowledge and information society, advances development, covered by human rights are often limited. The following gives nurtures a critical citizenry and ensures sustainability. an account of how Unisa has been accelerating the process to inculcate various aspects of human rights in its day-to-day After much thought, the Senate Research Committee academic and operational activities within the framework of formulated Unisa’s niche areas as follows: the GCSAT for human rights. Unisa focuses its expertise and resources in research on the Health and safety following areas: • Knowledge production and capacity-building in response Unisa strives to ensure that its employees are afforded safe, to the needs of South Africa and the African continent suitable and sanitary working conditions. Precautionary • The promotion of democracy, human rights and measures are in place to protect employees from work-related responsible citizenship hazards and anticipated dangers. Protective equipment and • Innovation in science and technology 1 http://www.unisa.ac.za/media/PDFﬂips/Researchreport/2009/ﬁles/ﬁnal%20unisa%20research%20report%202009.pdf 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT necessary training are provided where needed to ensure that Better World Village Project employees have the necessary skills to safely perform the tasks required. Employees nominated as health and safety The Better World Project was launched in February 2010 in ofﬁcers received training by a knowledgeable expert on the partnership with Unisa’s Summer Schools Project. Five leading general health and safety regulations for workplaces. Training institutions, the Tshwane Leadership Foundation, Heartlines, was also offered on the South African Occupational Health Life College, the City of Tshwane and Ashoka Innovations for and Safety Act, 1993 (Act No 85 of 1993), which aims to the Public, joined forces with Unisa to create a safer and better remedy the state of affairs and places the responsibility for City of Tshwane. health and safety squarely on the shoulders of employers and employees. The aim of the project was as follows: • Create a village to celebrate soccer during the 2010 FIFA Fair treatment World Cup by offering a space of hospitality, celebration, conversation and socio-economic empowerment. Grievance mechanisms are in place whereby employees can • Provide a glimpse into a better world with more peace, report abuse and, generally, be assured a fair hearing, as socio-economic justice and environmental integrity. well as the processing and settling of grievances. The Unisa • Facilitate conversations on critical global issues, ranging whistleblowers’ hotline gave way to Unisa Ethics Hotline when from homelessness to human trafﬁcking, HIV/Aids, Unisa entered into agreement with KPMG as the preferred xenophobia, sustainable development and greening cities, supplier of this service from 1 April 2010. The Unisa Ethics all within the framework of celebration and play. Hotline was established with the aim of enhancing an honest work ethic and simultaneously providing all stakeholders with Unisa made use of this opportunity to gauge the learning a mechanism to bring any unethical business practices to the needs of its surrounding communities. The Unit of Learning attention of management. The Unisa Ethics Hotline will serve compiled a comprehensive questionnaire and members of the as an independent conduit between management, employees, public were given the chance to state their needs and obtain students and all other relevant stakeholders. All information advice. Unisa students were trained to facilitate this process. that is reported will be treated with the utmost conﬁdentiality The objective was to promote the idea that learning is fun, and the anonymity of callers will be protected. The hotline exciting and accessible. number will operate 24 hours a day for 365 days a year. Unisa Bargaining Forum Employee health and wellness strategy The Unisa Bargaining Forum (UBF) engages with organised The key focus areas of the HIV/Aids Division of the Directorate: labour with the purpose of information-sharing, negotiation Human Resources Development and Employee Assistance and consultation on all policies and procedures related to include the following: human resources, annual salary negotiations and all labour• Coordination of Unisa’s programme on HIV/Aids related matters. University staff and recognised unions are • Provision, prevention, care and support services represented on the UBF. Advances have been made in the academic mainstreaming of The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union HIV/Aids in teaching, research and community engagement. (NEHAWU), established in 1987, is the biggest public sector The Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) Awareness trade union in South Africa and is afﬁliated with the Congress Campaign, which was held in February 2010, included a variety of South African Trade Unions (COSATU). NEHAWU uses its of educational material, including posters, ﬂyers, stickers and collective power to provide better conditions of employment pamphlets. The material contained information about HIV, and wages for its Unisa members. Aids, living with HIV and Aids, caring for people with the disease and the rights of a person living with HIV and/or Aids. Earlier in 2010, a recognition and procedural agreement This campaign is in line with one of Unisa’s strategic objectives was signed between Unisa management and the Academic to enhance the health and wellness of its students. and Professional Staff Association (APSA). APSA represents the interests of academic, non-academic, professional and support staff in the UBF. Outreach to Haiti Freedom of association Unisa was the ﬁrst tertiary institution in South Africa to respond to the Red Cross Humanitarian Emergency Appeal for quakeIn terms of the principle to uphold the freedom of association struck Haiti. Prof Barney Pityana, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, and the effective recognition of the right to collective urged Unisa’s staff and students to contribute generously to bargaining, the library management has instituted monthly help the Haitians. Unisa further pledged to help the South meetings with unions. The purpose is to have continuous African Red Cross with annual donations. dialogue on matters of interest to staff in the library and to discuss any concerns and innovations to improve the working Communication on Progress 2010 | 21 environment. The freedom of association of all library staff is music examination fees, ﬁnancial contribution to music acknowledged and respected. competition expenses, ﬁnancing of performances of new South African compositions, ﬁnancial contribution to music Non-discrimination publications, etc. The Festival for the Youth in the Tshwane Metro is an annual event under the patronage of the “Princess The library upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of Africa”, Yvonne Chaka Chaka. This music festival aims to of employment and occupation, and has performed well in explore and promote new talents in various music categories. terms of the Library Employment Equity Plan: 2008–2010. The targets set for this period were to ﬁll 90% of all vacancies 4.1.2 College contributions to social sustainability with candidates from designated groups and the library has exceeded the target by 6.29%. The college contributions are categorised according to the teaching, research and community engagement activities that Services for students with disabilities are managed and have given expression to the UNGC principles in 2010. coordinated by the Advocacy and Resource Centre for Students with Disabilities (ARCSWiD), which is located within College of Science, Engineering and Technology the portfolio of Student Affairs. ARCSWiD strives to provide a range of services to accommodate and support students with Prof M Setati, Dean: College of Science disabilities. Engineering and Technology These services include the following: Community engagement • Producing study material in alternative formats, for example Braille, large print, electronic and audio tape One of the College of Science, Engineer• Facilitating support with regard to need in terms of ing and Technology’s community assignments, examinations and the curriculum engagement projects, launched in 2009, • Providing sign language interpretation services for deaf is the FIRST Lego® (FLL) Project. This project aims to stimulate students children’s interest, creativity and problem-solving abilities in • Providing training to staff in all regions on how best to science, technology and mathematics through engaging in accommodate the needs of students with disabilities real-world projects. Learners from three schools sponsored by • Developing and implementing advocacy and awarenessthe college were introduced to the real world of engineering raising programmes challenges. The college provided equipment and personnel • Undertaking recruitment drives to encourage students to mentor and guide team development to help the learners with disabilities to study through Unisa reach the regional competition. Two teams competed in the national First Lego® League Championships. The theme of Furthermore, Unisa declared September Disability Awareness the competition was transforming transportation and the Month. One of the objectives of Unisa 2015 Revisited is to challenge was to explore how to change the way we look at create an enabling environment for people with disabilities. transportation. The challenges and concerns faced by disabled students and staff will be taken into account in policy development, planning Another project, MathsEdge, is a community engagement and general practices, including infrastructural facilities. This project with the objective of creating awareness around move towards an integrated strategy will contribute to the mathematics-related career opportunities. This academically elimination of discrimination and social exclusion experienced inspired initiative aims to stimulate the interest of high school by disabled staff and students. learners in mathematics and its applications. Community engagement College of Human Sciences In opening the 5th Unisa International String Competition in January 2010, Prof Barney Pityana, Principal and ViceProf RMH Moekesti, Dean: College of Chancellor, said that music is part of our human condition and it Human Sciences comes naturally. “People sing in times of pain and sorrow. If you feel down, you sing a song that inspires and speaks to you,” he Teaching said. He spoke of the power of music. Orphaned children at the Kingdom of Life Children Centre were treated to classical music The College of Human Sciences when some members of the 5th Unisa String Competition jury developed a new module as part visited one of the Unisa Music Foundation centres. of a major in World Languages and Literatures, entitled Cultural Diversity in Literary Contexts, Unisa is involved in the development of music in the which strives to demonstrate, through a study of selected communities. The Music Foundation is engaged in upliftment literature from around the world, the potentially harmful programmes such as the loan of instruments, payment of effects of prejudice and xenophobia. 22 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT An MoU was signed with L’Orientale Naples University to capacities of the University in mutually beneﬁcial community promote academic and student exchange and access to the netdevelopment initiatives. The project was launched and steered works of the Africa-Europe Group for Interdisciplinary Studies. by a dedicated team from the Department of Social Work. Prof Anil Bhatti, New Delhi, delivered a public lecture and College of Law presentation entitled Heterogeneity vs homogeneity: on the tension between religious nationalism and secular/syncretic Prof NL Mahao, Dean: College of Law positions and Monolingual and multilingual contexts of writing: crossing borders and translating, as well as a workshop on Community engagement Writing (in) transit. The College of Law is involved in ﬁve A few modules in Religious Studies deal with the ambivalent community engagement projects. relationship between religion and human rights. The modules help students to analyse instances in which religions have violated human rights, but also show how religions have • The Legal Aid Clinic: The primary purpose of this inspired human rights. Some colleagues in the department project is to provide legal advice and assistance to the have published articles in this focus area. indigent community, while at the same time teaching the practice of law to law students. Research • The Street Law Programme: This programme provides legal training by involving law students in legal The workshop and conference that was held on Writing (in) community workshops and in community service. transit: theory and migration/migration of theory formed part • Victim Empowerment in collaboration with the of an ongoing National Research Foundation (NRF) focus area Bright Site at Sunnyside Project: This project aims project entitled “Locations of Literature in Global Contexts”. to identify and provide support to victims of crime by facilitating referral to auxiliary support services, for example, Reading and discussion sessions were held with postgraduate rape crisis, People Opposing Women Abuse (POWA), HIV/ and staff participating from Unisa’s departments of English, Aids counselling and substance abuse counselling. Religious Studies, Classics and World Languages. These • Research projects on crime prevention and included aspects of Portuguese, Italian, German and French crime reduction strategies in collaboration with language and literature in African post-colony, aspects of the Bright Site at Sunnyside Project: This project ‘travelling theory’ and migration, cultural interfaces and the aims to encourage postgraduate students to conduct politics of culture, language, literature and translation, and research on crime prevention and crime reduction and the history of slavery, diaspora and post-slavery cultures and to develop strategies to assist the community in securing subcultures. their neighbourhood. • The Short Learning Programme in Refugee Law Visiting PhD student Marco Guadagnino from Naples and Humanitarian Support Project in collaborUniversity presented his research on the communication ation with the Department of Social Work and strategies of migrants. Visiting PhD student Annett Schulze the Bright Site Project: This programme aims to from the Cultural Studies Institute, Humboldt University, Berlin, provide an integrated approach to the problem of human delivered a presentation on Unity in diversity: ‘architecture’ of migration and displacement from a legal, humanitarian cultural remembrance in post-apartheid South Africa. and psychological perspective. The Department of Religious Studies and Arabic is the only Furthermore, as part of its corporate social investment project department at a South African university that is conducting to establish close ties with a charity organisation, the College specialist research work on the Horn of Africa. The 2009 of Law has reached out to the Jakaranda Children’s Home. This publication, Somaliland: an African struggle for nationhood home cares for 250 children between the ages of three and and international recognition, contributes to the momentum 18 years who have been placed there by the Children’s Court of good governance, global citizenship and human rights. due to neglect, abandonment, physical and mental abuse. The Prof Iqbal Jhazbhay’s text has been reviewed by four academics college contributes gifts of food, clothes and stationery to and a Kenyan national newspaper. assist in improving the quality of life of these children. Community engagement The Unisa Bright Site Project in Sunnyside is the pilot phase of a strategic project in partnership with the Thomas Edison State College, New Jersey, USA. It supports the vision of Unisa to become an African University in the service of humanity. It is also aligned with the mission to utilise the resources and Communication on Progress 2010 | 23 College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences Department of Geography joined forces with the GRCF as part of its community engagement initiative. Dr MJ Linington, Dean: College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences 4.2 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Community engagement According to the GRI, the environmental dimension of The Department of Geography in the sustainability concerns an organisation’s impacts on living College of Agriculture and Environand non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, mental Sciences hosted a symposium air and water. Environmental indicators cover performance with the theme Back to the ABCDs: creating an enabling related to inputs (for example, material, energy, water) and environment for sustainable socio-economic development at outputs (for example, emissions, efﬂuents, waste). In addition, grassroots level through community-driven initiatives. ABCD is they cover performance related to biodiversity, environmental an asset-based community-driven approach to development, compliance and other relevant information, such as which moves away from conventional approaches to environmental expenditure and the impacts of products and community development that have often proved to be services. unsuccessful. The ABCD approach is based on the premise that communities should take the lead in identifying their own The following broad criteria are linked to this category: problems and the solutions to these problems by utilising existing resources. If properly accessed and channelled, these 4.2.1 Institutional achievements resources will lead to sustainable development. Examples of cases from around the world include Kenya and Ethiopia, Unisa is striving to align its operations and activities to where citizen-led or community-driven developments have nationally and internationally accepted environmental had a signiﬁcant impact. legislation. In her opening address, Dr Maggi Linington, Executive Dean Measures have been introduced to manage environmental of the College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences, issues by doing the following: said the theme of the symposium was close to Unisa and the • Proactively addressing actions that could adversely affect college, as it coincided with the University’s vision to be the the environment African university in the service of humanity. She said Unisa • Selecting suppliers who strive to achieve similar environchose not to be a university that was viewed as an ivory tower, mental precautions but rather one that was relevant and responded to the needs • Launching awareness campaigns in respect of responsible of society. She also indicated that environmental sciences were energy consumption, the use of natural resources, waste very important in ensuring sustainability in communities and disposal management and pollution in all its forms the environment itself. The Mathopestat community in North • Creating an awareness about climate change West has been selected as the pilot project of the ABCD • Minimising negative impacts on biodiversity approach in South Africa. The project was initiated by the • Encouraging the development of environmentally friendly Greater Rustenburg Community Foundation (GRCF). Unisa’s technologies 24 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Energy Wise Campaign Earth Hour Several initiatives were undertaken to ensure the University’s alignment to the environmental principles of the UNGC, thus contributing to environmental sustainability. Prominent among the initiatives is the Energy Wise Campaign, which encourages taking energy-saving measures. The Earth Hour initiative is an initiative of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). It is a global call to action to every individual, The main objectives of this campaign are the following: every business and every community throughout the world. • Ensure effective and efﬁcient usage of energy at all Unisa It is a call to stand up, to take responsibility, to get involved hubs. and lead the way towards a sustainable future. Unisa takes • Inculcate a culture of energy conservation at all Unisa this responsibility seriously and supported Earth Hour 2010 hubs. by switching off all lights on the main campus between 20:30 • Decrease the University’s energy consumption at all the and 21:30 on Saturday, 27 March 2010. hubs. Through the use of electronic media, staff members and The campaign was launched with the introduction of energy students were encouraged to support Earth Hour by switchbarometers on the main campus, as well as the regional hubs. ing off their lights between the stipulated times. The barometers were dubbed Unisa’s “green gauge” and indicate the total monthly consumption of energy. Monthly World Environment Day cartoon strips featuring energy-saving tips are published in the monthly staff newsletter (Focus) and staff members are The theme of World encouraged to contribute as the part they play in contributing Environment Day (WED) towards global climate change. The following are some of the 2010 was Biodiversity cartoons depicted in staff newsletters: Ecosystems Management and the Green Economy. Gearing physical facilities towards energy savings This was to raise awareness about the importance of the millions of species that inhabit Unisa has developed an energy management programme, the earth that are becoming extinct at a very fast rate. To which aims to remove and reduce non-productive, wasteful celebrate World Environment Day, the College of Agriculture and inefﬁcient electricity consumption from the system. Unisa and Environmental Studies took the initiative to create an has already implemented or is in the process of implementing awareness of biodiversity loss and other critical environmental the following measures on some of its campuses: issues. Unisa staff and students spent the day learning about • Non-essential air-conditioning units are switched off after the importance of World Environment Day and ways to hours by means of a building management system. conserve biodiversity. • Occupational sensors are being installed in all restrooms in all buildings to assist in the reduction of electrical load during normal workings hours. Occupational sensors are also planned for some of the larger areas (for example, computer rooms). When ofﬁces are not occupied, the lighting and heating or air-conditioning units in the area are automatically switched off. • Lights in certain open areas on campus are switched off Environmentally friendly technologies daily at 20:00 and switched back on again at 06:00 in the morning during weekdays. In support of the development of environmentally friendly • With the planned installation of timing programs, all the technologies, the Unisa library has adopted an e-strategy. hydro boils (already functioning in two buildings), geysers The Library Operational Plan includes various goals with set and hot-water systems will be controlled to reduce targets to ensure an awareness of the UNGC principles and electrical usage during peak tariff periods. to facilitate the integration of these into the operations of all • Speed controllers will be installed in the heating and the directorates. These goals include the library’s e-strategy ventilation systems, which will reduce the electrical load to promote online services and processes to replace paperof the respective air handling units by about 10%. This is based systems. This strategy was expanded in the Library already functioning in two buildings. Operational Plan. Electronic collection developments, including electronic selection and ordering processes, are implemented to replace manual and paper-based systems. Other goals of the library’s e-strategy include the digitisation of collections and global access to these to enhance access and limit paper copies, print and duplication. The implementation of mobile Communication on Progress 2010 | 25 services (Airpac) facilitates paperless requests, renewals and Perspectives on the Environment, in which students develop searches. Paper notices to students are replaced by a short the ability to understand, explore and critically evaluate positive message service (SMS) system. and negative aspects of the binary relationship between humankind and nature from several angles, for instance, The library plans the acquisition of shelf-ready material to limit the impact of human activities on the natural world, such as the use of paper-based accessioning materials and processes. agriculture, hunting and war, and – conversely – the impact The library participated in the development of the ofﬁce autoof powerfully disruptive natural forces on human life, such as mation project to move from manual processes to automated volcanic eruptions, and their potential for introducing renewal processes. Within the targets of the goal, the principles are in the wake of destruction. integrated into operations in all the directorates. Research The library has equipped its meeting rooms with overhead projectors and screens to facilitate the projection of A decision was taken by the Department of African Languages documentation for meetings to limit printing by participants. to include a subtheme: Folklore and environmental challenges Documentation is also distributed electronically. Wireless (the promotion of environmental responsibility) in the call connections are also implemented in these rooms to enable for papers for the South African Folklore Society (SAFOS) participants to use their laptops to access documents for Conference held in September 2010, showing a commitment meetings and workshops. to global environmental issues. The department anticipated a number of presentations in this area, which will eventually The library also made online request forms available for various feed back into the department’s curriculum mix. services and encouraged users to request information and resources online instead of printing, posting or faxing requests. 4.3 Economic sustainability In addition to all the electronic resources available to its users, the library has developed an institutional repository with a The economic dimension of sustainability concerns Unisa’s comprehensive collection of Unisa’s research and intellectual impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and output. The library also maintains the African Digital Library on economic systems at local, national and global levels. The and facilitates access to the collection for all residents on the following broad criteria are linked to this category. continent. 4.3.1 Institutional achievements The library has submitted a proposal to distribute information from the e-reserves with study materials to eliminate the Anti-corruption printing and additional posting of these resources. In support of the values of Unisa, Council issued a statement 4.2.2 College contributions towards environthat unethical, fraudulent, corrupt and irregular conduct is not mental sustainability accepted by Unisa. On behalf of Unisa, KPMG is conducting an Ethical Risk Assessment Survey at Unisa to ascertain the ethical and integrity awareness of employees, and their College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences perceptions of the ethical conduct of others, as well as to evaluate the effectiveness of Unisa’s existing ethics framework. Community engagement This initiative forms part of Unisa’s ongoing commitment to enhance its corporate governance programmes and create The College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences a positive ethical culture for all Unisa stakeholders. Unisa initiated the Water from Inkungu Project. The word “inkungu” has based its reporting on the institution’s anti-corruption means “fog” in Xhosa, the water quality of which is very high, commitment on the UNGC’s Reporting Guidance on the 10th conforming to the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Principle.2 South African quality standards for potable water. The fog water harvesting project was launched in the Eastern Cape, at Cabazane, in partnership with the Alfred Nzo Municipality. Commitment and policy The system used is specially designed for use in rural areas. It is cost-effective, uses material that is readily available and is Unisa has committed itself to working against corruption suitable for use in areas without electricity. in all its forms, including bribery and extortion, by issuing the following statement against fraud, corruption and College of Human Sciences irregularities, and introducing the statement: Teaching The Council, as the governing body of Unisa, and Unisa’s management, comprising the Principal and The Department of Classics and World Languages has Vice-Chancellor, the Pro Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar, developed a module in the Classical Studies major called all vice-principals, all executive directors and executive deans hereby declare that fraud/corruption and any kind 2 http://www.unglobalcompact.org of irregularity involving dishonesty will not be tolerated. 26 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT The statement was approved by Council in November 2007. The ERMD facilitates the assessment of the University’s This statement can be viewed on the Unisa website under strategic and operational risks, and is supported by the policies and procedures at www.unisa.ac.za/ungc/. Department Strategy, Planning and Quality Assurance (DSPQA) to ensure that risk management is also considered The following policies support this statement: in the University’s planning processes. • Unisa Code of Ethics and Conduct3 • Policy on Prevention of Fraud/Corruption and other IrThe ERMD submits the strategic and operational risk regularities4 assessment to the REC Committee, Management Committee • The Unisa Ombudsman5 and the Audit Committee for acceptance and approval. The • Policy on Whistle-blowing6 ERMD is currently in the process of facilitating functional and • Procedures for Making a Protected Disclosure7 departmental risk assessments and has undertaken this in • The Unisa Fraud/Corruption/Irregularity Response Protocol8 a number of areas, for example Human Resources, Finance, University Estates and Protection Services. Commitment to compliance with all relevant laws Detailed policies for high-risk areas of corruption All policies are reviewed for legal soundness by the Legal Services Ofﬁce (LSO) before being submitted to the The University’s anti-corruption policies cover the main Unisa Management Committee and Council for approval. and general areas of fraud, corruption and irregularities, A procedure for policies has been compiled by the LSO and for example procurement, human resources, the misuse of compliance is a requirement before a policy may be submitted resources and some more speciﬁc aspects related to the for approval. As part of this procedure, the LSO considers the education sector, for example, plagiarism. Policies are found applicable and relevant laws. in the corporate manual on the web and hard copy ﬁles are provided to each head of department. Publicly stated formal policy of zero tolerance of corruption Translation of the anti-corruption commitment into actions Unisa has declared its intent for zero tolerance. Currently, the University has an awareness campaign on Statement of support for international and ethical conduct and has launched the Unisa Code of Ethics and regional legal frameworks Conduct. The aim of the campaign is to provide training to all employees. Online resources are available for ethics awareness. Unisa is a signing party to the UNGC initiative. The University’s ICT assists by requesting online acknowledgement of the intention regarding the UNGC is included on Unisa’s website. Code of Ethics. In addition, the Internal Audit Department The Pro Vice-Chancellor’s Ofﬁce arranges corruption awareness sends electronic newsletters out on a quarterly basis on seminars throughout the year, for example, the Seminar on the aspects of fraud, corruption, irregularities and improvement World Drug Report and the seminar in conjunction with the in internal controls, ethics. UN Ofﬁce on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Report on Human and Drug Trafﬁcking. The University community is made aware Experienced speakers are invited to make presentations to of Anti-Corruption Day (9 December) through the University’s Unisa’s Directors’ and Executive Directors’ Forum on being internet communication, for example its e-news. aware of and preventing fraud, corruption and irregularities. Ethics awareness training has been provided to Council and Risk assessment of potential areas of corruption management. The Pro Vice-Chancellor’s Ofﬁce organises anti-corruption awareness seminars. The Unisa Audit and Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC) is responsible for the oversight and governance of risk Support by the organisation’s leadership for antimanagement processes at the University. The Risk, Ethics and corruption Controls (REC) Committee is responsible for the operational oversight and monitoring of risk management activities When addressing staff assemblies, the Vice-Chancellor and reports to the Management Committee and the Audit and Principal includes statements with regard to ethics and Committee. The Enterprise Risk Management Directorate indicates what controls are in place to support ethical conduct. (ERMD) is responsible for deploying risk management to all Decisions taken by the Management Committee and other departments in the University, as well as the facilitation of committees take ethics into consideration. It is also noted risk assessment procedures. The Enterprise Risk Management that reference to the UNGC support is highlighted during Policy has been approved by Council and may be viewed at management discussions. www.unisa.ac.za/cmsys/staff/contents/departments/corp_ policies/docs/EnterpriseRiskManagementPolicy_approved_ Council_29Nov06.pdf. 3 http://www.unisa.ac.za/ungc/Code%20of%20EthicsCCM_p.html 4–8 http://www.unisa.ac.za/ungc/corporate_p.html Communication on Progress 2010 | 27 Communication and training on the anti-corruption is currently a reporting indicator used by management to commitment for all employees support responsibility and accountability for anti-corruption commitment. The Human Resources Department is currently driving the ethics awareness and training campaign with the assistance of Human resources procedures supporting the antithe Department of Corporate Communication and Marketing. corruption commitment or policy The training involves familiarisation with the code and an Unisa has a bargaining forum where matters such as human online self-evaluation of an understanding of the code. As resources-related policies and remuneration negotiations part of the code, any interest perceived to cause a conﬂict is are submitted and considered. The acknowledged union required to be declared on a prescribed form and submitted and management are represented on the bargaining forum. to Human Resources. This is a recent initiative. Matters on which agreement is reached are referred for further approval processes, for example the Human Resources An ethical risk assessment is scheduled to be done by an Committee of Council. If a dispute is declared, procedures are external service provider, and the Internal Audit Department is in place to attend to such matters. facilitating the survey for report back to the REC Committee. In a new initiative, all employees are now trained on the Unisa The Internal Audit Department compiles quarterly newsletters Code of Ethics and Conduct, and various training initiatives are covering areas of fraud, corruption, controls and ethics. currently made available by HR. ICT assists in providing online Seminars on corruption information are presented through acknowledgement of the code. New recruits are introduced to the Pro Vice-Chancellor’s Ofﬁce. the code and the policies that support the code as mentioned in the rest of the report are available in a corporate manual Internal checks and balances to ensure consistency on the web. Hard copies are also distributed to heads of with the anti-corruption commitment departments. The update to policies is communicated to heads of department through e-mail and to other employees Unisa policies are designed to comply with laws and regulations through the e-news. where applicable and relevant. The adequacy of policies and the extent to which they are adequate for internal control Managers are also currently required to attend training on the purposes form part of the internal audit reviews. Internal Disciplinary Code and processes. controls exist, for example business forms, signing powers, and segregation of duties. The controls are reviewed as part Communications (whistle-blowing) channels and of planned and ad hoc internal audit assignments. As part of follow-up mechanisms for reporting concerns or the internal audit review, the managers of the respective areas seeking advice are requested to complete a control self-assessment. Controls are automated as far as possible and reviewed as part of audit Unisa has a whistle-blowing line where whistle-blowers can reviews. report alleged fraudulent/corrupt/irregular behaviour. The reports can be made anonymously and are sent to the head Actions encouraging business partners to impleof the IAD for investigation. ment anti-corruption commitments The reports received through the whistle-blowing line are Unisa’s business partners consist of government, other recorded in an investigations register and the status of the educational institutions, the public and private sector, investigations is tracked through to ﬁnalisation and reporting. suppliers, students, agents, joint ventures and partnerships, Follow-up on completed investigations were previously done by ERMC, but will be done by Internal Audit in future. The and funders/donors. register, together with a summary of signiﬁcant investigations, is submitted to the Unisa Audit and ERMC under separate Management responsibility and accountability for cover for conﬁdential discussions during which the nature of implementation of the anti-corruption commitinvestigations, as well as results and actions, is discussed. ment or policy The fraud/corruption/irregularity risks are reported to the Responsibilities are assigned at Unisa according the statutory Unisa REC Committee, which reports to the MANCOM and requirements of the Higher Education Act. The Unisa statute thereafter the Audit and ERMC. These identiﬁed risks are is one of the guiding documents, as well as all the ﬁnancial taken into consideration when the strategic and operational and other policies, for example, the Delegation of Powers risks of the University are assessed by management. Policy, the Procurement Policy and academic policies. The main categories of whistle-blower reports that are The conﬁdential report prepared by the Internal Audit received through the hotline are as follows: Department (IAD) and submitted to the Audit and ERMC • Permanent and temporary payroll 28 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT • Procurement in various areas The Pro Vice-Chancellor’s Ofﬁce arranges seminars on anti• Human resources management-related matters, for excorruption, and presenters of the UN are invited to make ample non-adherence to smoking regulations, harasspresentations. ment, racism, nepotism and favouritism • Misuse of University resources, for example reckless drivMonitoring ing and illegal internet usage Monitoring and improvement processes Internal accounting and auditing procedures related to anti-corruption Monitoring and continuous improvement are undertaken through the following: The University has various policies that provide for internal • Performance reviews control, for example the policies on the delegation of powers, • Quality reviews procurement, travel and accommodation, receipt of fees, • Audit reviews selection and appointment of employees, to name but a few. The aforementioned policies are available in the corporate Performance reviews are guided by human resources policies manual on the University website. Some of these policies are and guidelines, and are performed twice a year, at interim and supported by approved procedures and prescribed forms, for year-end. The performance ratings are used to identify areas example the application for employment form. for improvement, acknowledgement or corrective action. The results of management’s performance reviews are submitted The revision of the policies and procedures and the to MANCOM, The Human Resources Committee of Council establishment and update of supportive processes are the and Council. The performance agreements of managers responsibility of the respective policy-owners, for example the include the aspects of risk, ethics and control, and therefore Finance, Human Resource (HR), ICT and other departments. managers from the level of manager/supervisor and above The compilation and update of policies are governed by a are assessed on their achievement of risk management, policy and procedure as compiled by the Legal Services Ofﬁce. communicating and upholding ethics, and the implementation The policies are approved by the Unisa Council. of controls in their respective areas of responsibility. In this way, monitoring and improvement form part of the performance Internal and external audits management system. External auditors are appointed to conduct the statutory In addition, quality reviews are done and facilitated by audit of the University’s ﬁnancial statements and this audit is DSPQA, and the results are used by managers to improve conducted on an interim and year-end basis. External auditors on quality. Quality reviews are done as the need is identiﬁed are required to provide an audit opinion on the accuracy and and occur throughout the year. Quality reviews are guided fairness of the ﬁnancial statements in the ﬁnal annual report by the Quality Assurance Policy and guidelines, the UNGC of the University. The external auditors may place reliance on commitment and HEQC guidelines, and are performed the internal audit work performed by the IAD. according to the requirements of the Higher Education Committee and Department of Education as well as Internal audits are performed throughout the year according accreditation and professional requirements. The results of to a three-year rolling internal audit coverage plan as approved the quality reviews are submitted to the MANCOM, Quality by the Audit and ERMC. Apart from the approved audits, ad Assurance Committees and Council. hoc audits and investigations are also performed by the IAD. Investigations and audits are outsourced by the IAD. Audit reviews are external and internal. External audits are done at interim and ﬁnancial year-end. Internal audits are The IAD is a department that reports functionally to the Audit and performed throughout the year according the approved ERMC and administratively to the Vice-Chancellor and Principal. three-year rolling internal audit coverage plan and as ad hoc The department’s mandate is to provide an independent requests are submitted or whistle-blower reports are received. and objective assurance service to add value and improve External and internal audit reviews are reported to the REC, the University’s operations through a systematic, disciplined management and Audit and ERMC, with the ﬁnal oversight approach in evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk on risk, control and governance matters assigned to the Audit management, control and governance processes. The IAD’s and ERMC for report to the Council. The REC Committee and activities are governed by the International Internal Auditing the Audit and ERMC have approved terms of reference or Standards and the approved charter and audit protocol. charters and meet four (4) times a year. The MANCOM meets every Tuesday. Apart from these committees, there are other Participation in voluntary anti-corruption initiatives speciﬁc committees who meet according to the speciﬁc terms of reference and execute monitoring accordingly. Improvement The University is a signing party to the UNGC. initiatives are assigned to the respective manager,s for example the vice-principals, executive directors or directors, depending Unisa is a member of Ethics South Africa (ESA). on the level at which improvement is required. Communication on Progress 2010 | 29 Leadership review of monitoring and improveStudent-related incidents are dealt with according to the ment results Student Disciplinary Code and procedures and are attended to by the Registrar’s ofﬁce. The responsibility for monitoring and improvement resides with the Vice-Chancellor and Principal and is supported by Incidents related to dissatisfactory service at the University the extended management. Governance overview is the are attended to by the Unisa Ombudsman. responsibility of the Council and its subcommittees. The Principal and Vice-Chancellor determines the nature of Reviews are done as explained elsewhere and are reported on public statements in relation to media or external incidents. according to the respective aspects of reporting, for example If external incidents involve criminal activity and if negotiation audit, risk, control and governance matters are reported to fails, the police service is used. Protection Services attends to the Audit and ERMC. the external/campus-related incidents. Improvement plans and actions are the responsibility of the Fraud/corruption/irregularity incidents are dealt internally respective portfolio managers, for example vice-principals, through the disciplinary processes and externally through executive directors, directors, managers, supervisors, and the police service and according to the requirements for are included in the planning processes of the University. prosecution, for example the Prevention and Combat of This is achieved by including the improvement plans in the Corrupt Activities Act, 2004. Information on fraud/corruption/ strategic, operational, portfolio and departmental plans, irregularities is attended to by Internal Audit. and the managers translating these plans into their budgets and performance agreements. Progress reports on the Use of independent external assurance of antiachievement of the plans are submitted to DSPQA and corruption programme performance reviews measure whether the staff members’ performances are on track. An external assurance of the anti-corruption programme in Unisa has not been done, because it has only recently been Dealing with incidents actively launched. Incidents are dealt with according to approved policies and procedures. Employee-related matters are attended to according to the Employee Disciplinary Code and procedures. As part of the disciplinary procedures, an appeal process is in place. The disciplinary proceedings are attended to by HR. If the appeals process provides the same result as the disciplinary hearing, dissatisﬁed employees may take recourse in the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) or Labour Court. Externally referred labour relations matters are attended to by Labour Services Ofﬁce (LSO). The launch of the code of ethics 30 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 5. FUTURE COMMITMENTS The institutional achievements listed in the 2009 Unisa/UNGC COP indicated that Unisa had achieved moderate success in inculcating the UNGC principles into its most relevant activities. Based on the follow-up actions that were generated for implementation in 2010, together with the GCSAT results, the following recommendations were put forward to management for consideration: 5.1 Human rights Recommendation Actions Health and safety • Health and safety information and procedures should be made available to employees in a language they understand. • At a minimum of every two years, and when assigned to new tasks, employees should receive training by a knowledgeable expert in the safe use of equipment and processes, and an accurate record should be kept of who has been trained and for what tasks. Fair treatment • Managers should receive training on how to identify and deal with instances of harassment in the workplace. • A procedure should be put in place stating which kinds of workplace monitoring are allowed, what kind of personal employee information is retained, where it is stored, who has access and why the information is necessary. • Employees should have access to all personal data collected about them, including data concerning disciplinary decisions and data obtained through monitoring, but excluding conﬁdential management-speciﬁc information related to performance evaluations, salary negotiations, promotions, rotation and similar employment decisions. Community impacts • A procedure should be developed to assess and address the environmental and social impact of its operations on the human rights of local communities. • Before starting new operations or developments, an impact study to assess the potential environmental and social impacts of the planned activities, including an assessment of their potential human rights consequences for local inhabitants or other affected communities, should be conducted. • Findings of the institution’s social and environmental impact assessment studies should be shared with the affected individuals in a form and language accessible to them. • In consultation with the affected individuals, the institution should develop appropriate management plans to prevent, reduce and mitigate adverse social and environmental impacts. • The institution should continuously monitor its social and environmental impacts and provide affected individuals with regular access to updated information about the social and environmental impacts of its operations. Suppliers • An assessment of the institution’s supply chain should be conducted to identify which suppliers have the greatest risk of human rights abuses. • Where necessary, the institution should collaborate with individual suppliers to implement continuous improvements of human rights standards. • The institution should collaborate with other companies to promote improved human rights standards in suppliers. Product stewardship NOTE: Unisa complies within a university context by looking at course content, modules, programmes, disciplines, qualiﬁcations and how these translate into certain criteria and critical learning incomes for the institution regarding human rights. There is a strong research focus on human rights. Country risks • Unisa should take into account the human rights conditions according to the government laws, religious and cultural practices in the countries where it operates. Communication on Progress 2010 | 31 5.2 Labour Recommendation Actions Non-discrimination • All hiring managers should receive training regarding the institution’s non-discrimination policies. Suppliers • An assessment of the institution’s supply chain should be done to identify which suppliers have the greatest risk of abusive labour standards. • Procurement staff should be trained to understand labour standards and the supply chain. • The institution should engage with companies to implement fair labour standards. • The institution should collaborate with other companies to promote improved labour standards in suppliers. 5.3 Environment Compliance and • The necessary environmental permits and authorisations to operate should be obtained from management the relevant authorities. • A systematic approach should be put in place to ensure knowledge of new environmental legislation and compliance with permits and any other legal environmental requirements. • The institution should develop a formal environmental policy, approved by top management, which includes a commitment to legal compliance and continuous improvements in environmental performance. • Employees should be made aware of the environmental issues relevant to the institution’s operations and activities. • Roles and responsibilities with regard to environmental issues should be deﬁned and communicated. • Employees involved in activities that have, or could have, adverse environmental impacts should be regularly trained to ensure they are aware of environmental risks, requirements and agreed procedures. • An action plan to improve environmental performance, which describes time frames, responsibilities and means of obtaining the targeted improvements, should be developed. • Sufﬁcient monitoring and documentation to demonstrate continuous improvements to the institution’s environmental performance regarding signiﬁcant impacts should be in place. • The institution should regularly report externally on its environmental performance (eg annually). • The institution should have an institution-wide environmental management system that is certiﬁed according to eg ISO 14001 and/or operates in accordance with sector-speciﬁc codes and standards. • Commitment to promote the continuous improvement of the environmental performance of the institution’s suppliers should be in place. • This commitment should be supported by training on environmental performance for relevant management and procurement staff. • An assessment of the institution’s supply chain should be conducted to identify which suppliers have the greatest environmental impacts. • Minimum requirements for the environmental performance of suppliers should be deﬁned and communicated in writing to new and existing suppliers and business partners. • Where necessary, the institution should collaborate with individual suppliers to implement continuous improvements to environmental performance. • The institution’s procurement practices, such as prices, delivery times and internal incentive structures, should encourage improved environmental performance of suppliers and business partners. • There should be collaboration with other institutions to promote improved environmental performance of suppliers. 32 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Responsibility and • Targets for reducing water consumption and/or increasing the amount of water reused or performance recycled in different business operations and activities should be developed. • The institution should engage with national, regional and local public authorities, and civil society organisations to address water sustainability issues related to the affected water resources. • Employees should be trained on the safe management of wastewater. • Wastewater discharges, including types, limit values and quantities of pollutants, should be monitored. • Measures should be taken to reduce the production of waste and ensure responsible waste management. • The institution should provide information and train employees on the safe handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous and special waste types. • The institution should clearly mark areas used for the storage of waste and properly label all containers for storing waste, including a relevant symbol of danger for hazardous waste. • Recycling and disposal receipts should be requested from transport contractors. • Legal requirements for levels of noise, odour, light and vibrations should be investigated and relevant standards should be set. • An effective training and information programme should be developed to build awareness among managers and staff in the affected areas. • A system should be introduced to monitor the levels of waste in the affected areas and introduce mitigating actions. • An assessment tool should be introduced to evaluate the positive and negative impacts of Unisa’s operations on the natural environment. • Areas used for storage of chemical substances and products should be clearly marked. • All chemical substances and products should be clearly marked to include the name of the chemical and a relevant symbol of danger. 5.4 Anti-corruption Recommendation Actions Anti-corruption • All potential areas of corruption, including factors such as type of transaction, countries of environment operation, industries, and customers or business partners involved, should be evaluated. • Risk of corruption when employees, agents, intermediaries or consultants deal with public ofﬁcials, including employees of state-owned companies, should be evaluated. Policy and procedures • The institution should deﬁne benchmarks and indicators regarding the institution’s anti-corruption actions, and initiatives should be deﬁned and reported to the public (ie in its COP). • Publishing legal cases regarding corruption should be considered. • “Anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” should be mentioned in contracts with partners in high-risk countries, sectors and transactions. Third parties • Enquiries (eg ﬁnancial, legal, labour, tax, IT, environment, and market/commercial) should be conducted on all agents, intermediaries and consultants. • Contracts with agents, intermediaries and consultants should include a section on anti-corruption and state that the contractholder must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. • Agents, intermediaries and consultants should be provided with information on the company’s anti-corruption commitment, anti-corruption policies, training material on anti-corrupt behaviour and information on disciplinary procedures for violations of company anti-corruption policies. Joint actions • Joint actions with others should be taken to engage in and promote anti-corruption initiatives and level the playing ﬁeld. • Experiences, procedures and challenges of corruption should be shared with other organisations, ie the local business community, sector initiatives, networks etc. • Joint initiatives should be initiated with other companies in the same sector for the purpose of promoting a fair business environment. • Multi-stakeholder dialogue on challenges of corruption should be stimulated. • Local business community and business partners should be encouraged to initiate cooperation to ﬁght corruption. • The institution should consider the use of independent external assurance for its anti-corruption programmes. Communication on Progress 2010 | 33 6. CONCLUSION The COP Report highlights the achievements attained during • Mr J Lombaard, Executive Director: University Estates the period under review. The resulting recommendations • Mr DH Duma: University Estates allow for improvements in Unisa’s operational and academic • Ms CE Meyer: Manager: Finance and Information, dimensions. Strategy, governance, stakeholder involvement University Estates and the mainstreaming of the UNGC principles in the • Mrs N Grobler: Protection Services institution’s academic offerings will contribute signiﬁcantly to • Mr Stephens Thobela, Director: Study Material Print further Unisa’s sustainability. Production and Delivery • Ms J Dube, Director: Procurement • Ms L Agostinho: Procurement 7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS • Ms J Grosskopf, Legal Services Ofﬁce • Ms P Makanya-Ojowuro, Director: HR Stafﬁng • Mr B Albrecht: Human Resources • Mr FA Haasbroek: Human Resources The DSPQA has the responsibility to coordinate the drafting • Ms M Lengane, Director: HR Employment Equity and of the COP, and consulted with various internal stakeholders in Transformation ﬁnalising the report before submitting it to management for • Mr H van Kradenburg: Enterprise Risk Management consideration and approval. This responsibility is associated • Mr JF Van Schalkwyk: Secretariat/Administrative Services with an annual review and update of the ongoing alignment • Mr RP Arnold, Protection Services with the UNGC principles and those of King III to ensure • Ms A Steenkamp: Internal Audit the institution’s continued contributions to an integrated self-regulatory framework. The people listed below are Respondents to COP request for contributions acknowledged for sharing their expertise and knowledge. • Dr TND Sidzumo-Mazibuko, Executive Director: Corporate Their collective contributions resulted in the successful Affairs Ofﬁce of the Principal and Vice-Chancellor completion of the GCSAT, which in turn added signiﬁcantly to • Prof MRH Moekesti, Dean: College of Human Sciences the drafting of this COP. • Dr B Mbambo-Thata, Executive Director: Unisa Library • Dr S Moodley Overall strategic leadership • Ms A Steenkamp: Internal Audit • Prof N Baijnath, Vice-Principal: Strategy, Planning and • Dr N Eccles: Institute for Corporate Citizenship Partnerships • Prof MK Havenga, Director: School of Law • Ms E Struwig: University Estates Authors • Mr H van Kradenburg: Enterprise Risk Management • Ms Liana Griesel, Executive Director: Strategy, Planning • Prof IJ Kroeze, Chair: Department of Jurisprudence and Quality Assurance • Ms Nana Agyepong, Unisa/UNGC Researcher • Ms Mary Nortje, Unisa/UNGC Researcher Strategic committees • UNGC Steering Committee • UNGC Working Committee GCSAT participants • Prof DH Van Wyk, Assistant Principal • Ms L Griesel, Executive Director: Strategy, Planning and Quality Assurance • Dr L Netshitomboni, Chief Planner: Strategy, Planning and Quality Assurance • Dr N Eccles: Institute for Corporate Citizenship 34 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT APPENDIX 1 Global Compact Self-assessment Tool Full Results − Unisa 2010-09-27 Not Topic Yes No F/a N/a answered Human rights 10 1 1 2 0 Health and safety 2 0 0 0 0 Hours, wages and leave 3 0 0 0 0 Fair treatment 3 0 0 0 0 Community impacts 2 1 1 0 0 Product stewardship 0 0 0 1 0 Country risk 0 0 0 1 0 Suppliers 0 0 1 0 0 Labour 4 0 1 1 0 Trade unions 1 0 0 1 0 Forced labour 1 0 0 0 0 Child labour 1 0 0 0 0 Non-discrimination 1 0 0 0 0 Suppliers 0 0 1 0 0 Environment 3 1 10 3 0 Compliance and management 1 0 4 0 0 Precaution 0 0 1 0 0 Responsibility and performance 1 1 5 3 0 Technology 1 0 0 0 0 Anti-corruption 3 1 5 0 0 Anti-corruption environment 1 0 2 0 0 Policy and procedures 2 0 0 0 0 Third parties 0 0 2 0 0 Joint actions 0 1 1 0 0 Total 20 2 17 6 0 45 Communication on Progress 2010 | 35 APPENDIX 2 Global Compact Self-assessment Tool Percentage Analysis Not Topic Yes No F/A N/A Answered Human rights 71.42 (14) Health and safety 14.28 Hours, wages and leave 21.42 Fair treatment 21.42 Community impacts 14.28 7.14 Product stewardship 7.14 Country risk 7.14 Suppliers 7.14 Labour 66.66 (6) Trade unions 16.66 16.66 Forced labour 16.66 Child labour 16.66 Non-discrimination 16.66 Suppliers 16.66 Environment 17.64 (17) Compliance and management 5.88 23.52 Precaution 5.88 Responsibility and performance 5.88 5.88 29.41 17.64 Technology 5.88 Anti-corruption 37.5 (8) Anti-corruption environment 12.5 25.0 Policy and procedures 25.0 Third parties 25.0 Joint actions 12.5 Total 44.44 4.44 37.77 13.33 45 36 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT REFERENCES 1. Baijnath, N. 2010. International Seminar on Education for Sustainable Development (ESD): Strategies and Experiences from Germany, India, Mexico and South Africa. Opening Address, University of South Africa: Pretoria. 2. International Year of Biodiversity Logo. 2010. [Online]. Available at: http://www.cbd.int/2010/welcome (Accessed: 15/09/2010) 3. World Environmental Day Pittsburgh Logo. 2010 [Online]. Available at: http://www.pittsburghweb.com (Accessed: 15/09/2010) 4. World Wildlife Fund. 2010. Earth Hour Logo. [Online]. Available at: http://www.earthhour.org.au (Accessed: 15/09/2010) The ‘inkungu’ water harvesting project. Communication on Progress 2010 | 37 LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS AAU Association of African Universities IOP institutional operational plan ABCD College of Agriculture and Environmental IQMAF Institutional Integrated Quality Management Science and Assurance Framework AC community engagement FLL FIRST Lego® ACHRAM Academic Human Resource Allocation Module KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler AMISOM African Union Mission in Somalia LSO Legal Services Ofﬁce APSA Academic and Professional Staff Association MANCOM Management Committee ARCSWiD Advocacy and Resource Centre for Students MDGs Millennium Development Goals with Disabilities MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology AU African Union MoU memorandum of understanding CAES College of Agriculture and Environmental NEHAWU National Education, Health and Allied Workers Sciences Union CC&M Corporate Communication and Marketing NEPAD New Partnership for Africa’s Development CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and NRF National Research Foundation Arbitration ODL open distance learning CEMS College of Economic and Management Sciences OHS occupational health and safety CESM Classiﬁcation of Educational Subject Matter PAAQAC Professional, Academic and Administrative CHS College of Human Sciences Quality Assurance Committee CLAW College of Law POWA People Opposing Women Abuse CoL Commonwealth of Learning PPE personal protective equipment COP Communication on Progress PQM Programme Qualiﬁcation Mix COSATU Congress of South African Trade Unions QEI quality evaluation instrument CSET College of Science, Engineering and Technology REC risk, ethics and controls DCLD Directorate: Curriculum & Learning Development SADC Southern African Development Community DHET Department of Higher Education and Training SAFOS South African Folklore Society DSPQA Department of Strategy, Planning and Quality SAQA South African Qualiﬁcations Authority Assurance SBL School of Business Leadership EE employment equity SCoP Standing Conference of Presidents ERMC Enterprise Risk Management Committee SES Stakeholder Engagement Statement ERMD Enterprise Risk Management Directorate SMS short message system ESA Ethics South Africa SOP standard operating procedure ESD Education for Sustainable Development SRAM Subsidy Resource Allocation Module ESP Environmental Sustainability Policy STI sexually transmitted infections GCSAT Global Compact Self-assessment Tool UBF Unisa Bargaining Forum GRCF Greater Rustenburg Community Foundation UN United Nations GRI Global Reporting Initiative UNGC United Nations Global Compact GUNI Global University Network for Innovation UNIDOC United Nations Ofﬁce on Drugs and Crime HEIs higher education institutions UQES web-enabled quality evaluation system HEQC Higher Education Quality Committee UWIRI Unisa Women in Research Initiative HR human resources VUA Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam HRD Human Resource Department WED World Environment Day IAD Internal Audit Department WHO World Health Organisation IAU International Association of Universities WIL work in learning ICDE International Council for Open and Distance WWF World Wildlife Fund Education ICT information and communication technology 38 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Communication on Progress 2010 | 39 40 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT
