Global Teamwork CSR & Environmental Report 2011 Message from Top Management People and Technology – Building a Bridge to the Future Pursuing sustainable growth through the CSR activities of our core business. First, I would like to express my heartfelt sympathy to all ◆ CSR and Management Cycle who have suffered in the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami that struck in March 2011. Immediately following the quake, Komatsu made construction equipment available under free Management of charge lending, to assist with restoration and reconstrucPolicy tion. And our commitment to supporting the reconstruction of the devastated areas through our business activities is Implementation of ongoing. Business management ➡ Contributing to Enhancing the Domain society Komatsu’s Management and CSR trust placed in us by society (Corporate Social Responsibility) ➡ Further growth Is management K o m a t s u ’s c u r re n t b u s i n e s s e n v i ro n m e n t c a n b e Management in line with represented by the status of our strategic markets – China Strategy societal demands? ➡ Always monitor in the forefront, followed by the rest of Asia and the CIS, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. These markets are growing at a satisfactory rate, and we anticipate that the The KOMATSU Way growth of these countries and regions will continue to be a driving force in the future. In step with our mid-range management plan and its Corporate March 2013 targets, our initiatives are focused on incorCitizenship porating Information and Communication Technology (ICT) into products and components, making further progress in ensuring safe and environmentally friendly performance, and Demands of Society expanding and improving our sales and after-sales service organization in our strategic markets. Through these activities, we will develop not only business for Komatsu, but also climate change through a variety of measures. For example, the products and services that we supply to our customers we are reducing the environmental impact of products will contribute to economic development and a better throughout their life cycle and expanding the market for lowstandard of living, and to reduced environmental impact and fuel consumption hybrid hydraulic excavators. In addition, improved safety. our biodiesel fuel project is working on the local production of carbon-neutral biodiesel fuel. Last year we also enacted The world faces a host of challenges and expectation from a “Declaration of Biodiversity.” One of our first initiatives was society towards responsible corporate behavior is growing. to dedicate a space in the place Komatsu was founded as Komatsu is conscious of this responsibility and believes that a rural natural recreation area for children to enjoy nature our core business which embody our strength are in fact and get hands-on experience with growing plants. We also CSR activities that respond to society’s demands. stepped up activities to increase the green coverage ratio in In the years to come, we will be constantly vigilant in all our plants. ensuring that the actions of our management are in line with On the “protective” side, we have started sales of conthe expectations and demands of society. As we carry out struction equipment that meets the Tier4-interim emission our CSR activities, we will engage with our stakeholders standards taking effect in 2011, and are actively reducing through two way dialogue in order to better understand what the use of chemical substances that are of environmental our top priority issues should be. By doing so, we hope to concern. enhance the trust placed in us by society and to contribute We will continue to maintain strong cooperation with to sustainable growth. our overseas affiliates, distributors, and business partners around the world to bolster our environmental activities, with Environmental Activities even higher objectives in sight. K o m a t s u c o nsiders environmental activit i e s a t o p management priority. To meet the mid-range management Sharing our Values within the Group targets set last year, we are actively pursuing initiatives using Serving as cornerstones of our actions are The KOMATSU measures that are both “proactive” and “protective.” Way and Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct. On the “proactive” side, we are emphasizing reduction The KOMATSU Way comprises a set of values, basic attiof CO2 emissions throughout product use, to help mitigate tudes and patterns of behavior to be passed on to the future 01 generation which ensure that our strong corporate structure The Ten Principles of the Global Compact prevails, even if the management environment changes. The KOMATSU Way was revised in FY2011 to incorporate, among other features, our attitude in pursuing relationships with customers which we call “Brand Management”. We also revised Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct, which was formulated in 1998, for the first time in four years in view of the ever increasing importance of CSR. Group employees around the world share these values [Human Rights] Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of and rules, and through this we strive to reinforce a system by internationally proclaimed human rights; and which we seek to increase the trust given to us from society. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. [Labour Standards] People and Technology – Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Building a Bridge to the Future effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Komatsu celebrated its 90th anniversary in May. The Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and people and technology that have preserved the company’s Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. corporate tradition since its founding are Komatsu’s most [Environment] important management resources. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to To extend these resources for another ten years to our environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 100th anniversary and further into the future, we have responsibility; and chosen the slogan “People and Technology – Building a Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Bridge to the Future” in an effort to accelerate global human [Anti-Corruption] resource development and enhance the technological skills Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, of our company. This is an effort which we wish to align with including extortion and bribery. our CSR activities. * The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary code of conduct in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption promoted by the United Nations for adoption by companies. At Komatsu, all of our employees share the belief that “our corporate value is the total sum of trust given to us by society and all stake holders.” We are determined to continue to build on our CSR activities through dialogue with our stakeholders and society – listening to their expectations and requirements and discovering the most effective measures which tie to our core business. Kunio Noji President and CEO 02 OUR APPROACH TO CSR We define our CSR priorities by understanding where our business activities intersect with our contributions to society. From how we deliver our products to our customers to how we develop fruitful relationships with our people and the communities where we do business, our CSR priorities provide us with the foundation to create lasting business and social value. In 2009, Komatsu reflected on our company history and recognized that many of our activities over the past 20 years met the needs of both our business and society, staying true to our core belief that “Our corporate value is measured by the degree of trust placed in us by society and our stakeholders.” We also recognized that to meet the sustainability challenges of the future, we needed to define our CSR priorities based on their relevance to our business and their importance to our stakeholders. FOCUSING ON MATERIAL ISSUES -Define a set of global CSR themesThis year, with the support of Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a nonprofit organization, Komatsu undertook a materiality assessment to accomplish the following objectives: 1. Identify a set of CSR issues and prioritize these CSR issues by their relevance to our business and their importance to our stakeholders 2. Define a set of global CSR themes and activities 1. Identifying a set of CSR Priorities Relevant to our Core Business From a list of many CSR issues, we selected those relevant to Komatsu as a construction/mining and industrial equipment manufacturer. We then evaluated CSR issues on their importance to our business. To understand the relevance of CSR issues to our business, we interviewed senior executives across our company, including leaders of regions outside Japan. These interviews helped us to understand the degree to which CSR issues interact with our business priorities and operations. We then evaluated CSR issues on their importance to our stakeholders. To understand the relevance of CSR issues to our stakeholders, we reviewed external reports, viewpoints, and public statements published by governments and policy makers, issue experts and advocates, media, suppliers, and customers. We also took into consideration BSR’s view of stakeholder importance. ◆ Evaluating CSR Issues We evaluated CSR issues based on the degree of importance to our business shown on the horizontal axis, and the degree of importance to our stakeholders shown on the vertical axis. The CSR issues important to both businesses and stakeholders came to the top right quadrant. ⬅ Importance to our Stakeholders ● Issue A ● Issue C CSR Issues of Importance to both ● Issue D our Business and Stakeholders = Our CSR Priorities ● Issue F ● Issue E ● Issue B Importance to our Business ➡ We narrowed our focus to sixteen material issues across six categories. By focusing on the material issues that are most important to our business and our stakeholders, we believe we are in a strong position to leverage our core strengths as an equipment manufacturer and create lasting social impact going forward. 03 ◆ OUR CSR Priorities Products, Services, and Customers Environment Products that enhance safety Environmentally-friendly products Responsible marketing and customer care Environmental efficiency (facilities, such as plants, and operation sites) Remanufacturing Employees Human resource development Human Rights Safety and health Respecting human rights Respecting employees Equal employment Ethics and Governance Local Community Cooperation with stakeholders Development of local communities Corporate governance and compliance Disaster relief Compliance with social norms including business partners Improving local residents’ quality of life 2. Defining a set of Global CSR Themes By developing a set of themes around our most important material issues, we implement CSR and meet the needs of our business and our stakeholders. By going through a process of engaging officers in discussions on “What we should do to pursue CSR Priorities” as well as taking in consideration BSR’s view as a third party, we established three core CSR themes to guide our strategy and implementation: ■ Enhancing Quality of Life -Providing products required by society■ Developing People ■ Growing with Society To support these core themes, we developed key business activities for each theme that outline specifically how we are pursuing CSR at Komatsu. These business activities promote our CSR themes and priorities, and they also support our threeyear mid-range management plan, which we began in April 2010 under the title “Global Teamwork for Tomorrow.” ◆ Komatsu’s CSR Themes and Key Business Activities ■ Enhancing Quality of Life -Providing products required by society● Providing products and services that contribute to infrastructure development and improve quality of life ● Improving productivity, safety, and efficiency and enhancing energy conservation through the use of ICT ● Improving environmental efficiency at operation sites and facilities, such as plants ● Reducing our effect on the environment throughout the product life cycle ● Enhancing safety among society, customers, employees, and business partners ■ Developing People ● Contributing to human resource development in local communities ● Enhancing our employees and suppliers through The KOMATSU Way ● Enhancing our employees and distributors through “Brand Management” ■ Growing with Society ● Engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders ● Providing social contributions through the use of our core technologies and resources (e.g., disaster relief or activities to remove antipersonnel land mines) ● Contributing to our local communities where we do business ● Strengthening our corporate governance and compliance ● Promoting compliance with environmental, labor, and social norms within our group and among business partners 04 INCORPORATING CSR INTO MANAGEMENT An important aspect of implementing CSR is how we incorporate it into our overall management framework. For this reason, we have created a cycle for implementing CSR that ensures alignment between our CSR priorities and our company’s core management philosophy, strategies, and policies. Committed to “Quality and Reliability,” Komatsu will maximize its Management corporate value by providing products that customers are happy to own. Policy *Corporate value is the sum of trust given to us by all our stakeholders. By focusing on construction & mining equipment, and industrial Business Domain machinery, we will work for sustainable growth. Mid-Range Management Plan “Global Teamwork for Tomorrow” (FY2010-2012) 1. Activities of Importance Related to Management ● Promotion of Brand Management Activities Implementation Management ● TQM Activities in Strategic Markets (especially China) of management 2. Activities of Importance Related to Operations Strategy ● To make all products and parts traceable by means of ICT policy leads to Trust from society ● To develop products featuring improved environmental friendliness and safety social contribuis enhanced, ● To improve sales and service operations in strategic markets tion ● To promote continuous improvement by strengthening workplace capabilities resulting in sustainable growth for Values, basic attitudes and patterns of behavior to be passed on to Alignment between Komatsu the future generation business and The ● Strengthening corporate governance societal demands KOMATSU Way ● Enhancing human resource development on a global basis ● Strive for sustainable growth by enhancing workplace capability of each must be monitored Komatsu’s employee continuously Worldwide Code of Business Conduct ● Rules that Komatsu and its management and employees must abide by as a member of the business society ● Statement to society as a “responsible corporate citizen” <Policies, Standards, Principles> ・5 Principles of Compliance ・Earth Environmental Charter Corporate ・Standards for Product Safety ・Global Policy of Human Resources Citizenship ・Principles Governing Quality Assurance ・Biodiversity Guideline ・Basic Principles for Social Contributions ・Regional Policies, Standards by Countries, etc. Komatsu’s CSR Themes 1. Enhancing Quality of Life -Providing products required by society2. Developing People 3. Growing with Society <Global Principles> Demands of Society ● The UN Global Compact ● ISO26000 ● Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior ● We believe that a corporation is a social entity with a responsibility to implement management policy which leads to social contribution. ● We also believe that a corporation must continuously check whether its business activities are aligned with the demands of society. We bolster our CSR review cycle by engaging and listening to our stakeholders, reviewing external trends in business and sustainability, and adhering to regional, national, and international guidelines and principles, such as those provided by the UN Global Compact, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and the Keidanren (Japan Federation of Economic Organizations). ● Through responsible corporate behavior, trust from society is enhanced, resulting in sustainable growth for our corporation. This report presents, in an easy-to-understand manner, the most important aspects of CSR, based on the Editorial CSR Themes determined in the course of FY2010. Policy Furthermore, the title was changed from “Environmental & Social Report” to “CSR & Environmental Report.” Report based on CSR Themes Printed report and Web posting ● The report details the contents of the three CSR themes ● The written report presents information that should be reported to all through interviews with the executive officers in charge. stakeholders, because it is highly important, new, or has been revised. ● In selecting a “Special Story” for each theme, we tried to ● The website is used to release (1) general information, such as include aspects that are currently perceived by society and policies and general rules, (2) information on ongoing activities by Komatsu as being important. and initiatives, and (3) a comprehensive disclosure of detailed ● In each theme, we presented the main initiatives or someand incidental information. thing of a topical nature. Website http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/csr/2011/ 05 Independent Review Contents Message from Top Management……………………… 1 Director, Advisory Services OUR APPROACH TO CSR… ………………………… 3 Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Mr. Raj Sapru CSR Theme 1 Enhancing Quality of Life 7 -Providing products required by societySpecial Story 1 Komatsu joined BSR in June 2010 KOMTRAX for Accurate Servicing and and partnered with us in establishing Reduced Environmental Impact… …………………… 9 strategic priorities and creating an Special Story 2 approach to identify Komatsu’s most Development Story of important sustainability issues—steps Tier4-compliant Vehicles/Engines………………… 11 we believe are critical to CSR leadership. Pursuing Environmental Management… ………… 13 Mitigating Climate Change… ……………………… 21 To this end, BSR worked with Komatsu to undertake a Creating a Resource Recycling Society… ………… 23 series of investigative and planning activities during 2010, Environmental Risk Management… ……………… 25 including: Biodiversity…………………………………………… 27 ● Engaging in a series of in-depth interviews with senior Enhanced Safety in the Workplace………………… 28 executives within Komatsu, including Komatsu’s regional presidents in strategic markets around the world ● Providing our view on where Komatsu’s CSR approach could CSR Theme 2 Developing People 29 be enhanced Special Story 3 ● Undertaking a materiality exercise (described on page 3) to Training Field Engineers in the Philippines identify the CSR issues of greatest significance to Komatsu for Worldwide Duty… ……………………………… 31 and its stakeholders Developing Together with Employees……………… 33 ● Establishing, from the materiality exercise, a set of CSR Nurturing Leaders and Global Management… …… 34 themes for Komatsu to provide a framework for managing CSR activities and performance CSR Theme 3 Growing with Society 35 We’ve been impressed by Komatsu’s desire to focus on top strategic priorities, and we commend the company for Special Story 4 Together with Business Partners… ……………… 37 the care it has taken to create a pathway towards making a positive difference. We are also impressed with the integration Communicating with Stakeholders………………… 39 of The KOMATSU Way, a set of foundational values, principles, Living in Harmony with Local Communities… …… 40 and practices, across all its business activities and operations. Removing Anti-personnel Landmines……………… 41 Disaster Relief… …………………………………… 42 Looking forward, we hope that Komatsu will continue to manage its approach to CSR with an ambition that is equal to the size and global scope of the company and the scale of the Data challenges we face as a society. CSR requires commitment and engagement, and we believe Komatsu is better positioned Environmental Data today to follow through on its commitment to sustainability by Manufacturing Facility in Japan… ……………… 43 and social responsibility. Environmental Data by Manufacturing Facility outside Japan…………… 47 Environmental Management and Environmental Accounting… ……………………… 48 Company Profile, Environmental and Guidelines Used Social Activities to Date & External Commendations…… 49 ● “Environmental Report Guidelines 2007” Independent Review on CSR & (Ministry of the Environment of Japan) Environmental Report 2011………………………… 50 ● “The 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (Global Reporting Initiative [GRI]) Period Covered Photo on the cover This report in principle covers the data for the period from April 1, The images in the small and medium-sized circles 2010 to March 31, 2011, though information for the period after April 1, show jatropha plants grown on a vacant lot of the 2011 is also included. Adaro Mine in Indonesia, the one in the large circle Subsequent Reporting Schedule shows jatropha fruit from which biodiesel fuel is ● Japanese version: Expected July, 2012 produced. The dump truck shown is an HD785 model ● English version: Expected July, 2012 running on biodiesel fuel at the Adaro Mine. You will find the related story on page 15. 06 CSR Theme 1 Enhancing Quality of Life -Providing products required by societyKey Activities ◆ Providing products and services that contribute to infrastructure development and improve quality of life ◆ Improving productivity, safety, and efficiency and enhancing energy conservation through the use of ICT ◆ Improving environmental efficiency at operation sites and facilities, such as plants ◆ Reducing our effect on the environment throughout the product life cycle HB205 Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator ◆ Enhancing safety among society, customers, employees, and business partners Enhancing Quality of Lives Placing Safety as Top Priority Tetsuji Ohashi Director and Senior Executive Officer President, Production Division, Supervising Information Strategy and Environment Komatsu Ltd. What do you mean by “enhancing quality of life”? When one thinks of construction equipment, usually something big and heavy comes to mind, which is very Ohashi: When viewed on a global scale, there are still many different from the high-tech ICT. countries and regions that lack the infrastructure needed to secure people’s livelihood. Urbanization, in the form of Ohashi: Take KOMTRAX, for example (see pages 9 and 10). housing, roads, hospitals and stores, can bring prosperity It started out as a system for managing vehicle location and to such areas. A necessary component for implementing maintenance information, and has evolved step by step. this development is construction equipment which Komatsu Rather than expecting perfection from the start, it is typical manufactures. I have always felt very strongly about the of Komatsu ICT to make steady progress forward, providing need to enhancing the lives of people living in this kind of real-world answers and solutions. challenging environment. I think of ICT as being firmly based in reality, not a pipe Indonesia, for example, is benefiting from the fruits of dream. For example, rather than immediately making industries such as mining and forestry. Construction and everything unmanned, I prefer an ICT that can work with mining equipment can play an important role, as a tool in the people, where machines assist with part of the job, the kind effort to bring prosperity to the local community. of down-to-earth ICT that can be optimized as it evolves a step at a time. I believe that in taking this course, Komatsu will advance, and this in tur n will help our customers advance. Regulations will be revised, and the level of society as a whole will rise. 07 How does Komatsu respond to the global environIt seems that enhancement of safety needs to be mental challenge? approached from a variety of aspects. Ohashi: We focus on two aspects. Ohashi: For a manufacturer, safety must be the foremost The first aspect is our environmental response at the work concern. While customers may say that fuel efficiency is the site, in other words, the development of environmentally most important aspect, for us, as a manufacturer, “Dantotsu” friendly products. A clear example of this is when Komatsu (Unique and Unrivalled features) in safety performance will be developed the world’s first hybrid hydraulic excavator in most important. Enhancing Quality of Life 2008. This product, which features an average fuel efficiency The next most important is “Dantotsu” in environmentally improvement of 25%, helps resolve the concerns of customfriendliness, followed by high efficiency. ers who are sensitive about the environment. Moreover, our When I was a plant manager, I felt that safety must always non-hybrid equipment meets emission standards for Japan, be given top priority. This should be followed by compliance, the U.S.A. and Europe, and we are focusing on developing product quality, delivery date, and finally cost. That was my engines that have reduced nitrogen oxide (NOx) and order of precedence then, and it is the same even now. particulate matter (PM) emissions. The purpose of a company is to serve all its stakeholders. These environmentally-friendly products do not simply W ith that in mind, you must ask yourself is there any advocate a concept, they strive to increase economic meaning to continue production while ignoring safety. This is, efficiency and provide customers with realistic solutions. We, in fact, what CSR is all about. You should never attempt to as manufacturers, must keep our feet firmly on the ground make a product in a workplace where safety is not assured. and give shape to concepts and ideas. “Giving shape to Safety is a commitment to yourself, to your family and something” I think that this is one of Komatsu’s strengths. to your work colleagues. The second aspect is our work on environmental initiatives Compliance is a commitdirected at Komatsu’s own business activities. Our efforts ment to the local commcenter on observing environmental regulations worldwide at unity, and quality is a comall our manufacturing units, including those of our business mitment to the customer. partners. Without these three comWhile our targets so far have been energy conservation, mitments, a company canzero emissions, improving recycling rate, and green procurenot exist. This is what CSR ment, we now want to work toward reducing CO2 emissions stands for. globally and to give due consideration to biodiversity, by Unmanned dump trucks featuring “Dantotsu” safety performance stepping up activities to increase the ratio of green space on our plant premises. Regarding ISO14001 certification, our goal is to have all manufacturing facilities that have not yet Finally, please describe the situation in Japan after obtained certification do so, worldwide. the recent earthquake and tsunami disaster. Ohashi: First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt sympathy to everyone in the disaster-hit areas. What is meant by reducing the environmental impact Komatsu’s plants and sales branches and some of our busiof products over their lifecycle? ness partners were hit by the disaster and we are making a concerted effort to restore operations with the utmost Ohashi: First of all, an effort is made to create products that speed and precision, while also extending assistance to our are designed from the development stage to have the least business partners. possible environmental impact. We also make the manufacOther tasks requiring quick handling include a review of turing process at the manufacturing site as environmentallyrisk management, drawing on the lessons learned from the friendly as possible, starting with green procurement. In earthquake and tsunami disaster, and verification of our the logistic process to transport products, as well, we take production capabilities under the electrical power restrictions measures to reduce CO2 emissions, such as building plants that are a consequence of power shortages in the region. adjacent to ports to implement modal shifts in shipping. We Efforts are underway in the disaster-affected areas to also recommend environmentally-friendly products and use achieve reconstruction at the earliest possible time, with of remanufactured components to our customers in our numerous construction machines already in operation. At sales and service activities and at the operating site. Finally, the same time, Komatsu has introduced radio-operated we channel obsolete products for reuse, or for disposal in an construction equipment to protect operators from the environmentally-friendly manner. dangers of nuclear radiation when working in the vicinity of In this way, we can ensure that business activities for every the nuclear power plant accident sites. aspect of a product’s lifecycle are earth-conscious. W h i l e w e a re p ro u d t h a t o u r p ro d u c t s c a n p l a y a n important role in restoring normal life to the disaster-affected areas, our goal is to continue to supply products that meet society’s needs, and conduct business activities that ensure safety and protect the environment. 08 Special Story 1 KOMTRAX for Accurate Servicing and Reduced Environmental Impact KOMTRAX adds a GPS antenna and wireless communications technology to Komatsu construction equipment operating anywhere in the world. KOMTRAX is a remote management system that monitors the “health” and operational status of vehicles. KOMTRAX Plus, designed for use in mining equipment, can collect detailed status information on vehicles and use the data to control mining equipment under severe operating conditions. Using these ICT-assisted systems, Komatsu is improving the quality of service it is providing to its customers and reducing environmental impact. Supporting our Customers with Remote◆ Machine Management System (KOMTRAX) controlled Equipment using KOMTRAX Customers Just as automobiles require regular replacement of the ● Construction management (operating hours) engine oil and oil filter, construction equipment also requires ● Construction cost periodic maintenance. However, because construction (fuel consumption) Equipment ● Fleet management operating equipment operates under much harsher conditions, information (location information) maintenance work must be extremely efficient, to ensure that Accurate servicing equipment productivity is stable. Ideally, inspections and part Distributor replacement should occur based on the number of operating ● Optimized maintenance hours that are logged on the equipment. However, with conproposition ventional equipment servicing done by distributors, service Work site ● Service reports for the customer personnel must travel to the customer’s site to determine the number of operating hours. This results in parts often being replaced too early, or sometimes too late, ultimately causing maintenance costs to rise. KOMTRAX Plus for Mining Equipment Used in KOMTRAX offers real-time access to equipment informaHarsh Operating Environments tion, such as the number of operating hours, the last date a part was replaced, and the next replacement period. While the KOMTRAX system described above is installed This lets service personnel plan timely inspections and part on general construction equipment working in urban replacement, and allows preventive maintenance measures environments, KOMTRAX Plus is used on heavy-duty mining to be implemented. The result is a steady reduction in equipment operating in large-scale mines and similar sites. maintenance-related waste for the customer, together with Heavy-duty mining equipment operates at sites where reduced maintenance costs associated with this waste. natural resources that support our daily lives, such as coal KOMTRAX information can also be used to devise more and iron ore, are extracted. Typically, general construction efficient ways of operating the equipment, based on the equipment is moved in relatively short cycles from one characteristics of the customer’s worksite. Selecting more operating site to another. However, mining equipment, once appropriate models and using the equipment more efficiently is at the mining site, will remain there in full operation, day leads to lower fuel consumption and less environmental and night. And this equipment is expected to provide stable impact. Recently, our Fuel-efficient Operation Report, which operation at all times. uses KOMTRAX information to reduce operating costs, has Minimizing idle time due to breakdowns requires planned been highly rated. maintenance and part replacement. KOMTRAX became standard equipment on models KOMTRAX Plus helps meet the challenges posed by built for the Japanese market in 2001. As of March 2011, harsh operating conditions. 200,000 vehicles have been equipped with the system world wide. 09 ◆ KOMTRAX Plus and EQP Care Komatsu Plus collects data from numerous sensors installed on the mining equipment and provides real-time information ● Product planning Customers and development (equipment health and operating information) that is used in EQP Care ● Production planning the operation of this large-size equipment. The information ● Monitoring of equipment Information ● Parts repair planning health and storage is transmitted via satellite and consolidated in the EQP Care operational and distribution equipment allocation system. status Using the EQP Care system, customers, distributors, local Equipment subsidiaries, and Komatsu can access a variety of informaEnhancing Quality of Life operating information Distribution over the tion about the equipment via the Internet. Internet In addition to making KOMTRAX Plus data available, EQP Care also consolidates various service and support Distributor Accurate information for each vehicle. It then makes comprehensive servicing ● Maintenance based on R&M plan use of this data to propose accurate preventive maintenance ● Parts procurement and planned maintenance measures to the customer. These measures are designed to improve operation rates and optimize overhaul times, to reduce repair costs. The company began installing KOMTRAX Plus, a system In addition, the system can analyze the way vehicles are for monitoring the health and operational status of mining used and, based on this data, suggest more efficient operatequipment, in 2002. Now, approximately 10,000 mining ing methods, thus reducing environmental impact by making machines have been equipped with the system. KOMTRAX operation more fuel-efficient. Voice KOMTRAX Plus Helps Customers Reduce their Fuel Consumption Mohamad Sholahudin Devi Ari Suryadi PT Komatsu Marketing and PT Komatsu Marketing and Support Indonesia [KMSI] Support Indonesia [KMSI] I ndonesia is rich in mineral resources and plays an important role in supplying the world with coal. A large number of mining machines manufactured by Komatsu are consumption by using economy mode in combination with certain course patterns. After the field study, we began training activities. in operation in Indonesian mines, and the role KMSI plays Distributors trained operators in driving methods that in these developments is growing day by day. decreased fuel consumption. PAMA revised its standard Although Indonesia is a coal-producing country, the operating procedure for mining operations to emphasize to cost of fuel for running mining equipment has roughly their operators the need for energy conservation. quadrupled over the past five years. This increase in fuel A strength of KOMTRAX Plus is its capability for visualprices has caused the costs of operating a mining business izing the results of these efforts. A comparison of the fuel to swell by nearly 20%, eating into customer profits. Dump consumption before and after the countermeasures clearly trucks, in particular, use a large amount of fuel as they shows their effect. PAMA acknowledged that the measures drive up the slopes of a mine, making the high fuel cost for had brought about a reduction in fuel consumption in dump trucks one of our customers' biggest headaches. this particular case, but they also expressed the hope Even PAMA, our largest customer in Indonesia, has that Komatsu will be able to generally improve the fuel asked us to help them reduce the fuel cost for dump efficiency of its equipment. trucks. In response to this request, Komatsu developed a fuel To meet this request, we decided to make extensive economy kit for dump trucks. This kit is currently being use of KOMTRAX Plus. After analyzing the data of a dump installed on dump trucks of the same type in Indonesia and truck with a payload of 90 tons (our flagship product), is producing good results. Komatsu worked together with its distributors, KMSI, and Our goal is to continue PAMA to successfully reduce the fuel consumption. The approaching our customers activities that led to this success are described below. with various proposals for imIn line with The KOMATSU Way and the importance provement using KOMTRAX it assigns to the worksite, we started the process with a Plus, including measures to field study. We investigated the course taken by dump reduce fuel consumption, trucks at the worksite and conducted detailed analyses of and thereby contribute to Discussion with PAMA operators the driving methods of operators. After careful analysis of increasing the satisfaction of about the fuel-saving operation the collected data, we found that we could decrease fuel our customers. based on KOMTRAX Plus data 10 Special Story 2 Development Story of Tier4-compliant Vehicles/Engines Since 1996, the exhaust emission regulations applicable to construction machinery in Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe have become increasingly severe every five years, and from 2011, will enter into a stage with coming into force of the Tier4 regulations. What was required was advanced technology that would make it possible to make exhaust gas “cleaner” and improve fuel efficiency. On the occasion of writing this report, we asked members of the Research and Development divisions who helped to overcome this hurdle to tell us about their passionate involvement in their work. Emissions Standards for Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe (See page 12) Vehicles with Tier4-compliant Engines fuel efficiency was also established, so that our customers The Road to Tier4-compliant could actually see that they are saving fuel. Hydraulic Excavators and Improved We encountered considerable difficulties in our developFuel Efficiency (Reduction of CO2) ment trying to satisfy the requirement for improved fuel Seiichi Fuchida, Group Manager efficiency. At the same time, we encountered problems that Research Division, Construction Equipment had not been experienced, such as freezing of the intake Development Center 1, Hydraulic Excavator circuit and soot (PM) formation due to incomplete combusDevelopment Group tion by the Tier4-compliant Komatsu disel particulate filter The following are the main issues faced in the develop(KDPF). However, regardless of how imposing the problems ment of Tier4-compliant vehicles: were, we overcame it by mustering all our resources. (1) Improvement in engine exhaust heat rejection I think this was due, fir(2) Space required to mount exhaust gas treatment equipment stly, to Komatsu’s technical (3) Creation of control logic for the exhaust gas treatment equipment capabilities and, secondly, (4) Improvement in fuel efficiency to those who uphold the In earlier research, Komatsu confirmed the performance company’s corporate traof Tier4 test vehicles after benchmark tests and tests of dition. Our quest for enviTier3 vehicles. Tests were conducted under different climatic ronmentally friendly proconditions, such as at high altitudes and in extreme cold, ducts will never stop. and assuming various loads. Tier4-compliance and improved Keeping this in mind, we fuel efficiency (10% lower than conventional equipment) were will continue to focus our confirmed in the earlier research. A method for evaluating efforts on development. PC220/PC240LC-10 hydraulic excavator v e h i c l e ’s p e r f o r m a n c e , Development of including its acceleration, Bulldozer D65-17 responsiveness, and fuel ef(Tier4-compliant) ficiency. To confirm that the Kazushi Nakata, Team Leader exhaust gas aftertreatment Research Division, Construction Equipment equipment works normally Development Center 1, Small Equipment under different conditions, Development Group we conducted various enThe D65-17 inherited the low fuel consumption (5% lower vironmental assessments, D65-17 bulldozer than conventional equipment) achieved with the D65-16, including high altitude tests in Nagano Prefecture and low and has been further developed to incorporate ICT (Informatemperature tests in Rikubetsucho, Hokkaido. tion Communication Technology) and to feature higher This was followed by renewed testing of the control sysenvironmental compatibility and safety. tem, and included hardware fixes. Although our development We modified the engine in various ways, for example, by schedule was tight, we were able to start mass production adding exhaust gas aftertreatment equipment and a variable with minimum delay, thanks to the cooperation of all the geometry turbocharger. We tried not to compromise the development centers and manufacturing staffs. environmentally friendly operation. The Road to Improved Fuel To achieve this, we needed to use a variable piston pump Efficiency (Reduction of CO2) to efficiently control the engine rpm and torque, as well as on Dump Trucks the hydraulic pressure. It took repeated tuning sessions to achieve maximum Hitoshi Nakanishi, Team Leader performance for the Construction Equipment Development Center 2, dump truck and to Dump Truck Development Group complete the deveW ith the articulated type dump truck HM300-3, we lopment. developed a product that has exceptionally low fuel Onscreen eco consumption (8% less than conventional equipment), while guidance as a visual being able to handle the same work load as the conventional aid helps improving dump truck. On top of this, the product features lower-noise, fuel efficiency. HM300-3 articulated type dump truck 11 Tier4-compliant Engines so we devoted considerable time and effort to develop an Developing Engines aftertreatment device and a variable geometry turbocharger Compliant with New 2011 to reduce soot (PM) emissions. Leveraging Komatsu’s inEmission Standards house vehicle and engine development and production capabilities, we laid Yoshimi Tamura, Senior Manager out a detailed set of Development Division, Engine Development check items and sucCenter, Planning Office ceeded in developing Intake Enhancing Quality of Life Compared with Tier3, Tier4-compliant engine is required a product that was Exhaust to reduce soot (PM) emissions to one-tenth, so the Tier4 differentiated from emission standard is a very stringent requirement that cannot our competitors’ probe met simply by extending the technology used for the ducts. transition from Tier2 to Tier3. Technology used in existing onVariable geometry nozzle road trucks cannot be applied to construction equipment, Variable Geometry Turbocharger exhaust gas temperature. The problem we identified was Challenge to Develop Tier that the soot (PM) collected in the KDPF did not combust 4-compliant Komatsu Disel naturally during operation but continued to accumulate. Particulate Filter (KDPF) To solve this problem we needed to develop of a forced Shinichiro Inoue, Team Leader regeneration system that would combust the soot (PM) Research Division, Construction Equipment accumulated in the Innovation Center 3 KDPF whenever it reaComponent Technology Unit 2 ches a certain level. Due Having had experience in marketing tunnel construction to these unexpected prmachinery equipped with the KDPF since before the time of oblems we had to work the Tier3 emission standards, Komatsu was initially under day and night to meet the impression that evolving this technology to meet the the deadline. Soot filter Tier4 requirements would be easy. But working on Tier4, we soon realized that conditions had changed significantly Oxidation catalyst in comparison with Tier3, because of the drastically lower Komatsu Diesel Particulate Filter (KDPF) ◆ Emissions Standards for Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe ◆ Komatsu’s Actual Measurement Values Restriction Restriction Restriction Restriction Restriction under the Exhaust Emissions Regulation starting in 1996 starting in 2001 starting in 2006 starting in 2011 starting in 2014 (g/kWh) 130kW – 560kW Actual measurement value Restriction Restriction Restriction Restriction Restriction Japan starting in H8 starting in H13 starting in H18 starting in H23 starting in H26 0.4 Restriction starting in 2014 Restriction starting in 2011 Particulates U.S.A. Tier1 Tier2 Tier3 Tier4 interim Tier4 final 0.3 Restriction starting in 2006 Restriction starting in 2001 EU StageI StageII StageIIIA StageIIIB StageIV 0.2 0.1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 （g/kWh） NOX ◆ Timetebles for the Emission Regulation of Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe Restriction starting in 1996 Restriction starting in 2001 Restriction starting in 2006 Restriction starting in 2011 Restriction starting in 2014 kW 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 20092010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 19 – Less than 37 8.0 / 0.80*1 6.0 / 0.40*1 4.0 / 0.03*1 37 – Less than 56 4.0 / 0.30*1 4.0 / 0.025*1 7.0 / 0.40*1 Japan 56 – Less than 75 4.0 / 0.25 *1 3.3 / 0.02*1 75 – Less than 130 6.0 / 0.30*1 3.6 / 0.20*1 3.3 / 0.02*1 0.4 / 0.02*1 130 – Less than 560 6.0 / 0.25*1 3.6 / 0.17*1 2.0 / 0.02*1 Less than 19 9.5 / 0.80*2 7.5 / 0.80*2 7.5 / 0.40*2 19 – Less than 37 7.5 / 0.60*2 7.5 / 0.30*2 4.7 / 0.03*2 37 – Less than 56 4.7 / 0.30*2 7.5 / 0.40*2 U.S.A. 56 – Less than 75 4.7 / 0.40*2 3.4 / 0.02*1 75 – Less than 130 6.6 / 0.30*2 4.0 / 0.30*2 0.4 / 0.02*1 130 – Less than 560 6.4 / 0.20*2 4.0 / 0.20*2 2.0 / 0.02*1 560 – 9.2 / 0.54*2 6.4 / 0.20*2 3.5 / 0.10*1 3.5 / 0.04*1 19 – Less than 37 8.0 / 0.80*1 7.5 / 0.60*3 37 – Less than 56 4.7 / 0.025*3 7.0 / 0.40*1 4.7 / 0.40*3 EU 56 – Less than 75 3.3 / 0.025*1 75 – Less than 130 6.0 / 0.30*1 4.0 / 0.30*3 0.4 / 0.025*1 130 – Less than 560 6.0 / 0.20*1 4.0 / 0.20*3 2.0 / 0.025*1 *1: NOx/PM *2: NOx+NMHC/PM *3: NOx+HC/PM (g/kWh) 12 Pursuing Environmental Management Komatsu promotes environment-friendly activities throughout the entire Group to realize its vision of “What Komatsu Can Do and What It Must Do” for the environment and the sustainable development of society. In line with the Komatsu Earth Environment Charter Komatsu’s Relationship with the Environment revised in 2010, the Komatsu Group embarks on global Enhancing Quality of Life In recognition of the fact that our business activities deeply initiatives across business areas guided by the fundamental affect the environment on a regional and global level, we, at principles of Komatsu, have placed the focus on the following four key (1) Contributions to Realization of Sustainable Society, areas: (2) Simultaneous Realization of Environmental and 1) Climate Change Economic Performance, and 2) Establishment of a Sound Material-Cycle Society (3) Observance of Corporate Social Responsibility. 3) Conservation of Air, Water and Other Environments as well as Management of Chemical Substances 4) Biodiversity ◆ Relationship of the Komatsu Group’s Business Activities with the Environment ● Provision of environment-friendly products and services ● Creation and operation of a transaction network for used components (parts), information on “Reman” sales, etc. Sales and After-sales Services ● Activities based on health and safety ➡P.11-12,21,23 and environmental guidelines ➡P.20,28 Sales and after-sales service agents Use Communications ● Reduction of environmental satellite impacts during the product Sales and usage stage after-sales service agents ● Provision of solutions for Logistics customers’ environmental ● CO2 reductions activities in logistics ● Promotion of fuel-efficient Sales, Rentals, and operation ● Improvement of After-sales Services ● Product support through transport efficiency ● Improvement of use of ICT Komatsu packing material Products ➡P.9-10,21 employees Products ➡P.20,22 Development ● Environment & Economy Reuse of products ● LCA design Local ● Medium-term targets for Reuse Reuse of parts community Komatsu development of employees environmental technology Reuse Customers ➡P.21 Reduce Business associates CO2 Procurement of Use NOX Materials Particulate ● Green procurement Manufacturing matter Remanufacturing of used ➡P.20,37-38 components (parts) (“Reman” business) ➡P.23 Recovery ● Mitigation of climate change (energy conservation) Recycling of materials ● Effective utilization of resources Used vehicles (zero emissions) (outsourcing) ● Environmental risk management ➡P.23 Recycle Komatsu ● Elimination of hazardous chemical employees substances ● Termination of use of organic chlorinated cleaning solvents ● Correspondence to biodiversity ➡P.22,24-27 Disassembly Proper disposal of waste (outsourcing) 13 Komatsu Earth Environment Charter (June 2010 revision) < Corporate Principles > 1. Contributions to Realization of Sustainable Society Enhancing Quality of Life Mankind must not only promote the further growth of a rich and comfortable society but also pass down this indispensable environment of our planet earth to future generations in a sound and healthy condition. We, at the Komatsu Group, define environmental conservation efforts as one of the highest priority management tasks, and endeavor to contribute to the sustainable growth of society by integrating advanced technologies into environmental conservation efforts in all our business activities. This is represented by our hybrid construction equipment which features a substantial reduction of CO2 emissions while in operation and by our superior manufacturing. 2. Simultaneous Realization of Environmental and Economic Performance We are committed to improving both environmental performance and economic efficiency, as a group of companies working toward superior manufacturing for customer satisfaction. To this end, we constantly take up the challenge of advancing technologies to develop creative products that improve both environmental performance throughout the product’s life cycle and the product’s economic performance at the same time. 3. Observance of Corporate Social Responsibility Each company of the Komatsu Group promotes environmental conservation by not only complying with the applicable laws and regulations of the concerned host community, region and country but also by establishing its voluntary standards which consider global and local environmental concerns. Each company of the Group also strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibility by actively participating in local environmental conservation programs and thereby promoting close-knit communication with local communities, while striving to become a company trusted by all Komatsu stakeholders. < Guidelines for Corporate Activity > 1. Basic Stances on Earth Environmental Problems We, at the Komatsu Group, work for sustainable society and earth environment through our global business operations by addressing the following four environmental problems with the stances discussed below. 1) Climate Change We will reduce the use of energy and emissions of greenhouse gas in all phases of our business activities ranging from research and development, procurement, production and logistics to sales and service as well as in the total life cycle of our products and services. 2) Establishment of a Sound Material-Cycle Society Through our business processes, we work to minimize the use of natural resources, such as materials and water, promote their re-use or recycle them as much as possible, and expand Zero Emissions from our manufacturing activities around the world. At the same time we ensure the thorough management of waste materials in all our business domains, including our suppliers and distributors. We also continuously work to increase the recyclability rate of products at the time of disposal. 3) Conservation of Air, Water and Other Environments as well as Management of Chemical Substances We comply with not only local laws and regulations but also with our established standards concerning the conservation of water quality, prevention of air pollution, noise and vibrations. As much as possible, we also ensure the thorough management of chemical substances for use in our business activities, while continuously reducing the use of potentially harmful chemical substances or replacing them with alternative substances for discontinuation of their use. 4) Biodiversity We recognize biodiversity as one of the important issues concerning the earth environment, evaluate, understand and analyze impact on it in all our business domains, and work on our tasks according to the criteria of the highest impact and/or the most effective actions. 2. Framework of Global, Group-wide Environmental Management System The Komatsu Head Office, as well as the manufacturing facilities and main companies of the Komatsu Group, already with ISO certifications, will work to maintain and improve their environmental management system, while other manufacturing facilities and suppliers will also work to establish their environmental management systems and reduce their environmental impact. The Komatsu Environmental Committee develops environmental action plans and common guidelines for the Komatsu Group. Based on these Group-wide plans and guidelines, each division or company sets up its own midto long-term targets, develops and implements specific action plans, reviews them regularly and works to continuously improve them. 3. Environmental Education and Communication We believe that it is important to enhance the environmental awareness of each and every employee and thereby actively promote environmental awareness and education programs for all employees. We will gather environment-related information concerning not only our manufacturing facilities but also other related entities, such as major affiliated companies and suppliers, and strive to disclose such information, thereby facilitating proactive communication with all our stakeholders, such as customers, employees, local communities and suppliers and further expanding the content of environmental communication. 14 Environmental Management Structure company formulates environmental action plans (implemenEnvironmental Action Plan and Results tation policies) for each field, establishes action targets for for FY2010 each fiscal year, and steadily advances its policies, while To promote the Komatsu Earth Environment Charter, the following up on their implementation status. ◆ Environmental Management Objectives Results Medium-and long-term Future Implementation policies for FY2010 for FY2010 objectives information ● Maintenance for the Integrated Certification of environmenAcquisition of integrated Integrated certification of tal management systems (EMSs) is in progress. Enhancing Quality of Life 1. Strengthen environmental management systems Komatsu House Ltd. ● Integrated certification of Komatsu House postponed certification by the Komatsu Group P.19 Manufacturing Facilities in Japan to next FY Continue to organize courses 2. Environmental education and training: Implement Draw up and promote the the education plan education plan ● Held 13 courses with over 5,200 participants and expand them to overseas P.20 locations Enhance the quality of the 3. Environmental communication: Publish an Formulate a communication ● Published the Japanese version in July and the English environmental & social report plan and publish the report version in August 2010 content; release report earlier － than in previous years ◆ Research and Development Objectives Results Medium-and long-term Future Implementation policies for FY2010 for FY2010 objectives information 1. Reduce the environmental impact of construction ● Developed a vehicle equipped with an engine equipment compliant with Tier4-interim emission standards (130 Develop vehicles compliant with Develop vehicles compliant with Tier4-interim emission – 560kW) (D65-17, PC220/240LC-10, WA380-7, the Tier4 emission standards P.11 standards HM300-3, etc.) effective from 2011 in the U.S.A., P.12 ● Develop low-emission construction equipment ● Introduced an engine oil (low ash oil) developed Europe, and Japan specifically for KDPF equipped vehicles Reduce CO2 emissions of 10% reduction by 2015 equipment compliant with Tier4compared to the 2007 level for interim emission standards ● Achieved 10% reduction with a hydraulic excavator vehicles compliant with Tier4 ● Reduce CO2 emissions from construction equipment (hydraulic excavators: Δ 10% compliant with Tier4-interim emission standards emission standards(hydraulic P.11 (improve fuel efficiency of products) compared to existing models) ● Mass production of hybrid hydraulic excavators excavator) P.21 and hybrid equipment (hydraulic (HB205-1 and HB215LC-1) 35% reduction for hybrid vehicle excavators: Δ 25% compared to (hydraulic excavator) existing ordinary models) ● Started indicating the substances contained in canned counterweights (according to the manuals by Japan Achieve 99.5±0.5％ for ● Improve the recyclability rate of construction Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association) Recyclability rate of 99.5±0.5％ equipment equipment compliant with the ● Adopted chlorine-free hydraulic hoses (changeover underway) by 2015 P.23 next emission standards ● Established a recycling route for electric double-layer capacitors ● Achieved 75% reduction using a newly developed Maintain the reduction of Maintain reduction of vehicle (strict control of continuous use of alminium hazardous substances at 75% hazardous substances at radiators/rigorous management of packing materials compared to the 1998 level until － 75% compared to 1998 for canned counterweights) 2015 Reduce the use of mercury and lead in vehicles ● Monitor panel of Tier4-compliant vehicles changed ● Strictly control and reduce substances of environcompliant with Tier4 emission over to a mercury-free LCD panel － － mental concern in construction equipment standards Introduce a separate ● Conducted surveys of substances by product type in hazardous substances 100% hazardous substances Japan and the EU for mass production control system for each ● The control system is being implemented outside control for parts destined for the P.26 product type (to comply with EU by May 2011 Japan (with the exception of the EU) REACH regulations) 2. Reduce the environmental impact of industrial machinery Expand business affiliations Expand AC servo press sales for AC servo presses ● Launched more compact AC servo presses ratio － ● Market high-performance AC servo presses ● Minor-change model of multi-wire saws for solar cells Expand business affiliations for ● Market high-efficiency wire saws for solar cells Develop minor-change model developed and released to the market high-efficiency wire saws P.21 3. Promote reuse and recycling Expand and promote the ● Reorganized the “Reman” business globally Promote reuse and recycling through “Reman” business (concentrate operations into ten Reman Centers in further improvements in recyclingP.23 ● Promote the “Reman” business regions with a high demand for remanufactured parts) related technologies for parts Topics Biodiesel Fuel Project -Completion of BDF Pilot PlantIn 2009, the biodiesel fuel (BDF) project was started 20% of the kerosene consumed by 1,000 dump trucks at the Adaro Mine in Kalimantan, Indonesia. The project with BDFs, with the goal of achieving a reduction in CO2 provides for cultivation of the jatropha and other plants emissions of approximately 200,000 tons, roughly the for production of BDFs and using these fuels to run equivalent of the CO2 emitted by Komatsu manufacturKomatsu dump trucks in operation at the mine. ing facilities in Japan in the course of one year. At the Adaro Mine, in 2010, Komatsu built a pilot plant for BDF production and a laboratory where the produced BDFs are analyzed to maintain quality. Komatsu, as the manufacturer, will from now on guarantee the quality of the dump trucks running on BDFs at the Adaro Mine. The project is an example of a business model for local production of a carbon-neutral biodiesel fuel for local consumption. The future objective is to replace Pilot plant for BDF production Local staff and the laboratory 15 ◆ Manufacturing Objectives Results Medium-and long-term Future Implementation policies for FY2010 for FY2010 objectives information 1. Mitigation of climate change (energy conservation) ● Make 20% improvement by FY2010 in the amount ● Improved 27.0% from the FY2000 level; attained 3.8% 40% reduction by FY2015 of CO2 emissions per unit of manufacturing value Improve 1% over the improvement over the previous fiscal year compared to 1990 level compared to the FY2000 level at the Komatsu Group previous fiscal year ● Curbed total CO2 emissions by 18% compared to 43% reduction by FY2020 P.22 manufacturing facilities in Japan 1990 compared to the 1990 level ● Curb total CO2 emissions to the 1990 level (Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan) 2. Effective utilization of resources By FY2015, Japan: Attain a recycling rate of Enhancing Quality of Life ● Maintain or make further progress in attaining zero Attain a recycling rate of 99% ● Attained a recycling rate of 99.0% across the Komatsu or greater Group 99.5% or greater P.24 emissions at the Komatsu Group manufacturing Overseas: Attain a recycling rate facilities in Japan of 95% or greater ● Achieve a reduction of more than 15% by FY2010 Improve more than 15% ● Achieved 38.8% reduction in the amount of waste in the amount of waste generated per unit of 20% reduction by FY2015 manufacturing value compared to the FY2005 level at compared to the FY2005 generated per unit of manufacturing value over the compared to the 2005 level P.24 level FY2005 level the Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan ● Achieve a reduction of more than 10% by FY2010 in Improve more than 10% ● Achieved 30.3% reduction in the amount of water the amount of water used per unit of manufacturing 25% reduction by FY2015 value compared to FY2005 at the Komatsu Group compared to the FY2005 used per unit of manufacturing value over the FY2005 compared to the 2005 level P.24 level level manufacturing facilities in Japan 3. Environmental risk management ● Implement voluntary reductions in the release of chemical substances Substitute reductions in the amount of VOCs Establish a control system released, which account for the majority of chemical for chemical substances ● Achieved 48.7% reduction in the amount of VOCs 50% reduction compared to the substances released and reduce the amount released per unit of manufacturing value over the FY2005 level P.26 ● Implement voluntary reductions in VOCs of released chemical FY2005 level substances Achieve reductions of more than 20% and 50% by FY2008 and FY2010, respectively, in the amount of VOCs released per unit of manufacturing value compared to the FY2005 level ● Undertake soil and groundwater remediation at the Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan Continue the cleanup ● In progress Complete the cleanup work P.25 ● Sequentially address each underground tank that Sequentially address each No applicable underground has been in operation for 20 years or more at the tanks ● No applicable underground tanks underground tank that has been P.25 Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan in operation for 20 years or more ◆ Procurement and Logistics Implementation policies Objectives Results Medium-and long-term Future for FY2010 for FY2010 objectives information 1. Green procurement Provide guidance and support to member ● Promote improvements at suppliers through the companies of the Komatsu ● Certification acquired within FY2010: 17 out of 17 Reinforce linkages with supplier establishment of environmental management “Midori-kai” for acquiring member companies acquired certification (equal to the EMSs P.20 systems and by specifying matters that require integrated certification of their target) environmental management environmental consideration systems (EMSs) 2. Environmental conservation in logistics Improve CO2 emissions per unit of net sales generated ● CO2 emissions per unit of net sales generated through shipping of products through shipping of products and components Improve by 14.4% over the ● Improve 10.7% over the previous fiscal year FY2006 level ● Achieved 38.0% improvement compared to FY2006 and components by 30.6% by P.22 (Komatsu manufacturing facilities in Japan) FY2015 compared to the 2006 (in the scope of revised Law concerning the Rational level (Komatsu manufacturing Use of Energy of Japan) facilities in Japan) The Oyama and Koriyama Plants are increasingly ● Promote modal shifts in emphasizing a shift to Japan Railway containers, raising ● Shift to means of shipping with low environmental impact shipping from trucks to inland the modal shift ratio to 3.6%. At the same time, Komatsu’s Continue to promote modal shift － ferries or rail overall modal shift ratio (including the use of domestic vessels) falls on 23.9%, remaining on the same level ● The Awazu Plant is focusing on the use of specially ● To save resources, aim at reducing procurement designed packaging for containers and has improved Increase the packaging return Reduce procurement of new of new packaging materials to zero and make all ratio the packaging return ratio by 9.4%. The total packaging material to zero P.22 shipping containers returnable packaging return ratio for shipments within Japan accounts for 45.1% of all export packaging ● Improved the cargo weight per shipment index by 13.1% by loading containers directly at the plant, Increase the size of shipped improving the load ratio, increasing production at Promote these efforts with a units to large lots plants adjacent to ports, increasing the number of selffocus on components P.22 propelled vehicles and similar measures（11.6 tons/ ● Promote reduction in shipping distances and shipment -> 13.1 tons/shipment） improvements in shipping efficiency ● The distance per shipment using truck trailers (average haul distance) was reduced by 13.3% (183 km/shipment Implement further improvements, Using nearby ports to shorten ⇒158 km/shipment）across the Komatsu Group. shipping distances by trucks Transfer of production to the Ibaraki and Kanazawa including reducing the operating P.22 range of forklifts Plants, which are adjacent to ports, is ongoing to reduce shipping distances ◆ Sales and After-sales Servicess Objectives Results Medium-and long-term Future Implementation policies for FY2010 for FY2010 objectives information Support environmental Enhance awareness of ● Carried out activities for improvement through conservation activities by 1. Encourage Komatsu Group sales agencies the environment through guidance provided during onsite visits to 107 sites Komatsu Group sales agencies and rental companies in Japan to reduce their education and training based ● Regularly issued the Safety and Environment and rental companies in P.20 environmental impact on the Group’s environmental Newsletter (24 editions published yearly) Japan based on the Group’s guidelines environmental guidelines 16 Environmental Management Structure Relationship between Business Activities ◆ Environmental Impact Indicators by Region and the Environment Energy Water Resources (million GJ) (million m3) 6.0 5.9 The Komatsu Group procures various parts and materials 6.12 6 and, through the manufacturing process, utilizes the earth’s 5.0 5 resources, including raw materials, water, energy, and 4.0 chemical substances, among others, to provide products to 3.3 4 customers. Such business activities impact the environment 3.0 3 at each stage in the process. Enhancing Quality of Life 2.0 The Komatsu Group will continue to provide more highly 2 1.2 value-added products and services while assessing the 1.0 1 0.93 0.5 environmental impacts resulting from its business activities, 0.12 0.07 0.0 0 formulating mediumand long-term objectives, and introducJapan Asia (excluding Japan) The Americas Europe Japan Asia (excluding Japan) The Americas Europe ing measures to reduce such impacts. ◆ Environmental Impact Resulting from Business Activities of Energy Komatsu Group Companies, including Facilities outside Japan Electricity 815GWh (FY2010) Heavy oil A 13,000kℓ Kerosene 6,000kℓ Light oil 10,000kℓ Direct Materials Natural gas 16million Nm3 Steel 938,591t LPG 7kt Input Gasoline 500kℓ Water Resources Indirect Materials LNG 14,000Nm3 Groundwater 5.9million m3 Paints 1,225t*1 Steam 33kt Industrial water 0.3million m3 Lubricants 14,873kℓ*1 Other 5MWh Supply water 1.0million m3 Development Procurement of Materials Manufacturing (36 Komatsu Group Manufacturing Facilities in and outside Japan) ● Ecology & Economy ● Green procurement ● Mitigation of climate change Product ● LCA design (energy conservation) Product weight ● Effective utilization of resources (zero emissions) (construction, mining and ● Medium-term targets Industrial equipment) for development ● Environmental risk management of environmental 1,619kt ● Elimination of hazardous chemical substances*1 technology Number of products ● Termination of use of organic chlorinated (construction, mining and cleaning solvents*2 Industrial equipment) 75,811vehicles Environmental Risks (Air, soil, and groundwater pollution) Measures for underground oil tanks 0unit*2 Storage for PCB transformers 476units*2 Groundwater observation wells 123wells*2 Company on-site landfills Closed Output Waste Atmospheric Discharges Noise and Total amount generated 112kt CO2 561kt-CO2 vibration Substances under the Pollutant Release and SOx 69t Transfer Register (PRTR) Law 98.5t*2 NOx 177t*2 (Waste furnaces 1 unit stopped) Substances under the PRTR Law 571.6t*2 Waste Recycling Water-based Discharges Recycling amount 98kt Wastewater 5.7million m3*2 BOD emissions 27t*2 Hazardous waste manifests COD emissions 18t*2 Use in Substances under the PRTR Law other industrial Waste Disposal (public water areas) 0t*2 sectors Waste materials disposed by subcontractor 14kt Substances under the PRTR Law (Company on-site landfill of waste materials 0kt) (sewerage) 0t*2 CO2 emissions: Calculated by multiplying the electric power, heavy oil, etc. consumed (see Energy section of Input column) by the CO2 emission coefficient (according to the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculation Reporting Manual of the Ministry of the Environment based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures) SOx emissions: Calculated by multiplying the “S content by percentage” (based on element tables of suppliers) by the amounts of heavy oil, kerosene, light oil, and coke used. NOx emissions: Calculated by multiplying the “nitrogen oxide emissions units” (obtained at each Komatsu facility) by the amounts of heavy oil, kerosene, light oil, natural gas, and LPG used. Emissions and transfer of substances covered by the PRTR Law: Calculated by the “content ratio of specific chemical substances” contained in indirect materials multiplied by the “discharge or transfer rate.” This calculation is based on the PRTR Law, which was designed to mandate the disclosure of the amount of specific chemical substances released into the environment to promote the management of such substances. 17 ◆ CO2 Emissions by Scope Scope1: CO2 emitted directly by Scope2: CO2 emitted indirectly by CO2 Waste manufacturing facilities manufacturing facilities (1,000 t) (1,000 t) (by using generators, boilers, etc.) (by purchasing electricity) Disposal amount 270 264.5 Recycled amount (1,000 t) (1,000 t) 50 88.7 175.8 240 90 180 167.3 223.3 43.6 41.1 80 160 210 40 70 140 180 60 56.1 120 150 30 50 100 120 19.6 Enhancing Quality of Life 40 80 20 90 30 60 60 50.9 38.9 10 8.1 20 40 12.0 11.1 30 22.5 10 20 11.4 0 0 0 0 Japan Asia The Americas Europe Japan Asia The Americas Europe Japan Asia The Americas Europe Japan Asia The Americas Europe (excluding Japan) (excluding Japan) (excluding Japan) (excluding Japan) Energy Packaging Electricity 15.3GWh*4 Steel 2,930t*3 Energy Kerosene 500kℓ*4 Resins 44t*3 etc. Fuel Energy Wood, cardboard Energy Light oil 1,430kℓ*3 4,021t*3 Indirect Materials, Oils Indirect Materials, Oils Fuel, electricity Logistics Sales and After-sales Services Use Recovery and Disassembly ● CO2 reductions in logistics ● Provision of environment● Reduction of ● Promotion of “Reman,” in ● Improvement of transport friendly products and services environmental impact which used components efficiency ● Creation and operation of during the product usage (parts) are recovered, a transaction network for stage remanufactured, and ● Improvement of packing used components (parts), ● Provision of solutions for supplied back to the materials market information on “Reman” sales, customers’ environmental etc. activities ● Promotion of fuel-efficient operation Reuse of products Reuse of parts Recycling of materials (outsourcing) Atmospheric Discharges Atmospheric Discharges Atmospheric Discharges CO2 50.9kt-CO2*3 CO2 7.8kt-CO2*4 CO2, NOx, diesel particulate matter Atmospheric Discharges CO2 Waste oil Noise and Returnable pallets Hazardous waste products vibration manifests Waste disposal Recycling conducted Use in at oil manufacturers other industrial sectors Coverage of Data *1 : 7 Komatsu manufacturing facilities in Japan *2 : 12 Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan *3 : Logistics from procurement to sales related to construction equipment in Japan *4 : Sales agencies and rental companies in Japan (Komatsu Construction Equipment Sales and Service Japan Ltd. and Komatsu Rental Ltd.) were added 18 Environmental Management Structure Organizational Chart of the Environmental Management Structure Board of Directors The highest executive body to discuss and deliberate top-priority matters and make decisions on management policies of the Komatsu Group. Person in charge of environmental management : President and CEO Research and development divisions Corporate level control division (Environmental Affairs Department) Manufacturing divisions Enhancing Quality of Life Strategy Review Committee Sales and after-sales services divisions The executive body to study and review Business units basic policies, plans, and strategies, hold deliberations involved in top-priority corporate affairs, and put these before Affiliated companies the Board of Directors. This committee consists of the standing executive Manufacturing facilities outside Japan directors. Research Earth Environment Committee Environmental Committee Environment Management Groups This committee has ultimate authority for approving Komatsu’s environmental Development conservation measures. Its meetings Development Meeting Environment Technology Working Groups are held biannually. Its mission includes formulating specific environmental action plans based on the Guidelines for Manufacturing Corporate Activity of the Komatsu Earth Environment Charter and determining Manufacturing Technology Meeting Environment Management Personnel Liaison Council Komatsu Group’s overall direction in environmental conservation. Chaired Environmental and Energy Saving Working Groups by an executive officer in charge of environmental management, it consists Logistics Planning Meeting Logistics Manager Liaison Council of executive officers responsible for individual divisions. Manufacturing Facility Environment Management Committee Environment Promotion Team Procurement Division Procurement Meeting Procurement Control Manager Meeting Global Safety and Environmental Affairs Meeting Sales and after-sales service Chaired by an executive officer in charge Komatsu Japanese Dealer Meeting Liaison Council (After-sales service division in Japan) of environmental management, this meeting consists of officers responsible Liaison Council (Rental division in Japan) for safety and environmental management in Komatsu manufacturing facilities Affiliated Companies’ Environmental Management Conference both in and outside Japan. Meeting every two years as a rule, it provides a platform to implement policies and Environmental Management Conference for Manufacturing Facilities outside Japan measures formulated by the Earth Environment Committee and to exchange information related to environmental conservation worldwide. Four manufacturing facilities outside Japan, BKI (Bangkok Acquiring ISO14001 Komatsu Industries Co., Ltd.), KUI (PT Komatsu UndercarKomatsu has implemented a Group-wide initiative to riage Indonesia), Hensley (Hensley Industries, Inc.), and KIPL acquire ISO14001 certification, an international standard (Komatsu India Pvt. Ltd.) acquired certification in FY2009. for environmental management systems. The objective is to Other manufacturing facilities overseas are also being enhance management quality by strengthening systematic encouraged to acquire ISO certification. steps towards environmental conservation. Since 1997, several manufacturing facilities both inside and outside Japan, received certification. In FY2005, the four plants belonging to Komatsu Ltd. (the parent company), the Awazu, Osaka, Mooka, and Oyama Plants, acquired integrated certification, As the second step, in FY2007 Komatsu added its major affiliates in Japan and yet-to-becertified non-manufacturing facilities – notably the Head Office – to the above four plants, with integrated certification attained by the Group in Japan in May 2008. Upon completing the April 2010 surveillance audit, Komatsu NTC Ltd. (Toyama and Fukuno Plant) was included in the integrated certification. The Group seeks to further ISO14001 expand the scope of its integrated certification in the future Integrated to cover its affiliates in Japan. Certification 19 practicing energy savings, Global Logistics Meeting carrying out air and water The enactment of the revision to the Law concerning the quality measurements and Rational Use of Energy of Japan in FY2006 made Komatsu to waste separation, and promote more and more implementing measures to reduce CO2 had increased the ratio of emissions associated with its logistics operation that had been green space on their plant implemented by desterilizing returns and joint transpotation premises. Moreover, there with competitors. Starting in FY2011, these activities will be were no indications of expanded to a global scale. In preparation for this expansion, serious environmental risks. Enhancing Quality of Life Measurement for exhaust gas emissions a Global Logistics Meeting was convened in FY2010 to Komatsu plans to continue from the electrical generator assess the status of CO2 emissions and make improvements environmental inspections (in Komatsu India Pvt. Ltd.) in logistics processes. Work started with assessing the CO2 in developing countries into the future, to raise the level of emissions of ten major overseas production facilities in the environmental protection for the Komatsu Group as a whole. U.S.A., U.K., Germany, Brazil, China, Indonesia, and Thailand. Transport-related CO2 emiEnvironmental Audit of Chinese Subsidiaries ssions were calculated using the improved ton-kilometer Komatsu performs internal audits using the audit departments method, resulting in detailed of regional headquarters (RHQs). In FY2010, three Chinese subtransport data comparable sidiaries underwent environmental audits by Chinese auditors, to that available in Japan. with support from the Komatsu Head Office. The Head Office This was used to visualize prepared check sheets, which were used to examine ISO14001 the status and to make imGlobal logistics meeting activities and observance of environmental regulations. The provements. (at the Komatsu Head Office) audits were performed under the guidance of an environmental expert from the Head Office to help reduce environmental risks and improve the level of the local auditors. Environmental audits Environmental Education and Training at RHQs in countries other than China are planned in the future. In Komatsu Group’s basic education system, the parent company and individual divisions share the responsibility for Supporting Environmental Activities at Komatsu education. The parent company develops educational materials Group Sales Agencies and Rental Companies and provides educational services on relevant academic issues for use by Komatsu Group companies. Individual divisions, on Komatsu supports environmental activities at group sales the other hand, provide instruction on more hands-on matters, agencies and rental companies through education and guidincluding unique features particular to the individual divisions. ance on ways to enhance their environmental management. Education and training is tailored to different occupational The Environmental Guidelines, distributed in April 2005, content, and includes lectures on the environment. comprise points and standards that should be observed in The FY2010 curriculum for environmental education was relation to environmental issues that are of direct relevance essentially the same as for FY2009. Special emphasis was to operations at sales agencies and rental companies. These placed on learning about environmental laws and regulations in include waste treatment, waste oil treatment, oil and grease relation to environmental risk management. Komatsu created its management, and treatment of wastewater from vehicle washown textbook for teaching environmental laws and regulations, ing. Komatsu assists sales agencies and rental companies in and dispatched a lecturer from inside the Company to teach meeting the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines. the course at each business unit. To date, more than 200 The Company also assists in the review of the environmental employees have taken the lecture. In FY2011, the Company aspects of operations, conditions, and equipment at the relembarked on an awareness campaign for employees, to drive evant business sites of the agencies and companies, gives onhome the importance of conserving biodiversity. site guidance, and proposes remedial actions that are tailored Komatsu encourages employees to obtain an appropriate to each site. This is done through joint visits to each of the sites environment-related certificate that is recognized by public by persons in charge of environmental management at Komatsu institutions. and at the sales agencies and rental companies. (In FY2010, 107 sites received this assistance.) As a result, awareness of the environment has risen at the agencies and companies and Environmental Inspection various improvements are underway. at the Komatsu Subsidiary in India Komatsu has established environmental protection guidelines, Supporting Suppliers in Introducing which are based on the Komatsu Earth Environment Charter, Environmental Management Systems to improve the level of environmental conservation and reduce environmental risks in developing countries. After visiting subsidTo reinforce environmental management at our suppliers, iaries in China in 2007, and Thailand and Indonesia in 2009, in Komatsu required the Komatsu “Midori-kai” group, which acthis fiscal year Komatsu representatives visited two subsidiaries counts for about 80% of the value of procurements, to have all its in India to inspect environment-related facilities and exchange group companies acquire EMS certification. By FY2008, all 126 views on environmental matters. The inspections also included business associates in Japan had acquired EMS certification. the local waste disposal companies that the subsidiaries use. Of new member companies, 28 companies acquired The representatives found that each of the business units was certification between FY2009 and FY2010. 20 Mitigating Climate Change Komatsu is reducing CO2 emissions generated by its business activities while delivering products that help customers promote their environmental activities. Wire Saws for Solar Cells Mitigating Climate Change through Mainstream solar cells are made from thinly sliced silicon Products and Services Enhancing Quality of Life wafers. These wafers are manufactured by a machine known Introducing a New Type of Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator to as a multi-wire saw, which achieves high precision cutting World Markets using a wire moving at high speed. The expansion of solar The new HB205-1 hybrid hydraulic excavator features energy generation has led to an increase in Komatsu NTC’s 25% higher fuel efficiency than the PC200-8, which is sales of wire saws. The advanced technology contributes equipped with a conventional engine. This has earned it to the production and quality of solar cells, and at the same certification as a low-carbon emission construction machine time to the reduction of CO2 emissions worldwide. by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. The new hybrid model’s clean engine meets the ◆ Wire saw sales rate trend U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Tier3 emission (as the rate is 1.0 in FY2006) 9.0 standards. In addition, it was designated by the Ministry of 7.9 8.0 Land, Infrastructure, Transport 7.0 and Tourism as an ultra low6.0 noise construction machine, 5.0 generating 6dB less noise than 4.0 3.2 3.0 low-noise machines. All in all, the 1.8 1.8 2.0 HB205-1 boasts dramatically 1.0 1.0 improved environmental perfor0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 HB205-1 mance with regard to emissions, (FY) Wire saw for cutting solar cell wafers hybrid hydraulic excavator fuel efficiency and noise. Automated Machine Control/Guidance System Full Model Change for the WA1200 Super-large Wheel Loader An Automated Machine Control/Guidance System refers to a The WA1200-6, the world’s largest mechanical wheel construction system designed to improve the productivity of the loader, is equipped with an advanced Komatsu engine. Its overall construction process and ensure quality. This is achieved multi-faceted exhaust emission control system has reduced by applying Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to emission levels of nitrogen oxides (NOx), hydrocarbons (HC), a series of processes, consisting of surveying, design, construccarbon monoxide (CO), and other harmful substances. In tion, supervision, and inspection and maintenance. Equipping addition, fuel efficiency has been improved by 15% (comparconstruction machines with the Automated Machine Control/ ing to conventional equipment), Guidance System makes it possible to compare the position by incorporating control features information of the machine with three-dimensional design data such as controlling discharge to support operation of the machine by the operator or to rate of the pump or the flow to automatically control the machine. Incorporating these features the hydraulic circuit dependent greatly reduces the need for guides and surveying work during WA1200-6 wheel loader on the load onto the equipment. construction. It also reduces subsequent corrections, thereby shortening construction periods, improving the operation rates Thermoelectric Modules of the construction equipment, and reducing CO2 emissions. Thermoelectric modules are devices that take advantage Calculations based on internal test results have shown that the of the Seebeck effect – two dissimilar metals are connected, use of one D65PX-16 medium-sized bulldozer will reduce CO2 causing a temperature difference at the connection point emissions by 7.9 tons per year, or in terms of fuel, will help save and current flow between the two metals. Marketing of these 15 drums of fuel. After having already made inroads in Japan, devices has started through KELK Ltd. the U.S.A. and Europe, Komatsu is currently promoting the Komatsu had undergone a total of approximately 6,000 system on a global scale. hours of verification testing with the heat-treating furnace at the Awazu Plant until January ◆ Example of fuel consumption reduction effect by 2011, and is now using the Automated Machine Control/Guidance System recovered energy for indoor D65PX-16 annual fuel consumption lighting of the plant. If waste (Previous operating hours: 800 hours per year) (ℓ) heat recovery from plants is 0 10,000 20,000 widely adopted (50% adoption) Previous 19,200 ℓ in Japan, it will bring about a models reduction in CO2 emissions of 16% reduction Automated Machine Control/Guidance 16,128 ℓ Verification test of the heat-treating 1 million tons (Electric converSystem Training on the Automated furnace at the Awazu Plant sion: 2.9 ×109kWh) annually. Machine Control/Guidance *Effect of the Automated Machine Control/Guidance System on Reducing CO2 Emissions (effect not guaranteed) System(China) 21 Reducing CO2 Emissions in Logistics Initiatives to Mitigate Climate Change in Business Operations ● Improving Load Efficiency by Increasing Shipped Unit Size to Large Lots Reducing CO2 Emissions in Manufacturing Operations Transport efficiency was As part of its efforts to mitigate climate change, Komatsu improved by dense loading has adopted an indicator of CO2 emissions per unit of manuof large-size containers. The facturing value with respect to the electricity, fuel gas, fuel reduced number of transport oil, and any other type of energy used in the manufacturing runs resulted in a reduction operations. The Company has set a target of 20% reduction of CO 2 emissions through Enhancing Quality of Life in CO2 emissions by FY2010, compared to the FY2000 level. the use of logistics. In adIn 2010, the increased use of energy for air-conditioning dition, the use of returnable Loading engines into containers during the heat wave aggravated the situation, but the pallets contributed to the (Example: PC200 bound for China: company succeeded in achieving its medium-term target for conservation of resources. load efficiency 98.8%) the fifth year in a row. ● Using Nearby Ports to Shorten Shipping Distances ◆ CO2 Emissions Shipping distances were shortened by transferring pro(1,000t) 100 100 (%) duction to the Ibaraki and Kanazawa Plants, both adjacent 400 100 to ports. (1) The Kanazawa Plant “Shipping distance per unit” 350 86.8 90 193 km/unit ➡ 56 km/unit (71% of improvement) 324 316 80.0 (2) The Awazu Plant raised its utilization rate of the Kanazawa or less 300 80 Port for component shipments by 11.4%. (Utilization rate 276 78.7 78.4 73.0 70.0 of the Kanazawa Port raised from 80.9% to 92.4%) or less 250 239 71.6 72.7 70 (3) Transferring production of industrial machinery to the 70.4 63.7 Kanazawa Plant resulted in a reduction of CO2 emissions 287 66.3 200 55.0 60 equivalent to 422 tons per year. 265 58.8 188 0 0 ◆ Targeted and Actual CO2 Emissions per Unit of Net (FY) 1990 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Average target Sales Generated though Shipping from2008 to2012 Manufacturing value: Total production cost excluding direct material cost, ( hundred tCO / 2 million yen ) other facilities’ components, and procured components 4 3.66 3.53 3.40 Total amount of CO2 emissions of the 3.27 entire Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan 3.14 3.66 2.87 CO2 emission index per unit of manufacturing value 3 3.42 at Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan (compared to FY2000) 3.11 2.54 CO2 emission index per unit of manufacturing value at 2.54 Komatsu (non-consolidated) manufacturing facilities (compared to FY1990) 2 2.27 1 ◆ Main Initiatives in the Manufacturing Division Upgrading from old production lines to high-efficiency production lines 0 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 Strict enforcement of cutting power to equipment not in operation Demand Refining drying processes (shift to low-pressure air blowers) (Plan) (Mid-term Plan) side Introducing inverter-controlled pumps and motors Adopting high-efficiency lighting to a greater extent Using high-efficiency heat pumps in air conditioning systems Reducing CO2 Emissions Supply Renewing transformers to amorphous transformers in the Non-manufacturing Divisions side Using power saving control of engine-generators, etc. With the revision of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, (Minimum CO2 Operation) all Komatsu business units are assessing CO2 emissions in an effort to achieve reductions. The energy consumption of Komatsu Castex’s New Iron Foundry Facility non-manufacturing divisions, including the Head Office buildKomatsu Castex Ltd. is in charge of the Komatsu Group’s ing, the Research Division, and the Field Testing Department, foundry division. Iron foundry operations account for about is shown in the table below. Komatsu is proactively moving 30% of the CO2 generated by the Group, because of the forward by assessing and reducing CO2 emissions. These high heat requirements. efforts are not limited to Komatsu alone, but are expanding Komatsu Castex Ltd. constructed the new iron foundry fato include the entire supply chain, from business associates cility at the Himi Plant and transferred iron foundry operations to sales agencies and rental companies. from the Oyama Plant. Komatsu Castex is now capable of efficient operation. At the new iron foundry facility, the latest ◆ Energy Consumption of Non-manufacturing Divisions (FY2010) high-frequency melting furnace (IGBT control) was adopted. Main sales and Komatsu Main 50% of the CO2 related to foundry is generated in the partner after-sales services divisions Production Noncompanies Sales of construction melting process. Using the new melting furnace, CO 2 (for reference) manufacturing equipment Rental emissions is reduced approximately 16% per weight in the CO2 169.2 8.3 118.7 5.1 2.7 melting process. (1,000 tons) Crude oil equivalent 93.0 4.5 62.8 3.0 1.7 (1,000 kℓ) 22 Creating a Resource Recycling Society Komatsu is helping to create a resource recycling society by promoting the reuse and recycling of used components and by improving the recyclability rate of construction machinery through its Reman business. At the same time, the company is stepping up activities to attain zero emissions at Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities. Promoting the Reman Business ◆ Changes in Reman Ratios (base 2004 = 100) Enhancing Quality of Life Index(%) 198 Komatsu’s “Reman” business remakes used engines, 200 transmissions, and other key components (parts) of 180 161 169 157 construction and mining equipment into “remanned” 160 138 140 components. These components, which have the same 120 112 quality as newly manufactured components, are then offered 100 100 back onto the market. The Group is promoting the “Reman” 80 business at ten Reman Centers around the world, with those 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) in Indonesia and Chile serving as global centers. Upper left: KCIS Kuzbass Support Center (Russia) Upper right: Komatsu India Reman (India) Lower left: Komatsu Reman Indonesia (Indonesia) Lower right: “Reman,” an abbreviation for “remanufacturing,” offers the Komatsu Changzhou Rebuild Center (China) following advantages to customers: ● Quality and performance guaranteed to be the same Acquiring ISO14001 Certification for Reman Centers as for new components To further environmental conservation efforts, the ten Kom● Lower cost for “remanned” components atsu Reman Centers around the world have been pursuing ● Reduced idle time for construction equipment through ISO14001 certification. Three of the centers have already been sufficient inventory of “remanned” components certified and the remaining centers are working on obtaining ● Resource conservation and waste reduction through certification. Certified Reman Centers are advancing environreuse and recycling of components mental conservation through daily operations and through The number of Reman Centers was expanded in 2010 by inspections for maintaining and renewing their certification. establishing a remanufacturing plant for general construction equipment engines and engine sub-components in ChangFuture Steps zhou, China, and facilities in Russia and India for heavy-duty To further increase the reuse rate of used components mining equipment component remanufacturing. (parts), the Komatsu Group is reducing the number of disposed parts by: Providing Reman-related ◆ Reman Process ● developing parts with suitable sizes and designs Information Inspection upon receipt exclusively for future remanufacturing T h e K o m a t s u Group has ● developing recycling-related technologies (assessment, set up “Reman-Net” for High-pressure cleaning measurement, high-pressure cleaning, heat treatment, etc.) networking Komatsu Reman Disassembly to reduce waste components, and thereby further step up Centers around the world. The reuse and recycling activities. Group is actively using this Component inspection network to develop Reman Component cleaning Improving Recyclability Rate operations for reuse and recycling of components at Component remanufacturing Komatsu is moving forward with its changeover from the global level. IC tags and conventional rubber hoses to chlorine-free hydraulic hoses two-dimensional codes are Assembly set-up for its construction equipment. Conventional rubber hoses u s e d t o m a n a g e a n i t e m ’s represented a bottleneck in Komatsu’s efforts to raise its reAssembly remanufacturing history and cyclability rate for construction equipment. This changeover track quality and durability Performance test opens the way to raising the recyclability rate to over 99% for information. This important hybrid vehicles and for newly developed vehicles that meet Painting information is fed back to the Tier4-interim regulations. This exceeds the target value the Group, to help develop Final performance inspection set by the Japan Construction Equipment Manufacturers components with appropriate Association (97%) and comes close to Komatsu’s own life spans. Factory shipment voluntary target of 99.5%. 23 Effective Utilization of Resources ◆ Amount of Water Resources Used by the Komatsu Group Manufacturing Facilities in Japan in Manufacturing Operations (million m3) (%) 100 Waste 10 92.4 90.4 100 82.2 84.1 In tandem with reducing the amount of waste produced 9 8.82 80 69.7 during manufacturing operations, Komatsu conducts zero 8.16 8.18 8.38 emissions*1 activities to use waste materials as resources. 8 7.56 60 The company continued to achieve zero emissions in 7 40 FY2010 through strict waste separation and utilization of waste Enhancing Quality of Life 6.12 materials as valuables*2, boasting a recycling rate of 99.0%. 6 20 The medium-term target for waste emissions was also 5.44 attained in FY2010, the last fiscal year falling within this period, 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 (FY) with total waste emissions per unit of manufacturing value havCoverage of data: Komatsu Ltd. and the Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan Index per unit of ing decreased by 38.8% compared to FY2005. This dramatic Supply water Industrial water Groundwater manufacturing value reduction was due to the fact that Komatsu Castex Ltd. made advances in effectively utilizing its waste molding sand. Resource Conservation At the same time, new medium-term targets were established by Non-manufacturing Divisions for recycling rates and total waste emissions per unit of manufacturing value at business units in Japan, and new mediumWaste term targets for recycling rates at overseas business units. The Komatsu Head Office is promoting zero emissions This fiscal year Komatsu will encourage mainly its Group and has remodeled its waste containers to make waste companies to practice thorough waste separation, with the separation easier through the use of visual aids. Other steady aim of achieving the company’s new medium-term target. efforts to recycle resources include the use of recycling *1 : Komatsu defines “zero emissions” as a waste material recycling rate of 99% or more. boxes and kitchen waste disposal machines. The amount of *2 : “Valuables” in this report refers to materials that can be sold to external companies. waste is also being measured at regular intervals. The results showed that a 63.6% reduction has been achieved in the ◆ Amount of Waste Generated by the Komatsu Group amount of combustible waste, compared to March in 2008 Manufacturing Facilities in Japan when measurements started. Komatsu also participated in (1,000 t/year) 40 200 (%) 200 the ECOCAP Movement and collected enough bottle caps 38.2 34.1 to fund vaccines for 348 children in the developing world. 33.0 30.4 29.8 29.8 Amount of waste generated 30 150 113 ◆ Changes in the Amount of Combustible Waste from the Head Office Recycled amount 100 99.8 99.2 99.0 99.1 99.0 (kg) 20 100 1,000 871 Combustible waste 99.2 99.2 99.2 95.9 89.6 59.4 61.2 800 739 10 50 600 14.0 450 48.5 19.6 415 400 317 200 0 0 1998 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 0 Index per unit of March November November June November Disposed amount Recycled amount manufacturing value Recycling rate* 2008 2008 2009 2010 2010 * Recycling rate is calculated by dividing the amount recycled (including valuables) by the amount generated (including valuables). Topics The Environment Minister’s Commendation Water Resources Since FY2006, Komatsu has set a new medium-term target of achieving by FY2010 a 10% or greater reduction in the amount of water used per unit of manufacturing value, awarded to the Oyama Plant compared to the FY2005 level. The Oyama Plant embarked on initiatives such as The company has attained this medium-term target by (1) Introducing high efficiency equipment based reducing the amount of water used per unit of manufacturing on the top management’s realization of the value by 30.3%, compared to FY2005, through the reuse of importance of saving energy water during processing and the elimination of wasteful day(2) Issuing a declaration for each employee to reduce to-day practices. CO2 emissions by 1 kg per day In particular, the Awazu Plant cut back on its groundwater (3) Having energy conservation patrols make the consumption through measures such as assessing the wells from rounds of the plant to eliminate waste which groundwater is taken and repairing water leakage. As a (4) Setting up a special department in charge of consequence, they were able to trim water usage by 16% per introduction of energy saving equipment. unit of manufacturing value compared to the previous fiscal year. Thanks to these activities, in which all corporate levels participated, CO2 emissions per unit of manufacThe plant also established a new medium-term target proturing value in 2009 were reduced viding for a 25% or more reduction in the amount of water by 41% (compared to 2000), and used per unit of manufacturing value by FY2015, compared in FY2010 the Oyama Plant was to the FY2005 level. awarded the Environment Minister’s In the years to come, Komatsu will make further efforts to Commendation for its activities to reduce the amount of water resources used and to achieve mitigate global warming. Oyama Plant Manager its new medium-term target. 24 Environmental Risk Management Komatsu is committed to thoroughly implementing measures that mitigate and prevent pollution, in strict compliance with the legal requirements of national and local authorities, to minimize the environmental risks that accompany manufacturing activities. Managing PCB Waste Promoting Compliance and Pollution Mitigation Komatsu conducts appropriate storage and management and Prevention Enhancing Quality of Life of PCB waste, such as transformers and capacitors in Komatsu Group companies are responsible for periodically accordance with Japan’s Law Concerning Special Measures reporting and archiving environmental measurement results, Against PCB Waste and its Waste Disposal and Public in strict compliance with applicable laws and regulations of Cleansing Law. In FY2008, Komatsu began entrusting PCB national and local authorities. In FY2010, the Komatsu Group disposal to the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation experienced a single minor environmental infraction in Japan (JESCO). A total of 95 PCB-containing capacitors had been and corrective measures have been completed for this case. disposed of by FY2009. Another 69 capacitors were disThe Group had no major accidents where the environment posed of in FY2010. When JESCO started its ballast disposal was polluted in Japan. operations at its Kyushu facility, Komatsu re-examined the PCB-containing lamp ballasts, Addressing Soil and Groundwater Contamination w h i c h i n c l u d e f l u o re s c e n t Komatsu has established guidelines in Japan for testing lamps, used at all its facilities. soil and groundwater, and performs investigations according The investigation revealed that to applicable laws and regulations at business units that are there were approximately 3,300 to be sold, closed, or demolished. If pollution is found, the PCB-containing lamp ballasts Company takes appropriate measures under the supervision in use. These disposal efforts of local authorities. Komatsu has also performed voluntary are scheduled to continue in Transformers being removed investigations at currently operating business units, to 2011. from the Osaka Plant for disposal check for contamination from volatile organic compounds compounds (VOCs), which had been used in previous years ◆ Number of PCB-containing Transformers and in cleaning solvents and in other applications. Komatsu has Capacitors in Storage been surveying soil and groundwater for VOC contamination Number of Number of storage Company Site disposal at Group business units in Japan since 2005. All business in FY2010 High density Low density units where contamination was detected have implemented Komatsu Head office 0 0 7 Ltd. countermeasures. The Company chose methods that would Awazu Plant 0 67 112 clean up the sites in as short a time as possible. Work at the Osaka Plant 52 59 59 Oyama Plant was completed in FY2009. With the demolition Oyama Plant 0 309 6 and removal of the former Development Center at the Osaka Mooka Plant 0 0 5 Plant in FY2010, an investigation was carried out according to Shonan Plant 0 2 1 the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and the results Field Testing Department 0 0 3 were reported to public authorities. The site was declared Construction & Mining Equipment Marketing Division 0 4 0 a so-called “designated lot subject to notification in case of Subtotal of Komatsu 52 441 193 changes”, because the levels of lead and other substances Komatsu Utility Co., Ltd. 15 20 11 exceeded standard values. The notification prescribed by the Komatsu Castex Ltd. 0 0 20 law was issued, and the required countermeasures have been Komatsu NTC Ltd. 0 31 0 completed. The history of the detected substances cannot be Komatsu Cabtec Co., Ltd. 0 2 12 ascertained, and it is not clear what caused these substances Komatsu House Ltd. 0 1 4 to exceed the standard. Komatsu will continue to take Komatsu Construction Equipment 2 18 19 reliable clean-up measures and maintain its monitoring of site Sales and Service Japan Ltd. boundaries to ensure that groundwater that does not meet Komatsu Rental Ltd. 0 0 1 environmental standards is contained within the premises. Total of Komatsu group 17 72 67 Total 69 513 260 *The Komatsu Plant’s share has been transferred to the Awazu Plant. ◆ Status of Soil and Groundwater Cleanup in Japan High-concentration waste from Osaka Plant will be disposed of within 2011. *The former Kawagoe Plant’s share is included in the Head office. Presence of Cleanup Business unit contamination Cleanup method status Excavation and removal, soil vapor Awazu Plant Yes extraction, groundwater withdrawal and In process Reducing amount of PRTR-related substances and aeration, bioremediation VOC released Komatsu Plant Excavation and removal, groundwater (formerly) Yes withdrawal and aeration, bioremediation In process Most of released PRTR-related substances and VOC Soil vapor extraction, air sparging, are VOC used in paint. In FY2010, the amount of such Osaka Plant Yes groundwater withdrawal and aeration, In process substances released increased as production increased. bioremediation Excavation and removal, groundwater Komatsu is making efforts to reduce the amount by (1) shiftShonan Plant Yes withdrawal and aeration In process ing to high solid paint and (2) improving coating efficiency. Tochigi Plant Yes Excavation and removal, bioremediation In process (See figures and tables in P26.) *Surveys revealed no contamination for the Koriyama Plant, Research Division in Hiratsuka, Techno Center in Izu and Field Testing Department in Oita. 25 Reducing the Use of Substances of Environmental ◆ Substances of Environmental Concern Banned or Concern and Complying with the EU REACH Regulation to Be Reduced for Use in ProductsConcern Responding to the increase in environmental conservation awareness Designation Number of Name substances around the world, Komatsu has been making efforts from an early ● PCBs ● Asbestos stage to reduce the use of asbestos, lead, and other substances of ● Specified chlorofluorocarbons/hydro chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) Banned 10 environmental concern. In FY1999, Komatsu stipulated its own list of ● Trichloroethylene ● Triethanolamine ● Chromium (VI) ● Cadmium ● PBB／PBDE*3 banned substances and substances approved for use only in limited cir● Lead ● Mercury ● Arsenic ● Selenium cumstances (see chart right), using as its base the chemical substances ● Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) ● Methanol banned under Japan’s Law Concerning the Examination and Regulation ● Hexachlorobenzene of Manufacture of Chemical Substances Control*1 , as well as other ● Specified phthalate ester (DEHP/DBP/BBP*4, DIBP*5) Enhancing Quality of Life To be reduced regulations in individual countries. At the same time, Komatsu began (subject to limited use) 16 ● HBCDD*3 ● Specified polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ● Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) comprehensive control of substances of environmental concern. The ● Specified Organotin Compounds company has already reduced its dependence on substances approved (Tri-substituted Organotin Compounds・DBT・DOT*6) for limited use, in keeping with its mediumand long-term targets for ● Short chain chlorinated paraffins developing environmental technology. Substances Komatsu is currently examining whether to designate the following of Very High substances, which might be used in Komatsu products, as In response to the enactment of the EU regulation addressing RegisConcern(SVHC) substances to be reduced. tration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH*2) under the (46) ● Lead arsenate/ diarsenic pentaoxide/ diarsenic trioxide EU REACH Triethyl arsenate ● DEHP/DBP/BBP*4,DIBP*5 in 2007, Komatsu reviewed the list of substances approved for limited regulation ● ● Short chain chlorinated paraffins ● Bis (tributyltin) oxide use and revised the designation of certain substances to “reduced” *1:Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture etc. or “banned,” as appropriate. Through cooperation with suppliers, the *2:REACH(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals): EU regulations for Registration, Evaluation, Authrisation and Restriction of Chemicals company has initiated a system to strengthen control of substances of *3:Specified brominated fire retardants environmental concern in products. This system has been deployed by *4:Diethylhexyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, benzyl butyl phthalate *5:Diisobutyl phthalate the corporations in Japan 2009, in Europe 2010, and is planned to be *6:Dibutyltin compounds・Triphenyltin compounds deployed in the U.S.A. 2011. ◆ Breakdown of the Amount of PRTR-related Substances Released and ◆ Control System for Substances of Environmental Concern Transferred at Komatsu Group Manufacturing Facilities in Japan Other 2.0% Xylene 13.9% Design Sending information Nickel 1.4% CAD system on technical drawings Control system Methylenebis(4,1phenylene) Ethylbenzene 10.0% (technical drawings) for substances of =diisocianate 1.6% Inputting specifications of substances of environmental concern ● Procurement Molybdenum and Toluene 5.4% environmental concern contained in products Atmospheric its compounds 3.2% discharges Checking for targeted Sending Other 0.8% ● Database for survey forms Chromium and Adherence 30.1% substances upon release Supplier its compounds 9.6% to products of technical drawings parts subjected Amount to surveys A 51.7% transferred Xylene 1.5% ● Checking for targeted (Waste) substances upon parts ● Supplier survey 5.1% Toluene 1.1% Chemically registration management Manganese and transformed Ethylbenzene 0.7% its compounds 33.9% or eliminated Manganese and ● Responding to survey results Table listing 13.1% its compounds 0.7% ● Summarizing information substances of on targeted substances environmental Supplier Other 1.1% concern B Sending Other 3.6% Xylene 4.4% ● Generating summary for completed 1,2,4-trimethylbenze 1.3% Methylnaphthalene 3.8% model under development BOM surveys Note: Substances handled in quantities of 1 ton or more ◆ Changes in the Amounts of PRTR◆ Names of Class I Designated Chemical Substances and the Amounts Released related Substances Released* at and Transferred by Group Manufacturering Facilities in Japan (handling 1 ton or more) (unit: t) Group Manufacturing Facilities in Japan Number Amount Chemically Amount (kg/ Amount Amount released (t) million under the Name transferred transformed contained in yen) PRTR Law handled 1,400 6 Air Water Soil Buried Sewerage Waste or eliminated products 5.2 1,288 4.9 412 Manganese and its compounds 656.5 1.1 － － － － 12.9 － 642.5 1,200 5 1,214 80 Xylene 377.1 263.0 － － － － 27.8 83.8 2.5 1,036 5.0 4.0 1,000 4 53 Ethylbenzene 220.7 189.0 － － － － 14.1 17.1 0.5 87 Chromium and chromium (III) compounds 185.0 0.0 － － － － 3.2 － 181.7 800 977 3 2.3 2.4 300 Toluene 135.8 103.0 － － － － 20.1 9.0 3.7 438 Methylnaphthalene 72.0 72.0 600 2 － － － － － － － 569.9 453 Molybdenum and its compounds 59.6 0.0 － － － － 0.0 － 59.6 400 402 1 448 Methylenebis(4,1phenylene)=diisocianate 38.9 0.0 － － － － 0.0 8.7 30.2 308 Nickel 27.7 0.5 27.3 0 0 － － － － － － 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 27.0 2.4 － － － － 0.3 24.4 － Amount Index per unit of released manufacturing value 88 Chromium (VI) compounds*1 *2 25.1 0.0 － － － － 6.2 － － *Substances handled in quantities of 1 ton or more 321 Vanadium compounds 21.2 － － － － － － － 21.2 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 9.8 4.2 － － － － 0.7 4.8 － 277 Triethylamine 9.3 1.1 － － － － 0.0 8.2 0.0 ◆ Amount of VOCs Released by Group 132 Cobalt and its compounds 8.5 － － － － － 0.5 － 8.0 Manufacturing Facilities in Japan 258 Hexamethylenetetramine 8.1 － － － － － － 8.1 － (t) (%) 188 N,N-dicyclohexylamine 8.1 0.5 0.0 7.1 0.3 0.2 2,000 120 － － － 100 101.4 95.4 349 Phenol*3 5.7 0.0 － － － － 0.0 5.6 0.1 392 Hexane 5.6 5.6 － － － － 0.0 0.0 － 1,500 1,453 1,626 90 1,693 78.8 405 Boron compounds 4.7 － － － － － 0.2 4.6 － 207 2,6-Di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol 2.0 － 0.0 － － － 1.0 0.0 1.0 1,321 1,000 47.6 51.3 60 71 Ferric chloride 1.2 － － － － － 1.2 － － Poly(oxyethylene) = Alkyl ether(Limited to Alkyl 564 407 1.1 － 0.0 － － － 0.4 0.8 － 500 833.3 30 carbon numbers 12 to 15 and their compounds) 400 Benzene*2 0.7 0.0 － － － － － 0.4 0.3 *1: During chrome plating, chromium (VI) compounds become chromium (III) compounds. Therefore, the amount transferred and the amount contained in products are entered 0 0 under “chromium and chromium (III) compounds.” 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) *2: PRTR Class I Specified Chemical Substances Amount of Index per unit of manufacturing *3: Although the contained amount of those substances is so little that it is needless to register on PRTR, the amount of releasing them exceeds 1 ton, and we disclose the fact VOCs released value (compared to FY2005) herein. 26 Biodiversity Komatsu will remain committed to protecting biodiversity throughout its business activities, fully recognizing that they impact the eco-system. Initiatives that deal with biodiversity Declaration of Biodiversity by Komatsu Enhancing Quality of Life Komatsu recognizes that its business activities are dependent on and influence The 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to benefits from the ecosystem services through biodiversity. Based on this underthe Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10) was held standing, Komatsu takes actions in accordance with the following guidelines as in Nagoya in October 2010. The conference signaled the it shares a sense of responsibility regarding the biodiversity crisis, and strives to conserve diverse resources and engage in the sustainable use of biodiversity. increasing importance of maintaining biodiversity and utilizing it in a sustainable manner on a global scale. I. Recognition by Management Komatsu recognizes that conservation and promulgation of biodiversity are With the establishment of Komatsu’s “Declaration of important management tasks. Biodiversity” and “Biodiversity Guideline” in January 2011, II. Activities business units worldwide embarked on activities designed to Komatsu shall promote activities by basically integrating climate change problems through the following two perspectives. preserve biodiversity. 1. Komatsu shall reduce its environmental impact, which is affecting biodiversity, through its business activities. 1) Reduction of environmental impact from products Komatsu and Biodiversity 2) Reduction of direct environmental impact in the lifecycle of products 3) Consideration of biodiversity when using land 2. Komatsu shall work for conservation and promulgation of biodiversity Komatsu understands that its business activities depend through its social contribution activities. on biodiversity and impact it at the same time. And Komatsu III. Promotion is promoting its initiatives to preserve biodiversity on two After considering realistic possibilities, Komatsu shall promote activities by means of a step-by-step approach. levels. IV. Collaboration with Local Communities First, the Company continues to promote ongoing efforts To conserve local biodiversity, Komatsu shall collaborate with municipal authorito reduce the environmental impact of Komatsu’s business ties, local residences, NGOs and other pertinent groups; promote activities; and work to become a company of which local communities can feel proud. activities. Komatsu has also made it mandatory to consider V. Involvement by All biodiversity when deciding how land is to be used, for To foster the growth of employees with a mindset of biodiversity, Komatsu shall example, when building factories. promote activities by having all employees involved. Accordingly, Komatsu shall promote such activities on a global and group-wide basis by having not only Second, Komatsu is getting directly involved in preserving suppliers, but also customers involved. biodiversity, and at the same time expanding its “one site VI. Communication one theme activities” to raise employees awareness of the While working to educate its employees in the field of biodiversity, Komatsu shall actively disclose its efforts regarding biodiversity and thereby enhance need to preserve the ecosystems that are indigenous to a social awareness of biodiversity. region. ◆ Positions of Komatsu’s Each Activity Greening of Factories(Increasing the green Impact on biodiversity coverage ratio of plant premises in Japan) Indirect Direct The green coverage ratio of plant premises in Japan is ・Reduce the environmental impact of business ・Greening of factories Plants surrounded by being increased, working toward a target of 20% by 2015. Business activities units CO2, VOC, wastewater management, etc. forest (regional species) ・Reduce the environmental impact of machine ・Consideration for biodiversity in land use Land operation CO2, NOx, etc. modification, erection of buildings, holding ◆ Planned Increase of the Green Coverage Ratio ・Incorporating procurement standards management ・Support rehabilitation of depleted mining sites (%) ・Biodiesel fuel project Restore vegetation (local species) to pre25 ・Fair Trade Office disturbance state 20.8 21.6 21.6 19.3 20 ・Employee education Nurturing environmentally ・One site one theme activities(provide places to 16.6 17.7 Social activities engaged employees interact with nature) 15 ・Preserve regional rare and endangered species ・Planting with the aim of creating natural forests 10 ・Preserving the natural woodlands of a region (Satoyama) ・Planting trees in Indonesia 5 ・Use of vacant lot at the Komatsu Plant (biotope) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Cooperation with NGOs/NPOs ◆ Relationship between Komatsu’s Business Activities and Biodiversity Business activities Impact on biodiversity Risks for the loss of biodiversity ■ Chemical substances released into the Manufacturing ・Habitat loss ・New species introduction air CO2, SOx, etc ・Contamination ・Climate change ■ Chemical substances released into the Procurement of Materials Logistics water BOD, etc. Resources ■ Chemical substances released into the soil ■ Energy Resources Crude Oil, Natural Gas, etc. Impact on biodiversity Development ■ Renewable Resources ■ Chemical substances released into the Water, Wood, etc. Sales and After-sales Service air CO2, SOx, etc Risks for the loss of biodiversity Mineral Resources ■ Chemical substances released into the Land Use ■ ・Habitat loss ・New species introduction (Construction of plants, etc.) Iron Ore, Copper Ore, etc. water BOD, etc. ・Contamination ・Climate change Use ■ Chemical substances released into the soil Land Modification Recovery and Disassembly 27 Enhanced Safety in the Workplace Komatsu is formulating new policies for occupational safety and physical and mental health management to foster a safe and comfortable work environment. Message from the President and New Policies Occupational Safety Enhancing Quality of Life Concerning Occupational Safety and Health Efforts on Health and Safety Management Komatsu has been disseminating the Message from the by Manufacturing Subsidiaries Komatsu President regarding Health and Safety throughout Following the certification of the Awazu, Osaka, Oyama and the Komatsu Group. Ibaraki Plants, the Kanazawa Plant acquired Occupational Safety & Health Management System (OSHMS) certification in FY2010. At Message from the President Concerning the same time, Komatsu Castex Ltd. and Komatsu Utility Co., Ltd. Occupational Safety and Health (now the Komatsu Tochigi Plant) were the first Group companies to 1. The Komatsu Group shall, first of all, strive to “ensure a safe acquire certification. The Komatsu Group has performed assessand comfortable work environment” and “maintain and ments to anticipate risks, mainly through small-group workplace promote employee health.” activities on safety aiming at “zero accidents.” In FY2011, the 2. The Komatsu Group shall promote “proactive occupational Group will steadily implement OSHMS at already certified plants, safety and health activities” in order for all employees to achieve and promote acquisition of OSHMS certification at other Komatsu the above conditions by working together as one team. plants. At the same time the Group will foster occupational safety, 3. Each and every person in a senior management position of the mainly through small-group “zero accidents” activities on a full Komatsu Group shall acknowledge the above two matters as top priority tasks and shall take the initiative in demonstrating participation basis. While continuing to upgrade safety-related the execution of daily duties accordingly. education and training, the Procurement Division and the divisions in charge of safety will jointly support safety activities Group-wide, to include overseas subsidiaries and business associates. In addition to the above, this year the company formulated (For example, in FY2010, 74 business associates in Japan, together an occupational safety and health guideline: “All Komatsu with 6 plants overseas, held safety instruction on 9 occasions.) Group companies, together with all top managers and employees, shall promote occupational safety and health Health and Safety Management at Komatsu Group activities, so that employees can work in a safe and comfortDistributors and Rental Companies able work environment in accordance with the policies Komatsu supports safety activities at Group distributors and described below.” rental companies in Japan through training and guidance on ways to enhance their safety management. Persons overseeing occupational Occupational Safety and Health Policies health and safety at Komatsu and at its distributors and rental (published on April 1, 2011, in conjunction companies, provide guidance on areas for improvement through with Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct) visits to relevant offices, factories, and rental business shops (a total (1).Observe the laws and regulations concerning occupational of 107 sites were visited in 2010) to verify firsthand the state of safety safety and health as well as internal rules, key items common management at the site. At distributors and rental companies where to Komatsu Group about occupational safety and health, and particularly items agreed as a result of labor-management occupational accidents have occurred, Komatsu assisted in determinconsultations in each workplace. ing the causes and formulating countermeasures, and applied these (2).Set up targets for activities based on occupational safety and measures to other distributors and rental companies across Japan. health policies, review their progress, and endeavor to continuThe Komatsu Group further strives to reduce occupational ously improve and enhance occupational safety and health accidents by promoting risk anticipation. activities. (3).Carry out occupational safety and health activities in Group Activities management-and-labor partnership on full participation basis and keep good communication with stakeholders with regard The Group as a whole has been conducting compliance and risk to occupational safety and health. audits on safety to confirm the state of compliance with relevant (4).Identify and evaluate the risk for occupational safety and health laws and regulations. of a workplace and take appropriate actions accordingly. Efforts to eradicate occupational accidents throughout the Group (5).Actively promote employees’ healthcare management and will continue based on intensified management-labor cooperation. support the maintenance and promotion of employees’ health. (6).Actively promote education, training and qualification acquisi◆ Incidence Rate of Occupational Accidents tion necessary for employees’ occupational safety and health (Frequency Rate of Lost Worktime) activities, and endeavor to develop human resources for safely (Frequency rate) 1.95 1.90 carrying out their responsibilities in workplace. All industries 2.0 1.85 1.83 1.75 1.62 1.61 (7).Subject to appropriate protection of personal information, pub1.43 Construction and 1.5 mining equipment 1.11 1.54 licly offer the knowledge and information about occupational manufacturing industry 1.0 0.81 0.81 0.89 0.74 1.00 safety and health activities obtained through the business Komatsu 0.50 0.66 0.68 0.43 0.78 0.47 (non-consolidated) 0.5 activities in order to secure safety and health in society. 0.64 0.15 Komatsu Group 0.33 0.40 0.44 0.13 0.19 manufacturing facilities 0 in Japan 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 28 CSR Theme 2 Developing People Key Activities Priority Issues ◆ Contributing to human resource development in local communities ◆ Enhancing our employees and suppliers through The KOMATSU Way (employees and business partners in the supply chain) ◆ Enhancing our employees and distributors Global Management Seminar through brand management (employees and distributors) Sharing The KOMATSU Way Globally and Contributing to Society through Human Resource Development Masakatsu Hioki Senior Executive Officer Supervising Compliance, Legal Affairs, Human Resources, Education and Safety & Health Care Komatsu Ltd. First, please explain in concrete terms what is meant made their career there, and have a deep understanding of by developing people. Komatsu’s way of management and set of values. Offering this kind of employee, who enjoys recognition by those Hioki: Komatsu’s overseas production went into full swing around him/her, the chance to move into top management from the mid 1980’s. In the process, the number of national will also act as a motivation for employees in all regions. employees increased, resulting in a growing globalization of It is better to have local nationals in top management if our work force. Many of these national employees are still we are to earn the trust of the local community and of all working for us, and are part of Komatsu’s “backbone”. stakeholders and establish good relations. At Komatsu, we encourage national employees to build on I believe that the “localization of management” is the experience working for the company and open the road for most desirable form of management for both Komatsu’s them to advance to top management in their respective region. employees and the local community. This is what we call “localization of management.” Komatsu also devotes efforts to the development of professionals in many fields such as production, sales and product support. What role do you expect resident staff to play? Our way of developing human resources is to thoroughly groom those employees who will assume a role in business Hioki: In our case, a Japanese expat working abroad is a locations, whether in Japan or overseas. local representative with a limited term of service. Japanese staff is expected to act as a “bridge resource”, that is, to bridge the gap between Japan and the host country. This What exactly do you mean by making management kind of “bridge resource” does not have to be a superhero. local? What is important is to know one’s specialty well and to have the kind of strong will and commitment to get one’s Hioki: Our top management around the world would be message across. Foreign languages, especially English, tend people who have worked with Komatsu for a long time, have to be thought of as very important, but as long as you have 29 mastered your area of specialization, the language will come to you naturally later. What do you do about developing human resources to support Monozukuri (manufacturing competitiveness) in foreign countries? Hioki: Plants playing a crucial role in Monozukuri are undertaking initiatives to improve technical skills on the shop floor. Our technical competitions, originally limited to Japan, became globalized full-scale as “All Komatsu Technology Olympics” in 2004 by including overseas manufacturing subsidiaries. Staging this kind of technical competition will act as a great motivation catalysis for employees entrusted with Monozukuri, making them work harder on the shop floor Young trainees from the local community enrolled in the apprentice to improve their technical skills. school established by Komatsu Cummins Chile Ltda. In the past, the Product Support Division used to send Japanese expats to train the service engineers of our overseas distributors. Against the background of a growing number Please elaborate on The KOMATSU Way. of our equipment delivered to customers around the world, however, dispatching Japanese expats to local distributors to Hioki: The KOMATSU Way refers to the values, attitudes Developing People train people is not efficient enough to keep up with expanding and patterns of behavior that support our operations. The sales. We were faced with the question of how many qualified KOMATSU Way was built up by our forerunners at Komatsu, service engineers we could train worldwide. In response, we and we want to maintain it globally and through our next have come up with different approaches to training human generations. We want to share these Komatsu spirits with resources for product support in different countries. employees all over the world. The Komatsu Human Resource Development Center In the top management chapter of The KOMATSU Way, in the Philippines, for example, offers mechanics training top management is required to explain about business courses for university graduates, and in China, an effort is results and status quo of the company to employees at least underway to provide service training courses in cooperation twice a year. This does not only apply to the presidents of with Shandong University. Developing human resources in Japanese operations, but the presidents of Group comour Strategic Markets will not only strengthen our service panies overseas. Because the top management itself has capabilities for end-customers, but will also address the taken the leadership in practicing The KOMATSU Way, this issue of contributing to local communities. principle has also permeated every workplace of Komatsu. The KOMATSU Way should not be forced on anyone. Instead, employees are encouraged to digest and understand Is it correct to say that you believe that by developit, and practice whatever they think is reasonable. This is ing human resources you can contribute to the local based on the premise that the individuality of employees community? must be respected. Sharing The KOMATSU Way will help employees experiHioki: Komatsu’s overseas business depends on the ence a sense of belonging and encourage them to stay with support we get from the local community. Providing people the same company all their working life. The KOMATSU the opportunity to receive training at Komatsu facilities or Way also yields a variety of positive effects overseas. For to work at our local companies does not only represent a example, the number of employees who have worked for contribution to the local community, but also translates into Komatsu for a long time is increasing, and we are seeing the development of human resources available to Komatsu. more national employees who should shoulder management Even if an individual trained by Komatsu decides to join tasks in the future. another company, we do not consider this a loss because it I believe that an important element essential to retain will still benefit his/her community. employees at Komatsu for a long time and to develop their Komatsu thinks that faithcareer there is to make them feel that having joined Komatsu fully dedicating ourselves to was a positive move and worthwhile for them. This is what our core business is what I call “a company worthy of spending one’s prime lifetime CSR activities are all about. with”. I believe we are able to fulfill There are three elements that make up this feeling. The our corporate social refirst is the creation of a safe and comfortable work environsponsibility by pursuing our ment, where people are held in high esteem; the second business activities, and that is to provide people with a fair opportunity to take up new includes human resource challenges, and the third is to compensate people properly development and contributCompeting in the assembly event of the for their efforts. Having these three elements neatly in place ing to local community. “All Komatsu Technology Olympics” is important for employees, I think. 30 Special Story 3 Training Field Engineers in the Philippines for Worldwide Duty Three years have passed since the Komatsu Human Resource Development Center (KHRDC) was established in Manila the Philippines in 2008. The center was set up mainly to train field engineers to take on duties at mines around the world. Fifty-two Filipino trainees in the Philippines and in 13 other countries across the globe are working hard every day at mastering The KOMATSU Way and acquiring technology and knowledge. Urgency of Training Specialists Training Curriculum for Duty at Mining Sites ■ Stage 1 (6 months) Highly skilled field engineers capable of providing superior Acquire basic knowledge/technology in the structural product support are indispensable to maintain stable operamakeup, functions, etc. of construction and mining equiption of large mining equipment at busy mining sites. ment Komatsu has been aware of this necessity for quite some ■ Stage 2 (6 months) time, and established a college for product support specialAcquire advanced practical knowledge/technology at the ists in Japan, placing emphasis on training Japanese field training center or at mining sites within the Philippines engineers. The Komatsu Human Resource Development ■ Stage 3 (3 years) Center in the Philippines was set up in 2008 to reinforce To produce field engineers with the highest level of these efforts and expand them on a global scale. technical knowledge of construction equipment, trainees Every year the Center in the Philippines accepts 20 Filipino are first sent to Japan for one month of training, and then university graduates who majored in mechanical engineering. to mining sites in other countries for practical training. Trainees spend four years acquiring knowledge in The KOMATSU Way, which embodies Komatsu’s policies and values. After four years of training, the trainees are ready to step The Center was established in the Philippines because onto the global stage and take on their duties at Komatsu Filipinos have had a long record of making major contribuGroup companies around the world. According to Komatsu’s tions to the growth of Komatsu’s business overseas, through educational policy, the training content not only qualifies their good knowledge of English, their ability to cope with them for assignments as field engineers, but also as applicadifferent cultures, and their superior ability for teamwork. tion engineers, IT service engineers, and operator trainers. Entering the Global Stage Serving as an OJT Site After Four Years of Training for University Students The Human Resource Development Center trains field Separate from the training program, the Center also acengineers using a four-year curriculum. cepts university students for on-the-job training (OJT). With many state-run universities in the Philippines requiring students to earn credits by participating in OJT in industry, 20 students were accepted in 2011 to go through three weeks of practical training at the well-equipped Human Resource Development Center. Komatsu will continue contributing to society by responding to such needs. 31 Voice Aspiring to Become a Field Engineer in top condition. I am now working at a new project named Pascua Appreciated by Lama, the first bi-national mining project in the world. Approximately 60 Komatsu mining equipments including Customers around the 930E are in operation at this mine. For the moment, we the World are assembling equipments and are working to maintain Mr. Ever Dave Vinatero Buyan quality of the assembly process in order to make sure Trainee, Global Field Engineer, KHRDC performance of the machines during the actual operation is good even under extreme conditions of this site, with an I am one of the first batch of Global Field Engineer trainees to enter KHRDC. During our 1st stage of training, I had learned many helpful ideas, and acquired data, altitude of 5,200m where temperature can reach minus 40 degrees Celsius. To be a renowned global field engineer, whose work is information, facts and a wealth of knowledge from trainers recognized not only by Komatsu, but also by customers from Japan, Singapore and Philippines. Through classroom around the world is a dream I have been working hard to lectures and practical training, as well as OJT at mine sites fulfill. I want to become a world class field service engineer while working with the mechanics at local distributors, I who can speak at least 5 different languages. And if given a was able to broaden my perspectives and understanding chance, I want to become a top executive of the company of construction and mining equipment. someday where I can share my knowledge and ideas. Currently, I am working as a product support engineer This project (KHRDC) initiated by Komatsu Ltd. is a very in Chile. I was first posted at the Komatsu Reman Center, good start for young engineers like myself, who are just where I learned a lot about the “Reman” business while starting to make our way into this world. I am expecting Developing People working at different departments, such as disassembly, continued support from the company to keep us motivated assembly, hydraulics, electronics, and quality assurance. to work hard and become excellent field engineers. I On my next assignment, at the Radomiro Tomic Mine commend KHRDC for a job well done in training young located next to the Chuquicamata Copper Mine, I learned engineers in preparing them for the future. I hope that how to repair and maintain 930E electric dump trucks and Komatsu will continue to accept and look for ideas to how to prepare overhaul schedules for keeping machines improve the training process. Voice The Bicol University and KHRDC: A Global Partnership for (c) Results oriented and equipped with the know how to make and communicate decisions while working as Human Resource a team member for multi-cultural and multi-national Development audiences; (d) Ethical, principle centered, and socially responsible Engineer Edgardo O. Aguilar The graduates of BU who are now with Komatsu as field Dean, College of Engineering Bicol University, Philippines engineers can go beyond the basic foundations to be able to adapt and experience an environment of the industry which is a very rewarding experience. E nvironmental conservation efforts is one of Komatsu’s highest priority management tasks, and it endeavors to contribute to the sustainable growth of society by integratA partnership with KHRDC offers BU to improve the quality and international comparability of its engineering programs, with a vision for producing excellent engineers ing advanced technologies into environmental conservation by 2020. The partnership will also provide evidence efforts in all its business activities. Bicol University (BU) of compliance by BU to its ISO9001:2008 mandate of aims to be a Green University in the coming decade. It continually striving for excellence in instruction, research looks up to Komatsu as an example of a company with a and extension by meeting the highest level of clientele people and environment friendly plant, creating a safe work satisfaction and adhering to quality standards. environment that enables peace of mind not only to people Given the highly qualified trainees from BU and other but also to its stakeholders. universities in its Training Institute, KHRDC will be able to BU and Komatsu Human Resource Development Center produce excellent field engineers to meet the highest level (KHRDC) share the same vision for producing global of customer satisfaction as it continues its expansion in engineers. emerging markets and build more lasting relationship with BU expects its graduates to be: its customers. (a) Technically competent, with a passion for technology; BU looks forward to a mutually beneficial relationship with a global perspective and driven by the need for in educating for peace and international understanding quality in the practice of its profession; while trying to adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate (b) Creative and innovative in advancing the state-of-thechange, as BU and Komatsu strive to contribute to the art in their fields of expertise; development of various economies and peoples. 32 Developing Together with Employees Employees of the Komatsu Group companies are an irreplaceable asset for the Group. That is why we try to foster a work environment with opportunities for challenge and creativity. The Company strives to maximize the trust given to it by its employees. hiring decisions; (2) the company does not consider national Global Policy on Human Resources Management or regional origins in hiring decisions; (3) the company does Human resources management systems differ from region not consider religious affiliation or beliefs in hiring decisions; to region, reflecting differences in historical and cultural (4) the company does not consider the existence of disabilibackgrounds, differences that must be respected and duly ties that are not job performance related in hiring decisions; taken into consideration.The basic policies for personnel and (5) the company gives significant consideration to work systems common to all Komatsu Group companies around experience at other companies or in other industries in hiring the world are embodied in Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of decisions. Komatsu conducts its hiring practices based on Business Conduct, as stated below. Each region uses these these five principles, which are disclosed on its website. policies to formulate a personnel system that has a competitive edge over other companies. Developing Human Resources Globally Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct (Chapter 5 of A) The development of global human resources is an ongoing 1 We shall respect each employee’s fundamental human rights, inherent personality, individuality and legally protected privacy. theme for the Komatsu Group. To maximize corporate value, 2 We shall treat and appraise each and every employee in a fair and while growing together with its employees, Komatsu is setimpartial manner. We shall not discriminate against any employee on ting the following policy in an effort toward further developing Developing People the basis of nationality, race, religion, age, gender, physical or mental disability, or other legally protected attributes that are irrelevant to his its human resources. or her performance. We shall vigorously endeavor to promote equal opportunities for employment and eliminate harassment in the workplace. Basic Policy on Education and Training 3 We shall endeavor to provide the employees with workplaces ■ Each employee should set high goals, be self-reliant and selfwhere they can seek good balance between their private life and motivated in acquiring knowledge and skills. professional life while effectively accomplishing their respective tasks with satisfaction and pride. ■ The Company should support employee career development through the implementation of necessary education for both the 4 We shall endeavor to design and administer the systems of human Company and employees in a focused manner. resources management in a manner that is most reasonable and persuasive to the employees. We shall make such systems open ■ The objective of the education policy is “education”, facilitating the and clearly explain them to the employees to the maximum extent ongoing growth of the Company and its employees. practicable. 5 Komatsu Group companies shall comply with all applicable laws While fulfilling basic and specialized education in fields and regulations governing employees’ rights in jurisdictions in which such as research and development, production, and sales they operate and faithfully accommodate, whenever applicable, conversations or discussions with employees or their representatives. and after-sales service, the Company is also supporting the 6 We shall not tolerate child labor or forced labor. acquisition of the necessary attitudes that go with knowledge 7 Komatsu Group companies shall endeavor to offer to their and skills, at every level in the Company, from new hires to respective employees those terms and conditions for employment management. Furthermore, we intend to promote human that are sufficiently competitive in their respective regions. resource development on a global, Group-wide basis, Komatsu has set forth Komatsu’s Five Principles for Hiring, including the training of employees outside Japan, as well as namely: (1) the company does not consider age or gender, in the employees of our business partners. Topics New training center opened on the site where Komatsu was founded to celebrate the company’s 90th anniversary In May 2011, a new training center was opened in housed the head office “Komatsu Green Park” in Komatsu City, the site where when the company was Komatsu was founded, to commemorate the company’s founded in Komatsu City World-largest dump truck 930E in 90th anniversary. This new training center consolidates was re-opened as the “Komatsu Green Park” opened in May 12 educational facilities scattered throughout Japan and “Kids Pavillion”, where acts as a training center for various fields on a global, children can try their hand at running equipment or enjoy Group-wide basis. Positioned as a global hub for service various science experiments. A park with a nature area training, it will focus on actual training, as well as the delets children enjoy the natural surroundings or get handsvelopment of new training programs and materials. At the on experience with growing plants. same time, the center will assume the role of Komatsu’s These facilities are not solely aimed at accelerating human resource developer. The center is equipped with Komatsu’s global human resource development, but interpretation booths for three languages and hosts a are meant to be a contribution to Komatsu City, the variety of meetings and events from Japan and abroad, company’s birthplace, with the hope that they will attract making it a center for cultivating global teamwork. local children and provide an opportunity to develop an Within the “Komatsu Green Park”, the building that interest in science and nature. 33 Nurturing Leaders and Global Management The development of global human resources is an ongoing theme for the Komatsu Group. We are nurturing human resources that can play an active role on the global scene, to develop the next generation of leaders in a timely manner, and to train employees in our global operations to take on positions in management. Nurturing the Next Generation of Leaders Pursuing Localization of Global Management We have been holding the Top Management Forum and Komatsu is actively promoting localization of management Global Management Seminars since 2006, targeted at top at its global subsidiaries. This policy is based on the belief and senior managers of our global subsidiaries. The forum that Komatsu’s differentiation and competitiveness are and seminars have been attended by 50 persons so far. The grounded in Japan’s culture of Monozukuri. The company purpose of the seminars is to deepen the understanding of encourages placing the management of subsidiaries in the Komatsu’s corporate strategy, The KOMATSU Way, and of various regions, each with its own historical and cultural leadership in general, through the discussion with the Presibackground, into the hands of local nationals. This is in dent and top management, and provide opportunities to view of the fact that the majority of consolidated Group emengage in group discussions, to share information and build ployees are non-Japanese, although the company remains teamwork. On the last day of training, participants are given rooted in Japan. an opportunity to present proposals to top management on the practice of The KOMATSU Way. A follow-up meeting was held in the Global Management Seminar in 2008, with 15 former participants of this seminar Developing People in attendance. This meeting was used to further deepen the understanding of The KOMATSU Way outreach and human resource development. In 2009, seminars were inaugurated for “The KOMATSU Voice In South Africa, Way Leadership Development Program”, to train middle level People of South Africa managers from all over the world, The first seminar was held in Shanghai, China. In 2010, the second seminar was held in run our Jakarta, Indonesia, and the third again in China. Even though Japanese company nurturing employees for top management positions is important, superior mid-level management potential is essential for the actual implementation of policies. Noting that human resource development is an urgent matter, especially in China and Greater Asia, where the market is rapidly growing, we continue to support such career development activities. Michael A. Blom President Komatsu Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd. (KSAf) I n 2008, I was the first non-Japanese person to be appointed President of KSAf. This was eleven years after KSAf was established, and 27 years after I joined Komatsu Southern Africa at age 20 (1981) and was put in charge of parts procurement. I believe that KSAf succeeded in making its management national because the successive generations of Japanese presidents, each in their own time and in their own way, dedicated themselves to building the company system and developing national management. And this success story spawned a philosophy Seminar held in Shanghai, China in November 2010, attended by 24 persons that can be summed up in the words: “In South Africa, people of South Africa run our Japanese company.” In the spirit of global teamwork, we will continue to share In order for the company and staff to grow, we, as a our values, and focus the Group’s power in the same direcmember of the Komatsu Group, which has its roots in tion, as we continue to pursue growth. Japan, must understand what is required and operate in a way that best fits local needs, by connecting this understanding with local wisdom and knowledge. 34 CSR Theme 3 Growing with Society Key Activities ◆ Engaging in dialogues with our stakeholders ◆ Providing social contributions through the use of our core technologies and resources (e.g., disaster relief or activities to remove antipersonnel land mines) ◆ Contributing to our local communities where we do business ◆ Strengthening our corporate governance and compliance ◆ Promoting compliance with environmental, labor, Komatsu’s demining machine at work in Angola and social norms within our group and among business partners Global Activities with a Focus on Communication Fusao Seki Senior Executive Officer Supervising Corporate Communications, CSR and General Affairs Komatsu Ltd. First, please explain in concrete terms what is meant It says here: Providing social contributions through the by growing with society. use of our core technologies and resources. How does this relate to the earthquake and tsunami that caused wideSeki: In line with Komatsu’s philosophy that our corporate spread destruction in Japan’s Tohoku region this March? value is the total sum of trust placed in us by society and our stakeholders, we strongly believe that our growth must go Seki: As reconstruction work continues in the disasterhand in hand with the growth of all of our stakeholders and hit areas, my heart goes out to all those who have suffered of society. losses. When a disaster of this magnitude strikes, the first T h i s y e a r, w e n a r ro w e d d o w n t h e c o re t h e m e s f o r and foremost need at the disaster site is equipment, such as Komatsu’s CSR activities from the viewpoint of how we can construction machines and generators, and prefab housing. satisfy the demands of society through our core business. To illustrate Komatsu’s commitment to leveraging our core Without trying to sound overly self-important, we are moving business to contribute to society, I would like to point to forward by concentrating on the societal needs that we can the many times Komatsu has rushed to the site of a natural best serve by the business fields and activities that we are disaster and quickly provided assistance. In this latest good at. disaster, as well, Komatsu started its relief work immediately And as business becomes more and more global, I believe after the earthquake hit. it is important to respect regional characteristics and culture Although this is not related to natural disasters, I would like in all our activities, and thoroughly follow through on basic to mention that demining machines, which Komatsu develissues, such as abiding by internal controls and regulations. oped from what was originally construction equipment, are currently in action in Cambodia, Angola and other countries. The machine has received high acclaim from the NPO with which we are jointly engaged in mine disposal and from the local people who use the machine. The machine makes the 35 demining process quicker and safer, compared to the case this group. We have always given great importance to comwhen demining work was done by hand. munication, and this is where Komatsu feels its strongest I think that the above cases, where Komatsu’s fields of commitment, as evidenced by Komatsu’s President giving specialization closely match the needs of society, can be in-person briefings to employees, distributors, business regarded as examples of activities that contribute to society. partners, shareholders and investors worldwide on the current state of the company at regular meetings. After making sure that information is properly shared Is the company engaged in any other activities within the Group, we want to take this one step further in the related to its worldwide operations? future, by explaining facts on how we do business to society. Any areas not meeting the needs of stakeholders, we will Seki: All our global entities, such as subsidiaries and endeavor to tie this kind of communication into our activities distributors, in the various countries and regions engage in to better align our activities with society. I think repeating this their own activities. As is the case with Komatsu’s business, kind of two way communication will become increasingly to be able to know what is most urgently needed, you must important. be familiar with the circumstances, culture and customs of the region. For example, Komatsu Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd., has been joining hands with a customer to provide young people who were not able to get a proper education due to racial discrimination with educational opportunities, to make them employable. As another example, several subsidiaries in China have jointly set up a fund made up of contributions from both the employees and the subsidiaries, that is used for worthwhile purposes, such as building elementary schools. In many other places worldwide, Komatsu and its global subsidiaries engage in activities that are unique to the location, addressing needs that are particular to the region. Komatsu, on its part, will continue to work under local Kids’ tour of working vehicles held at Komatsu techno center leadership to search for appropriate themes and implement (in Izu, Shizuoka prefecture) these themes, to make Komatsu an indispensable presence in a region, not only from a business standpoint, but also as I think you have placed more emphasis than before a corporate citizen. on corporate governance and compliance. Are you facing any new challenges? Growing with Society Young people training in “Komatsu/Denron Community Center” Seki: We have set up a system that ensures higher managerial transparency through measures such as the strengthening of corporate governance and the establishment of an international advisory board that includes knowledgeable persons from outside the company. As for compliance, we have made changes to the system, to be open-minded and learn from past mistakes. This is because we believe that observing compliance will translate into aggressive business development. What will become increasingly important from now on will be taking a global approach that also encompasses our business partners. Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct, established in 1998, continues to undergo revision, with the 8th edition having been published in 2011. To make sure that employees familiarize themselves with the Code, we have our global subsidiaries translate the Code into their Ground breaking ceremony of respective local languages. On another front, the regulations an elementally school in Yunnan (China) of the Komatsu “Midori-kai” group, an association of the company’s business associates in Japan, were recently You mention dialogues with stakeholders. revised to ensure that Komatsu’s business partners also What does this involve? observe applicable laws and regulations. Whatever the activity, the more globalized it is in nature, Seki: Stakeholders are generally considered to be interested the greater the need will be to know global rules and parties, but at Komatsu, we specifically include customers, circumstances, and to take a realistic approach. Komatsu shareholders and investors, distributors, business partners will continue to bolster its CSR activities, while taking the in the supply chain, the local community, and employees in circumstances of each individual country into account. 36 Special Story 4 Together with Business Partners The relationship of trust we have with our business partners in the supply chain (suppliers) is the foundation of Komatsu Group’s manufacturing operations. Komatsu thinks of its business partners as equal partners. Over a long history of collaboration, the Company and its business partners have overcome various difficulties by jointly addressing issues to realize solutions. Business Partners are Green Procurement and Important to Komatsu CSR Procurement For a manufacturer, business partners in the supply chain I n 1 9 9 9 , K o m a t s u i s s u e d i t s “ G re e n P ro c u re m e n t – the suppliers of materials, parts and components – are Guideline” to supply customers with products that are in important partners who help sustain the quality and reliability harmony with the environment. With the understanding of products. Komatsu places great value on this relationship and cooperation of its business partners, the Company of mutual support, which has not been limited to procurehas been giving preference to merchandise and products ment, but over the course of many years has also extended that have a minimal environmental impact. The Company to management and human resource development. also distributes an “Environmental Check Sheet” to its main In this age of accelerating globalization and development business partners to allow them to clarify their understanding of flexible production systems, our relationship with our of their environmental management systems and grasp the business partners takes on an increasingly important role. environmental impact of their products. At the same time, the check sheet calls for and supports the certification of Organizations that environmental management systems. Facilitate Collaboration As part of the commitment to complete implementation of CSR procurement throughout the supply chain, Komatsu is The Komatsu “Midori-kai” group is an association of the encouraging its business partners to comply with social norms, Company’s major business partners in Japan. With 163 including laws and regulations, environmental and corporate member companies, this group supplies roughly 80% of ethics, and consideration of human rights and labor rights Komatsu’s total procurement in Japan. in the workplace. Business partners are willing to disclose Komatsu holds various events to foster communication information to Komatsu, because of the long relationship of with Midori-kai group members, convening general confertrust that has been forged through the mutual support the two ences, roundtable discussions for managers, and informal sides have shown for each other in hard times. Based on this New Year’s business functions. Representatives from each relationship, Komatsu assesses the level of safety and quality Midori-kai group company attend these meetings, together of their business partners on an ongoing basis, through visits with Komatsu’s top management, providing a forum for and other careful fact-finding. Through close communication interaction and exchanges of opinions. Outside Japan, the with its associates, the Company provides recommendations Komatsu Shantui Midori-kai group in China is already active, on safety and quality, as necessary. and European and North American Midori-kai groups have In August 2011, the Company plans to issue a “CSR been launched, bringing total participation to more than 115 Guideline”, which will incorporate a revised version of the overseas companies. Komatsu plans to establish an as“Green Procurement Guideline” as well as CSR issues. To sociation of business partners in Asia (other than Japan and pursue a globally accepted form of procurement, Komatsu China) and strengthen global partnerships with its business will formulate a guideline that responds to societal needs and partners. will require business partners to observe the guideline. 37 Providing Educational Opportunities to Support Human Resource Development Topics Supporting Companies Komatsu shares common goals with its business partners, Stricken by the Earthquake together aiming to achieve ever-higher levels of quality, cost, and delivery (QCD) through tireless efforts for improvement. Komatsu’s first step in supporting its business To that end, the Company actively supports human resource partners that suffered devastation in the recent development. It provides education and training in quality earthquake and tsunami was to thoroughly assess control (QC) activities and manufacturing technologies. It the circumstances of each company. Based on this also allows employees of the Midori-kai group companies to assessment, companies were supplied with daily participate in technical training provided to Komatsu’s own necessities, such as food, water, cooking utensils, employees. and items for keeping warm. In addition, every Komatsu is trying to take an “agricultural” approach to effort was made to restore production capabilities procurement. It is important for Komatsu to build a relationas early as possible. On the weekend immediately ship where the Company and its business partners pool following the earthquake, Komatsu plant employees their knowledge and draw up with a blueprint for harvesting went to each stricken area and joined together a good crop in the next year that exceed the current year with the employees of the business partners to results. Ultimately, this is what will keep quality consistent at repair and inspect equipment. The goal was to first Komatsu. help seven of the hardest hit business partners to resume production. All in all 53 people were involved in this work, over a total of 188 days. Thanks to these initiatives, Komatsu’s disaster-affected business partners were able to resume production. This made it possible for production at Komatsu’s own facilities to continue smoothly, while at the same time strengthening the spirit of teamwork between Komatsu and its business partners. Supporting reconstruction for a Growing with Society business partner in the stricken area Officers’ Meeting of Komatsu Midori-kai Held in May, 2011 Voice Effort to Further Progression for Both with the Midori-kai group. Although it is less frequent now, at first I would get skeptical looks from the interviewers. Sides – Komatsu But, when I quoted concrete examples, reporters would and Midori-kai invariably be surprised, saying: “That’s different from the Companies stories I hear at other companies.” Maintaining this kind of relationship requires effort Mr. Shigeo Tsuda on both sides. Komatsu, under the leadership of its top President Nagatsu Industries Ltd. management, has formulated The KOMATSU Way as it President, Komatsu Midori-kai applies to procurement. I consider this to be an indicator of Komatsu’s commitment to continuing its partnership with T he recent Tohoku earthquake has affected many members of the Midori-kai group, but Komatsu has extended great support to these companies in a variety the members of the Midori-kai group. The Midori-kai, on its part, strives to ensure that each member lives up to the policy that the customer is No.1. I am convinced that these of forms, including dispatch of manpower and relief efforts will maintain and nurture our relationship, and will donations. This has resulted in even stronger ties between contribute to improving the business performance of both Komatsu and the members of the Midori-kai. Komatsu and the Midori-kai member companies. To keep Since I became Chairman of the Midori-kai, I have often this relationship alive, I think the member companies of our been interviewed about the future prospects of small and association, especially those that are family-owned, must medium-sized companies and the current circumstances of nurture successors that are capable of maintaining open our association of cooperating firms. On such occasions, communication with Komatsu and of establishing a system I usually speak about Komatsu and its close relationship of succession. 38 Communicating with Stakeholders Komatsu takes advantage of a variety of opportunities to communicate with its stakeholders. For Komatsu, corporate value is the cornerstone of Communicating with the Local Community management – it is the total sum of trust given to us by society and all stakeholders. Two-way communication with Komatsu continually tries to harmonize its interests stakeholders is essential for heightening this trust. Through with the interests of the local community as a responsible kind of communication and by listening to opinions from corporate citizen, and make itself more open to society. a broad range of stakeholders, the company strives to Worldwide, the company maintains a dialog with local make its business activities valuable both society and the governments and local residents, so that the community company, by incorporating the results of these efforts into can gain a better understanding of the company’s business Komatsu’s business operations. activities. Germany: Communicating for Communicating with Employees Human Resource Development in the Region “Employee Meetings” Komatsu Hanomag GmbH (KOHAG) is communicating At least twice a year, the President and CEO convenes with local educational institutions to promote regional human a “Meeting with the President” event for employees at resource development, an important issue for both regional each business unit, to explain the state of the company, its development and business. By joining the board of local direction for the future, and the President’s thoughts. These universities, KOHAG has key influence on the contents of meetings use an active question and answer format to allow course programs and what method of education would best top management and employees to interact directly. Another translate into development of the economy in the region. opportunity for exchange of opinions is the Employees W ithin the framework of the collaboration between Meeting, where top management from each business unit KOHAG and local universities, KOHAG has received 25 explains the current state of the business to their employees, apprentices from the universities since 2005, providing them and encourages employees to share work-related thoughts with technical training in fields such as welding and assembly and requests. technology. Of the three years that technical students spend at the university, they receive a two-year credit for the time they spend at KOHAG. After graduation, students can either join KOHAG or find employment elsewhere being welleducated. Growing with Society In January 2011, Lower Saxony’s Minister of Social Welfare visited KOHAG to get a first-hand look at the apprenticeship program. The minister was given a tour of the trainee’s worksite to gain an understanding of KOHAG’s initiative. There was an exchange of opinions between the Minister and KOHAG’s President about the public-private partnership for making education the top priority for the Communication meeting held in February 2011 region and how well educated professionals will benefit both at the Peoria Plant of Komatsu America Corp. the region and business. CSR Training As society places ever-higher expectations on businesses, there is a strong push for companies to shoulder their corporate social responsibility. Against this background, Komatsu pursues CSR training, to help employees consider their attitude toward the role of their work in society. In FY 20 1 0 , s e s s i o n s w e re h e l d a t a l l four Komatsu manufacturing facilities in Japan, giving employees an opportunity to better understand the way Komatsu addresses sociCSR training held in January 2011 Lower Saxony’s Minister for Social Welfare visiting training workshop etal challenges. at the Ibaraki Plant in January 2011 39 Living in Harmony with Local Communities As a responsible corporate citizen, Komatsu pursues initiatives that enrich the lives of the people living in the communities where Komatsu operates. KI is convinced that there is no other way than to live in Indonesia: Supporting the Spiritual Practices of harmonious relation with society, and will continue to pursue Local Residents these initiatives. In 2006, PT Komatsu Indonesia (KI) established a Fund for Social Contribution to actively serve the surrounding communities of the region. One recent initiative is for supporting mosques, which serve as a place of prayer and communion for the local population. Supporting the Renovation of Mosques The majority of the residents who live in KI’s surrounding Sukapura District of North Jakarta are faithful Muslims who Activities of employees and local residents at the mosque on the KI premises come from the Batavia tribe of Jakarta. The mosque serves as a place of prayer and gathering for people to solve their Australia: Partnering to Raise the Level of problems and engage in semi-formal traditional events. The Technical Education in the Region prayer leader (Imam) leads the community mobilizing the people to share their problems through spiritual activities, Komatsu’s distributor in Australia, Komatsu Australia Pty and activities at the mosque are a source of peace and Ltd. (KAL), is partnering with three local technical institutes to comfort for the people. provide courses in service technology for construction and As a contribution that will benefit the surrounding commining equipment. These courses offer training in mechanimunity, KI donated funds for the renovation of the Qurrota cal technology, with an emphasis on practical skills and Ain Mosque in August 2010. The newly renovated mosque to develop human resources that can master these fields. is now not only a holy place of prayer used for meeting and Training courses are also offered for technical teachers, ceremonial agenda, but also serves as a space to educate who will be able to teach these subjects in the future. One the community’s children as well as develop new skills for objective is to establish these courses as a standardized adults and as a place for solving community problems where approach to training of apprentices recognized and qualified government officials can communicate with local scholars by the Australian government. and public figures. This provides local residents with a sense KAL provides the training facilities, access to machines, Growing with Society of belonging, and the company with a sense of solidarity, and technical training staff. The institutes have the strengths through its financing of the renovation project. KI believes in technical education expertise through their facilities and that such activities offer benefits to both the local community teachers geared to nationally recognized qualifications and the company. approved by the Australian government. As of May 2011, approximately 147 students and apprentices were enrolled in the courses either at KAL or the institutes. In addition to teaching mechanical and service technology, the courses provide training on overall skills necessary that transform students into leading members of society, such as attitudes toward safety, the environment, and business. After finishing the courses, students and apprentices will work for KAL or apply for employment elsewhere in the region.Since 2009, KAL has employed 60 apprentices entirely in-house and trained them at its facilities. Once these apprentices have completed their coursework, they will be posted as employees at various locations. KAL will continue Gathering at the Qurrota Ain Mosque promoting this kind of partnership with Providing a Location for a 1,800-person Mosque regional educationKI has also made a location available on its premises for al institutes accthe erection of a mosque. Most of KI’s employees are Musruing benefit to lims, and the KI Mosque, which can hold 1,800 persons, is both customers used for ritual events and regular prayers, and as a meeting and the local comTrainees being taught practical skills place for the people of the local community. munity. in the service technology course 40 Removing Anti-personnel Landmines -Contributing to society by providing demining machinesUsing its expertise in construction equipment technology, Komatsu is supporting demining work in areas plagued by antipersonnel landmines. Komatsu also participates in community development projects to revitalize landmine-affected areas. In March 2011, a land transfer ceremony was held to mark Removing Anti-personnel Landmines the completion of minefield rehabilitation work that extends Vast numbers of anti-personnel landmines have been left across two villages in Battambang province in northwestern behind in the aftermath of regional conflicts across the globe Cambodia. Once soil safety has been ascertained and in the latter part of the twentieth century. Many of these infrastructure is in place, 500 families from surrounding landmines remain explosive indefinitely, claiming countless villages will settle on this land. The ceremony was a grand afvictims, whether they are people carrying on with their daily fair, attended by nearly 1,300 people, including government lives or children playing outdoors. officials from both Japan and Cambodia, representatives of As a manufacturer of construction equipment, Komatsu JMAS and Komatsu, and settlers and local residents. has put its expertise and Monozukuri resources to work in Komatsu hopes to continue and further broaden these developing demining machinery and participating in deminregional reconstruction activities, which started out as ing activities. demining projects. The Komatsu Demining Machine for Anti-personnel mines Komatsu’s demining machine uses a bulldozer weighing approximately 27 tons as its base. Not only is this machine highly reliable and durable, it can move speedy on rocky terrain, wetlands and slopes and can efficiently handle large areas. Spare parts are readily available, and by simply changing the attachment on the front of the vehicle, it can be used as a bulldozer for ground leveling, road construction and other work. The machine is also equipped with the same remote control technology that is used on construction equipment Nearby residents coming to settle in the area in disaster recovery areas and similar conditions. Remote Photographed in front of the KOMATSU Safety Village Primary School control operation greatly improves operator safety in these circumstances. ◆ Contributing to society by providing machines for removal anti-personnel mines Growing with Society Ottawa Treaty comes into effect March (Total Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and 1999 Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines) The Japanese government decides to make the development August of a demining machine an exception to the three-point ban 2002 on weapons exports. Komatsu applies for a public subsidy program offered by March the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and NEDO and 2003 embarks on the development of a demining machine 2004 to Demining machine site tests in Afghanistan and Cambodia 2006 with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs July First machine delivered to Afghanistan 2007 (Given to an NGO under ODA from the Japanese government) January Agreement concluded with Japan Mine Action Service 2008 (JMAS), a non-profit organization registered in Japan The Komatsu Demining Machine for Anti-personnel mines Second machine delivered to Cambodia (under the Grant Aid March for Research and Development of Mine Clearance Related 2008 Equipment by the Government of Japanese). From Demining to Regional Reconstruction Third machine delivered to the Cambodia project (REAK – Working Jointly with a Japanese NPO June SMEY SANGHA SEN CHEY, Battambang province) Since 2008, Komatsu has been working jointly with the 2008 *Loaned to JMAS free-of-charge Japan Mine Action Service (JMAS), a non-profit organization October Fourth machine delivered to the Angola project (Mabubas registered in Japan, on a project for regional reconstruction 2008 village, Bengo province) *Loaned to JMAS free-of-charge in Cambodia and Angola. Komatsu loaned the demining April Angola local reconstruction project started machine to JMAS free-of-charge to ensure smooth cleanup 2009 operations, and safe use of construction equipment when September Fifth machine delivered to Cambodia (Delivered under the Grant Aid for Conflict Prevention and developing agricultural land and constructing wells, building 2010 Peace Building by the Government of Japan. schools, and repairing and building roads and bridges. This Land transfer ceremony held for the Cambodia local has helped to reconstruct and revitalize the communities in March reconstruction project 2011 the regions. (mentioned in this document) 41 Disaster Relief -The Tohoku EarthquakeKomatsu is supporting the areas stricken by the Tohoku Earthquake through its business activities. We believe that the most effective support is to promptly provide construction equipment and to ensure continued operation through servicing support. ers). This is in line with Komatsu’s policy of giving top priority Disaster Relief to lives and safety. Those stricken by the disaster were Providing Equipment and supplied with daily use articles, which were in short supply, Temporary Housing for Reconstruction from plants and distributors located in unaffected areas. To Since the Tohoku Earthquake struck in March 2011, help people get back on their feet, and alleviate uncertainty Komatsu has committed to disaster relief initiatives equaling about the future, the Group continued to retain employees, 800 million yen, in the form of its own construction equipincluding non-regular workers, providing housing assistance ment, forklifts, temporary housing, and power generators to those living in disaster-stricken areas, and extending leased free of charge, as well as prefab housing for clinics other forms of financial relief. The Group companies and and community halls. To enable responsive and continuous unions jointly collected contributions that were channeled to relief work, Komatsu set up a dedicated organization in employees stricken by the disaster. the stricken area, tasked with ensuring smooth delivery of After assessing the situation of each business partner equipment and replacement parts and service operations. individually, business partners that suffered serious damage were supplied with daily use articles, and Komatsu employees were dispatched to help the partners quickly recover and restart production. Komatsu employees also worked with business partners and distributors to ensure that facilities were repaired and inspected, and that procurement parts were delivered. Restoring Production and Normalizing Business Activities In the wake of the earthquake and tsunami disaster, some of Komatsu’s own plants were forced to stop production, due to direct damage or delays in parts procurement. But, thanks to prompt measures, production was resumed at an early date. Komatsu is also aware that production may be affected in the future by external factors, such as power restrictions, recovery of the logistics network, and nuclear Growing with Society Hydraulic excavators at work in stricken area power plant issues, but the company will take a flexible approach, and will strive to maintain production and minimize Extending Scholarships to Students any inconvenience to our customers worldwide. Komatsu will support affected students who will play a central role in the future of Japan’s manufacturing in the Response to the Nuclear Power Plant Accident strong belief that no student should have to give up studying due to the consequences of the disaster. Contributing Products and Technology Such supporting activities include the “Komatsu ScholarThe private and public sectors are partnering to take ship” set up with a total endowment of 200 million yen for measures against the effects of the accident at the Fukustudents of disaster-stricken national technical colleges in shima Nuclear Power Plant that followed the earthquake and the Tohoku and North Kanto regions. The scholarship fund tsunami. Komatsu continues to collaborate with government will receive annual contributions of 20 million yen for the and corporations working in the disaster-hit areas, contributduration of ten years. ing products, technology and service. To protect operators In addition, Komatsu and Rio Tinto, a leading international from the danger of radiation while working in the vicinity of mining group of mineral resources, have reached an agreethe accident sites, radio-operated construction equipment ment to jointly offer scholarships to undergraduate and are being utilized at the sites. graduate students of Tohoku University under the name “Rio Tinto-Komatsu Scholarship”. The scholarship will be Sales Event for Vegetables Grown endowed with 400 million yen over a period of ten years. in Fukushima and Ibaraki Prefectures Komatsu organized events for employees that featured direct sale of vegetables grown in Fukushima and Ibaraki Disaster Relief and Recovery within the Group Prefectures. This was a show of support for the farmers Disaster Relief for Affected that have been affected by rumors of contamination of their Group Members and Employees agricultural produce with radioactive substances leaking Immediately following the earthquake, Komatsu immedifrom the damaged nuclear power plant. This event was held ately began confirming the safety of its employees and their four times in total at the Head Office and in several plants, families, and its business partners (distributors and suppliachieving sales of 1.05 million yen worth of vegetables. 42 Environmental Data by Manufacturing Facility in Japan Manufacturing facility Awazu Plant (established in 1921) Kanazawa Plant (established in 2007) Osaka Plant (established in 1952) Location Komatsu, Ishikawa Prefecture Kanazawa, Ishikawa Prefecture Hirakata, Osaka Prefecture Small and medium-sized bulldozers, small hydraulic Large bulldozers, medium-sized and large hydraulic Overview Main products excavators, small and medium-sized wheel loaders, Ultra-large hydraulic excavators, large presses excavators, mobile crushers/recyclers/tub grinders motor graders, armored vehicles, etc. (crushers, soil stabilizers, tub grinders, etc.) Site/production area (1,000 m2) 716/187 134/22 541/121 Number of employees 3,269 581 2,052 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition September 1997 May 2007 July 1997 *T h e n u m b e r o f e m p l o y e e s i n c l u d e s t h o s e working for Komatsu affiliates on the premises. *Number of employees as of end of March 2011. Item Actual value Item Actual value Item Actual value Environmental impact Total CO2 emissions 41,111 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 2,813 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 35,319 t-CO2 *R efer to the Data on Environmental Impact NOx total amount 12,998 kg NOx total amount － kg NOx total amount 2,930 kg Resulting from Business Activities for details on the methods used to calculate amounts. SOx total amount 3,681 kg SOx total amount 0 kg SOx total amount 173 kg *Total emissions of waste are expressed as a composite of the amount recycled (excluding Total emissions of waste 1,685 t Total emissions of waste 208 t Total emissions of waste 1,553 t valuables) and the amount disposed. *R ecycling rate is calculated by dividing the Amount recycled 1,684 t Amount recycled 208 t Amount recycled 1,550 t amount recycled by the amount generated (including valuables). Recycling rate 99.9 % Recycling rate 100 % Recycling rate 99.8 % *Total emissions of BOD and COD are calculated Major Performance BOD emissions 3,894 kg BOD emissions 209 kg BOD emissions 103 kg by multiplying the average concentration by the amount of wastewater. COD emissions 2,812 kg COD emissions 463 kg COD emissions 735 kg Wastewater 1,851,783 m3 Wastewater 72,000 m3 Wastewater 149,185 m3 Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Item Item Item consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) Electricity 73,108 MWh 710,862 Electricity 7,138 MWh 69,597 Electricity 68,162 MWh 662,323 Heavy oil A 2,818 kℓ 110,176 Heavy oil A 0 kℓ 0 Heavy oil A 215 kℓ 8,407 Energy consumption *The heat energy conversion factor is calculated Kerosene 12 kℓ 424 Kerosene 0 kℓ 0 Kerosene 81 kℓ 2,973 in keeping with Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculation Reporting Manual by the Act on Light oil 264 kℓ 10,078 Light oil 1 kℓ 53 Light oil 275 kℓ 10,505 Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 3,692 Nkm3 154,695 LPG 1,517 t 76,159 LPG 1t 25 LPG 61 t 3,062 Other 1,939 Other 990 Other 1,592 Total 909,638 Total 70,666 Total 843,556 Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Air Item Unit Facility Facility Facility value value value value value value Nitrogen oxides (NOx) ppm Boiler 180 96 N/A － － Boiler 150 18 ppm Diesel engine 950 640 Metal furnace 180 52 ppm Paint drying furnace 230 4 ppm Sulfur oxides (SOx) － K-value regulation 17.5 1.2 Regulation of total emissions (Nm3/h) 1.573 0.002 Soot and dust g/m3N Boiler 0.3 0.002 N/A － － Boiler 0.03 0.001 or less g/m3N Diesel engine 0.1 0.019 Metal furnace 0.1 0.013 Compliance Conditions to Major Regulations g/m3N Paint drying furnace 0.1 0.0036 g/m3N *Regulated values are in accordance with the Air Pollution Control Law and local regulations. Regulated value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Wastewater Item according to the Water Pollution Control Law Unit value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average pH 5.8-8.6 5.8-8.6 7.3 6.8 7.1 5.0-9.0 7.9 6.9 7.4 5.8-8.6 8.0 7.3 7.5 BOD (Biochemical oxygen demand) 160mg/ℓ 80 3.9 1.0 2.0 80 2.9 2.9 － 25 1.6 0.2 0.7 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) 160mg/ℓ 80 6.7 ND 1.4 80 13.0 5.0 6.4 25 7.4 3.7 4.9 Suspended solids (SS) 200mg/ℓ 120 6.2 ND 1.3 120 4.5 4.5 － 80 3.6 1.2 2.1 Mineral oils 5mg/ℓ 5 ND ND ND 5 ND ND － 3 0.1 ND 0.1 Data Copper 3mg/ℓ 3 ND ND ND 3 ND ND － 3 ND ND ND Zinc 2mg/ℓ 2 0.15 ND 0.08 5 ND ND － 2 ND ND ND Nitrogen 120mg/ℓ 120 4.4 2.1 3.7 120 5.8 5.8 － 120 19.0 2.2 5.7 Phosphorus 16mg/ℓ 16 0.27 0.03 0.12 16 1.6 1.6 － 16 1.8 ND 0.4 Cadmium 0.1mg/ℓ 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND － 0.01 ND ND ND Lead 0.1mg/ℓ 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND － 0.01 ND ND ND Chromium (VI) 0.5mg/ℓ 0.5 ND ND ND 0.5 ND ND － 0.05 ND ND ND Trichloroethylene 0.3mg/ℓ 0.3 0.004 ND 0.003 0.3 ND ND － 0.03 ND ND ND Tetrachloroethylene 0.1mg/ℓ 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND － 0.01 0.0007 ND 0.0007 Dichloromethane 0.2mg/ℓ 0.2 ND ND ND 0.2 ND ND － 0.02 ND ND ND 1,1,1-trichloroethane 3mg/ℓ 3 ND ND ND 3 ND ND － 1 ND ND ND *R egulated values are in accordance with the *Data for the Awazu Plant include data for the Komatsu *D ata for the Kanazawa Plant include data for the *Data for the Osaka Plant include data for the Rokko Water Pollution Control Law and local regulaMachinery Corporation and the Komatsu Engineering Kanazawa Dai-ichi, Dai-ni and the Kawakita Plant. Plant. tions. Corp. (Awazu Plant). *ND (“not detected”) indicates a value below the lower limit of detection. *N D i s c o n s i d e r e d t o b e t h e l o w e r l i m i t o f detection when calculating the average. *O ther items are confirmed to be below the regulated value. 43 Ibaraki Plant (established in 2007) Oyama Plant (established in 1962) Koriyama Plant (established in 1995) Shonan Plant (established in 1966) Hitachinaka, Ibaraki Prefecture Oyama, Tochigi Prefecture Koriyama, Fukushima Prefecture Hiratsuka, Kanagawa Prefecture Engines for construction/industrial machinery, Control equipment for construction and mining Large wheel loaders, dump trucks diesel generators, hydraulic equipment, axle, Hydraulic cylinders, swivel joints, gear pumps equipment, hybrid components Thermoelectric excimer lasers, etc. modules, temperature control equipment, etc. 251/46 561/140 297/19 68/5 872 3,600 448 1,035 May 2007 May 1997 July 2002 March 2000 Item Actual value Item Actual value Item Actual value Item Actual value Total CO2 emissions 4,659 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 70,086 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 12,823 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 2,901 t-CO2 NOx total amount － kg NOx total amount 59,145 kg NOx total amount 84,908 kg NOx total amount 0 kg SOx total amount 142 kg SOx total amount 657 kg SOx total amount 4,810 kg SOx total amount 0 kg Total emissions of waste 411 t Total emissions of waste 3,590 t Total emissions of waste 964 t Total emissions of waste 133 t Amount recycled 411 t Amount recycled 3,590 t Amount recycled 964 t Amount recycled 133 t Recycling rate 100 % Recycling rate 100 % Recycling rate 100 % Recycling rate 100 % BOD emissions 9,771 kg BOD emissions 4,797 kg BOD emissions 67 kg BOD emissions 2,716 kg COD emissions － kg COD emissions 7,897 kg COD emissions 226 kg COD emissions － kg Wastewater 17,552 m3 Wastewater 568,800 m3 Wastewater 19,995 m3 Wastewater 35,907 m3 Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Item Item Item Item consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) Electricity 10,522 MWh 102,800 Electricity 93,484 MWh 907,395 Electricity 11,020 MWh 106,639 Electricity 7,476 MWh 74,536 Heavy oil A 66 kℓ 2,581 Heavy oil A 358 kℓ 13,978 Heavy oil A 2,880 kℓ 112,608 Heavy oil A 0 kℓ 0 Kerosene 14 kℓ 511 Kerosene 4,293 kℓ 157,553 Kerosene 0 kℓ 0 Kerosene 0 kℓ 0 Light oil 113 kℓ 4,316 Light oil 3,760 kℓ 143,613 Light oil 0 kℓ 0 Light oil 0 kℓ 0 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 6,177 Nkm3 258,816 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 15 Nkm3 637 LPG 35 t 1,758 LPG 45 t 2,259 LPG 262 t 13,152 LPG 0t 0 Other 57 Other 3,407 Other 0 Other 0 Total 112,022 Total 1,487,021 Total 232,399 Total 75,173 Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Facility Facility Facility Facility value value value value value value value value N/A － － Diesel engine 950 830 Cogeneration engine 760 740 N/A － － Gas turbine 70 17 Boiler 180 72 Annealing furnace 200 50 K-value regulation 7.0 0.57 K-value regulation 11.5 0.39 N/A － － Diesel engine 0.1 0.021 Tempering (electric) furnace 0.2 less than 0.003 N/A － － Boiler 0.3 0.002 Baking (electric) furnace 0.2 less than 0.003 Annealing furnace 0.25 0.01 Cogeneration engine 0.2 0.05 Electric furnace 0.2 0.001 Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average 5-9 － － － 5.8-8.6 7.6 6.9 7.2 5.8-8.6 7.4 6.9 7.2 5-9 8.1 6.2 7.3 600 950* 190 557 25 15.6 3.6 8.4 20 8.7 ND 3.4 600 200 2.0 45.0 － － － － 25 19.8 6.5 13.9 40 17.0 6.2 11.3 － － － － － － － － 50 19.2 2.4 9.4 50 26.0 1.0 4.8 600 110 ND 21.0 30 61.0* 5.4 25.0 5 0.5 ND 0.5 1 ND ND ND 5 ND ND ND Data － － － － 3 ND ND ND 2 ND ND － 3 ND ND 0.05 － － － － 2 0.12 ND 0.06 2 0.12 0.12 － 2 0.14 0.02 0.07 － － － － 20 10.0 3.5 6.4 120 29.0 29.0 － － － － － － － － － 2 1.0 0.1 0.3 16 3.1 3.1 － － － － － － － － － 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND － 0.1 ND ND ND － － － － 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND ND － － － － 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND ND 0.5 ND ND ND － － － － 0.3 ND ND ND 0.3 ND ND － 0.3 ND ND ND － － － － 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND － 0.1 ND ND ND － － － － － － － － 0.2 ND ND － 0.2 ND ND ND － － － － 3 ND ND ND 3 ND ND － 3 ND ND ND *Data for the Ibaraki Plant include data for the Mooka *Data for the Oyama Plant include data for the Komatsu *Data for the Shonan Plant include data for KELK Ltd. Plant. Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., the Industrial Power Alli*After the advisory meeting with local sewerage works ance Ltd., and the GIGAPHOTON, Inc. division, measures are being executed because the restriction value was temporarily exceeded. 44 Environmental Data by Manufacturing Facility in Japan Manufacturing facility Research Division (established in 1985) Komatsu Utility Co., Ltd. (established in 1968) Komatsu Castex Ltd. (established in 1952) Location Hiratsuka, Kanagawa Prefecture Oyama, Tochigi Prefecture Himi, Toyama Prefecture Overview Forklift trucks, mini shovel, mini wheel loaders, Iron castings, steel castings, molds for casting, Main products R&D on business fields of the Komatsu Group etc. etc. Site/production area (1,000 m2) 195/0 245/48 429/73 Number of employees 193 1,070 1,219 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition May 2008 February 1998 January 2000 *T h e n u m b e r o f e m p l o y e e s i n c l u d e s t h o s e working for Komatsu affiliates on the premises. *Number of employees as of end of March 2011. Item Actual value Item Actual value Item Actual value Environmental impact Total CO2 emissions 2,095 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 4,719 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 77,389 t-CO2 *R efer to the Data on Environmental Impact NOx total amount 293 kg NOx total amount 1,429 kg NOx total amount 14,449 kg Resulting from Business Activities for details on the methods used to calculate amounts. SOx total amount 46 kg SOx total amount 1,168 kg SOx total amount 1,925 kg *Total emissions of waste are expressed as a composite of the amount recycled (excluding Total emissions of waste 84 t Total emissions of waste 565 t Total emissions of waste 8,316 t valuables) and the amount disposed. *R ecycling rate is calculated by dividing the Amount recycled 83 t Amount recycled 565 t Amount recycled 8,053 t amount recycled by the amount generated (including valuables). Recycling rate 98.1 % Recycling rate 100 % Recycling rate 99.3 % *Total emissions of BOD and COD are calculated Major Performance BOD emissions 5 kg BOD emissions 431 kg BOD emissions 3,307 kg by multiplying the average concentration by the amount of wastewater. COD emissions 11 kg COD emissions 561 kg COD emissions 4,340 kg Wastewater 3,417 m3 Wastewater 99,659 m3 Wastewater 1,256,862 m3 Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Item Item Item consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) Electricity 4,169 MWh 40,317 Electricity 7,866 MWh 76,471 Electricity 150,097 MWh 1,457,585 Heavy oil A 32 kℓ 1,251 Heavy oil A 440 kℓ 17,204 Heavy oil A 2,417 kℓ 94,485 Energy consumption *The heat energy conversion factor is calculated Kerosene 104 kℓ 3,809 Kerosene 4 kℓ 147 Kerosene 1,176 kℓ 43,159 in keeping with Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculation Reporting Manual by the Act on Light oil 52 kℓ 1,983 Light oil 32 kℓ 1,222 Light oil 309 kℓ 11,821 Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 LPG 4t 211 LPG 125 t 6,275 LPG 3,152 t 158,230 Other 10 Other 554 Other 138 Total 47,582 Total 101,873 Total 1,765,419 Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Air Item Unit Facility Facility Facility value value value value value value Nitrogen oxides (NOx) ppm Service generator 303 70 Small boilers* （260） 64 Annealing furnace 200 60 ppm Cold/hot water generator 390 34 Annealing furnace (small) 180 30 ppm Calciners 220 7 ppm Sulfur oxides (SOx) － K-value regulation 11.5 0.2 K-value regulation 7.0 0.16 K-value regulation 17.5 0.95 Soot and dust g/m3N Service generator 0.1 0.022 Small boilers* （0.5） 0.004 Annealing furnace 0.25 0.01 or less g/m3N Cold/hot water generator 0.2 0.001 Annealing furnace (small) 0.2 0.01 or less g/m3N Calciners 0.15 0.01 or less Compliance Conditions to Major Regulations g/m3N Arch furnace 0.1 0.01 or less *Regulated values are in accordance with the Air *R e g u l a t e d v a l u e s o f N O x , s o o t a n d d u s t a re i n Pollution Control Law and local regulations. accordance with self-regulatory measures, because these boilers are small. Regulated value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Wastewater Item according to the Water Pollution Control Law Unit value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average pH 5.8-8.6 5.8-8.6 7.4 7.0 7.2 5.8-8.6 7.4 7.0 7.2 5.8-8.6 8.8 6.9 7.8 BOD (Biochemical oxygen demand) 160mg/ℓ 10 2.0 1.0 1.7 25 7.9 1.9 4.3 25 5.1 1.3 2.6 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) 160mg/ℓ 25 7.0 2.0 4.5 25 10.9 2.9 5.6 160 6.3 2.3 3.5 Suspended solids (SS) 200mg/ℓ 65 14.0 2.0 5.3 50 18.8 2.4 7.6 90 20.0 ND 6.3 Mineral oils 5mg/ℓ 5 1.0 1.0 1.0 5 ND ND ND 5 ND ND ND Copper 3mg/ℓ 1 ND ND ND 3 ND ND ND 1 ND ND ND Zinc 2mg/ℓ 1 ND ND ND 2 0.23 ND 0.07 2 ND ND ND Nitrogen 120mg/ℓ 120 － － － 20 6.0 2.3 4.2 120 8.4 1.6 4.8 Data Phosphorus Cadmium 16mg/ℓ 0.1mg/ℓ 16 0.1 － 0.01 － ND － 0.01 2 0.1 0.67 ND 0.21 ND 0.44 ND 16 0.1 0.83 ND 0.07 ND 0.31 ND Lead 0.1mg/ℓ 0.1 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND ND Chromium (VI) 0.5mg/ℓ 0.5 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.1 ND ND ND 0.5 ND ND ND Trichloroethylene 0.3mg/ℓ 0.3 ND ND ND 0.3 ND ND ND 0.3 ND ND ND Tetrachloroethylene 0.1mg/ℓ 0.1 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.1 ND ND ND 0.1 ND ND ND Dichloromethane 0.2mg/ℓ 0.2 ND ND ND 0.2 ND ND ND 0.2 ND ND ND 1,1,1-trichloroethane 3mg/ℓ 3 0.002 0.002 0.002 3 ND ND ND 3 ND ND ND *R egulated values are in accordance with the Water Pollution Control Law and local regulations. *ND (“not detected”) indicates a value below the lower limit of detection. *N D i s c o n s i d e r e d t o b e t h e l o w e r l i m i t o f detection when calculating the average. *O ther items are confirmed to be below the regulated value. 45 Manufacturing facility Komatsu Cabtec Co., Ltd. (established in 1918) Komatsu NTC Ltd. (established in 1945) Komatsu House Ltd. (established in 1971) Location Ryuou-cho, Gamou, Shiga Prefecture Nanto, Toyama Prefecture Shinshiro, Aichi Prefecture Overview Main products Cabs for construction equipment Machine tools, sheet-metal machines, semiconductor manufacturing equipment Prefabricated structures for businesses Site/production area (1,000 m2) 41/7 188/68 31/10 Number of employees 366 670 40 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition December 2007 June 1999 March 2002 *The number of employees includes those working for Komatsu affiliates on the premises. *Number of employees as of end of March 2011. Item Actual value Item Actual value Item Actual value Environmental impact Total CO2 emissions 3,776 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 8,308 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 639 t-CO2 *Refer to the Data on Environmental Impact NOx total amount － kg NOx total amount － kg NOx total amount 356 kg Resulting from Business Activities for details on the methods used to calculate amounts. SOx total amount 4 kg SOx total amount 0 kg SOx total amount 76 kg *Total emissions of waste are expressed as a composite of the amount recycled (excluding Total emissions of waste 401 t Total emissions of waste 1,697 t Total emissions of waste 36 t valuables) and the amount disposed. *Recycling rate is calculated by dividing the Amount recycled 187 t Amount recycled 1,517 t Amount recycled 36 t amount recycled by the amount generated (including valuables). Recycling rate 97.2 % Recycling rate 94.2 % Recycling rate 100 % *Total emissions of BOD and COD are calculated Major Performance BOD emissions 800 kg BOD emissions 719 kg BOD emissions 50 kg by multiplying the average concentration by the amount of wastewater. COD emissions 577 kg COD emissions － kg COD emissions 127 kg Wastewater 133,305 m3 Wastewater 1,437,941 m3 Wastewater 15,270 m3 Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Item Item Item consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) Electricity 7,536 MWh 73,596 Electricity 21,257 MWh 208,130 Electricity 625 MWh 6,231 Heavy oil A 0 kℓ 0 Heavy oil A 0 kℓ 0 Heavy oil A 54 kℓ 2,111 Energy consumption *The heat energy conversion factor is calculated Kerosene 26 kℓ 954 Kerosene 1 kℓ 18 Kerosene 0 kℓ 0 in keeping with Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculation Reporting Manual by the Act on Light oil 57 kℓ 2,158 Light oil 12 kℓ 458 Light oil 5 kℓ 195 Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 Town gas 0 Nkm3 0 LPG 223 t 11,195 LPG 35 t 1,733 LPG 80 t 4,006 Other 0 Other 138 Other 0 Total 87,903 Total 210,478 Total 12,543 Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Regulated Actual Air Item Unit Facility Facility Facility value value value value value value Nitrogen oxides (NOx) ppm N/A － － N/A － － Boiler 250 59 Compliance Conditions to Major Regulations Sulfur oxides (SOx) － K-value regulation 17.5 0.51 Soot and dust g/m3N N/A － － N/A － － Boiler 0.3 0.003 *Regulated values are in accordance with the Air Pollution Control Law and local regulations. Regulated value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Regulated Actual value Wastewater Item according to the Water Pollution Control Law Unit value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average value Maximum Minimum Average pH 5.8-8.6 5.8-8.6 7.4 7.0 7.2 5.8-8.6 7.3 6.4 6.8 5.8-8.6 7.3 6.3 6.9 BOD (Biochemical oxygen demand) 160mg/ℓ 20 17.0 1.0 6.0 160 0.5 ND 0.5 160 6.5 0.5 3.3 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) 160mg/ℓ 20 7.1 2.7 4.3 － － － － 160 16.0 4.0 8.3 Suspended solids (SS) 200mg/ℓ 20 8.4 0.5 3.7 200 2.0 ND 1.1 200 6.0 1.0 2.4 Mineral oils 5mg/ℓ － － － － 5 ND ND ND 5 ND ND ND Copper 3mg/ℓ 0.1 0.03 ND 0.01 － － － － － － － － Zinc 2mg/ℓ 0.5 0.14 0.02 0.04 － － － － － － － － Nitrogen 120mg/ℓ 8 7.7 1.5 4.5 － － － － 120 25.0 3.3 13.3 Phosphorus 16mg/ℓ 0.6 0.5 ND 0.2 － － － － 16 3.4 0.3 1.4 Lead 0.1mg/ℓ 0.03 ND ND ND － － － － － － － － *R egulated values are in accordance with the *D ata for Komatsu NTC Ltd. include data for Lossev Water Pollution Control Law and local regulaTechnology Corporation, Toyama Kiko Corporation, tions. and D.S.K. Co., Ltd. *ND (“not detected”) indicates a value below the lower limit of detection. *ND is considered to be the lower limit of detection when calculating the average. *Other items are confirmed to be below the regulated value. Manufacturing facility Komatsu Construction Equipment Sales and Service Japan Ltd. (established in March 1967) Komatsu Rental Ltd. (established in Oct. 2006) Data Location Sagamihara, Kanagawa Prefecture (Head office) Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture (Head office) Overview Activities Sales and service for construction machinery Rentals for construction machinery, engineering works construction machine apparatuses, and vehicles Number of bases 101 sites 147 sites Number of employees 1,936 981 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition － － Environmental impact Item Actual value Item Actual value *Total waste emissions are equal to the amount Total CO2 emissions 5,050 t-CO2 Total CO2 emissions 2,712 t-CO2 disposed + the amount recycled (including valuables) Total emissions of waste 4,009 t Total emissions of waste 2,118 t *R ecycling rate is calculated by dividing the amount recycled by the amount generated (inAmount recycled 2,824 t Amount recycled 1,692 t Major Performance cluding valuables.) Recycling rate 70.4 % Recycling rate 79.9 % Actual Converted to calorie Actual Converted to calorie Item Item consumption equivalents (GJ) consumption equivalents (GJ) Electricity 9,622 MWh 95,931 Electricity 5,663 MWh 56,462 Energy consumption Heavy oil A 50 kℓ 1,967 Heavy oil A 0 kℓ 0 *The heat energy conversion factor is calculated in keeping with Greenhouse Gas Emissions CalKerosene 379 kℓ 13,906 Kerosene 101 kℓ 3,718 culation Reporting Manual by the Act on ProLight oil 48 kℓ 1,834 Light oil 90 kℓ 3,442 motion of Global Warming Countermeasures. LPG 27 t 1,345 LPG 9t 427 Town gas, et al. 1,304 Town gas, et al. 360 46 Total 116,287 Total 64,409 *A part of data is not included because of the influence of the earthquake Environmental Data by Manufacturing Facility outside Japan The Americas Europe CMO PEORIA NMO KDB Hensley KUK KOHAG KMG Overview Manufacturing Komatsu America Corp. facilities Komatsu do Brasil Hensley Industries, Komatsu Hanomag Komatsu Mining Komatsu UK Ltd. Chattanooga Manufacturing Operation Peoria Manufacturing Operation Newberry Manufacturing Operation Ltda. Inc. GmbH Germany GmbH Tennessee, Illinois, South Carolina, São Paulo, Texas, Birtley, Hannover, Düsseldorf, Location U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A. Brazil U.S.A. United Kingdom Germany Germany Hydraulic excavators, Large wheel loaders, Utility equipment Hydraulic excavators, Buckets, teeth and Wheel loaders, Ultra-large hydraulic Main products Hydraulic excavators motor graders large dump trucks (small construction equipment) bulldozers edges compactors excavators Number of employees 1,812 829 497 292 531 445 Electricity (MWh) 7,483 17,587 3,097 29,880 35,745 4,525 4,675 7,231 Energy consumption Heavy oil, light oil, et al. (kℓ) 177 140 － 490 132 239 2 9 Natural gas (thousand m3) 1,209 2,573 26 － 4 869 736 1,177 24 81 510 113 LPG, et al. (t) － － － － (LPG) (LPG) (LPG) (LPG) Total energy consumption (GJ) 127,161 279,407 35,943 342,341 367,256 85,396 72,877 114,405 CO2 (t-CO2) 7,054 15,408 2,059 5,329 21,073 4,569 4,232 5,075 Water consumption (t) 8,047 32,944 547 31,936 48,217 7,598 7,547 11,817 Total emissions of waste (t) 396 2,908 338 8,530 28,968 742 596 5,178 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition April 1998 March 2002 March 2004 January 2002 November 2009 December 1998 September 2000 July 2002 Europe Asia KMR KUE STAVMEK KFAB KI KUI KOFI BKC Overview Manufacturing facilities Komatsu Manufacturing Komatsu Utility PT Komatsu PT Komatsu PT KOMATSU Bangkok Komatsu Stavmek s.r.o. Komatsu Forest AB Rus, LLC Europe S.p.A. Indonesia Undercarriage Indonesia FORGING INDONESIA Co., Ltd. Yaroslavl, Este (PD), Umeå, Jakarta, West Java, West Java, Chonburi, Location Czech Republic Russia Italy Sweden Indonesia Indonesia Indonesia Thailand Manufacture of Utility equipment Hydraulic excavaCrawler type Hydraulic excavasheet metal parts Parts for construcMain products (small construction Forestry equipment tors, bulldozers, for construction Hydraulic excavators tors, forklift trucks for construction tion machinery equipment) wheel loaders machinery, rollers equipment Number of employees 155 404 119 371 971 200 406 456 Electricity (MWh) 2,957 3,189 3,784 2,418 34,127 6,913 40,448 7,995 Energy consumption Heavy oil, light oil, et al. (kℓ) 14 － － － 1,132 272 1,291 590 Natural gas (thousand m3) 1,025 613 371 － 1,729 － － － 180 216 29 LPG, et al. (t) － － － － － (LPG) (LPG) (LPG) Total energy consumption (GJ) 71,870 55,338 50,928 27,402 463,226 90,368 453,488 103,939 CO2 (t-CO2) 3,043 2,509 2,724 335 30,767 6,184 31,566 5,924 Water consumption (t) 7,507 9,298 17,511 4,353 97,125 39,048 47,134 69,947 Total emissions of waste (t) 279 872 162 259 7,146 962 5,937 693 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition － November 2001 － October 2003 June 2000 July 2009 October 2008 September 2001 Asia BKI LTK KIPL KSC KCCM KCF KSD KUCC Overview Manufacturing facilities Bangkok Komatsu L&T-Komatsu Komatsu India Pvt. Komatsu Shantui Construction Komatsu (Changzhou) Komatsu (ChangKomatsu（Shandong) Komatsu UndercarIndustries Co., Ltd. Limited Ltd. Machinery Co., Ltd. Construction Machinery Corp. zhou) Foundry Corp. Construction Machinery Corp. riage China Corp. Chonburi. Bangalore, Chennai, Shandong, Jiangsu, Jiangsu, Shandong, Shandong, Location Thailand India India China China China China China Forklift trucks, Iron castings and Mini construction equipWheel loaders, Crawler type Castiron parts foundry molds for ment, forklift trucks, Main products Hydraulic excavators Dump trucks Hydraulic excavators hydraulic excavators, for construction Data for construction construction and hydraulic equipment and motor graders machinery machinery mining equipment mining equipment Number of employees 337 677 205 828 573 289 339 322 Electricity (MWh) 33,824 7,263 561 11,360 3,351 52,082 5,755 30,338 Energy consumption Heavy oil, light oil, et al. (kℓ) 68 548 67 1,286 1,961 154 810 82 Natural gas (thousand m3) － － － 406 － － 119 1,016 160.56 149 30 167 7,919 LPG, et al. (t) － － － (LPG) (LPG) (LPG) (Coal, LPG, LNG) (LNG) Total energy consumption (GJ) 347,943 101,038 8,174 179,849 110,484 531,507 523,699 347,200 CO2 (t-CO2) 18,762 8,701 702 16,538 7,901 41,824 28,243 26,198 Water consumption (t) 62,977 59,559 23,168 179,612 108,457 100,488 52,745 92,860 Total emissions of waste (t) 7,508 2,010 75 1,446 1,134 11,346 703 4,630 Date of ISO14001 certification acquisition December 2009 June 1999 January 2010 December 2000 September 2000 December 1999 － － Notes 1. All data, except the number of employees, were derived from performances of all manufacturing facilities during FY2010. All values are sum of The number of employees was based on the companies’ data as of March 31, 2011. former 3 corps 2. Conversion to CO2 and total energy consumption were based on statistical data of each region, country, and that of IEA for 2010. (KUC, KHM, KSCC) 3. Total emissions of waste are expressed as a composite of the amount recycled and the amount disposed. 47 Environmental Management and Environmental Accounting Courses in Environmental Education and Training in Japan (excluding general environmental courses) Organizer No. Course name Target Participants FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Head Office 1 Advanced environmental education (held every two years) Environmental specialists (Komatsu and affiliates) 19 － 16 － 2 Overview of the ISO14000 series Administrators (Komatsu, affiliates, and business associates) 36 32 55 83 3 Training of internal auditors / Refresher courses Environmental auditors (Komatsu, affiliates, and business associates) 51 41 40 273 4 Development and manufacturing (introductory) Development and manufacturing staff (for second-year employees) 97 139 182 112 5 Environmental training for manufacturing engineers Assistant foremen/ foremen/ manufacturing engineers/ students of Komatsu Institute of Technology 50 66 91 114 6 Training new employees New Employees (Komatsu and affiliates) 186 227 115 200 7 Lectures on the environment, experience-oriented education Komatsu Group managers and employees 308 1,329 398 1,002 8 Education for enhanced environmental understanding (e-Learning) Komatsu Group managers － － － － 9 Education to refresh environmental understanding (e-Learning) Komatsu Group managers and employees 191 164 237 194 Divisions 1 Education in the basics of auditing Managers and employees 371 153 98 99 overseeing 2 Overview of the ISO14000 series Managers and employees 2,138 302 836 468 environmental 3 Training of internal auditors Environmental auditors 30 59 7 26 manage4 Training new employees New Employees 666 675 1,116 1,240 ment at plants 5 Regulatory education and personnel exchange Employees 788 1,276 517 448 6 Specialist training Environmental conservation practitioners (persons involved in regulatory affairs, etc.) 113 1,776 2,466 952 In addition to the education and training courses listed above, Komatsu also held courses dealing with environmental issues intended for sales agents. Number of Persons Having Environment-related Certificate Effects on Society during the Product Use Stage* Certificate name Number of persons with certificate* Environmental impact reduction effects Tangible benefits FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 ◦Environmental impact reduction resulting ◦Reduction of expenses for processing from on-site recycling methods waste materials Pollution control administrators 192 (51) 195 (49) 177 (39) 178 (33) ◦Environmental impact reduction resulting ◦Savings in operating and maintenance Energy administrators 39 (14) 40 (13) 48 (13) 42 (10) from product operation costs ◦Waste components reduction resulting from ◦Reduction of repair costs Environmental management system auditors 8 8 7 6 “Reman” business * Concerning the effects on society derived from product use by customers, the major items of qualitative information are shown here as a reference. Environmental Costs (Investments and expenses) Komatsu and Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan Category Investment Expenses FY2009 FY2010 FY2009 FY2010 Investment* Investment* Contents Expenses* Expenses* Contents (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (1) Business area cost 1,228 1,544 2,671 3,692 1. Pollution prevention cost 871 1,107 ◦Investment for installation and conversion of 700 1,191 ◦Cost of maintaining equipment for mitigation/prevention of pollution mitigation/prevention facilities air and water pollution and for noise and vibration prevention (installation of effluent processing facilities, (labor and depreciation costs) conversion of painting booths, etc.) 2. Global environmental conservation 337 291 ◦Investment for implementing energy conservation 866 1,162 ◦Cost of maintaining energy conservation facilities, such as cost measures cogeneration systems (labor and depreciation costs) (installation of new ventilation systems, etc.) 3. Resource circulation cost 20 146 ◦Investment for reducing the volume of waste 1,105 1,339 ◦Waste material processing cost materials (conversion of recycling facilities, introduction of equipment for separating waste, etc.) (2) Upstream/downstream cost 0 1 218 259 ◦Reduction of the environmental impact of components, etc. shipped outside Japan ◦Reduction of the environmental impact of mass-production units (3) Administration cost 2 23 ◦Investment for beautifying manufacturing sites 702 929 ◦Cost of maintaining environmental management systems ◦Cost of creating green spaces and beautifying manufacturing sites (4) R&D cost 295 172 ◦Investment in research facilities for reduction of 12,039 14,128 ◦Cost of R&D activities to reduce the environmental impact of environmental impact products ◦Cost of R&D activities to develop environmentally-friendly construction equipment (5) Social activity cost 0 0 11 13 (6) Environmental remediation cost 0 0 746 418 ◦Cost of conducting surveys and remedial countermeasures related to soil and groundwater contamination Total 1,526 1,740 16,387 19,440 * All figures are rounded off to the nearest million yen. Environmental Effects Data Komatsu and Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan Environmental impact reduction effects Economic benefits Items of Reduction Rate of Tangible benefits Avoidance benefits of Contribution to profits environmental amount year-on-year Type Monetary value* Major activities environmental risks (see Note below) impact (t/year) changes (%) (millions of yen) (see Note below) CO2 emissions 76,791 40.4 Energy 332 ◦Energy conversion, etc. ◦There were no accidents or ◦Proceeds from mobile recycling conservation pollution in Japan during FY2010 equipment that led to violations of the law. ◦Proceeds from value added due Resource 1 ◦No litigation costs were required to reduced environmental impact conservation in Japan during FY2010. of products (engines) Water 680,098 12.5 Waste materials 793 ◦Promotion of recycling through thoroughgoing ◦Proceeds from Reman business consumption reduction sorting Gain on sale of 473 ◦Reuse of furnace slag for roadbed materials valuables Waste materials 5,501 38.9 Other 3 generation Total 1,602 * Figures are rounded off to the nearest million yen. Note: Komatsu used statements instead of numeral figures to describe the “Avoidance benefits of environmental risks” and the “Contribution to profits.” The company will further develop concepts and ways to understand effects in these categories. The sales amounts of businesses for content presented in “Contributions to profits” in FY2010 are as follows: ◦Mobile recycling equipment business: 1.0 billion yen ◦Engine business: 120.8 billion yen (Total for intra-Group sales from the Engine Business Division) ◦“Reman” business: 35.3 billion yen (Worldwide Reman business sales from April 2010 to March 2011) 48 Company Profile Company name Komatsu Ltd. ◆ Changes in Consolidated Sales Established May 13, 1921 (billion yen) Industrial machinery, and others Head Office 2-3-6, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8414, Japan 2,500 2,243.0 Construction and mining 2,021.7 equipment, vehicles Representative President and Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji 1,893.3 194.3 2,000 1,843.1 182.0 277.0 Common Stock Consolidated ¥67,870 million (US$828 million*) as of March 31, 2011 1,431.5 227.4 1,500 162.9 Consolidated ¥1,843,127 million (US$22,206 million*) Non-consolidated ¥742,519 million (US$8,946 million*) 1,000 2,048.7 1,744.7 Net sales *The translation of Japanese yen amounts into US dollar amounts is included solely 1,711.2 1,615.6 (for the fiscal year** ended 1,268.5 for convenience and has been made for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 at 500 March 31, 2011) the rate of ¥83 to US$1, the approximate rate of exchange at March 31, 2011. **Komatsu’s fiscal years end on March 31. “FY2000,” for example, means 0 from April 1, 2000 to March 31, 2001. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Main lines of business Manufacture and sale of construction and mining equipment, utility equipment (small construction equipment), forestry equipment, (Komatsu Group) industrial machinery, etc. Komatsu Group profile Number of affiliated companies 184 (as of March 31, 2011) ◆ Sales by Region (FY2010) Number of employees: Number of employees by region: The Middle (as of March 31, 2011) (as of March 31, 2011) East and Africa 6% Japan 104.5 19% 349.1 Consolidated 41,059 Japan 18,253 22% Asia(excluding Japan and China) The Americas 9,128 and Oceania 1,843.1 The Americas Non-consolidated 8,210 Europe and CIS 3,138 398.3 (billion yen) 22% 397.4 Consolidated subsidiaries China 4,115 China 23% Europe and CIS in Japan 10,043 Asia (excluding Japan and China) and Oceania 5,319 428.2 9% 165.4 Consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan 22,806 The Middle East and Africa 1,106 Note: The sales ratio by region has been rounded off to the closest whole number. Environmental and Social Activities to Date & External Commendations ◆ Overview of Komatsu’s Environmental and Social Activities to Date 1962 ● Began support for the Flower Association of Japan since its founding 2006 ● All Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan attain zero emissions 1991 ● Earth Environment Committee established ● The KOMATSU Way explicitly defined and promotion activities launched ● Company name changed in Japanese public relations to “Komatsu,” 2007 ● Seventh edition of Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct with new corporate brand logotype published 1992 ● Komatsu Earth Environment Charter and Environmental Action Plan formulated 2008 ● Agreement concluded with Japanese NPO Japan Mine Action Service (JMAS) ● The Komatsu Group in Japan acquire ISO14001 integrated certification 1994 ● First Environmental Report published ● Board of Corporate Auditors established ● Development of PC200-8 hybrid hydraulic excavator announced ● Signed the United Nations Global Compact 1997 ● Oyama Plant becomes first in Japanese construction equipment industry to acquire ISO14001 certification 2009 ● Started Angola local reconstruction project with JMAS ● PBZ and PAS series of press brakes acquire MF eco machine* certification 1998 ● Ethics Committee established ● Basic agreement reached between Komatsu, Adaro and UT on the (Renamed as Compliance Committee later) ● First edition of Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct published biodiesel project in Indonesia *The MF Eco machine Certification System is an eco-label established by the Japan 1999 ● Executive Officer system established; Board of Directors reorganized Forming Machinery Association. ● Compensation Council established 2010 ● New mediumand long-term targets are set to reduce CO2 emissions 2000 ● First Global Environmental Affairs Meeting convened from manufacturing facilities ● Environmental Report published; published annually thereafter ● Komatsu Earth Environment Charter is revised 2001 ● Compliance Department established 2011 ● Vehicle equipped with a new type of engine that meets Tier4 emission standards for Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe is introduced in the North 2002 ● All seven Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan acquire American market ISO14001 certification ● Komatsu’s “Declaration of Biodiversity” is established 2003 ● Environmental Affairs Department established ● Local reconstruction project in Cambodia is completed with JMAS 2004 ● Corporate Social Responsibility Department established ● CSR themes are defined ● “Komatsu Green Park” opens in Komatsu City, the company’s birthplace 2005 ● First European Health, Safety, and Environment Meeting convened ◆ External Commendations and Evaluations on Komatsu’s Environmental Conservation and Social Activities 2010 May. ● Received the 2010 Chairman’s Award from the Japan Construction Mechanization Association for developing the PC200-8E0 Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator Oct. ● Ranked 18th among 1,900 companies in Japan in the Nippon Foundation’s Annual Corporate Performance Rankings Dec. ● Awarded the Good Enterprise Grand Prix from the Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA) ● The Oyama Plant received the “Environment Minister’s Commendation” for its activities for mitigating global warming ● Komatsu ranked 8th according to the “NICES” company rating system by Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. 2011 Jan. ● Ranked 16th among 253 companies in Japan in Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd.’s Seventh Annual Corporate Performance Rankings ● Ranked 29th among 475 companies in the 14th Corporate Environmental Management Ranking by Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. Feb. ● Awarded first prize for the 2011 Integrity Award from the Internal Control Council of Japan (ACFE) Apr. ● Komatsu Hybrid System for construction equipment receives the 2010 JSME Medal for New Technology from the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers (JSME) Komatsu Ltd. is included in the Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) indexes indicated below. (As of September 2010) 49 Independent Review on CSR & Environmental Report 2011 Regarding the Independent Review Komatsu views the independent review process as crucial for ensuring the integrity and objectivity of its CSR & Environmental Report. For that reason, Komatsu has received an independent review from Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd., a member of the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Group. The results are as represented below with regard to the information appearing in the CSR & Environmental Report 2011. http://www.tohmatsu.com/teco/ ◆ Supplementary Explanation regarding the Conducting of Independent Review Procedures As a supplementary explanation, the following provides an overview of the review procedures conducted during an independent review. Supplementary explanation regarding independent review procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Formation of Execution of Reporting on Check of final Submission of plan for review independent process review review results version of repor review report ● Confirmation of items to be ● Review of offices and ● Reporting results of review ● Follow-up on issues ● Submission of included in the report persons in charge (revisions and suggestions) identified during Step 3 independent review report (1) Scope of information ● Inspections of business (2) Information collection units process (3) Information collection method (4) Level of importance of individual pieces of information ● Finalization of items to be reviewed and review methodology Supplementary explanation regarding site visits to business units 1.Business units 2.Visits to business units take place visited in this review: in a planned rotation. Records for ● Komatsu Ltd. Head Office business units not visited during this ● Awazu Plant review were reviewed at the Komatsu Executing a review at the Head Office Executing a review Ltd. Head Office. (with persons in charge of Development Division in photo) at the Awazu Plant Scope of This Report ● Komatsu (parent company) manufacturing facilities, specifically the following seven plants The Awazu Plant [including the Komatsu Machinery Corporation and Komatsu Engineering Corp (Awazu Plant).], the Kanazawa Plant [including the Kanazawa-Daiichi Plant, the Kanazawa-Daini Plant and the Kawakita Plant], the Osaka Plant [including the Rokko Plant], the Ibaraki Plant [including the Mooka Plant] and the Oyama Plant [including Komatsu Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., Industrial Power Alliance Ltd. and GIGAPHOTON, Inc.], the Koriyama Plant, and the Shonan Plant [including KELK Ltd.]. ● Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan, specifically the above seven plants and the following five business units Komatsu Utility Co., Ltd., Komatsu Castex Ltd., Komatsu Cabtec Co., Ltd.,, Komatsu NTC Ltd. [including Lossev Technology Corporation, Toyama Kiko Corporation, and D.S.K. Co., Ltd.] and Komatsu House Ltd. ● Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities outside Japan, specifically the following 24 plants Komatsu America Corp.,[Chattanooga Manufacturing Operation], [Peoria Manufacturing Operation], [Newberry Manufacturing Operation], Komatsu do Brasil Ltda., Hensley Industries, Inc. (The Americas), Komatsu UK Ltd., Komatsu Hanomag GmbH (Germany), Komatsu Mining Germany GmbH, Komatsu Manufacturing Rus, LLC, Komatsu Utility Europe S.p.A. (Italy), Stavmek s.r.o (Czech Republic), Komatsu Forest AB (Sweden), PT Komatsu Indonesia Tbk, PT Komatsu Undercarriage Indonesia, PT Komatsu Forging Indonesia, Bangkok Komatsu Co., Ltd., Bangkok Komatsu Industries Co., Ltd., L&T-Komatsu Limited (India), Komatsu India Pvt. Ltd., Komatsu Shantui Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., Komatsu (Changzhou) Construction Machinery Corporation, Komatsu (Changzhou) Foundry Corp., Komatsu (Shandong) Construction Machinery Corp, and Komatsu Undercarriage China Corp. ● Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities including outside Japan:All of the 36 above-mentioned offices are shown. 50 Komatsu Ltd. 2-3-6, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8414, Japan http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/csr/ Komatsu welcomes your comments. E-mail: kankyo@komatsu.co.jp CSR Department TEL: +81-3-5561-2799 FAX: +81-3-3505-9662 Environmental Affairs Department TEL: +81-3-5561-2646 FAX: +81-3-5561-2780 The main text of this pamphlet was printed on paper made with wood from forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood HEER110729 Association)-Supporting sound forest management.
