Sustainability Annual Report 2010 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 02 / Summary / 03 Dialogue with Stakeholders Corporate Governance 04 Introduction 06 Executive Summary 26 30 Organizational Principles constantly evolving MAIN practices Transparency and ethics in relationships Process of Internal and external Inquiry Risk Management Message from the Board Redecard Profile Socio-Economic and 08 CAPTURE TECHNOLOGY 16 REDECARD, THE MERCHANT’S FRIEND PRODUCTS AND SERVICES of Directors Enhancements and Achievements in 2010 Economic scenario Financial Performance Sustainability in Redecard 42 Environmental DEVELOPMENT 66 Client focus Global Compact The Redecard Institute INCENTIVES FOR CULTURAL ACTIONS, SPORTS AND SOCIAL ACTIOn Environmental Practices Preference and satisfaction Message from the President 70 Innovation 72 Intangible Assets People Management Knowledge Management 18 Brand Management New technologies and new horizons Awards and Recognitions 86 A Year of Progress About the Report – Level of GRI application Annexes Main indicators for Redecard 20 Partnership and closeness to Clients GRI Cross Reference Index and relation with the Global Compact Multi-brand Balance Sheet (Ibase and NBCT15) Strategy Security Limited Assurance Report by Independent Auditors Innovation Application Level Check Strategic Plan Corporate Information REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 4 / Introduction F or the second year in a row Redecard is publishing its Sustainability Annual Report, thus confirming its social commitment towards transparency and ethics. This report takes a look at Redecard’s main achievements, challenges and targets on the economic, social and environmental fronts. The report is aimed at encouraging the dialogue of Redecard with its stakeholders: analysts, associations, issuing banks, brands, clients, board members, suppliers, employees, and investors. The building of a materiality matrix was an important step for Redecard in this dialogue process, as it allowed external expectations to be aligned with the Company’s targets. Concluded in December 2010, the study was based on consultation with the stakeholders. During the seminars that were held the stakeholders indicated the priority themes for Redecard. The results were aligned with the Company’s strategic planning, creating the base for the content of this report. GRI 3.5 and 3.8 Redecard’s Sustainability Annual Report follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, providing information that upgraded the level of the report to B+ in 2010 from C+ in 2009, complying with the new demands of the G3 version of the GRI model, which were established in February 2010.GRI 3.11 The content was checked by the independent auditors of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), who used the AA1000 assurance guidelines, which includes the collecting of information, the audit and the social and ethical report, with the focus being on the dialogue with the stakeholders. There are four ways to access the information contained in this report: (i) the complete and printed version; (ii) the content available through Redecard’s internet portal (www.redecard.com.br/ri), which can be accessed in full or by means of a browse by audience function, aimed at the stakeholders indicated by the materiality process; (iii) audio podcasts are available on the same portal, which present a summarized version of the report and are accessible to people with visual special needs; and (iv) a magazine, which is distributed to the employees, with a summary of the information. The financial statements, which in 2010 began to be published in accordance with the international financial reporting standards (IFRS), will only be available through Redecard’s internet portal. Enjoy your reading! REDECARD Sustainability Relatório AnualAnnual Report 2010 2010 de Sustentabilidade /7 6 / Executive Summary /7 The main highlights of Redecard’s Increased Competition Ethics and Security Sustainability Sustainability Annual Report 2010 With the end of exclusivity agreements In order to strengthen its commitment to ethics, Redecard made widespread Following Redecard’s inclusion in the are the expansion of what was between brands and acquirers, Redecard, disclosure of the Code of Ethics and Conduct in 2010 to the Company’s employees. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index – DJSI which had been a multi-brand organization This code was reviewed in 2009, with the purpose of aligning the code with the World – and in the Business Sustainability already the largest portfolio of right from the start, incorporated Visa into its Company’s new identity, with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and Index (ISE) of the São Paulo Stock portfolio, starting on July 1, 2010. Transactions market requirements, such as the Business Sustainability Index (ISE)of the São Paulo Exchange – BM&FBovespa, in 2009 the brands in the electronic payment with the world’s most accepted brand began Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa, and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index – DJSI Company made a number of significant to be processed by Redecard terminals at World), among others. commitments and expanded its initiatives. sector, the opening up of the midnight on the previous day, without Clients It set up the Redecard Institute, the mission Another important step was the classification of all previously mapped risks. market, ending the exclusivity needing to make any adjustment or update. The Company prioritized the tracking of those regarded to be “unacceptable” by of which is to take part in educational actions and projects aimed at developing The new scenario in the electronic payment monitoring actions aimed at mitigating the accurance of such risks, classified that the Visa brand had in Brazil, market resulted in increased competition and within the various key-areas in Redecard’s sectors. The main risks monitored include: entrepreneurship. In 2010, the institute produced and developed two professional and the increased Client Focus. demanded new strategies. Given this new business continuity in the Company’s capture processes; the processing and training programs: Social Entrepreneurship environment, in order to remain among the settlement of transactions; and invasion of the Company’s systems, which could lead and Sustainable Enterprise. The institute The Company always sought to market leaders, the Company undertook a to unauthorized disclosure of data. also set up a workgroup, in conjunction series of initiatives aimed at improving the offer products and services that quality of the services offered to its Clients. with MasterCard and the Brazilian organization Sebrae (Brazilian Support Teams in the commercial and business added value to the Client’s business, support areas were strengthened, which Service for Micro and Small Businesses), for the purpose of studying and presenting but as a result of the increase in involved investments in personnel. As part of suitable payment solutions for micro and the level of competition, in 2010 the strategy to create its own sales team, over the course of the year, Redecard increased the Innovation small entrepreneurs. number of its employees from 790 to 1,455. In For the second year in a row, Redecard this guideline became part of the order to strengthen the relationship with its Innovation has also been a key element in bringing was the only company from the electronic Redecard closer to its Clients. At the forefront in terms of Clients, the Company set up various customer payment industry to be included in Company’s strategy. service channels, reformulated its internet bringing mobility to its current Clients and expanding the the investment portfolio of the ISE of use of electronic payment means, the Company launched portal and expanded its sales force. BM&FBovespa, and of the DJSI World. Redecard Celular, a system that allows a mobile handset to Redecard’s investments in 2010 were be used like a credit card, as a substitute for ‘plastic’. In order to reinforce its actions on concentrated mainly on the purchase of The Company also showed its innovation with the launch of behalf of sustainable development, the electronic equipment for capturing card Redecard Móvel, a product that turns a mobile handset into Company made a commitment to monitor transactions (POS terminals), reaffirming a POS terminal. As a market leader, the product is mainly its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. its strategy of permanently renewing and aimed at those segments which require mobility and where In addition, in December it joined the Profile updating its equipment base. The Company made significant investments in software credit cards still have a limited penetration. first portfolio of the São Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa Carbon Efficient Redecard, a multi-brand acquirer of credit, debit and developed in-house, which is necessary to Index (IC02) and of the National Bank benefit cards, is one of the leaders in the electronic serve the new brands that are part of the for Economic and Social Development payment industry in the Brazilian market. In addition Redecard System. (BNDES), in its 2011 edition. to its activities of merchant acquiring, capturing, transmission, processing and settlement of credit The Company also reinforced its value proposition, which consists of four pillars Economic Performance As the result of all these actions, the Company ended 2010 receiving a and debit card transactions, it offers prepayment that differentiate it on the market: The growth in affiliation was also fueled by the new significant amount of recognition from of receivables to merchants resulting from sales innovation, security, a multi-brand platform partnerships with Caixa Econômica Federal, Banco Safra, Brazilian society. Among the awards made by means of MasterCard®, Visa, Diners Club and prepayment of receivables. At the same Tribanco (a financial institution that is part of Martins received were the following: ‘The 150 International®, Sicredi and Cabal credit cards. time as it signed partnership agreements wholesaler group) and Bancoob (Credit Cooperative in Best Brazilian Companies to Work The Company also offers Clients the rental of point with new brands, it intensified its brand Midwestern Brazil), coupled with the start of transaction For’ awarded by Guia Você S/A-Exame; of sale (POS) electronic equipment for electronic positioning and increased investments capture of credit and debit cards bearing the Visa brand the Ranking of Brazil’s 500 Largest transaction capture, check verification services in marketing, by means of a new advertising and the substantial portfolio of brands, which in December Companies awarded by the magazine by means of the aforementioned POS electronic campaign. It launched its mascot, a 31, 2010 totaled 22 brands (the largest among acquirers in IstoÉ Dinheiro; and ‘The 100 Most equipment, and capture and transmission services POS terminal that turns into a puppy, and the Brazilian market). This resulted in a net income of Innovative Companies in IT’, which is for transactions carried out with vouchers and in this way positioned the Company as R$ 1.4 billion, which represents a 0.3% increase over the sponsored by the magazine Information private label cards. ‘the merchant’s friend’. amount registered in 2009. Week and by Deloitte. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 8 / Redecard Profile ‘Redecard, the merchant’s friend’ Redecard S.A. is a Brazilian company that is present throughout Brazil with 1.145 million POS terminals distributed in 100% of the municipalities with electric power and telecommunications. It is considered one of the world’s ten largest electronic payment companies, and is among the the top 20 most liquid companies in Ibovespa (the São Paulo Stock Exchange’s Index), with a market value of R$ 15 billion*. GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 2.8 and 3.6 The Company carries out the capture, capture and transmission of transactions processing, transmission and settlement carried out with vouchers and private of credit and debit card transactions made label cards. GRI 2.7 e 2.8 by consumers during the course of their purchases. As a multi-brand acquirer, For the second consecutive year, it Redecard is one of the leaders of the was the only company in the electronic Brazilian electronic payment industry. payment industry to be included in the At the end of 2010, the Company was investment portfolios of the Dow Jones licensed to process 22 brands**, the largest Sustainability Index and the Business portfolio in the Brazilian market. Sustainability Index (ISE) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange. GRI 2.10 Redecard’s main activities are: rental of point of sale (POS) electronic equipment Redecard is a publicly traded company. to merchants; the discount rate on the The Company’s headquarters is Avenida value resulting from sales with debit and Marcos Penteado de Ulhôa Rodrigues, credit cards; prepayments of receivables 939, Loja 1 – 12th, 13th and 14th floors, in to merchants from credit card sales the municipality of Barueri, São Paulo. (RAV); check verification services; and the GRI 2.3, 2.4 and 2.6 *Base value at 30/12/2010 **Visa, Hipercard, China Union Pay, Sorocred, Coopercred, Sicredi and Avista REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 10 / Redecard Profile / 11 Club International® branded credit and the way for the Company to strengthen its REDECARD’S ROLE ON THE PAYMENT MARKET IN BRAZIL debit cards in Brazil. GRI 2.5 and 2.6 position in parts of the country where it previously had a limited presence. During From the outset, Redecard was set up the year, Redecard also signed partnership Card brands under Brazilian Corporation Law, with deals for the capture of a further six Cardholder base Acceptance the members including the controlling brands: Hipercard, China Union Pay, shareholders and Redecard itself. When the Sorocred, Coopercred, Sicredi, and Avista. Issuers (cardholder’s bank) Merchant acquirers Redecard Consortium ceased to exist on Redecard’s portfolio reached a total of 22 March 31, 2007, Redecard assumed all the brands* in 2010, making it the largest in S Redecard Consortium’s rights and obligations. the Brazilian market. The new partnerships $ S S $ Transaction value (-) Interchange fee added even more value for Redecard In June 2007, Redecard was listed on the Clients, which began to benefit from the $ Transaction value São Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa, acceptance of regional and international $ Transaction value (-) Merchant discount Card Transaction with its shares being listed on the New brands, resulting from domestic as well invoice data Market (“Novo Mercado”), a segment as foreign tourism. The acceptance of the S SS S Cardholders Goods/services Merchants SS S that is reserved for companies that are new international brands becomes even committed to differentiated practices in more significant in light of the fact that terms of the relationship with minority Brazil will be hosting the World Cup and Credit/debit cards shareholders and the highest level of the Olympic Games, which will bring yet With a broad portfolio Our history corporate governance that is found in the another group of consumers to Brazil. of products and services, The Company’s history dates back to the Brazilian capital markets.Upon the listing, GRI 2.2 e DMA-PR Redecard meets the needs 1970s. It was set up according to Brazilian MasterCard sold its stake in the Company. GRI 2.3 and expectations of Clients from all Brazilian cities. Corporate Law for Publicly-Held Companies In January 2008 Citibank sold part of its *Visa, Hipercard, China Union Pay, Sorocred, Coopercred, Sicredi and Avista in a partnership with Citibank, Itaucard stake and exited the Company entirely in and Unibanco that founded Credicard; the March 2009. Consequently the Company activities of this company included those underwent a shareholding restructuring. of a credit card brand, an issuer and of a As a result of this, the Itaú Unibanco Group, merchant acquirer. In 1987, the Company which had recently been created by the began to issue MasterCard® branded cards merger between these two banks, became and launched the Brazilian market’s first Redecard’s controlling shareholder. debit card-brand, called Redeshop®. Brands In 1996, the controlling shareholders Redecard has always had a multi-brand decided to specialize in merchant profile and has always valued free acquiring and payment processing competition in order to be able to offer services and founded Redecard, by its services in a democratic way to its spinning off these activities from which Clients. For this reason, it never signed maintained the issuance of Credicard. In any exclusivity contracts with any credit, the same year, MasterCard International® debit or voucher card brand. With the also became a shareholder in Redecard. opening up of the market on July 1 2010, Since then, Redecard became the Redecard began to capture debit and credit main merchant acquirer and payment transactions of the world’s most widely processor for MasterCard® and Diners accepted brand, namely Visa, which paved Redecard serves about 20 thousand self-employed professionals. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 12 / Redecard Profile / 13 Capture Technology In order to expand receipt of electronic payments by its Clients, Redecard provides capture means that are increasingly up-todate in technological terms and suitable for the needs of each segment. The Company has one of the world’s most advanced technological bases and uses state-of-the-art technology in order to offer the latest transaction capture methods in merchants throughout the whole of Brazil, by means of 1.145 million electronic POS terminals. Wireline POS Terminals consists of Electronic Transfer of Funds This technology is mainly used for (TEF) software that connects the merchants and small business owners merchant’s network to Redecard, allowing who receive payment over the counter. it to capture electronic transactions. Redecard owns these wireline POS Redecard offers different TEF solutions terminals, which are rented out to according to the volume of transactions merchants. The Company guarantees and the size of the merchant. competitive prices and offers services that can be downloaded remotely, such as Komerci service software and security updates. Technology developed by Redecard for e-commerce merchants, this product is Wireless POS Terminals integrated with internet solutions and The wireless POS terminals also belong enables the capture of online transactions by to Redecard. These compact, wireless the merchant, and in this way prevents card terminals go wherever the cardholder is, information from circulating in the virtual making electronic payments easier and store environment. As a result, the merchant meeting the needs of those segments does not have to worry about implementing that require mobility, as they do not need controls and systems to ensure the security a conventional fixed line terminal. For of this information. Komerci captures online instance, these wireless POS terminals transactions with MasterCard, Visa and are ideal for restaurants and gas stations, Diners branded credit cards. where this capture method offers efficiency for the merchants and greater Redecard Móvel convenience for cardholders. An innovative technology, Redecard Móvel is a solution that turns a simple PDV TEF Electronic Terminais mobile handset into a Redecard electronic Redecard's technology Unlike the electronic POS terminals POS terminal. Using a mobile handset, is one of the most that are rented out by Redecard, this a door-to-door salesman, for instance, modern in the world, equipment is owned by the merchant, and is able to make their sales and receive comprising over 1.1 is generally used by large retailers, such payment made by means of Visa, million POS terminals. as supermarket chains. The equipment MasterCard and Diners Club credit cards. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 14 / Redecard Profile / 15 Products and Services With the objective of increasing merchant sales by attracting Benefit cards (vouchers) more consumers, Redecard offers an ever increasing variety The transactions with benefit cards enable Redecard Clients, with just an of products and services. This strategy has been intensified electronic POS terminal, to serve the main since the start of the second half of 2010, and a multi-services Brazilian benefit card segments including meals, food, fuel, drugstores and giftplatform began to take shape. cards. Redecard provides capture service to Brazil’s main benefit card companies including: Ticket, Sodexo, PlanVale, Nutricash, Green Card, SaporeBenefícios, Credit and debit Rental of POS terminals Verocheque, Sorocred Vale, Cabal Vale, BNB Redecard is responsible for the activities The electronic POS terminals belong Clube, and Valecard. of capture, transmission, processing and to Redecard, which rents them to its settlement of transactions made with affiliated merchants. With a single Private label cards domestic and international branded credit terminal, the merchant can carry a whole These cards serve the needs of high sales and debit cards. range of services, including credit and volumes and high frequency purchases, debit transactions, check verification such as department stores, supermarkets, With regard to credit cards, the merchant and the top-up of mobile phones. The and home furniture stores. These cards can make sales at sight or in installments, rental value also includes software and bear the merchant’s name, but can also with or without interest, with total security hardware maintenance, paper supply, the carry a brand, which makes it possible to in terms of receiving payment. In the case periodic update of the equipment, the use them at other affiliated merchants of debit cards, sales are either for cash or access to the Customer Service Centers belonging to the Redecard Network. are pre-dated for periods of up to 60 days. and to the internet portal, which offers The transactions are 100% PIN based, and the Client more than 40 self-service Check verification the transaction value is debited to the options, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Redecard’s electronic POS terminals increases the use of POS electronic With a single POS consumer’s bank current account. In 2010, are a straightforward means to make a terminals and makes it possible for terminal, the Client has access to transactions made with credit cards totaled quick online inquiry to the Brazilian check merchants to increase their consumer several services. of R$ 1.6 billion, while those with debit verification entity, called Serasa Experian. traffic flow, as well as to provide them cards totaled R$ 449.2 million. Redecard understands that it needs to be with an additional source of income for aware of its Clients’ needs. And for those this incremental service. merchants that accept checks, it provides security support services by means of its Cash-back Indicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 POS terminals. A service that allows debit cardholders Credit Cards to withdraw up to R$ 100 in cash when Transaction Value (R$ thousands) 68.641.394 82.941.488 98.651.470 123.865.579 Pre-paid mobile top-up they make purchases of at least R$ 20 Number of Transactions (thousands) 781.491 897.956 1.017.161 1.194.415 This service is available on POS at Redecard affiliated merchants by Debit Cards electronic terminals for the electronic means of the POS electronic terminals. topping-up of credits for pre-paid No discount rate is charged to the Transaction Value (R$ thousands) 33.702.471 42.273.469 49.305. 526 60.205.329 mobile phones, by using MasterCard and participating merchants on the value of Number of Transactions (thousands) 704.934 851.302 968.757 1.125.935 Visa Electron debit cards. This product cash-back transactions. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 17 16 / Message from the Board of Directors Sustainability Enhancements and actions in Redecard's governance have achievements in 2010 helped the Company to overcome its Márcio de Andrade Schettini Chairman of the Board of Directors challenges in 2010. T he year was marked by the start of in the rules governing competition, in the The sustainability actions in Redecard’s We continue to foresee a scenario of a new period for Redecard: a cycle view regarding what type of relationship corporate governance helped the Company progress and geographical expansion of intense competition, which was to establish with Clients and what the to overcome the challenges of 2010. In for 2011 and 2012. Redecard should triggered by the opening up of the market responsibilities of the issuing banks of the addition to producing benefits for Brazilian continue with its task of developing a and by the end of brand exclusivity. In order brands are in this process. GRI 1.1 e 1.2 society, the maintenance and expansion market that has gained greater visibility, to reinforce its talent for leadership, the of this type of activity increased the while seeking to preserve franchises Company combined efforts, skills, resources Preparing the Company for this new market Company’s visibility with strategic investors and market share, making these actions and know-how, for the development and dynamic was one of the major challenges of both in Brazil as well as in the rest of render positive financial results for the adaptation of a business model that 2010. This was a process that began a year ago, the world – a market that increasingly Company’s shareholders. We continue to consists of growth and the maintenance of which demanded investments in planning acknowledges Redecard‘s commitment to have a very positive view regarding 2011, its affiliated merchant acquirer base. and a marked increase in the Company’s sustainable development.GRI 1.1 although we are well aware that the employee headcount. market agenda is very intense and that Redecard ended the year with success The Company also implemented social this will demand extra efforts not only by in relation to its main strategic planning Historically, Redecard has always inclusion actions as a result of the signing Redecard’s Executive Board but also from targets along with various other positioned itself as an innovative company, up of new Clients for its services. It is the Company’s Board of Directors. achievements, such as the retention of the with a high level of automation, participating Redecard’s belief that the simple act of market’s largest portfolio of brands, 22 in in the modernization process and which delivering a POS electronic terminal to a Starting in April of this year, this total, and the Company’s inclusion for the produces efficiency gains for its Clients. merchant contributes to the process of challenge will be conducted by Claudio second consecutive year in the Dow Jones The new competitive environment has formalizing the Brazilian economy and to Takashi Yamaguti, who takes over the Sustainability World Index and in the speeded up this process and influenced the the social-economic development of its position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Business Sustainability Index (ISE) of the Company’s decision to invest in additional merchant base. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I São Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa. structures, which have been set up not would like to take this opportunity to just for the purpose of covering business Among the Company’s other thank Roberto Medeiros, who has held During this process there were opportunities and maintaining Clients, but achievements were the investments in this position since 2008, for the decisive challenges and conquests. The sector’s also to increase Redecard’s processing and geographic expansion, with the aim of contributions he has made in preparing new self-regulatory framework was an customer service potential, and to improve its increasing Redecard’s market share in the Company for the new regulatory and undeniable step forward for the electronic ability to respond to the new demands of the regional markets over the mediumto competitive environment. payments industry, with positive changes electronic payments industry. GRI 2.9 long-term. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 19 18 / Message from the President Redecard has attained an expressive progress in its portfolio with the signing up of brands; A year of progress this consolidated the strategic planning Roberto Medeiros CEO of geographic expansion and regionalization. T he Brazilian electronic payments a repositioning of Redecard’s identity. On the 2016 Olympic Games, Redecard also Another relevant development was the industry underwent significant the other hand, it enabled the Company signed an agreement with the Chinese expansion of the Company’s sustainability changes in 2010, and Redecard rose to reinforce its excellence in the areas of brand China Union Pay (CUP), which has practices. 2010 saw the start-up of the to meet the new challenges. During this innovation, security, multi-brand portfolio, an impressive volume of 2.2 billion cards Redecard Institute’s programs, the creation adjustment process to the new business prepayment of receivables to merchants as issued. GRI 2.7 and 3.11 of the Sustainability Committee as well environment, the Company combined well as in the diversification of products and as Redecard’s inclusion, for the second efforts, skills, resources and know-how, services that make Redecard much more Another point worthy to highlight is consecutive year in a row, in the Dow Jones for the development of a business model than just another merchant acquirer. the partnership deal that has been signed Sustainability Index and the Business that would allow it to grow its affiliated with Multiplus, which allows users to Sustainability Index (ISE) of the São Paulo merchant acquirer base throughout the The capture of the Visa brand was a use points from this rewards program to Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa. GRI 1.1 whole of Brazil. GRI 1.1 and 1.2 significant step, due to the size of the make purchases or to use credit points in brand, but it was not the Company’s only merchants that are affiliated with Redecard Redecard remains committed to the UN The results achieved during the year achievement in 2010. Redecard obtained a and associated with this program. Global Compact, which it first adhered were nothing short of remarkable: significant expansion in its portfolio, with to in December 2009. This Sustainability Redecard captured R$ 184 billion in terms the adhesion of six new brands, which Innovation was also present in 2010. Report lists the practices related to the of debit and credit transactions in 2010, evidenced the implementation of the The large-scale launch of Redecard principles of the UN Global Compact that achieving the Company’s forecasts, Company’s Strategic Plan for geographical Móvel, a technological solution were carried out in 2010, as well as the with a 25.6% growth in the financial expansion as well as regionalization. that makes it possible to process objectives defined for 2011 in relation to volume of credit transactions and a 22.1% Among these, we highlight Hipercard, transactions via mobile handsets, was issues of human rights, labor relations, the increase in that of debit transactions. which enabled the Company to expand one of Redecard’s major achievements, environment, and corruption. GRI 1.1 Net income remained stable at a figure its coverage in Brazil’s Southern and which enabled it to reach segments of R$ 1.4 billion, notwithstanding the Northeastern regions; Sorocred, which that required mobility. This strategy The entire process of preparing for the increase in investments. strengthened Redecard’s operations in guaranteed the addition of over new market scenario ended up reaffirming the interior of São Paulo state; and Sicredi, 20,000 self-employed salesmen to the the talent of Redecard, which has always The opening up of the market led to in the interior of Midwest and Southern Company’s Client base. The Company’s been ready to understand the needs of an increased level of competition among regions. In anticipation of the increased mobile platform was complemented by its Clients, to anticipate market needs companies in the electronic payment flow of foreign tourists at the main global the launch of Redecard Celular, which and offer safe and efficient solutions. The industry, which demanded a great amount events that are scheduled to be held in turns a mobile handset into a credit card, Company is well aware that its success of planning, the hiring of employees and Brazil, such as the 2014 World Cup and replacing so-called ‘plastic’. will always be linked to that of its Clients. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 20 / Strategy Partnership and closeness to Clients The more competitive order to provide them with an enhanced customer service. scenario in 2010 contributed • Invested in tools and systems for to reinforcing and Client relationship management. • Began the development of a multiconsolidating Redecard’s service platform. GRI 2.9 business strategy, which In 2011, Redecard is continuing with its has always been focused strategy of greater Client Focus based on on Client satisfaction. The four pillars of activities: GRI 4.8 opening up of the market Client Vision: to establish a new has given merchants the level of relationship with the Client, possibility of choice, and they aligned with each stage of the Client’s can now choose between life cycle. the merchant acquirers, Innovation: to provide innovative and according to their needs. differentiated products and services, such as Redecard Móvel and Redecard Celular, For Redecard, the change meant among which offer Clients greater mobility and others, the start of capture of transactions allow them to explore new markets. made under the Visa brand, which helped boost Redecard’s regional presence. Operational Excellence: to optimize and streamline processes, In persuing its strategy of “Client systems and skills, taking advantage Focus”, Redecard: of our scale capacity to provide our Clients with continued improvements • Continued to expand its portfolio of brands and to invest in security, in customer service. innovation, and in the prepayment of receivables to merchants. Multi-services: to develop new • Recognized the difference in terms of services which generate more business the needs, expectations and aspirations for our Clients. of its different Clients, segmenting its commercial strength and channels in REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 22 / Strategy / 23 Multi-brand Security By working with several brands, Redecard multiplies the Speed and security in sales opportunities for Clients to increase their sales, by accepting are fundamental principles different plastic brands. to the activities of Redecard, South America’s first Redecard believes in free competition running a multi-brand operation means Another important factor in the success and in the self-regulation of the market; that it is able to rapidly incorporate new of the multi-brand strategy was the merchant acquirer to achieve because of this, from the very outset, it brands. This ability was a key factor in entry of Hipercard, the largest Brazilian the international PCI DSS launched itself as a multi-brand platform, the success of its acceptance of Visa, in brand, which helped Redecard increase its carrying out transactions made with July 2010. It is the Company’s opinion presence in regions such as the Northeast (Payment Card Industry both MasterCard® and Diners Club that this positioning gives its Clients the and the South. Similar examples are Data Security Standard) International branded cards. At the end opportunity to accept the widest possible provided by Sorocred (interior of São Paulo of 2010, the Company had incorporated range of domestic and international state), Coopercred (Midwest region), Avista certification, which evidences seven new brands, bringing the total cards that are now found in the Brazilian and others, which enabled the Company to the Company’s commitment to number of brands in its portfolio to 22. market, thus boosting the chances of provide the best regional offers. security in electronic payment The experience that Redecard has gained increasing their sales. The regionalization process led to the transactions. expansion of Redecard’s sales force, with the inclusion of around 550 service officers, In addition to the national presence, we seek partnerships with major regional card brands trained to set a frequent contact agenda with Security of transactions, internal Clients all over Brazil. This new workforce controls and prevention of fraud are complemented the traditional approaches all within the scope of the Company’s used by the Company, primarily via banks, and work. In addition, it is important to suported Redecard’s regional service strategy. stress that the acceptance of electronic means of payment, by itself, also gives By the end of 2010, roughly 50% of Clients security, by removing the risk NATIONAL COVERAGE Redecard’s new affiliated merchants came of delinquency in checks and providing from its sales force. In previous years, 75% of merchants with payment guarantee, new affiliated merchants came as a result given that the risk of non-payment by the of the banking channel. This expansion of cardholder is borne by the issuing bank. the sales force did not discourage advances using the traditional affiliation methods for Redecard also directs efforts to new Clients through banks. GRI 2.9 improve the security of the largerst merchant networks. This action is Redecard’s strategic vision was not limited undertaken via a communication to the geographical expansion and building channel that deals with security issues itssales force of service officers, but was with roughly 300 merchant networks. also aimed at entering into partnership Redecard participates in industry agreements with international brands – in initiatives for the electronic payments anticipation of the flow of foreign tourists market, such as the Secure Internet that are expected as a result of the major Movement, which promotes best security events that will be held in Brazil between 2014 practices for e-commerce, and also (the World Cup) and 2016 (the Rio de Janeiro operates in conjunction with eight of the Olympic Games). In this context, Redecard largest merchant networks, supporting signed an agreement with the Chinese brand them in their adherence to the industry China Union Pay (CUP). GRI 2.9 security standards defined by PCI. DMA-PR REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 24 / Strategy / 25 Strategic Plan In order to turn its value proposition into results, Redecard updates its Strategic Plan, which sets objectives, actions and targets to be achieved by the Company. The starting point is the quest to ensure that shareholders, Clients and employees are all satisfied. Building the Plan is preceded by representative, for the purpose of • Quarterly, after earnings release to the a series of assessments which are monitoring the performance of each CVM (Brazilian Securities Commission), all coordinated by the Planning and Strategy area’s key performance indicators. the employees are informed of Redecard’s Executive Board in together with the The areas are as follows: Strategic performance. Company’s departments which takes Planning, Human Resources, Commercial, Innovation into consideration: the external scenario, which results in a plan of action to limit the possible threats and identify market Marketing and Products, IT & Operations, Finance, Legal and Audit. GRI DMA-EC, DMAEN, DMA-LA , DMA-HR, DMA-SO and DMA-PR In the next cycle of 2011, other aspects of sustainability (based on the protocol of GRI indicators) will become a formal part opportunities; and the internal scenario, of this management system (by means of Innovation is another key which verifies the opportunities to improve • Monthly, at the Results Monitoring the Monthly Processes Meetings with each preocess in the Company. All the various Meetings chaired by the CEO with department). Some managers will need to element in Redecard’s business aspects are continuously monitored, executive Directors, Directors and be aware of this demand when planning strategy. It is synonymous with since for each change in scenario new managers. projects, as this will have an impact on assessment is made as to whether or not their performance within the Company’s technology and a pioneering there is a need to change direction. • Monthly, at the Board of Directors operations: their indicators, their goals, and approach. The Company was Meeting by means of the Executive their remuneration. GRI 4.5 the first merchant acquirer Based on this Strategic Plan it is possible Summary of the Company‘s main to define the strategic objectives and, then, numbers and indicators. in Brazil to launch a wireless actions, projects and resources that will be POS electronic terminal, which allocated. At the end of the year, this Plan provides the base for assumptions and provides the mobility that many the budget for the following period, which Prepayment of Receivables (RAV) Clients need in their stores. is submitted for approval by the Board of Directors. This is a practical and rapid resource, The merchant may also opt for which is offered to Redecard Clients, Automatic Prepayment, which The Strategic Plan and its translation that helps managing cash flow and entails the programming of the Redecard also showed innovation in its thus replacing so-called ‘plastic’. Another Always leading into the year’s targets, indicators and access to working capital for merchants prepayment; daily, weekly, bi-monthly initiative to offer its Clients prepayment innovation was the launch of Redecard budget are monitored on a regular basis or customized in accordance with the of receivables, thus helping to develop Móvel, a product that turns the handset innovation, in different instances: Autonomy, flexibility, convenience merchant’s cash flow. Redecard was Brazilian commerce. The launch of an into a POS terminal, in order to make and speed are the main attributes the pioneer in terms of prepayment of institutional campaign aimed at the mass sales with speedand with security. The Redecard • Regularly, the Project Office monitors of Redecard’s RAV, which enables receivables, with its launch in 1987. For media was another pioneering initiative, which added value to the brand and market leader, this product is aimed at those segments which require mobility launched the implementation (expected deadlines, costs and functionalities) of the Clients to receive advance payment for receivables in relation to sales made the purpose of managing chargeback risks, the Company has a sophisticated reinforced its market positioning. and where credit cards only have a limited Redecard Celular Company’s strategic projects. by credit card, either in at sight or in system for monitoring the merchants, penetration at present. A good example instalments, using the MasterCard®, by setting limits on prepayments as Redecard remained at the forefront of this would be direct sales and delivery in 2010. • Weekly, at the Executive Committee Visa, Diners Club International®, well as tracking the chargeback track in 2010, attempting to provide existing services. In order to improve the product, meetings which brings together the CEO, Sicredi and Cabal branded cards. For record of the merchants. It should be Clients with mobility and to expand the in 2010 the Company launched Redecard along with the Executive Directors and this service the Company charges a highlighted that the credit risk of the use of electronic payment methods to Móvel Tudo Pronto–a mobile handset eventual Directors invited. discount, which is negotiated directly cardholder is the responsibility of the new business segments. To this end, the rented to the merchant or professional with the merchants. card’s issuing bank. Company launched Redecard Celular, a person; this already includes a data • Monthly, at each area’s Monthly payment system that allows a mobile package, without any need to download Process Meetings (Remaps) with handset to be used like a credit card, the software application. the CEO and a Finance and Strategy REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 26 / Dialogue with Stakeholders Process of internal and external inquiry In order to identify the themes that are important to the Company’s sustainability, Redecard held a dialogue with its stakeholders. The discussions took place in December 2010, by means of two open panels with stakeholders. Since this was the second year that the Company had held these meetings, the objective was not just to apply the materiality test for the purpose of extracting the important themes, but also to consult with stakeholders as to what could be done to improve this Sustainability Report. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 28 / Dialogue with Stakeholders / 29 Stakeholders were defined in accordance In 2010, Redecard increased the with the following criteria: GRI 4.14 and 4.15 number of stakeholder participants in its dialogue process from 32 to 49. Divided Employees: various hierarchies, areas, into five groups, the guests were able to gender and age. express their opinions in relation to the Company’s initiatives as well as its targets. Clients: members of the Clients The Executive Directors and the Board Council – which consists of a group of 15 Members were consulted by means of Clients chosen by commercial area – and individual interviews and the utilization of representatives from all the Company’s questionnaires. GRI 4.16 Client groups. Executive officers and members of Internal Stakeholders Panel Suppliers: Redecard’s 15 largest suppliers the Board of Directors were individually (including service providers). interviewed, and responded to specific questionnaires. Investors: analysts, in addition to the Attendees controlling shareholder’s representative. The main result of the discussion with the stakeholders was the identification of Partners: brands and issuing banks. four themes that cover the most important The main themes highlighted in subjects in relation to sustainability this process were as follows: Associations: the Brazilian Credit Card management in Redecard (see chart below). and Service Association (Abecs), the This content will serve as the basis for 3 1. Ethics 2. Transparency Brazilian Wholesalers and Distributors consolidating a future sustainability policy Association (Abad) and the Federation of Chambers of Merchants of the State of São in the Company. GRI 4.17 7 Employees 3. Client Satisfaction 4. Corporate Governance Policy Paulo (FCDLESP). 24 Associations Issuing Banks 5. Risk Management 6. Incentives for Recycling External 5 Brands 7. Investments in Innovation Stakeholders Panel 4 Investors/Analysts 8. Fraud Prevention 33 Suppliers 9. Sustainability Policy 10. Strategic Commitment Clients to Sustainable Development GRI 4.14 GRI 4.17 • Corporate governance • Socio-economic and environmental development • Focus on the Client • Innovation In order to inform strategic audiences about the themes considered as most relevant, these four major themes guide the contents of the next chapters of this Report. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 30 / Corporate Governance Organizational Principles constantly evolving In order to accompany and reflect the new environment in the payments industry, Redecard decided to reformulate its business drivers. The aim was to align the Company with a more competitive environment, but without abandoning its commitment to ethics and transparency. The reformulation of the Vision and Mission Statements was concluded in 2010, as shown below. Vision 2010 also saw the start of a process We believe that electronic transactions of constructing new values that can foster our Clients’ business. GRI 4.8 would help with the execution of the strategy and the achievement Mission of results, in addition to reinforcing To provide the best payments and the Company’s identity. This services experience in electronic means. construction was carried out based on a questionnaire sent to all employees Values about what values were perceived Redecard Values: in Redecard, what their personal • Sense of urgency in relation to Client values were and what values they satisfaction; thought Redecard should have. After • Security in operations; compiling this information, discussion • Be an agent of social, environmental groups were held with leadership and economic transformation; professionals (from different levels • Teamwork; and areas). The conclusions were • Integrity, transparency and coherence; comunicated and discussed with the and Executive Committee and with the • Innovation in electronic payment Board of Directors in order to define solutions. the new values, to be disclosed in 2011. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 32 / Corporate Governance / 33 Main Redecard seeks to adopt the following policies of corporate practices governance recommended by the IBGC: • Exclusive issue of common shares; GRI 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and 4.9 • Policy of “one share, one vote”; abide by corporate governance practices The Company also ensures that its investors and analysts at its head office in • Hiring of independent auditors to analyze the balance sheet and Redecard seeks to maintain the and disclosure requirements over and operations are carried out without the city of Barueri, State of São Paulo, which financial statements, although the same company is not hired to above those required under Brazilian benefiting any special interests, in was open to members of the Association of best practices in terms of corporate provide any other services that could compromise its independence; legislation, such as a minimum of 20% of an ethical and transparent way. Total Capital Markets Analysts and Investment governance and improve its • Clear Bylaws regarding the ways for calling General Shareholders independent Board Members, exclusive secrecy is maintained in relation to Professionals (Apimec). The event was performance based on the guidelines Meetings, the duties of the Board of Directors and the Executive issue of common shares, a minimum of all information about projects, deals, granted the “Carbon Free” seal and the Board, the voting system, the election, removal from office and 25% of shares in circulation (free float) activities and results that has not yet Company encouraged its Commutercontained in the “Code for Best and 100% Tag-Along Rights. been disclosed to the market, and which Sharing Program aimed at reducing GHG mandate of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers; Practices of Corporate Governance”, could interfere in the share price and (green house gases) emissions. • Transparency in the publication of management’s annual reports; Redecard’s shares are included in influence market movements. which is published by the Brazilian indices that are characteristic of the New The Investor Relations website provides Institute of Corporate Governance • Calls to meetings and the pertinent documentation being available Market, such as the Index of Shares with All communication with shareholders financial information, management analysis from the first date the meeting is called, with detailed information (IBGC). This code indicates the best Differentiated Tag-Along Rights (Itag) and investors is carried out and of results, announcements, material facts, regarding the issues included in the order of business for the day, and the Index of Corporate Governance accompanied by the Redecard’s Investor historical data, earnings, conference calls ways to add value to society, improve always with the aim of holding the meetings at times and venues that (IGC). The first of these consists of Relations Department. This department is transcripts, Annual Sustainability Reports, enable the presence of the greatest possible number of shareholders; performance, facilitate access to shares of companies that offer minority totally dedicated to taking care of foreign policies, along with other items. The site is • Make note, when requested, of dissenting votes in the Minutes of shareholders the best terms in the event and local investors. available in Portuguese and English, and capital at lower costs and contribute of a change in control. The second of serves as an important communication General Shareholders’ Meetings; to business continuity. these is a theoretical portfolio of shares Redecard seeks to constantly improve its channel with shareholders. • Prohibit the use of privileged information and the existence of of companies that exhibit high standards relationship with analysts and investors, According to the IBGC, corporate policies to disclose relevant information; of corporate governance. with the focus on transparency and Dividends governance is the system by which equality. To this end, at regular intervals One of Redecard’s main objectives is to companies are guided and monitored, • Make statutory provision for arbitration as a means of solving Relationship with Investors the Company carries out surveys to provide its shareholders with a healthy which involves relationships with possible conflicts between shareholders and the Company; Redecard is an attractive investment evaluate the attendance and the quality of return on their investment. According shareholders, the Board of Directors, alternative for investors who believe in the service provided to these stakeholders. to Brazilian Corporate Law for Publicly• Board members with experience in operational and financial matters; executive officers, the independent the growth potential of the electronic Held Companies the minimum dividend auditors and the Audit Committee. • Make statutory provision to prohibit Board Members’ access to payments industry in Brazil and who Since its listing, the Company has payment is 25% of the adjusted net profit The main basic principles inherent to information and their right to vote in situations involving a conflict have confidence in Redecard’s operational taken part in numerous conferences reported in the non-consolidated financial this practice are transparency, equality, of interest; efficiency and its capacity to take aimed at the capital markets, promoted statements. In the Company’s Bylaws, in accountability and corporate responsibility. advantage of market opportunities by local as well as international banks; each financial year Redecard is required to • The offer to purchase shares that results in the transfer of control and offer high returns. The Company is its head office is also open to visits by distribute a mandatory dividend of at least The São Paulo Stock Exchange – should be made to shareholders, who will have the option to sell their committed to generating the highest investors and shareholders who are 40% of the adjusted net profit reported in BM&FBovespa and New Market shares on the same terms as the controlling shareholder, including possible added value for its shareholders. interested in learning more about the the non-consolidated financial statements. Redecard has been listed on the São participation in the premium paid for control, if there is one; To this end, it always tries to invest in the Company’s activities. In addition, the Board of Directors can Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa brand’s growth, exercise caution in its recommend that shareholders approve • The number of members of the Board of Directors should vary in the New Market since 2007, to decision-making and recognize that it is 20 financial institutions are currently the payment of additional dividends out between five and nine members; guarantee greater transparency in managing the shareholders’ assets. following Redecard’s performance and of other funds that have been legally relation to the Company’s activities and • Adoption of Regulations for the Board of Directors; publishing detailed research reports, which available for distribution since the its economic situation, giving minority Redecard’s has strong risk management include investment recommendations for Company’s listing. shareholders the power to take part in • Segregation of the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors controls and compliance with regulations both individual Clients and institutional the Company’s management and ensure and that of the CEO. in its business process. It also renders investors. These reports are published on In practice, Redecard has one of the that Redecard continues to exhibit the accountability to and interacts in a the Company’s Investor Relations website. highest payouts in the market having highest standards in terms of corporate transparent way with the shareholders, distributed approximatelly 95% of governance. Companies that are listed in investors, market analysts, regulatory In November 2010, Redecard held the Company’s profit in dividends and the New Market voluntarily undertake to bodies and capital market entities. its fourth Annual Public Meeting with interest on equity since its listing. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 34 / Corporate Governance / 35 SHAREHOLDER BREAKDOWN1 ITAÚ UNIBANCO2 Board of Directors 336.485.355 shares GRI 4.1 50,0% AUDIT COMMITTEE FREE FLOAT 336.485.350 shares 50,0% Chief Executive Officer Lazard3 Asset Management LLC3 – 79.483.650 (11,8%) Other shareholders – 257.001.700 shares (38,2%) GRI 2.8 1 On 12/31/2010 Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Human Commercial Commercial Marketing and Technology and 2 Comprising shareholders: Banestado Ptd.Adm.Serv.LTDA, Dibens Leasing Arr.Mercantil, Unibanco Participações Societárias S.A., Itaú Unibanco S.A. Finances Legal Affairs Resources Director – Large Director Products Operations Director Director 3 Lazard is a foreign legal entity based in New York, USA. Director and Medium Clients – Small Clients Director Director Shareholder structure or business which involves a conflict of The ownership structure consists of Itaú interest with the Company. Decisions Unibanco as the controlling shareholder made by the Board of Directors are taken Strategic Planning and AUDIT and minority shareholders holding shares in accordance with the majority vote of Clients Loyalty that are traded on the São Paulo Stock the Board Members who are present at Exchange – BM&FBovespa The chart below any given meeting. GRI 4.1 and 4.6 indicates the number of common shares held by Redecard’s shareholders. Redecard publishes a Meetings Manual, which contains procedures and Management of the Company‘s explanations regarding the resolutions business policies and definition of its to be decided by all shareholders at the long-term strategy is the responsibility Annual Shareholders' Meeting. GRI 4.4 of the Board of Directors, which currently Strategic Planning and Customer Loyalty Redecard’s Executive Board consists of six members, three of The Board of Directors is also Márcio de Andrade Schettini Chairman Roberto José Maris de Medeiros1 Chief Executive Officer whom are independent. The number responsible for choosing and supervising of members of the Board of Directors the actions of Redecard’s CEO, executive Caio Ibrahim David Vice-President Alessandro Tavares Raposo Executive Marketing and Products Director is defined at a shareholders’ meeting directors and managing directors, who Executive Commercial Director – Fernando José Costa Teles Board Member Claudio Eduardo Vianna de Oliveira by a majority vote of the Company’s handle the day-to-day management and Large and Medium Clients shareholders. The Company’s directors the implementation of the policies and Alessandro Giuseppe Carlucci Independent Board Member Ramon Gómez Executive Commercial Director – Small Clients are elected for a period of two years, general guidelines set by the Board of Elisabete Szabo Executive Human Resources Director after which they may be reelected. Directors. Laércio José de Lucena Cosentino Independent Board Member Members of the Board of Directors are Marcelo Kopel Chief Financial Officer Horácio Lafer Piva Independent Board Member required to own at least one Redecard The executive directors are elected Marcelo Habice Motta Executive Legal Director share and may only be removed by the Board of Directors for a two-year GRI 4.3 Nicolas Alfredo Wservolojskoy Managing Director of Strategic Planning from their positions as the result of term, with reelection being permitted. The a decision taken at the Company’s executive directors may be removed from Plínio Patrão2 Executive Technology and Operations Director Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. At their positions by a decision of the Board Viviane Behar de Castro Investor Relations Officer and Sustainability least 20% of the Board Members must of Directors. According to the Company’s be independent members. All Board Bylaws, the Executive Board should consist José Roberto Haym and Marcelo Fernandez Trindade Members are prohibited from voting at a of a minimum of three members and a were elected as new Board Members by the Board of 1 Replaced on April 15, 2011 by Claudio Takashi Yamaguti. meeting or taking part in any transaction maximum of ten. GRI 4.3 Directors at a meeting that was held on March 31, 2011. 2 Appointed on January 3, 2011 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 36 / Corporate Governance / 37 Disclosure and Trading Committee and analyzing a mitigation plan. of the services provided by the Company Redecard’s Disclosure and Trading to its Clients. Its tasks also include the Committee was created in accordance with Fiscal Committee recommendation of targets in terms of the Company’s Policy of Stock Trading and The Fiscal Committee analyzes relevant levels of services, satisfaction and other is headed by the Investor Relations Officer. taxation questions and recommends quality indicators. This committee is Its duties include: advising the Investor the procedure that should be followed responsible for developing projects aimed Board Relations Officer; deliberating on doubts in each case. The decision regarding the at improving the internal processes of the of Directors regarding the interpretation of the text of adoption of legal measures and the hiring business. Redecard’s Business Policy and Disclosure of lawyers to support the action, along GRI 4.1 and DMA-EC, EN and PR regarding the Company’s Securities; with the decision as to whether or not Audit Committee determining the actions required for to set up accounting provisions, are also It is the task of this committee to the disclosure and communication of the tasks of this committee. In addition, ensure (i) the quality and integrity of this policy; examining and reaching a the committee evaluates the Company’s the financial statements; (ii) compliance Risk, Fraud decision in cases of a breach in policy; and interface with the tax authorities and with legal and regulatory requirements; Strategy Prevention and Technology Disclosure Fiscal Committee Compliance Committee and Trading Committee analyzing official requests for information the indicators in terms of clearance (iii) the performance, independence and Committee Committee from the regulatory and self-regulatory certificates and rulings resulting from quality of the work of the independent bodies. This committee also draws up the fiscal amnesty. audit companies; (iv) the performance, answers to these questions and analyzes independence and quality of the work the content of press releases, as well Legal Committee of the Internal Audit department; and as those resulting from meetings with This committee analyzes relevant legal (v) the quality and effectiveness of the Quality Human REMUNERATION Legal Sustainability investors and analysts, conference calls questions and suggests proceedings internal control and risk administration Committee Resources and Options Committee Committee Committee Committee and public presentations that contain and solutions. It deals with the most systems. This committee’s material information about the Company. significant contracts and with the legal recommendations are reported to the GRI 4.7 and 4.9 strategies regarding specific matters and Board of Directors, which can also monitors developments in relation to choose and dismiss the independent Sustainability Audit Committee Human Resources Committee administrative or legal proceedings. The auditors. GRI 4.6 and 4.9 Commission It is the duty of the Human Resources committee may also suggest external Committee to examine and assess consultants and request the opinion of In December 2010, the Audit Committee proposals for human resources policies specialists in order to support its own had four members – three representatives and practices that have been drawn up analyses or recommendations. from the controlling shareholder and one One of the innovations in 2010 in committee is responsible for outlining by the Company’s Board of Directors or independent member, with a mandate Redecard’s corporate governance was the the Company’s global business strategy the Executive Board or by government or Sustainability Committee that is valid until 2011. creation of new committees by the Board and permanently revising it in light of regulatory bodies. The committee is also This committee’s job is to advise of Directors. scenario changes. GRI 4.3 responsible for drawing up succession the Board of Directors on all matters Remuneration and Options plans for the executives and for proposing regarding sustainability and to monitor Committee They were set up with the objective Risk, Fraud Prevention and guidelines in relation to recruitment, and implement policies, strategies and This committee examines and assesses of allowing a preliminary analysis by Compliance Committee career management and assessment. The actions that relate to the sustainability of proposals for employee compensation technical bodies of the various matters The Risk, Fraud Prevention and committee is also responsible for defining the Company’s business. Its members can and Stock Option Plan policies and that are under the Board’s responsibility, Compliance Committee was created in leadership development programs and recommend the revision of policies and practices that have been drawn up by to help it and give the required support August 2010. It is responsible for the monitoring training programs for trainees strategies at the Company’s environmental the Company’s Board of Directors or for to the Board to deliberate in relation following tasks: assessing the Company’s and talented individuals. GRI DMA-LA and social levels, and strategies and the Executive Board or by government to these issues. From the 11 committees risks; accompanying its control structure; policies aimed at its relationship with or regulatory bodies. The committee composing the structure, eight include monitoring the external and internal Technology Committee stakeholders, its image, and its reputation. is also responsible for approving the at least one member of the Board of fraud and information security indicators; The Technology Committee’s main The committee is also responsible compensation of the main executives Directors. These are: Disclosure and recommending the adoption of preventive function is to discuss proposals for the for defining Redecard’s sustainability along with proposing a figure for Trading, Fiscal , Human Resources, Quality, measures in relation to risk management, adoption of new technologies – or the policies and strategies and deciding on global annual compensation and to Remuneration and Options, Strategy, information security and the prevention of improvement of existing ones – that have the composition of the Sustainability give an opinion regarding the interest Sustainability and Technology. fraud; and accompanying the development a marked impact on the business. For each Commission, made up of the Company’s of directors and employees in the and the results of projects that lead to proposal the committee points out the employees. The Sustainability Committee Company’s profits. It is also the task of Strategy Committee improvements. It is this committee’s job inherent risks and advantages. It is also the holds quarterly meetings. GRI 4.1, 4.7 and 4.9 this committee to manage Redecard’s The Strategy Committee, which was to provide the Board of Directors with job of this committee to discuss possible Stock Options Plan and clarify doubts in created by the Board of Directors at performance indicators and plans for risks from technology presented by the Quality Committee relation to its interpretation. a meeting that was held on August corrective action that may reduce risk Company’s representatives, giving advice This committee monitors Redecard’s 26, 2010, is headed by the CEO. The exposure. GRI 4.9 and SO4; GC 10 regarding the paths that should be taken quality policy and ensures the excellence REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 38 / Corporate Governance / 39 Ethics GRI 4.8 Redecard’s Code of Ethics and Conduct is the highest expression of how the Transparency and ethics Company, represented by its employees, should behave in a wide variety of situations. It is also a guide to the in relationships Company’s moral parameters, its longterm objectives, and its way of doing business and of interacting with its various stakeholders. Ensuring transparency in its business activities is one of Redecard’s In order to strengthen its commitment commitments to all its stakeholders. It is Redecard’s belief that to ethics, in 2010 Redecard made sustainable companies are among the most transparent ones. widespread disclosure of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, obtaining acceptance from all the Company’s employees. This Among the goals for 2011 is the creation local suppliers, but it does purchase or As evidence of the Company’s Internal Audit process was initiated in 2009, with the of a specific Code of Ethics and Conduct for contract all the equipment, supplies and commitment to transparency, the Board Another important instrument for revision of the document. This was a result suppliers and service providers.GC 1, 2 and 5 services based on their technical capacity, of Directors’ Regulations, which describes ensuring transparency in Redecard’s of the revision of the Company’s identity, quality, and price. Redecard’s active the Board’s duties together with those processes is the Internal Audit area. In 2010, its adherence to the ten Principles of the Relationship with suppliers supplier base includes regional companies if its Committees were published on the the department completed the planning Global Compact and the need to meet GRI HR2, HR6 e HR7; GC 1,2,3, 5 e 6 that provide logistics services along with Company’s website, with details regarding for the areas to be audited, which are market requirements, such as the Business The suppliers are important those of a commercial nature in various the composition, election, investiture, classified into three risk categories: high, Sustainability Index (ISE) of the São Paulo stakeholders in Redecard’s processes, parts of the country, boosting the economy workings, structure, organization of the medium or low. These areas are reviewed Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa, and the as they operate in essential stages of in these areas. The Company safeguards Board of Directors and of its Committees,. periodically, in accordance with the risk Dow Jones Sustainability World Index – the Company’s value chain. Redecard is the privacy of its commercial partners, Redecard’s website also includes the analysis methodology used by the Internal DJSI World), among others. committed to establish relationships maintaining that their information always Company’s Reference Form. This document Audit department. GC 10 with its suppliers that are based on trust, confidential and secure. was established by the Brazilian Securities Upon the revision of the Code and in transparency and ethics. For this reason, Commission (“CVM”) and compiles the Whistle-Blowing Channel addition to updating all the employees with the Company tries to work only with Relationships with associations Company’s most important information, This channel complements regard to the changes, the Company trained partners who share the same principles GRI 4.13 and DMA-HR such as that related to the management Redecard’s other activities in the new employees. The training took place and values. DMA-HR Redecard believes that it is extremely of the business, the composition of its relation to transparency. It handles by means of an e-learning system, a type of important that the Company participates, capital, management and their respective all denouncements related to any internet course which makes it possible to The Company does not tolerate any of its through its employees, in various entities Denouncements to Redecard can remuneration, risk factors and business suspicion or knowledge of possible learn at a distance. GRI SO3; GC 10 partners being associated with any form of and associations. be made using specific forms or by with related parties. GRI 4.6 frauds, breaches of the legislation or exploitation or conduct that entails forced, using the following channels: of standards of ethics and conduct, The updating of the Code of Ethics slave or compulsory labor and, most of all, The Company actively participates in – Disk Denúncia: external line Most transparent companies accounting irregularities, internal entailed the inclusion of clauses child labor, in any activity linked with its associations related to its operation, such (55 11) 2121-1500; The fact that Redecard moved up 21 controls or corporate governance, among regarding family links between business. For this reason, it only operates as the Brazilian Association of Credit – E-mail: Internal Audit: positions in the ranking of the 2010 other items. This channel is open both employees, competitors, business partners with partners who accept the rules and Card and Service Companies (ABECS), canaldedenuncias@redecard.com.br edition of Ibovespa’s Study of the Most to internal as well as external parties. and service providers and protection of procedures that are contained in Redecard’s the Brazilian Association of Publicly-Held or the President of the Transparent Companies provides further The Company prohibits any kind of internationally recognized human rights. Code of Ethics and Conduct and in Companies (Abrasca) and the Brazilian Internal Audit Committee: proof of the Company’s commitment to retaliatory action against employees who The Code of Ethics and Conduct is split contractual clauses related to these themes Investor Relations Institute (IBRI). comitedeauditoria@redecard.com.br; this theme. The analysis is carried out by utilize this channel. GRI 4.6 into three areas: the Company’s principles, and values. DMA-HR – Mailing address for means of the content of the companies’ the management of ethics and conduct, Redecard also believes in maintaining correspondence: Canal de Denúncias, websites, which are assessed according In cases where fraud is proven, the and the term of responsibility. Among the goals for 2011 is the a good relationship with the unions Caixa Postal 667 – CEP 01032-970, to 123 different criteria, split into three Company applies administrative and legal GRI 4.8, HR6 and HR7; GC 1, 2 and 3 publication of a specific Code of Ethics representing the category and its São Paulo/SP, Brazil; areas: corporate social responsibility sanctions. Breaches of the Code of Ethics for Suppliers which will establish the employees. The readjustments of salaries – In person: to schedule an (RSC), corporate governance (GC), and and Conduct are subject to disciplinary In 2010, the Company registered just Company’s guidelines on this matter and every year is achieved by means of a appointment with any of the sustainability. In the 2010 ranking, which action, regardless of the hierarchical level, one case of a breach of its Code of Ethics will encourage suppliers to adhere to the collective bargaining process between aforementioned channels. was undertaken by the management as well as to the penalties established and Conduct. The Ethics Committee was Principles of the Global Compact. the employers’ associations and the consultancy firm Management & under the Consolidated Labor Laws (CLT). summoned and it applied sanction in employees’ unions (Collective Agreement). Excellence América Latina (M&E), There were no cases of fraud during the accordance with the Company’s policy in Redecard does not have any specific GRI DMA-LA Redecard achieved the 13th position. period covered by this report. GRI SO4; GC10 connection with instances of rule breaking. policy for the development and hiring of REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 40 / Corporate Governance / 41 Risk management software and the destruction of specific Company also began to provide consultancy Security is a parts of the device. GRI PR1; GC 1 services to its large Clients in relation to security and obtaining PCI DSS certification. primordial element for Security and certification As an example, the retail network Casas Redecard’s entire electronic terminals Bahia became Brazil’s only retail chain to Redecard's business. In 2010, Redecard classified all the previously mapped risks and prioritized the tracking of those regarded as “unacceptable”. This park is renewed at regular intervals and updated with the latest versions of have PCI DSS certification. Throughout the entire process Casas Bahia counted on the The Company has monitoring effort was focused for the most part on actions aimed software in order to avoid fraud. In the support and experience of Redecard, and as an internal control case of merchants who have their own POS a result becamethe first merchant acquirer at avoiding the materialization of such risks. Among the main risks electronic terminals, Redecard monitors in Brazil and in Latin America to obtain this environment aimed at monitored are the following: the continuity of business by means of its the situation and indicates the security recognition. GRI PR1; GC 1 practices to be adopted, in accordance supporting electronic capture processes, the processing and settlement of the transactions, Fraud prevention with the PCI Payment Card Industry Data payment operations. and the breach of the Company’s systems. GRI 4.11, PR1 and PR8; GC 1 Security Standard (PCI DSS) international All of Redecard’s POS electronic terminals security standard. In the case of those are equipped to read smart cards with chips, merchants who rent the POS electronic which eliminates the risk of fraud when a terminals, Redecard’s logistics area is purchase is made with a card that has this Mitigation of risks action that minimizes its impact. In responsible for the collection, maintenance system. With the growth in the number The POS electronic terminals are Redecard reinforced its structure for the absence of critical situations, this and technical support of this equipment, of chip cards in Brazil, the focus of fraud replaced in cases of: GRI PR1; GC 1 e 8 treatment of critical situations with committee engages in the discussion in accordance with the contact made with continues to be the cloning of magnetic 1 – Technical obsolescence, when the creation of a Crisis Management of strategies and actions aimed at the Clients using Redecard’s customer service cards, a practice that Redecard combats by the software no longer meets the The staff of Redecard's Committee, the purpose of which is continuation of the essential processes channels. GRI PR1; GC 1 means of very advanced preventive systems, processing needs of Redecard’s data Monitoring Center to act as a decision making forum, that sustain Redecard’s business. DMA-PR specialized staff and training given to Clients. transmission system or when the (CMR) manages prioritizing actions and communication In 2010, the logistics sector made hardware can no longer cope with the service level in with the various internal and external Another risk mitigation action is the roughly 1.8 million field visits to 5,000 The program Selling with Security the aforementioned demands; the Company and contributes to the stakeholders, establishing priorities for evaluation of all merchants prior to their Brazilian cities. This process was carried reinforces Redecard’s commitment to management of risks. containing the problem, and determining affiliation to the Redecard System. This out in order to guarantee the security of advising its Clients as to the best ways to 2 – If any suspicion of fraud in the screening is carried out in accordance Redecard’s main channel for interaction prevent fraud. By means of lectures, Clients security system is confirmed; with the rules of the card brands and with its Clients. learn about the behavioral characteristics 3 – When maintenance is no takes into account the business sector, the of fraudsters, how to identify a forged longer practical. region and the merchant’s size. It defines PCI DSS Certification card and also how to make a secure sale. the risk that this merchant’s affiliation In 2010, Redecard maintained its PCI Using this program, around 5,200 training represents and what products and services DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security sessions were facilitated over the course of can be offered. Redecard does not affiliate Standard) certification. The standard the year. Trainings were held at the Client's merchants that are involved in any type was created by the PCI Council, which facilities or through Redecard’s internal of illegal, unethical or undesirable activity, is the council founded by the largest portal. According to availability and size, which in any way is at odds with the international payment card brands for the Client may be trained more than once. This integration is aimed at preventing Company’s Code of Ethics or its statement the purpose of increasing the security of For small scale merchants Redecard also fraud, thus avoiding losses for cardholders, of commitments. It is also unnacceptable electronic transactions and protecting give the option of receiving this training merchants and issuing banks.GRI 4.11 and to Redecardare activities where there is cardholders’ data. In order to obtain via the internet, thus increasing the level of PR1; GC 1 any evidence of child labor, forced labor or certification, companies need to meet awareness among its Clients. anything related to slave labor. GRI HR2, HR6 a series of demands and make various Money laundering prevention and HR7; GC 1, 2 and 3 adaptations to their internal systems to The Company also acts in a preventive In 2010, Redecard, in compliance with ensure that the transaction data in their way, notifying both the card issuing the laws and the relevant regulations, The disposal of Redecard’s POS networks is not violated. bank as well as the merchant, whenever formalized guidelines for monitoring, electronic terminals also follows security it detects a possible risk situation. To analyzing and reporting evidence of and risk management protocols against Redecard obtained PCI certification this end, the Company relies on statemoney-laundering and connections fraud. This process takes place by in 2009 and, in order to continue to of-the-art technology to help in the with terrorism – or the financing thereof means of the total decoding of the POS warrant certification, it revised more identification of attempted fraud and of – identified in the movements of its electronic terminal, with the removal of than 5,000 security control measures and improper or fraudulent use of transaction affiliated merchants – to the Financial the logo, the complete removal of the implemented another 1,100 in 2010. The capture devices. Activities Control Council (Coaf). GC 10 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 42 / Socio-economic and environmental development Economic scenario Brazil ended 2010 with a GDP growth of 7.5%, which was the best result since 1986. This figure reflects the consolidation of the recovery of the domestic economy, following the very pronounced, although relatively brief impact of the global financial crisis. This recovery was mainly due to the sound performance posted by investments and domestic consumption, which were fueled by the government’s incentive measures. Among the measures adopted, highlight goes to the temporary tax cuts (reduction of Industrial Products Tax) for a few segments, the increase in public credit and the incentives provided for private sector credit. GRI 1.2 The labor market was one of the at the forefront of global growth. In highlights in 2010, with the net creation 2011, we should see a continuation of of 2.5 million formal registered jobs, the growth consolidation process in concentrated in services and in commerce, the developed economies and, at the producing an increase in the aggregate same time, a slowing down in the pace wage which, coupled with consumer of growth registered by the emerging confidence, resulted in a marked level economies, including Brazil. In fact, of demand for consumption on the part the Brazilian government has already of households. It is estimated that retail withdrawn a significant number of the commerce posted a growth of close to 10% incentives that were adopted during the in real terms, according to the preliminary crisis and is likely to pay more attention figures released by the IBGE (Brazilian this year to controlling inflation and Institute of Geography and Statistics). public spending. The global scenario also ended 2010 Redecard on the market on a positive note, with the most mature It is Redecard’s belief that it has made economies showing a consistent recovery a significant contribution to Brazil’s while the emerging economies were economic development, given that its REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 44 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 45 Financial performance Redecard captured R$ 184 billion in debit and credit transactions in 2010, in line with the Company’s expectations, with a 25.6% growth in the financial Redecard presents its financial results in accordance with the volume of credit transactions and a 22.1% growth in debit transactions. The net International Financial Reporting Standards, which, together merchant discount rate was 134 bps1 for with the other information provided in this report, allows for credit and 77 bps for debit. The volume of an evaluation of the Company’s performance, guaranteeing its prepayment of Receivables was equal to 23.1% of the financial volume of credit card investors a broad and accurate vision. transactions, while investments in the year came to a total amount of R$ 262 million. Net Income Acknowledged by the market as a Gross operating revenue In 2010, Redecard posted a net income company with strong cash generation The Company’s main source of revenue is of R$ 1.4 billion, 0.3% higher than obtained and high payment of dividends, Redecard, from the capture, transmission, processing Services provided in 2009. complying with its dividend payment and settlement of transactions made by Redecard help policy, paid dividends and interest over its with credit and debit cards. This revenue to leverage the sales of Clients, The changes in processes employed in capital throughout 2010. This meant the is calculated by applying a percentage thus promoting light of the new regulatory framework and distribution of 95% of its results in 2010. negotiated with the merchants, which economy. the new competitive environment resulted is known as the merchant discount rate. in a recurring net margin of 41.2%, which This rate is applied to the value of the actions were aimed at allowing a greater for the payment of a discount rate over • Sorocred – a marked presence in the represents a 4.2 percentage point drop by transactions captured, being allocated to the Net Income (R$ million) leveraging of retail sales. The utilization the funds to be received in the future, interior of São Paulo state. comparison with 2009. result at the date on which the respective of electronic payment methods produces merchants could replenish their supplies 2009 2010 transaction is processed, net of the value of greater security, reduces the risk of or even reform their stores with the help • Sicredi – capture of transactions with 1.396 1.400 the interchange rate due to the issuers and default and favors the growth of the of Prepayment. credit and benefit cards. Sicredi has 128 the rate due to the brands. official economy, with new segments and credit cooperatives, 12,000 employees self-employed professionals becoming The actions outlined in the Company’s and more than 1,000 service points, These revenues are booked when the COMPOSITION OF TOTAL GROSS REVENUE a part of it. The spread of multi-brand strategic planning along the year resulted spread across ten Brazilian States, with Company receives the value corresponding POS electronic terminals across the in significant gains in terms of the capture a significant presence in the country’s to the captured transaction, from the issuer, whole of Brazil has given merchants the of transactions with credit and debit cards, Midwestern and Southern regions. net of the interchange rate. On average, chance to accept more card brands, which particularly those bearing the Visa brand. Capture, this takes place 28 days after the date the Prepayment has benefited the country’s regional At December 31, 2010, Redecard’s portfolio • Avista – a brand with a presence in the processing and Credit cards of credit card transaction was captured in the case of development. GRI 1.2, 2.2 and DMA-EC totaled 22 brands, the largest supply States of Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. settlement transactions credit cards and one day afterwards in the available among acquirers on the Brazilian of credit card transactions 45% Prepayment case of debit card transactions. The end of exclusivity contracts between merchant acquirers and brands market. The growth in affiliation was also fueled by the new partnership agreements • China Union Pay – capture, processing and settlement of the credit and debit 17% The Company makes payment to the on July 1, 2010 changed the competitive signed with Caixa Econômica Federal, Banco made in Brazil by means of the Asian Debit card merchants of the value corresponding environment between the companies in Safra, Tribanco (a financial institution that is brand’s cards. CUP has roughly 2.2 billion Capture and Others Equipment 12% Capture, to the transaction made by means of Brazil’s electronic payments sector, with positive results for the domestic economy part of the wholesaler Grupo Martins) and Bancoob (Credit Union in Midwestern Brazil). cards issued, making it one of the largest card brands in the world. transmission of: – Private Label 4% rental processing and settlement of debit credit card, net of the merchant discount rate, on average within the space of 30 as well as for Redecard. Actions such as geographic expansion, new partnership Over the course of the year six Another important partnership transactions – Benefit Card transactions 23% card transactions days, after processing the respective transaction. In the case of debit card – Check agreements and increased own sales partnership agreements were signed, in agreement signed was that with Multiplus, transactions, payment is made on the day verification Rental of capture equipment force, for example, helped to create jobs addition to that which was signed with aimed at future business activities in following that of the transaction. and to improve the economy. GRI 2.9 the Visa brand: relation to the redemption, accumulation or checking of the number of points with In addition, the Company has revenues Redecard Clients could still count on • Coopercred – capture of transactions the fidelity program in Redecard’s affiliated from rental of its POS equipment. Redecard the Company’s support to create cash with credit and debit and benefit cards. network, which shows the start of a multialso has other sources of income as a result flow and working capital, by means of This brand has a significant presence in service positioning, which will guide the of services that the Company provides, prepayment of receivables (RAV). In return the State of Paraná. Company in 2011. such as: services to capture transactions for 1 A basis point corresponds to 0.01 of a percentage point REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 46 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 47 benefit card issuing companies (for example DIVERSIFICATION OF MERCHANTS net discount rate from 1.47% to 1.34%, due Debit Cards food and meal vouchers), services to capture to negotiations with merchants. When we Revenue (R$ Million) transactions for the issuers of credit cards account for partnerships with affiliated which are only for use at chains of specific banks, the average net merchant discount retail stores (private label cards), along with rate came out to a figure of 1.32%. Redecard’s check verification service and the Accomodation 116 135 top-up of pre-paid mobile phones using the 2 – Revenue from debit card 109 Company’s POS electronic terminals. Food 18% transactions: this came to a total of 96 103 102 Diversification of Merchants 25% Clothing R$ 449.2 million in 2010, representing an increase of R$ 59.9 million in year87 90 1 – Revenue from credit card on-year terms, or 15.4% higher than in transactions: this came to a total of R$ 1.6 Others 8% 17% 2009, as a result of (i) a 22.1% growth in billion in 2010, representing an increase of the transaction value and (ii) a negative Health T&E R$ 191.8 million in year-on-year terms, or change in the average net discount 13.3% higher than in 2009, as a result of (i) Education 6% Vehicles 12% rate from 0.79% to 0.77%, on account of 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 a 25.6% growth in the transaction value 2% 11% Note: based on the negotiations with merchants. When we and (ii) a negative change in the average account for partnerships with affiliated financial volume of credit and debit card banks, the average net debit rate came R$ 389 R$ 449 transactions in 2010 to 0.75%. +15.4% 3 – Revenue from equipment rental (POS): this came to a total of R$ 792.5 million in 2010, representing an increase of R$ 45.1 million in year-on-year terms, 2010 2009 2010 x 2009 Credit Cards New Markets or 6.0% higher than in 2009. Some Debit Transaction Value (R$ Million) 60,205 49,306 22.10% Revenue (R$ Million) Debit and credit revenue significant changes in the management Number of transactions 1,126 969 16.20% 2010 x 2009 Variation of the customer base and negotiations Average ticket (R$/transaction) 53 51 5.10% New Markets 31.9% with merchants contributed to this result. Net MDR * before Partnerships 0.77% 0.79% -0.024 p.p 447 Civil construction At the end of December 2010, the POS 422 411 2857.7% equipment installed base showed a figure Net MDR after Partnerships 0.75% 0.79% -0.044 p.p 409 Taxi drivers 171.5% 362 370 Komerci 79.9% of 1,145 thousand units, which is a 16.1% * Merchant Discount Rate 348 Education increase vis-à-vis the figure in December 314 43.1% 2009, of 987 thousand units. The average Doctors + Dentists 39.6% POS electronic terminal rental price in 2010 + Clinics Equipment Rental was one of R$ 62.28 which represented Distribution 28.1% Revenue (R$ Million) a 9.6% decrease by comparison with 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 Redecard Móvel 24.6% 2009, when the average value was one GRI 2.7 of R$ 68.89. This decline was the result of negotiations with merchants as well as 211 196 207 205 merchant loyalty programs. 186 R$ 1.445 R$ 1.637 183 182 169 +13.3% 4 – Other revenues: these came to a total of R$ 142.3 million in 2010, representing an increase of R$ 23.3 million in year-on-year terms, or 19.6% higher 2010 2009 2010 x 2009 than in 2009. These revenues include: (a) revenue from lock-in bank domicile 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 Credit Turnover (R$ Million) 123,866 98,651 25.60% charges from issuing banks, (b) revenue Number of transactions 1,194 1,017 17.40% from capture of transactions with benefit Average ticket (R$/transaction) cards (food and meal vouchers, etc.), (c) R$ 747 R$ 792 104 97 6.90% Net Rate before Partnerships 1.34% 1.47% -0.123 p.p revenue from check verification services, Net Rate after Partnerships 1.32% 1.47% -0.143 p.p (d) revenue from capture of transactions with private label cards, among others. +6.0% REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 48 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 49 Net Financial Revenue (R$ million) Analysis of prepayment of The costs of services provided came Total costs of services rendered Receivables Result (RAV) to a total of R$ 679.5 million in 2010, The total cost of services rendered (which The result obtained from the prepayment representing an increase of R$ 168.8 includes depreciation), of R$ 813.2 million in of receivables, net of financial expenses, million in year-on-year terms, or 33.1% 2010, represents a 29.6% increase vis-à-vis the was R$ 602.6 million, 0.6% higher than that higher than in 2009, while the volume previous year, while the total number of credit 164 162 recorded in 2009, as is shown in the chart of credit and debit card transactions and debit card transactions rose by 16.8% 148 145 148 155 below. The composition of the Client mix, registered a growth of 16.8% during during the same period. The result was a total 137 139 the increase in the base capture rate and the same period. This increase is due to cost of services provided per transaction of the partnership with the affiliated bank the Client service strategy and the new R$ 0.351, representing a nominal increase of all had an influence on the prepayment of initiatives taken by the Company in the 10.9% in comparison to 2009. receivables result. new competitive environment. If we are to exclude the costs in relation The pre-paid volume totaled R$ 28.6 Depreciation of capture to the Client service strategy and the new 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 billion in 2010, which represented 23.1% equipment initiatives under taken by the Company in of the total credit card transaction value Depreciation expenses in connection 2010, Redecard would show a total cost of for the period, by comparison with 23.4% with the equipment used for the capture services rendered per transaction of R$ 0.3156, in 2009. of card transactions came to a total which represents a slight 0.1% decrease by amount of R$ 133.7 million, representing comparison with 2009. The change in the R$ 595 R$ 605 Costs of services provided an increase of R$ 16.9 million in year-ontotal costs of services provided in 2010 can +1.7% The main items in terms of costs of services rendered relate to (i) fees paid year terms, or 14.5% higher than in 2009. This increase is mostly due to the growth be attributed to volume, the Client service strategy and the new initiatives taken by the to the brands; (ii) expenses with the and renewal of the equipment park. Company, as is shown below: maintenance of establishments; (iii) expenses with the transaction capture network, processing and telephone operators; (iv) customer service and telemarketing center; and (v) affiliation of new merchants and other parties. Net operating revenue Net operating revenue came out to Total costs per transaction (R$) 2010 x 2009 R$ 3.4 billion in 2010, representing an increase of R$ 322.9 million in year-onyear terms, or 10.5% higher than in 2009. Volume Net operating revenue had the following breakdown: roughly 40% from largeand Greater number of transactions Result from prepayment, net of financial expenses (R$ millions) (+16.8% in credit and debit) medium-sized merchants (by comparison with the figure of around 39% in 2009) Greater quantity of installed equipment and, approximately 60% from small 0.351 (+ 158 thousand POS electronic terminals merchants (by comparison with the figure 166 162 or +16.1%) 149 147 148 154 0.316 of 61% in 2009). Meanwhile the credit 138 139 More calls answered by customer service and debit transactions value is made up (+36%) as follows: roughly 66% from largeand Services Strategy medium-sized merchants (compared to 65% in 2009) and about 34% from small Improvement in level of call center service merchants (compared to 35% in 2009). Maintenance Net financial revenue 2009 2010 Net financial revenues increased by R$ 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 New Initiatives 9.9 million in year-on-year terms, or 1.7%, Acceptance of the VISA brand to R$ 604.6 million in 2010, compared with R$ 594.8 million in 2009, mainly R$ 599 R$ 603 (brand fee) due to the result from the prepayment of receivables (RAV) to affiliated merchants. +0.6% New affiliations (488 thousand in 2010 versus 342 thousand in 2009) REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 50 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 51 Operating expenses Administrative and Adolescent Statute, which resulted in Redecard’s operating expenses came to The main administrative expenses are income tax deductions; and (iii) incentives a total of R$ 511.1 million in 2010, which is related to (i) buildings, including rent for affiliation. an increase of R$ 131.1 million in year-onand maintenance; (ii) maintenance and year terms, or 34.5% higher than in 2009. development of administrative systems; Adjusted EBITDA The change in the Company’s operating (iii) outsourced professional services, Adjusted EBITDA consists of operating expenses last year can be attributed to such as auditors, consultants and law income plus the amounts for depreciation volume, the Client service strategy and the firms; (iv) travel and transport and (v) and amortization, minus the value of the new initiatives taken by the Company, as corporate telecommunications. net financial result, except for the net shown below: financial revenue obtained as a result of Administrative expenses for 2010 came the prepayment of receivables to affiliated to R$ 133.6 million, which represents merchants, given that it is the Company’s Change in Operating Expenses (R$ millions) an increase of R$ 30.4 million, or 29.5% opinion that this activity is a part of its higher than in 2009. operational result. Volume Marketing Marketing expenses result from: i) the Increase in the number of employees in advertising campaign to position the various areas (e.g. commercial) Adjusted EBITDA (R$ Millions) 2010 2009 Change (2010 versus 2009) 511 Redecard brand and ii) the promotion of the use of credit and debit cards, including Operating Result 2,075.70 2,069.50 0.30% Collective Agreement (6%) merchandising material and promotional (+) Depreciation and amortization 380 actions at the point of sale. 143.2 125.3 14.20% Services Strategy (-) Net financial revenue -604.6 -594.8 1.70% Increase in the number of employees The marketing expenses of R$ 82.3 (+) Prepayment of receivables result 602.6 598.9 0.60% for the Commercial, Marketing and million in the year represented an increase Products areas, mainly for the of R$ 11.2 million in year-on-year terms, or Adjusted EBITDA 2,216.80 2,199.00 0.80% dedicated sales force. 15.7% greater than in 2009, as a result of Adjusted EBITDA Margin 65.20% 71.50% -6.3 p.p 2009 2010 New Initiatives the advertising campaign. Media campaign for the start of capture Other operating revenues and expenses of the Visa brand. These expenses came to a total of R$ 68.8 million in 2010, representing an Taxes increase of R$ 27.1 million compared to Taxes on operating revenues came 2009, as a result of: (i) the change in to a total of R$ 225.8 million in 2010, Personnel provisions for bad debts between the two representing an increase of R$ 7.0 million Personnel expenses came to R$ 186.7 periods as a result of the intensification in year-on-year terms, or 3.2% higher than million in 2010, a 44.5% increase in of charging rental for inactive POS in 2009, as a direct result of the increase comparison to 2009, as the result of an electronic terminals; (ii) the increase in net operating revenue. additional 662 employees who were taken in the amounts allocated to cultural on during the year, mainly for the Company’s actions (under the Rouanet Law), projects Investments own sales force, bringing the headcount to a promoting sport (Amateur Sports Law) Redecard’s investments are mainly total of 1,455 at year end of 2010. and projects approved under the Child directed to the purchase of equipment for capturing card transactions (POS terminals), in accordance with its strategy of renewing and updating its Capex Table Number of employees per area 2009 2010 equipment park. During the 2010, the Investments (R$ Millions) 2008 2009 2010 Administrative, Financial and Others 173 235 Company made substantial investments Transaction Capture Equipment 135.1 119.3 169.7 in the in-house development of software. IT/Network Equipment 5.3 5.3 39.6 Commercial, Marketing and Products 299 842 These investments were necessary to New Brands 21.4 meet requirements of new brands that Operational and Technology Buildings 12.3 321 378 became part of the Redecard System. The Others 10.2 11.4 18.7 remaining period for the amortization of Total 793 1.455 Total these assets is between four and five years. 150.6 136.0 261.6 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 52 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 53 Market indicators Added Value Statement* On December 31st 2010, Redecard’s Filled out in R$ thousands shares were quoted at a price of R$ 21.05, Description (negative values in brackets) giving the Company a market value of Direct economic value generated roughly R$ 14.2 billion. Redecard’s common shares registered a 27.4% drop in value in Revenues 2,812,150 2010. The Ibovespa (the São Paulo Stock Economic Value Distributed Exchange’s Index) posted a 1% increase in Operating Costs (505,558) 2010, with a figure of 69,304 points. GRI 2.8 Employees’ salaries and benefits (185,584) Payments to the government (934,314) In 2010, the average daily trading Payments to providers of capital (for example, shareholders) (717,176) volume in Redecard shares is shown in the Investments in the community (17,327) following graph: Economic value accumulated (economic value generated minus economic value distributed) Average Daily Trading Volume (in R$ million) 1 – REVENUES 2,812,150 1.1) Sales of merchandise, products and services 2,844,062 77.3 1.2) Provision for bad debtors – Reversal/constitution (33,266) 1.3) Non-operating 1,354 2 – INPUTS ACQUIRED FROM THIRD PARTIES (includes ICMS and IPI taxes) (750,357) 50.4 52.1 2.1) Raw materials consumed (505,558) 2.2) Cost of merchandise and services sold 2.3) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (244,799) 2.4) Loss/Recovery of asset values 3 – GROSS ADDED VALUE 2,061,793 2008 2009 2010 4 – RETENTIONS (143,162) 4.1) Depreciation, amortization and depletion (143,162) Redecard’s shares have registered consistent trading volumes and are among 5 – NET ADDED VALUE PRODUCED BY THE ORGANIZATION 1,918,631 the 20 most liquid shares on the São Paulo 6 – ADDED VALUE RECEIVED IN TRANSFER 608,784 Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa. 6.1) Equity accounting result 6.2) Financial Revenues 608,784 Redecard on the São Paulo 7 – TOTAL ADDED VALUE FOR DISTRIBUTION 2,527,415 Stock Exchange in 2010 8 – Added Value Statement (AVS)* (2,527,415) Closing Price R$ 21.05 8.1) Personnel and labor charges (185,584) Maximum R$ 33.70 8.2) Taxes, charges and contributions (934,314) Average R$ 26.12 8.3) Interest and rentals (7,555) Minimum R$ 20.31 8.4) Interest on equity and dividends (717,176) Average daily trading volume R$ 52.1 million 8.5) Retained earnings/loss of the fiscal year (682,786) Number of shares (000’s shares) 672,970.7 GRI 2.2 and EC1 Earnings per Share 2.0803 *this AVS is Based on the GRI Model and Incorporates the Company’s Social Investments Market value R$ 14.2 billion 2009 2010 Price/earnings (P/E) 14.0 10.1 Dividend payout 100% 95% Dividend yield 5.9% 9.4% REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 54 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 55 Sustainability in Redecard SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE IN REDECARD Formation Organizational Level Accountability Sustainability Board of Directors + CEO + Executive Defining sustainability policies and Director of Legal Affairs+ Investor Relations Committee and Sustainability Officer strategy for Redecard After Redecard’s inclusion in Redecard’s Sustainability Targets for 2011 DMA-EC, DMA-EN, DMA-LA and DMA-PR • Investor Relations and the Dow Jones Sustainability Sustainability • Legal World Index – DJSI World – and One of the main enhancements to • Hold Sustainability e-learning courses for • Human Resources Redecard’s sustainability management is employees. • Technology and Operations in the Business Sustainability the publication in this report of its targets • Logistics • Publish a Code of Ethics and Conduct for • Risks and Controls Index (ISE) of the São Paulo for 2011. • Administration of Supplies • Implementing the sustainability policies Suppliers. and Infrastructure Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa Sustainability Executive and strategies at Redecard After the process of evaluating the Board + Area • Strategy Company’s main practices, which involved • Expand the 360o evaluation, which is Commission in 2009, the Company currently only applied to directors, in order Representatives • Marketing • Innovation • Spreading sustainability concepts and both the Sustainability Commission as practicesin the Company developed new initiatives well as the Sustainability Committee, to include managers. • Internal Audit • Ombudsman focused on the theme. the following sustainability targets were • Initiate the structuring of Redecard’s • Controllership established: • Treasury Department succession plan. • Commercial The initial step was to structure the • Customer Service • Formalize the Company’s Sustainability governance for sustainability in the • Formalize the Company’s Corporate • Products Policy (including a commitment to the Company. In 2009, the Sustainability Governance Policy. environment and climate change). Commission was set up and in 2010, a Coordinating the implementation and • Carry out the mapping of the Company’s Investor Relations and Sustainability Committee was elected • Include sustainability targets in Board communicating Redecard's Sustainability greenhouse gas emissions. Sustainability Area Policies, Strategy and Concepts and the Area of Investor Relations and Redecard’s strategic processes. Sustainability was formally established, • Launch new classes of the Redecard as can be seen in the chart below: • Monitor Redecard’s sustainability Institute’s Programs of “Sustainable indicators at regular intervals. Enterprise“ and “Social Entrepreneurship”. •For the second consecutive year, Redecard was included in the São Paulo Stock Exchange • Redecard moved up 21 positions in the – BM&FBovespa Business Sustainability ranking of the Ibovespa’s Study Transparency Index (ISE). •Redecard held the • Two sustainability workshops were in Sustainability in Companies, which second round of held for employees from various was carried out by the consultancy firm •The Company launched a marketing • Redecard held the first round of Stakeholder Panels for areas in Redecard. Management & Excellence América Latina campaign aimed at employees and Clients Stakeholder Panels – dialogues that the Sustainability Annual (M&E) in partnership with the magazine regarding Redecard’s commitment to the • The Sustainability Commission was were held with Clients, suppliers, • Redecard published its •Redecard was included in Report of 2010. ‘Razão Contábil’ and IBRI (the Brazilian United Nations’ Global Compact. set up. investors, partners and employees in Sustainability Annual the Dow Jones Sustainability Investor Relations Institute). •The Company became order to find out what themes they Report of 2009 –the first World Index – DJSI World – for •Redecard’s Sustainability Committee held • Redecard voluntarily adhered to the regarded as the most important the second consecutive year. a constituent of the • Formally established the such publication based on • Redecard Institute launches its first Program its first meeting to evaluate sustainability United Nations’ Global Compact. for the sustainability of Redecard’s first portfolio of the Department of Investor the guidelines contained “Social Entrepreneurship”. management in the Company and to business and their accountability by •The second group of the Carbon Efficient Index • Redecard revised its Ethics Code, Relations and Sustainability, in the Global Reporting establish targets and projects for 2011.GRI 4.9 means of the Sustainability Annual • Redecard Institute held focus groups to Redecard Institute’s Program (IC02), created by the São incorporating social-environmental which is in charge of managing Initiative. Report of 2009. discuss the Program “Means of Electronic “Social Entrepreneurship” is •The first class of the Redecard Institute’s Paulo Stock Exchange – themes. sustainability at Redecard. Payments”. launched. Program “Sustainable Enterprise” was held. BM&FBovespa. Dec 2009 FeB 2010 APr 2010 maY 2010 jun 2010 aUG 2010 seP 2010 oCt 2010 nov 2010 deC 2010 • Redecard’s Sustainability Commission met six times to carry out a joint evaluation of sustainability management in the Company and to monitor the main projects that were in progress. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 56 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 57 The Global Compact and Redecard’s targets Principles Current Practices Targets for 2011 Businesses should support and respect the Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.8 (Community protection of internationally proclaimed Formalize a Code of Ethics for Suppliers and the Environment) human rights. Businesses should ensure that their own Ethics Committee and Code of Ethics and Conduct – Revise Redecard’s Policy in terms of operations are not engaged in human rights Item 1.8 (Community and the Environment) Penalties for Infractions abuses. Include the themes “freedom of Businesses should support the freedom of Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.3 (Employment association” and “collective bargaining” in association and the effective recognition of the Practices) the Company’s Human Resources Policy right to collective bargaining. GRI DMA-LA Include the theme “forced or compulsory Businesses should support the elimination of Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.5 (Business labor” in the Company’s Human forced or compulsory labor. Partners); Redecard Contracts (specific clauses) Resources Policy Sustainability in your Business , a Global Compact Businesses should support the effective abolition Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.5 (Business Include the theme “child labor” in the Sustainable Enterprise of child labor. Partners); Redecard Contracts (specific clauses) Company’s Human Resources Policy Program for microentrepreneurs in the city of Salvador (BA). Include the themes “equality of Businesses should support the elimination of Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.3 (Employment remuneration” and “elimination of In December 2009, Redecard became discrimination in respect of employment and Practices) discrimination” in the Company’s Human occupation. a signatory to the Global Compact, Resources Policy a voluntary commitment that was developed by the former Secretary General Include a commitment to the Redecard Institute (the Sustainable Enterprise course of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, to Businesses should support a preventive approach environment and climate changes deals with the challenges as a result of climate mobilize the international business to environmental challenges. in the development of Redecard’s change) Sustainability Policy community to adopt as a part of its business practices, fundamental values that are internationally recognized in Code of Ethics – Item 1.8 (Community and the Carry out mapping of Greenhouse Gas Environment); Disposal and Recycling of POS Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) the areas of human rights, labor, the Businesses should undertake initiatives to terminals; Association of Analysts and Investment environment and corruption. GRI 4.12 promote greater environmental responsibility. Professionals in the Capital Markets (Apimec) with Obtain declaration from the Company Carbon Free Seal and Commuter Sharing Initiative; recycling the POS terminals to disclose Waste Sorting the destination of hazardous materials Currently, more than 5,200 institutions are signatories to the Compact, in 150 networks spread across the world. In Businesses should encourage the development Set up a workgroup to analyze the Redecard Data Center meets Green IT principles and communication of environmentally friendly measurement model of the energy order to reinforce its commitment to technologies. (Energy Efficiency) consumption of Redecard’s Data Center this initiative, Redecard promoted the Global Compact in its main discussion Update and apply: e-learning of the Code channels with employees and Clients E-learning of the Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.1 of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.1 (Conflicts and, in addition to this, is publishing in (Conflicts of Interest) and item 1.6 (Governmental and of Interest) and item 1.6 (Governmental Businesses should work against all forms of this report its main practices in 2010 corruption, including extortion and bribery. Regulatory Bodies) of the Code of Ethics; e-learning and Regulatory Bodies) of the Code of of Competition Ethics and e-learning of Prevention of Ethics; e-learning of Competition Ethics in relation to the Global Compact’s ten Money Laundering and e-learning of Prevention of Money principles, along with the Company’s Laundering targets for 2011. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 58 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 59 The Redecard Institute In order to reinforce its To begin this task, the institute business concepts – such as strategy, MasterCard and the Brazilian organization means of payment. These surveys were called upon various players from within project management and marketing Sebrae (Brazilian Support Service for Microcarried in focus group meetings in the commitment to sustainability, Redecard’s value chain to take part in its – with applied practice, creating an and Small Companies), for the specific cities of Belo Horizonte, Campo Grande, in 2010 Redecard initiated plan, in order to identify opportunities environment for the development of a purpose of carrying out a collaborative and Salvador. The workgroup is already the operations of the and synergies in accordance with its guided action plan. This plan must be study of the segment’s problems, fully committed to presenting concrete mission. Redecard’s Clients, business formally implemented by the organization difficulties and opportunities. The surveys solutions in 2011. Redecard Institute, a nonpartners, suppliers, teaching institutions at the end of the course, with the support were conducted with representatives from profit association aimed at and representatives of civil society were of Redecard’s voluntary employees, who micro and small businesses (MSBs) and The second year of the Institute’s interviewed. DMA-EC act as social consultants throughout the individual entrepreneurs (MSIs), and led activities will see a continuation of promoting education projects entire program. to the identification of an opportunity the Social Entrepreneurship programs, focused on developing In 2010 the Institute produced and to offer greater mobility for making with two new groups. The Sustainable entrepreneurship. Its mission developed two professional training Sustainable Enterprise transactions through the use of mobile Enterprise program will be held in other programs: Social Entrepreneurship and One group concluded the program in phone handsets, in order to improve the Brazilian state capitals, in accordance is to contribute to increased Sustainable Enterprise. The Institute also 2010, with content and methodology entrepreneurs’ cash flow conditions. The with Redecard’s Client relationship competition and efficiency set up a workgroup, in conjunction with developed by SEI Consultoria and by surveys also revealed opportunities for strategies. In addition, there is also MasterCard and the Brazilian organization Artemisia. This initiative was aimed at holding courses and training related to a planned schedule to activate and on the part of Brazil’s for Support Service for Microand Small training entrepreneurs of smalland management and a greater knowledge of strengthen the Redecard Institute entrepreneurs. GRI EC9 Companies – Sebrae ), for the purpose medium-sized businesses, whether they the roles and responsibilities of players Internet Portal to be launched before the of studying and presenting payment are Redecard Clients or not, who are involved in the segment of electronic end of 2011. All of these goals are part of solutions that are suitable for micro and looking for a competitive differential for the Company’s sustainability planning. small entrepreneurs. In 2011, all Redecard their businesses. The program consists Institute’s initiatives will count on the of a cycle of four meetings, two of This analysis indicated three main support of an internet portal, which will which are conceptually oriented and the themes for the Redecard Institute: GC 8 act as a tool to disseminate content, other two which are experience based, 1) Support for social strengthen relationships and publicize the including a lecture on a case study given entrepreneurship practiced by non Institute’s programs. GC 8 by a businessman who incorporated profit organizations in the third sector; sustainability into his business model and Social Entrepreneurship achieved a competitive advantage. 2) Sustainability concepts applied to In partnership with the Gesc Institute, smalland medium-sized companies; Artemisia and GS1, the Redecard Institute Payment methods adapted 3) Adaptation of payment method trained two groups in 2010, creating 18 to smalland medium-sized services and products to smalland social managers. The purpose was to train companies medium-sized companies and to those who work for non governmental The objective to adapt payment individual entrepreneurs. organizations – NGOs and cooperatives methods to make them suitable for micro in project management techniques, with and small companies and individual a focus on fund-raising. The program’s entrepreneurs resulted in the creation methodology combines theoretical of a workgroup, in partnership with REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 60 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 61 Environmental practices Redecard wishes to reduce the impacts of its operations and provide clean technological solutions. GRI 3.9, EC2, EN3, EN16, EN17, EN18 and DMA-EN; GC 8 Emissions inventory Protocol is the most widely used document Aware that it is partially responsible in the world for the purpose of quantifying for global Greenhouse Gas Emissions corporate emissions, while the IPCC (GHG), Redecard has made a commitment supplies emission factors and guidance for to monitor its annual greenhouse gas estimating various kinds of greenhouse gas emissions, despite the fact that it has a emissions. low annual energy demand, as a tool to help the Company mitigate its impact on In 2010 Redecard’s direct emissions climate change. (Scope 1) came to a total of 836.6 tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), while its indirect The Company’s adherence to the emissions ofelectricity purchases (Scope Musical concert as a part of the cultural project Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) in 2010 was 2) and outsourced activities without Conexão Redecard, sponsored by the Company. the first step towards making this goal a Redecard’s operational control (Scope reality. The index was created by the São 3) emissions totaled 297.4 and 2,034,5 Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa tCO2e, respectively. The table below Incentives for in partnership with the National Bank shows a detailed breakdown of the types Redecard supports for Economic and Social Development of sources recorded and their respective cultural actions, sports (BNDES), and consists of the shares of the contributions to the final result. cultural and sports 42 most liquid companies listed on the projects aimed São Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa and social action – that are part of the IBrX-50 index. at children and The portfolio of ICO2 shares is related to the GHG emissions efficiency of the Energy Emissions adolescents. companies that are included in the index. Scope Activity GJ ton CO2 ton CH4 ton N2O ton CO2e In 2010, Redecard presented an estimate Stationary sources 94.5 6.8 0.0003 0.0001 6.8 Culture is valued at Redecard. In 2010, basketball player Marta Sobral’s Lance Livre of its emissions related to 2009 and Mobile sources 6,541.1 372.8 0.2 0.1 397.8 the Company invested R$ 11.8 million, project; the Travessia dos Fortes project committed to the goal of publishing in through incentive laws designed in Rio de Janeiro; and the Jump Festival, this Sustainability Annual Report the Waste management Scope 1 specifically to encourage cultural which was held in São Paulo. result of its emissions inventory for 2010. Executive travel development (Rouanet Law), in projects Air cargo transport that promoted music, with highlight The Company invested R$ 2.9 million For the purpose of guaranteeing the Fugitive emissions 0.4 0.4 going to the cultural project Redecard in social projects supported by the quality of the figures reported, Redecard Scope 2 Stationary sources 29,085.7 414.3 414.3 Connection, which promoted a large Statute for Children and Adolescents. relied on the assistance of the consultancy Stationary sources 1,550.8 100.8 0.003 0.001 101.1 cultural gymkhana. Out of the associations which were firm ICF International, which is specialized Mobile sources 9,332.4 650.2 0.1 0.0 665.1 supported by the Company, highlight in climate change, to develop the GHG Waste management Redecard also invested R$ 2.2 million in goes to Association for Support Children Emissions Inventory based on the GHG Scope 3 Executive travel 621.7 0.007 0.02 628.0 sport, via the law designed to promote with Deficiencies (AACD) and the Group Protocol and on the guidelines contained Air cargo transport 443.7 0.001 0.01 448.1 amateur sport (Amateur Sports Law), with Supporting Adolescents and Children in the IPCC’s (Intergovernmental Panel on highlight going to the former professional with Cancer (GRAAC). GRI EC1 Climate Change) 2006 report. The GHG Fugitive emissions 192.2 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 62 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 63 The inventory of It should be noted that, since this is the Another way of assessing annual GHG implications related to the activities for its networks was not violated. Company’s second GHG quantification, emissions is by means of performance dealing with climate change. However, GRI PR1, PR8, DMA-PR and DMA-EN greenhouse gases Redecard has been expanding its emissions indicators. These indicators are chosen at the start of 2011, during the project to inventory’s coverage as the reliability of by the Company and are not susceptible map out 2010’s emissions, two awareness The adaptation to these rules is the first step the primary figures increases. All the Scope to economic fluctuations, due to the workshops were held for employees caused significant modifications of the Company 1 sources (Redecard’s own generators, own vehicle fleet and refrigerant gases fact that the emissions are weighted in relation to the activities effectively carried and Directors of various areas, which covered the following topics: the impact in the Datacenter, among them: rack configuration, aerial cabling, to manage its with Redecard’s operational control) were out in the year in question. In Redecard’s of climate change, the reasons to do an heat dissipation by hot and cold included in the Inventory. Scope 2 included case, the table below gives a summary of inventory of GHG emissions, the reasons corridors, improved air circulation and emissions in the electricity consumption by Redecard’s a few of the indicators chosen. that shareholders care about this theme, differentiated window positioning Data Centers and offices. Meanwhile, Scope and how climate change affects the (reflecting heat outwards). Having the future. 3 included the logistics stages of product Another characteristic of the Company Company’s business. complied with all the security factors distribution and executive air travel (the is the greater percentage of Scope 3 and best practices, the company aims for Company’s largest emission sources), emissions in its profile. Due to the fact Green IT energy efficiency. Energy consumption in addition to the electricity generators that the Company has activities that are Another highlight on the sustainability has registered a stong drop since and the refrigeration systems of the remotely operated by use of electricity front is the Datacenter, which follows the implementation of this system condominiums where the units from the network or generators, the Green IT principles. It records all the throughout the entire Datacenter. are installed. greater part of the emissions are produced electronic purchase and sale transactions by outsourced transport services, or made with cards via Redecard POS Redecard has relatively low absolute either employees or products. The higher terminals in Brazil. The Green Datacenter emissions by comparison with other percentage of Scope 3 emissions is a was designed to ensure total security companies, given that its activities have a common fact that can be noted in banks for transactions and, at the same time, low energy demand and that part of this and service companies. comply with a series of energy efficiency demand is supplied by electricity from rules and best environmental practices, the Brazilian National Interconnection This mapping out of emissions will such as low heat generation, which in System. Since there is a considerable be the first of the Company’s step turn reduces the need for equipment percentage of hydroelectric energy in this towards the strategic management of refrigeration. The indices achieved are system, the emissions associated with the its emissions, establishing a base line measured by the supplier contracted Sustainability solutions in place at 3 – Utilization of high performance and generation of each MWh are regarded as from which its emissions will be reduced by Redecard that is responsible for the Redecard’s head office in Barueri (in the low energy consumption lamps; low, which contributes to Redecard’s low in the future. In 2010 Redecard did not Datacenter service. GRI EN6 state of São Paulo) Scope 2 emissions. complete an assessment of the financial 4 – Combating building facade heat, GRI EN5 and EN26; GC 7, 8, 9 and 10 The adherence to Green IT practices thus preventing this heat from affecting was the result of the PCI DSS (Payment 1 – Elevators with a pre-call system, the environment, and therefore reducing Card Industry Data Security Standard) which avoids wasting energy and which energy consumption; Gross intensity of Emissions certification. In order to obtain this prolongs the useful life of the equipment; Scope 5 – Sustainable carpet with a recycling tCO2e per m2 tCO2e per employee tCO2e per POS terminal distributed certification, Redecard revised more than process and a cool carpet system (climate Gross intensity 2 – Reuse of water in toilet basins and for of GHG Emissions 5,000 security control measures and maintaining the gardens; neutral process). Scope 1 0.03 0.57 0.73 complied with a series of demands as Scope 2 0.28 0.20 0.26 well as making adaptations to its internal Scope 3 0.35 1.40 1.78 systems to ensure that transaction data in REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 64 / Socio-economic and environmental development / 65 Parts of obsolete Due to the fact that Redecard has Other recycling and Carpool a constantly renewing POS park, the sustainability actions at Redecard With the aim of reducing carbon POS terminals are Company has taken adequate steps to dioxide emissions into the environment ensure the disposal of obsolete equipment. Recycled paper and its corporate use and making it easier for employees to sent for recycling GRI EN26 and EN27; GC 8 and 9 All the paper used by Redecard has go to and from work, since 2009 the and feed the The process follows protocols dealing the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) SW-COC-1388 certificate. Monthly paper Company has been encouraging Carpool (Carona Solidária) at its public meetings production cycle. with security and risk management consumption comes to a figure of roughly with analysts and investors. These against fraud. It begins with the 253 thousand pages, which represents meetings are attended by members of the removal of POS terminals from 506 reams, which is equal to an average Association of Capital Markets Analysts commercial establishments, followed annual volume of 3,036,000 pages, or and Investment Professionals (Apimec), as by the depersonalization of the POS 6,072 reams. GRI EN2; GC 8 and 9 well as shareholders and other interested electronic terminal and the removal of parties. The event received the “Carbon any visual identification; the software Since 2006, all the Company’s Free” Seal, on account of the fact that is uninstalled and specific parts of the computers have been programmed to in 2009 the Company compensated 1.33 device are destroyed. The POS terminal is use both sides of a sheet for printing. tons of GHG emissions produced as a dismantled, and the remaining material Employees are encouraged to only result of this event, by planting trees are recycled. The heaviest components – print documents when it is absolutely that are native species from Atlantic including circuit boards, batteries, wires, necessary. Trash bins are separated by type Forest. In 2010, Apimec compensated the metal parts, plastic and cables – are sent of waste, for later recycling. emission of 1.20 tons of GHG emissions by for recycling. In the case of circuit boards continuing its reforesting actions using and batteries, these are exported to Fuel are native trees from Atlantic Forest. EN7 Recycling countries such as the United States, due With regard to the energy consumed In 2010, Redecard made an average of to the fact that there are no companies via automobile fuel, between January and Electronic statements 1,800 visits per day to Client establishments in Brazil who complete the separation of November 2010 the Company spent a The Company stimulates the in order to replace and maintain of POS these heavy materials. total of R$ 2,290,087.00 on fuel. GC8 replacement of printed statements for terminals. For this purpose, the Company GRI EN2; GC 8 and 9 electronic ones, as an easier way for determines all the logistics, which consists Estimated fuel consumption relates to Clients to access the information, as well of the routing, which is the way in which the Overseas, the more valuable materials the executive and commercial fleets as as contributing to the preservation of Company’s POS terminals are withdrawn or such as copper, silver, tin and gold are well as employees’ expenses with going to the environment and reducing operating replaced by other units. Obsolete models of extracted, and the final recycling of and from work in their own vehicles: costs. In 2010, the online version of POS terminals are sent for recycling. components is carried out. GRI EN22 statements enjoyed an 83% adhesion level among the Company’s Clients, which Description 2008 2009 2010 Redecard has been recycling its POS represents savings of R$ 12.5 million/year. Consumption in R$ 2,290,087 1,813,915.03 2,395,210.00 terminals since 2008, thus guaranteeing that this equipment does not go astray. Kilometers driven 381,681.17 3,023,191.72 3,992,016.67 The service is realized by an outsourced Liters per year (using an average vehicle 381,681 302,319 399,201 consumption of 10 km/l) ISO 9001/2008 certified company, and the Non-hazardous waste (t) 2009 2010 Destination contract with this company imposes strict Cardboard 20.7 3.8 clauses regarding information security. Iron 77.6 0.5 No charge is made for this service. The Direct and indirect energy Plastic 92.4 6.9 Recycling contracted company takes away the POS consumption Wires 56.6 7.5 terminals and sells the scrap from the The monthly contracted demand for Electronic components 50.5 1.5 equipment. This company has drawn up energy in 2010 at Redecard’s unit in São Others 0.8 an official statement, which lists their Paulo was one of 1.04GJ, or 10.36GJ a year. clients and gives details of which specific This demand exhibits the same pattern as Total 297.8 21.0 types of scrap they each purchase. in 2009. GRI EN4; GC 8 and 9 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 66 / Focus on the Client Preference and satisfaction Client satisfaction is one of Redecard’s strategic pillars. With the end of brand exclusivity contracts on July 1st 2010, this factor took an even greater importance, and now permeates the entire Company. Redecard got ready for the opening up of the market and the new competitive environment by promoting a series of initiatives aimed at improving the quality of the services offered to its Clients. To this end the Company created two executive boards, one for largeand medium-sized Clients and one for retail Clients. In addition, the teams in the commercial and business support areas were strengthened, which involved investments in personnel. Another important element of Redecard’s sound Client satisfaction practices was the continued operation of the Ombudsmanship, which is structured to solve possible failings that may arise in terms of the Company’s performance. Highlight also goes to Redecard’s Monitoring Center (CMR), which is responsible for managing the level of service between Redecard, the brands, the issuing banks, the processors, and the partners. GRI PR5 and DMA-PR REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 68 / Focus on the Client / 69 Replacement of POS terminals GRI PR1 and PR5; GC 1 Redecard made a major change to For self-employed professionals, Redecard provides quick receipt of payments. The Client Council contributes with suggestions to improve its Logistics department. The new the Company's management. practice, which has been in place since June 2010, established that Aimed at providing constantly increasing sales to the Client, Redecard events that will be held in Brazil in the coming years, namely the 2014 World Cup The signing up of Center, in order to be able to meet growing demand, was in accordance with the new equipment would be provided without any additional costs for developed new technologies, an expanded and the 2016 Olympic Games to be held in new national and requirements of Redecard’s Code of Ethics. the merchants. line of products, services and brands, Rio de Janeiro. GRI HR2; GC 1, 2, 3 and 4 new price modalities and prepayment regional brands, The items replaced are forwarded to of receivables (RAV), and the customer Customer service channels The Redecard Internet Portal is an Redecard’s reprocessing unit in Barueri, service channels. Among the main actions taken in 2010, in addition to the important Client relationship channel, as and are evaluated by the Company’s suppliers. The disabled terminals are Products, services and brands highlight goes to the restructuring of the Customer Service Executive Board and the improvement of it provides more than 40 online services, offering access at a click. By means of then forwarded for recycling. It is Redecard’s belief that in order to tripling in the number of personnel in this service structures, Redecard’s internet portal, the Company’s In 2009, the substitutions and never miss the chance to make a sale, area, which was due to the increase in the Clients can check their statements of card merchants have to have the best products number of calls, which occurred after July has benefited sales, track their financial movements, maintenance index achieved by Redecard was one of 80% – between and services at their disposal, in addition 1st. These calls were requests for information obtain prepayment for receivables, place to being able to accept the greatest regarding the New Market systematics, Redecard Clients all requests for sales materials and a lot more. the date of complaint and the customer service. As a result of possible number of cards. For this reason the Company offers a wide selection of whereby all Redecard POS terminals also began to capture purchases with cards over the country. Pricing practices the new work methodology, the Company raised its customer service products, ranging from traditional credit bearing the Visa brand. These customer In 2010, Redecard also established new performance index to 81%. Managing and debit cards to check verification services were provided both to existing and pricing options, as part of a strategy rapidly the network, which increased services and top-up for pre-paid mobile new Client establishments. GRI PR5 that already existed prior to the market the average monthly distribution phones, for example. In addition to this, opening up – whereby, the greater the initiative is to create an interactive and of wireline POS terminals from in 2010 Redecard signed partnership In the first week after capturing the Visa value of the transactions made by the personal channel to hear suggestions 30 thousand to 50 thousand, and agreements with seven more brands, four brand, the Company carried out 2.35 million Client using Redecard’s payment methods, from Clients, by means of quarterly of wireless POS terminals from of which were regional ones, demonstrating credit and debit transactions. As a result the lower their discount rate is. meetings. This council is made up of 15 15 thousand to 20 thousand, was how important that regional Clients are of its Client Focused strategy, Redecard Clients who have a mandate of one year another challenge for the Company. to the Company, as well as one domestic made investments to improve its customer Client Council and can only be removed from office in brand and two international ones, in service processes and practices. Contracting The Client Council continued its the case of formal resignation, estoppel anticipation of the two major sporting new suppliers for the Customer Service activities in 2010. The aim of this or continued or unjustified absence. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 70 / Innovation New technologies and new horizons showed a base of around 20,000 selfAlways a pioneer on the technological front, Redecard is employed professionals. It is available in continually seeking innovations in order to be able to offer two versions: Turnkey (Tudo Pronto) and Do It Yourself (Você Faz). These options its Clients better services. Being a Company with cutting allow the self-employed professional to edge technology and quality customer service is in the program his mobile phone to work as a POS electronic terminal, or alternatively Company’s DNA. An example of this is the solution for to rent a handset from Redecard that has electronic payment using a mobile phone handset. already been programmed. In the case of Redecard Móvel the sales In 2010, two products stood out in employed professionals, such as doorprocedure is simple. All that you need to do connection with this strategy: Redecard to-door salesmen and taxi-drivers. The is to type into the mobile phone handset Celular and Redecard Móvel. The first procedure for making a sale is a simple the Client’s credit card data, the form of of these turns the mobile handset one: all that you need to do is to type into payment (either cash or in six installments into a credit card, replacing so-called the mobile phone handset the Client’s without interest) and the value of the ‘plastic’ At the present time, 600,000 card data, the value of the purchase and purchase. Once the transaction has been of the Company’s POS terminals are the form of payment. Once the transaction approved the salesperson receives a Redecard Móvel transforms a cell phone programmed to receive payments made has been approved the salesman and message confirming the sale. The Client into a Redecard POS terminal. via mobile phone handsets. the consumer receive a message on their may also receive a purchase notice, via mobile phones confirming the sale. For SMS, on their mobile phone handset. In order to be able to pay via Redecard the consumer’s security, his card data is This system allows for the payment of Celular, the credit card holder needs to register his mobile phone number with the not stored in the salesman’s mobile phone handset. At the end of 2010 the system sales made using the MasterCard, Visa and Diners brands with the possibility of From innovative services bank and, when making purchases, type in interest free installments. to cutting-edge solutions, two passwords to confirm the transaction. Turnkey Do It Yourself This combination ensures the security of (Tudo Pronto) (Você Faz) A partnership between MasterCard, the the Company's goal is to the service, which is based on the simple mobile phone operator Vivo, Itaú Unibanco exchange of text messages (SMS). In return for a monthly The salesman downloads the bank and Redecard made it possible to provide Clients with safe Redecard Móvel is another service which fee, Redecard provides a mobile phone software application free of charge – via launch a third mobile payment platform, namely MasterCard Mobile, which is an solutions, adding value to their business. handset that has 3G SMS – and installs is offered as part of the Company’s mobile technology and which it in his own mobile unprecedented product in the world. The platform, which turns a mobile phone has been programmed phone handset in pilot project was launched in the midst of handset into a POS electronic terminal. to work as a POS order to enable it to 30,000 consumers and 1,000 commercial electronic terminal carry out credit card The system has been in operation for transactions establishments in the city of São José dos a year and a half and is aimed at selfCampos, interior of São Paulo state. REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 72 / Intangible Assets Personnel Management Redecard is committed to value not only financial and business performance, but to also cultivate ethical principles, maintain the brand’s strength, continue research for innovation and maintain the knowledge resulting from its risk management and personnel management activities that drive its performance. Intangible assets are important sources targets which are correlated to the of value for companies and go beyond Company’s business objectives; and longthe balance sheet, as they have the term – in the form of the Stock Option potential to generate future benefits and Program. This last practice is granted add value to the culture and dynamics annually and is aimed at directors and of the company’s relationship with the members of the Executive Committee. community. This is why the management It consists of the option to purchase of these factors is a focus of the Company. Redecard shares, granted in accordance with the rules established by the Board of The recognition for performance Directors. GRI 4.5, DMA-LA; GC7 above targets and the remuneration of employees’ skills are the basis for Redecard’s Management of Intangible Assets. The Company seeks to recognize and reward employees whose performance stands out. The incentives follow three formats: short-term – monthly commission for employees in the commercial area who have client portfolios; medium-term – Annual Bonus (Profit Sharing Program), which rewards all the employees who achieve and exceed REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 74 / Intangible Assets / 75 The chart below shows the distribution of the Company’s direct employees by Redecard acknowledges gender and by age bracket. the importance of managing its intangible Direct Employees – Breakdown per age assets and endeavors 51-55 years old to create value to all -20 years old stakeholders. 56-60 years old +60 years old 46-50 Direct Employees – Breakdown per age years old 20-25 Employees are one of the major 41-45 years old years old Below 20 years old 20 to 25 years old 3 84 9 86 intangible assets of Redecard. 26 to 30 years old 26-30 189 158 36-40 years old years old 31 to 35 years old 216 194 36 to 40 years old 140 124 As a result of its strategy to increase As for the inclusion of People with Number of employees by functional level 2009 2010 its own sales team, the number of Disabilities (PCDs), in 2009 there were 29 31 a 35 years old 41 to 45 years old 46 to 50 years old 84 46 56 31 Redecard employees rose from 793 in individuals in the Company, which was and by region 51 to 55 years old 20 18 2009 to 1,455 in 2010. Sales promoters equal to 3.66% of the Redecard work force. Executive Board 28 34 were hired, between March and July, This figure increased to 52 employees 56 to 60 years old 7 0 Management 105 125 to operate in various parts of Brazil in 2010, which was equal to 3.5% of the Above 60 years old 1 1 Senior Management/ using a home office model, whereby Company’s total headcount. The drop in GRI LA1 GRI LA1 136 170 coordination the employees work remotely, which the percentage of disabled employees Technical/supervision 64 125 is a practice that has been used by the was due to the 84% increase in the DIRECT EMPLOYEES Administrative 442 523 Company since 2009. GRI LA1;GC 6 Company’s total number of employees. For 2011, Redecard intends to have 5% of its Between 30 Operational 18 478 Functional Category Women Men Under 30 Over 50 and 50 Outsourced 2,649 4,634 In 2010, Redecard established a policy positions held by PCDs. GRI LA13; GC 1 and 3 of self-statement of race, reinforcing Board 29 71 0 76 24 Apprentices 0 0 the Company’s commitment to equality, Management 38 62 5 88 7 Trainees 0 0 ethics, respect and professionalism with EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Administrative 45 55 25 71 3 Interns 4 all stakeholders. Production 54 46 66 34 0 Board of Directors 0% Total 3,442 6,093 Interns 25 75 100 0 0 Southern Region 15 97 Executive Board 0% GRI LA13; GC 2 and 3 Southeast Region 750 1,196 REDECARD EMPLOYEES Management 0% Midwesten Region 9 49 If we only analyze managerial positions, Head/coordination positions 2.35% Northeast Region 15 96 which include managers, directors and Northern Region 4 21 1,455 Technical / Supervision 1.60% Board Members, then we get the following Administrative 6.88% breakdown of employees by age: Total 793 1,455 Operational 2.09% There are no employees with GRI LA1 844 789 793 Apprentices 0% Age Employees % Male % Female % temporary work contracts Trainees 0% Under 30 7 4 3 2 4 2 Interns 0% Between 30 and 50 145 85 93 55 52 31 Total 3.5% Over 50 18 11 12 7 6 4 2007 2008 2009 2010 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 76 / Intangible Assets / 77 Language Program structuring its profit sharing program, All employees who have been with the with the aim of realigning the indicators Company for more than six months are with the Company’s objectives and eligible and the rules for taking part and strategies. enrolling are available on the Company’s intranet. A total of 50 employees took part Another differential was the personnel in these programs in 2010, with 29 new adjustment process, which resulted in 45% enrollments and 21 renewals. GRI LA11; GC 6 of the Company’s employees receiving salary increases or promotions. Training of Sales Promoters (in-house and outsourced promoters) Proportion of base-salary between men With the objective to train 500 sales and women, by employment category: promoters for the Retail Department and the preparation of a thousand outsourced Proportion of base-salary between men 2009 2010 professionals, Redecard held workshops and women, by employment category: in 2010 for 43 groups of in-house sales Directors 81 84 promoters and 26 groups of outsourced Management 94 92 sales promoters. GRI 2.2 and LA10; GC 6 Administrative 93 95 Production Compensation policies ND 98 and practices Interns 100 100 Intern and trainee programs Redecard has Every year Redecard carries out a NA – Not available GRI LA14; GC 1, 2 and 3 Redecard has two training programs invested R$ compensation survey, the purpose of 2.2 million in aimed at attracting young talent: the the training of which is to ensure that its remuneration intern program and the trainee program. employees in 2010. packages, which include fixed salaries, All Redecard employees receive salaries in In 2010, 3,477 individuals applied for the variables salaries and benefits, are excess of one minimum salary. The ratio of Company’s intern program for a total of competitive. In 2010, the Company the minimum salary paid to the minimum 2009 2010 eight positions. adjusted its remuneration structure and national salary 1: 1.33. The previous year this Total number Number of Total number Number of Employment Total Total the variable multipliers, in addition to ratio was 1: 2.32. GRI EC5; GC 1 of employees hours per of employees hours per Category workload workload The trainee program which starts in in the category employee in the category employee January of each year, is aimed at identifying Directorate 1,135 37 21.0 847 34 24.9 recent young graduates with a differentiated Management profile and qualifications, in addition to a and 7,485 245 30.6 6,236 420 14.8 The compensation and benefits package is made up of: Supervision high development potential. The aim is to Other • 14 salaries a year, paid monthly in the • Differentiated benefits – Private structure the professional training process employees 10,787 511 43.1 20,669 1,005 20.6 form of 1/12 of the fixed salary; Pension Plan, Medical Health Plan with of these young talents and to produce new affiliated network, Dental Plan, Group leaders over the medium term. In 2010, the For the employment categories given, we utilized the following breakdown: • Medium-term incentives – in the form Life Insurance, Reimbursement of year when the program was launched, 5,876 Directors: GF Career Path – Executive Manager and GG – Manager of Managers annual bonus, to all employees; transportation costs for employees who Management and Supervision: GP – Personnel Manager and GC – Client Manager – Services Processes young graduates applied for the recruitment Other employees: CI – Independent Contributor opt to use the chartered bus service, and selection process. GRI LA10; GC6 • Short-term incentives – in the form of Meal and Food Vouchers, Complementary monthly commission – to employees in Assistance for Illness and Accidents at Training and development 2010 the commercial area; Work for all employees and a Program All employees who have been with the Programs (LA11 3.9) Number of • Long-term incentives – in the form of for Personal Support and Guidance Company for more than six months are Number of Value invested scholarships (Papo), which is a direct channel offering employees benefitted (R$ thousands) Stock Options, which are granted on an eligible for subsidies for Graduation and Postgranted annual basis to directors and members of personal support that is free of charge Graduation (lato sensu) Courses, and the rules In-house courses requiring person 1,068 1,050 1,068 the Executive Committee; and totally confidential. GRI LA3 for enrollment are available on the Company's to be present intranet. A total of 50 employees took part E-learning courses 1,126 510 1,126 in these programs in 2010, with 29 new Financial support for training or external 167 661 178 enrollments and 21 renewals. GRI LA11; GC 6 education courses LA11 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 78 / Intangible Assets / 79 Complementary pension plan In 2010, the Company received approval for the new Defined Contribution Private Pension Plan, one differential of which is the possibility to retire from the age of 50 onwards and the option on the part of the employee to contribute between 1% and 9% of their salary, with the Company contributing an identical amount, in addition to options in terms of investment portfolios so that the employee can choose the one which is most suitable for their profile. GRI EC3 and LA1 The differentiated actions are as follows: The Corporate Fitness Health and Safety contributes to the health and • Corporate Fitness Since 2010, the Company has had its well-being of employees. own Health and Safety team, consisting • Appointments with a nutritionist of a company doctor, a nursing technician at Redecard’s facilities and a Work Safety technician. The purpose Survey of satisfaction at work 360o Evaluation on the managers of the contracts, and this of this is to look after the safety of • Availability of a personal trainer For the last three years Redecard has 2010 saw the start of the new annual constitutes the base for the information people in the workplace and to ensure for running and walking groups been carrying out a survey every six 360° Evaluation Process, a program that to be updated. that facilities are adequate in terms of months to monitor the satisfaction level measures five of Redecard’s ten Skills: preventing accidents and occupational • Quick Massage service available of employees and evaluate its leadership, Entrepreneur of Change, Communicator, illnesses. GRI LA7 and LA8; GC 1, 2 and 3 at Redecard’s facilities with 94% of the Company’s employees Personnel and Team Manager, Results taking part in the survey. This evaluation Oriented and Client Oriented. This tool • A day-off on the date of the Definition of key positions is segmented by areas and locations. The makes it possible to get a complete view employee’s birthday Indicators of health and result makes it possible to evaluate keyof the profile of the employees regarding and people: 2008 2009 2010 safety in the workplace* • Organization of sports points in terms of motivation, satisfaction the way in which they achieve results for The process of mapping key TL 0.76% 1.26% 0.40% tournaments (volleyball, soccer, and loyalty and thus devise plans to the Company, in addition to identifying positions and people in the table tennis and dodge ball) improve the areas in which the Company is strong points along with others that TDP 197 49 329 organization was continued in 2010, regarded as being most vulnerable. require further development. GRI LA12 Total number of deaths • Discounts at gyms in addition to holding discussion 0 0 0 during the period groups to obtain an in-depth Among the main measures adopted in Outsourced professionals • Various lectures throughout analysis of employees’ performance. GRI3.9 2010 are the following: In 2010 Redecard increased the number TL – Injury Rate TDP –Total Number of Days Lost the year As part of Redecard’s succession of outsourced professionals from a figure *The rules applied for recording and reporting accident planning – which is the structured statistics follow the rules stipulated by the relevant • Conducting two processes of career of 2,500 to one of more than 4,600. planning to find replacements governmental bodies, which adhered to the ILO's work development, merit and promotion analysis, The logistics area was one of the main for critical key-positions –, three conditions agreement resulting in 45% of Redecard’s employees highlights, with an increase in the number factors were considered in defining receiving salary increases between 2009 of technicians to install and maintain a successor: Quality of Life and 2010; GRI LA12 Redecard’s POS terminals. The customer Corporate Citizenship For the purpose of improving the quality service area also showed growth in the 1 – What the candidate is able to do As part of its social responsibility of life of its employees, Redecard offers a • Revision of the Professional Training number of outsourced professionals, really well – skills project, in August 2010 Redecard joined quality of life program called ‘Programa policy and changes in the rules for new reinforcing the work of acquiring and the Corporate Citizenship Program, and Equilíbrio’. The aim of the program is to enrollments in professionalization courses, affiliating merchants. The Company is 2 – What the candidate’s interests increased its women's maternity leave promote the health and well-being of which included roughly 150 employees who responsible for the proper professional are – personal preferences on career from 120 to 180 days. As a result of this employees, with the emphasis being on were qualified to enroll, in addition to those and ethical treatment of its outsourced 3 – What the organization new program, the mother will spend the practice of sport, the dissemination of who had been included the year before; workers, and at regular intervals carries needs – Redecard’s needs more time with the baby, enabling the nutritional information and on employees and an increase in the percentage of fees out verifications in these companies to child to be breast-fed for a longer period maintaining a balance between their reimbursed, from 50% to 70%. This new confirm that they are solid corporations and, consequently, to have a healthier personal and professional lives. revision also included an increase in the complying with Redecard’s ethical development. GC1 GRI LA8; GC 1, 2 and 3 number of places available from 20 to 40. standards. An initial census is carried out REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 80 / Intangible Assets / 81 Knowledge management In 2010, the Company developed the plan for the Redecard Business School project. The aim is to increase the Company’s competitiveness by means of providing technical or behavioral content. These themes are in alignment with the Company’s business strategy, with an emphasis on developing and training employees throughout their period of employment with the Company. GRI LA11; GC 6 The first stage in the activities of the Internal course The initiatives for Business School is to review the necessary Redecard held a variety of internal specific knowledge of the Company to training courses in 2010, with highlight training employees carry out this project and, at the same going to Academia de Líderes (Leadership time, identify those who have this Academy), MBTI and Communication are in line with the knowledge so that, in addition to utilizing Style Workshops, Training for New Sales this resource in designing the training, the Promoters, which is aimed at sales Company's growth construction of a knowledge management model that is relevant and important to promoters who have recently joined the Company, and the online education tool strategy. Redecard is started. (Click Desenvolvimento). GRI LA10 and LA11 Starting in 2011, it will be Redecard’s Support for formal education job to multiply the content so that Redecard encourages and supports In Redecard's Business School, employees take everyone can have acces to the investments made by its employees at regular intervals with employees and technical and behavioral knowledge, in addition to recording in formal education programs such as managers, during the employee’s first 12 training, and share this information that is important over the degree courses, extension courses and months with the Company. This initiative knowledge with others. long-term so that this knowledge is non-degree post graduate courses. In ensures the alignment of expectations and retained within the Company. 2010 a total of 49 employees took part in improves the recruitment process. GRI LA12 these programs, with 22 new enrollments In addition to its Business School, and 27 renewals. GRI LA11 Research partnerships Redecard invests in training and In order to expand its constant quest for refresher courses for all its employees. Project “My 1st Year in Redecard” innovation, Redecard has also established Last year, 1,068 of the Company’s The second semester of 2010 saw the partnerships with a number of research employees took some form of course start of the project “My 1st Year in Redecard”, institutions. The main research centers to increase their knowledge, whether which is designed to assess the adaptation that act in alignment with the Company’s independent contributors, interns of new employees, as well as the efficiency Research Center are the State University of or managers. of the recruiting process. The follow-up is Campinas (Unicamp) and Rio de Janeiro’s made by means of surveys and interviews PUC University (PUC/Rio). REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 82 / Intangible Assets / 83 Other initiatives aimed at Relationship with the press strengthening the brand occurred as a Redecard actively manages its result of the sponsorship of TV Globo’s relationship with the media, looking transmission of the World Cup, which after the Company’s institutional image, was held in South Africa in July 2010, its corporate reputation, as well as the with the airing of the film Faturation. Company’s brand and its products. All Redecard also sponsored other important contact with the media is handled by the events such as São Paulo Fashion Week Company’s press advisory department that generated significant exposure and by its advertising agency. Within for the brand in major newspapers and the Company only the marketing area Brand management magazines throughout Brazil. Visa card is authorized to supply information about the Company, and to authorize a spokesperson to give interviews. GRI PR6 Communicating the fact that credit The launch of Redecard’s new mascot, the transformer puppy, and debit cards bearing the Visa brand In dealing with the press, the marked the start of the campaign “The Merchant’s Friend”. This would be accepted by Redecard’s POS recommendation is that all requests be electronic terminals from July 1st, answered promptly and that all media action directed the Company’s institutional communication of Focus 2010, onwards was one of the biggest professionals are given equal treatment, on the Client. GRI PR5 and DMA-PR communication challenges for the regardless of the press organization that Company during the year. Roughly they work for. One of the most important actions campaign, the POS terminal, in addition to two months beforehand, the Company in terms of brand management in being the merchant’s friend, is the one that began to direct communications with With regard to its advertising campaigns, 2010, was the decision to simplify the accepts the market’s largest brand, Visa. Clients, in order to have everything the Company places great importance on communication language used with ready for the start of the acceptance respect for the public and complies with all Clients. Redecard’s purpose was to All the stages in these campaigns date. A major campaign was launched in laws, rules and regulations that are in force, convey to the merchants, in a clear and contained consistent planning directed the printed press in June, highlighting such as the National Council for the SelfPrizewinning POS Terminal direct way, all the changes that the cards towards strengthening the brand. The the acceptance by Redecard’s POS Regulation of Publicity (Conar). GRI PR6 industry was undergoing. The focus of main communication actions of the electronic terminals of Visa cards along “The more you use Redecard, the these campaigns was to present Redecard Redecard brand were aimed at programs with the other significant cards in the It is Redecard’s belief that, in light of the higher your chance of winning” as a multi-brand company and that it on Brazilian television that have large market. All of this was done so that new scenario of increased competition, The campaign “The Merchant’s was ready for transactions with the Visa audiences, such as Domingão do Faustão, merchants felt that Redecard was truly the brand that truly provides a differential Between June and September Friend” was based on four topics: brand. 2010 was marked by the launch and insertions in the commercial breaks of a partner in their businesses. in terms of the service it offers its Clients of 2010, Redecard carried out of the Redecard slogan, as the company Rede Globo’s Jornal Nacional (Brazil’s major will be the one that prevails. This was the ‘Prizewinning POS Terminal’ • Multi-brand promotion, which handed out prizes which is “the Merchant’s Friend”. news program), and on other segmented the focus of all of Redecard’s marketing • Proximity to merchants and their employees programs shown on open TV. campaigns and brand management • Technology (store cash desks). Participation in These actions were based on three activities in 2010. DMA-PR • Security the prize draws took place as follows: major marketing campaigns. The first The choice of the color yellow for all presented the transformation of a the marketing materials was another each transaction accepted in a The messages conveyed reinforced POS electronic terminal, which is used novelty. This change in the layout was Redecard POS terminal automatically the idea that Redecard offers: Redecard Clients in for the capture of transactions, into a designed to give the campaigns a more South Africa's World produced an electronic voucher. • Security for merchants to make puppy, linking Redecard – the merchant’s vibrant, positive touch, an inclusion that Cup (2010). Every sale made with credit, debit their sales. best friend – with man’s best friend. represented a break with the segment’s and voucher cards during the period • Cash flow when the merchant needs The second campaign was designed historical standard. gave the merchant one voucher for it (Prepayment of receivables). to reinforce relationships between the the prize draw. 18 Clients received • Services that increase the traffic Company and its Clients, and created The entry of new brands, such as prizes, including one Fiat Fiorino flow of Clients, such as check a humorous interaction with the POS Hipercard and Sorocred, was presented car and various Honda motorcycles, verification and the top-up of preterminal which turns into a puppy with a broad marketing campaign in prizes especially thought of to help paid mobile phones. dancing to the song “Faturation”. The the printed press, with advertisements the Client in their day to day life. The • The largest variety of cards in the third campaign took advantage of the in Brazilian magazines such as Veja, salespeople also received prizes, such market, including Visa, MasterCard, timing when the market opened at the Época and IstoÉ and in large circulation as digital cameras, flat screen TVs, and Hipercard and Diners Club. start of the second semester, and new newspapers such as the Folha de S.Paulo, appliances. brands were being affiliated, to reinforce O Estado de S.Paulo and Valor Econômico. the multi-brand characteristic. In this REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 84 / Intangible Assets / 85 Recognition and awards Redecard's work has brought several awards and recognition in 2010. GRI 2.10 The 150 Best Brazilian Companies program management process, the role of to Work For IT and the budget reserved for innovation. Awarded by the magazine Você S/A – Exame, this is the main ranking of Apras Award 2010 Top of this category that is published in Brazil. Category Among the items considered by the The Award Top of Category 2010 was magazine, positive points for Redecard promoted by Apras (the State of Parana’s were its internal recruitment program, Supermarket Association). In the Services its benefits package and the constant category Redecard was given a grade of 10. concern in relation to the well-being of The prize rewards the best suppliers in the the employees. segment. The aim is to reward companies that make an effort in improving Ranking Brazil’s 500 largest techniques, in professional qualification companies and in the quality of the services sold. Redecard CEO receiving The Melhores da Dinheiro Yearbook, the award As Melhores which is published by the magazine IstoÉ Dow Jones Sustainability Index da Dinheiro . Dinheiro, is in its seventh edition and is For the second year in a row, in regarded as one of the most complete December 2010 Redecard was selected valid from 03/01/2011 to 29/12/2011 and to their greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). surveys of the management practices of to be included in the portfolio of includes 47 shares from 38 companies. Only 39 companies from the IBrX-50 (which companies operating in Brazil. In 2010, the Dow Jones Sustainability World The companies included in this portfolio is made up of the 50 most traded shares on Redecard received the award in the Diverse Index (DJSI World). The DJSI 2010/2011 represent 18 sectors and have a combined the São Paulo Stock Exchange) are part of Services category. portfolio consists of a select group of market value of R$ 1.17 trillion, with this project, which encourages best practices 318 companies, from 27 countries, in Redecard being the only company from for fighting climate change. The 100 Most Innovative the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa, the electronic payment industry to be Companies in IT only seven of which are Brazilian, with included for the second consecutive year. These achievements in terms of the Promoted by the magazine Information Redecard being the only one from the sustainability indices reinforce the Week and by Deloitte, the tenth edition electronic payments sector. ICO2 – Carbon Efficient Index Company’s commitment to transparent of the award ‘The 100 Most Innovative In December 2010 the Company was behavior in its business activities, sound Companies in IT’ elected Redecard as the ISE – Business Sustainability included in the first portfolio of the Carbon corporate governance practices and most innovative company in IT for the Index Efficient Index (ICO2) created by the São social-environmental responsibility, category of Innovation. The award is part Also for the second year in a row, in Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa in and this has begun to be recognized of a single study, which is recognized by November 2010 Redecard was selected partnership with the National Bank for internationally. Itaúsa Investimentos and the market as the most important one to be included in the portfolio of the Economic and Social Development (BNDES), Itaú Unibanco Holding, the latter of which in the area of technology on behalf of Business Sustainability Index (ISE) for the 2011 edition. Recently created, the is Redecard’s controlling shareholder, are business innovation. The award considered of the São Paulo Stock Exchange – index is made up of the shares of companies also included in the investment portfolios factors such as innovation process, BM&FBovespa. The new portfolio is that adopt transparent practices in relation of these indices. GRI 2.10 REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 87 86 / Annexes REDECARD'S ANNUAL REPORT COMPLIES WITH THE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRI'S LEVEL B+ OF APPLICATION C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for 1.1 Level C plus: 1.2 Same as requirement for GRI Profile Disclosure 2.1 2.10 Level B About the report 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Standard Disclosures 4.1 4.4 , 4.14 4.15 GRI Application level Management Approach Management Approach G3 Management Not Required Disclosures for each Indicator disclosed for each Indicator Approach Disclosures Category Category Introduction and reporting process G3 Performance Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Respond on each core G3 and Sector Supplement* indicator 20 Performance Indicators, Indicators & ten Performance Indicators, with due regard to the at least one from each of: Sector Supplement including at least one from materiality Principle by either: economic, environment, Performance each of: social, economic, and a) reporting on the indicator or human rights, labor, society, Indicators environment. b) explaining the reason for its product responsibility. omission. In order to read our report Structure – The organization of the of the Internal Audit department’s publication attests to our evolution in the chapters was made in accordance with assessment was presented to the process of continuous improvement in our The aim of this publication is to present the themes regarded as most relevant by Sustainability Committee. Over the management of sustainability in Redecard. Redecard‘s evolution regarding matters of Redecard’s stakeholders. These themes are course of 2010, the Sustainability sustainability in an objective, transparent also in line with Redecard’s three strategic Commission held meetings to assess Scope – This publication presents and easy-to-understand way. pillars, which are: Client Focus, Innovation Redecard’s performance in relation to the information related to Redecard S/A. and Operational Excellence. sustainability indices. At these meetings GRI 3.6 and 3.7 GRI Guidelines – For the second strong points as well as opportunities for consecutive year, we are publishing our Therefore, the results achieved by improvement were discussed and based Internal verification – All the Annual Sustainability Report in accordance Redecard can be observed in four on this discussion, the sustainability information related to economic data and with the guidelines of the Global main themes which are relevant to targets for 2011 were defined. These are GRI indicators was checked by the Company‘s Reporting Initiative (GRI), in its G3 version. the sustainability of the Company’s published in this Report. Among these Internal Audit department. GRI 3.13 business. These are as follows: Client targets is the periodical monitoring of the Global Compact – Our activities, as focus, innovation, social-economic and GRI indicators. External verification – The described in this Report, are aligned with environmental development, and corporate information contained in the Annual the principles of the Global Compact, an governance. GRI 3.5 In addition, the scope of the external Sustainability Report 2010 was checked initiative created by the United Nations verification conducted by PwC includes an by the independent auditors PwC, in Organization (UNO) to which we have Indicators – Partially or in full, we have assessment of sustainability management accordance with the AA1000 guidelines been signatories since 2009. The index reported 32 GRI essential performance in Redecard in accordance with AA1000 of stakeholder commitment. The scope of presented from pages 89 to 95 will help indicators and 12 additional indicators. guidelines, as well as verification of the this verification included the adherence locate the information corresponding to adherence to the indicators reported to to GRI methodology, the assurance of the principles of these commitments. The Disclosure management approach the GRI protocol. the information regarding the disclosure Sustainability Annual Report 2010 serves as – Redecard seeks to constantly enhance management approach and performance a Communication on Progress (COP) of the its transparency and corporate governance Level of GRI application – According and the declaration of the application level. Global Compact. practices. The 2010 GRI indicators to GRI, this publication reaches the level are the result of a dialogue process B+ of the reporting guidelines. It complies Contact – For more information Period – This edition covers the with the Company’s stakeholders and with the requirements defined in 2011: all about sustainability, access the internet period from January to December 2010. were submitted to the Internal Audit profile items, information about disclosure site www.redecard.com/RI or write to Redecard’s reporting processes observe department, which, in conjunction with management approach and a minimum of sustentabilidade@redecard.com.br. GRI 3.4 annual cycles, with the report for the the responsible areas, established action 20 essential performance indicators, and period from January to December 2009 plans to improve the monitoring of the also follows the principle of materiality. published in June 2010. GRI 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 aforementioned indicators. The result The addition of indicators in this second REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 88 / Annexes / 89 Main indicators GRI Index and corresponding for Redecard Global Compact principles During the dialogue process with Redecard’s General Indicators stakeholders and sectoral analysis the materiality Item Page Situation Remarks matrix produced by the consulting firm Management 1. Strategy and Analysis & Excellence (M&E) identified the following material 1.1 Message from the President 16-19 indicators for the improvement of sustainability 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 16, 42 and 44 management in Redecard’s business: 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 8 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8, 44, 52 and 77 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 8 and 10 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 8 GRI Indicator Description Countries where the organization operates where its major 2.5 8 and 10 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. operations area. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 and 10 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts. 2.7 Markets served. 8, 18 and 47 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 8, 34 and 52 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 16, 20 and 44 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 8, 85 and 86 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services. 3. Report Parameters EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 3.1 Reporting period. 86 EN8 Total water usage by source. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 86 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennal, etc). 86 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 87 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 4, 26 and 86 LA10 Average hours of training per year. 3.6 Boundary of the report. 8 and 87 LA11 Programs for development of skills and ongoing learning that support the continued employability. Statement of any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 3.7 87 the report. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews. Redecard has no subsidiaries or controlled Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group 3.8 4 parties which could significantly affect the outsourced operations. LA13 membership, and other indicators of diversity. comparability of information. 61, 78 and 93 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. (LA11) HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. There was no merger or acquisition or change Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information 3.10 4 and 18 in the nature of the business, nor in its PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. provided in earlier reports. methods of measuring. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy. 3.11 4 and 19 Significant changes from previous reporting periods SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 3.12 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 89-95 in the report. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 3.13 87 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. in the report. Complete Partial REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 90 / Annexes / 91 Item Page Situation Remarks Global Indicator Page Situation Remarks 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Compact 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 36 and 37 While there is no specific policy for contracting local suppliers, Policy, practices, and proportion Redecard has in its supplier base some companies which operate 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body. 28 and 30 of spending on locally-based EC6 in specific locations where their head offices are. There is no suppliers at significant Members of the highest governance body that are independent The Board of Directors and the Executive measuring or monitoring system for the percentage of spending 4.3 34-36 locations of operation. and/or non-executive members. Board play distinct roles in the Company. on suppliers with this profile. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 28 and 32 Indirect Economic Impacts recommendations. Linkage between compensation and the organization's 4.5 25 In 2010, the Redecard Institute developed a strategic partnership performance (including social and environmental performance). with Redecard, MasterCard, and Sebrae for working on the 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 38 understanding and development of applicable electronic payment solutions for micro and small companies and individual 4.7 Qualifications of the members of the highest governance body. 37 Understanding and describing entrepreneurs. The result of the work, which was guided within 4.8 Mission and values, codes of conduct, and relevant principles. 20, 30 and 39 significant indirect economic the concept of Social Intelligence, will be extended throughout EC9 56 impacts, including the extent products, services and transfer of knowledge in 2011. Six meetings Responsibilities for implementing economic, environmental, and of impact. were held with the work group and three focus groups in several 4.9 36, 37 and 55 social policies. regions of Brazil–in the states of MS, MG, and BA. The work Redecard still does not have a self-evaluation group managed to identify the context and discuss the proposal Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's practice in the Board of Directors. In 2011, the of strategies and an action plan for 2011 aimed at individual 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Human Resources and Legal Departments will entrepreneurs and micro and small enterprises. environmental, and social performance. review the theme with deeper consideration for possible implementation. Environmental 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach. 40 and 41 Materials (64, 65 and 91), Energy (61, 62, 65 and 91), Water (90), 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives. 56 Biodiversity (considered as non-material, since Redecard's Disclosure on Management Approach 25, 36, 54, business is concentrated in urban areas and has no significant Redecard's CEO Roberto Medeiros was (DMA-EN) impact over biodiversity), Emissions, Effluents and waste (61, 64 Memberships in associations and/or national/international 61 and 83 4.13 39 the Vice-President for the Brazilian Cards and 90), Products and services (64 and 90), Compliance (nonadvocacy organizations. Association –Abecs, in 2010. material), Transport (not reported). 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 28 e 29 Materials Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 4.15 28 Percentage of materials In 2009, the monthly consumption was approximately 270 pages, to engage. EN2 used that are recycled input 64 and 65 which represents 540 reams. This can be summarized in an 8 and 9 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 26 materials. average annual volume of 3,240,000 pages, or 6,480 reams. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 29 Energy stakeholder engagement. Direct energy consumption by EN3 61 8 primary energy source. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN4 Indirect energy consumption. 62 8 and 9 Global Redecard's head office in Barueri (SP) counts on eco-efficiency Indicator Page Situation Remarks Energy saved due to Compact differentials detailed on page 61 of this Report, but since the EN5 conservation and efficiency 61 8 Company is in a condominium with other companies, it does not Economic Indicators improvements. monitor the energy saved. Disclosure on Management Approach 25, 36, 44, By aspect: Economic performance (45), Market presence (46), (DMA-EC) 54 and 56 Indirect economic impacts (58) The facilities infrastructure for the Datacenter complies with the Tier 3 requirements of the Uptime Institute, resulting in a high Economic Performance level of energy efficiency which can be seen from a PUE (Power Direct economic value Useful Effectiveness) ascertained at 1.65 in 2010, due to more EC1 generated and distributed. 52 and 60 efficient equipment in the electric and refrigeration systems. This Initiatives to provide energyrepresents a significant improvement if compared to a 2.14 PUE as Financial implications and other EN6 efficient or renewable energy 61 of six years ago. risks and opportunities for the based products and services. EC2 61 7 organization's activities due to Information is measured by the Datacenter contracted as a climate change. service by Redecard, and relates to the whole structure of the Datacenter managed by the service provider. In addition, we Coverage of the organization's EC3 78 7 highlight our reduction of 0.02 in 2010 (1.65 PUE) in comparison defined benefit plan obligations. to 2009 (1.67 PUE). Market Presence Initiatives to reduce indirect Range of ratios of standard EN7 energy consumption and 65 entry level wage compared reductions achieved. EC5 to local minimum wage 77 1 at significant locations of operation. Complete Partial REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 92 / Annexes / 93 Global Global Indicator Page Situation Remarks Indicator Page Situation Remarks Compact Compact Water Redecard has no representatives elected for negotiations. As such, the Company follows the collective bargaining agreement defined by the union of employers and employees, and notices are disclosed The water consumption is controlled by the condominium. Up Minimum notice period(s) after approval by the category's union. to this date we have no information on the tenant breakdown LA5 regarding significant Total water withdrawal by regarding the m3 quantity consumed by Redecard. operational changes. Redecard discloses the final result of conventions through its EN8 8 and 9 source. electronic channels, and applies in whole the clauses and benefits For 2011, we intend to get the information from the condominium instituted by this convention. The convention is disclosed to where Redecard is located. employees as soon as approved by the category's union. Occupational health and safety With the implementation of Redecard's head office in Edifício Castelo Branco building in Barueri (SP), the Company began to Percentage of total workforce All employees have been represented in formal health and safety have the following conditions: reused water for toilets and garden represented in formal joint LA6 committees (CIPA) in 2010: 19.65% of them in the JK unit, and 1, 2 and 3 Percentage and total volume of maintenance. management-worker health EN10 8 80.35% in the Barueri unit. water recycled and reused. and safety committees. For 2011, Redecard will check with the condominium, which is responsible for managing the water consumption, whether the There is a control of absenteeism for employees in leave because information specific for Redecard may be made available. of diseases or occupational accidents. This is made after the formal leave given by the National Social Security Institute. The Emissions, effluents and waste follow-up is made by the medical department and recorded in Total direct and indirect Rates of injury, occupational the ADP – Administrative Intranet roll system. In 2011, after the EN16 GHG emissions by weight. 61 8 diseases, lost days, and implementation of the electronic timecard system, the Company LA7 78 1 absenteeism, and number of will implement the control of absenteeism by absences and delays Other relevant indirect work-related fatalities by region. of employees who are eligible for the electronic timecard. The EN17 61 8 GHG emissions by weight. Company has not yet implemented the control of absenteeism for Redecard does not control this indicator yet. Initiatives to reduce absences or delays for employees who are exempt from work-load Initiatives to reduce greenhouse control. Example: managers, directors, commercial area employees, emissions will be defined after the first mapping of emissions, EN18 gas emissions and reductions 61 7, 8 and 9 home office employees. since based on this the Company will be able to measure the main achieved. reduction processes. Education, training, counseling, Total weight of waste by type This indicator is considered as partially reported since Redecard prevention, and risk-control EN22 64 8 In 2010, Redecard provided programs on education, training, and disposal method. does not have measuring systems for hazardous waste. programs in place to assist prevention and control of risks for employees as a means of LA8 workforce members, their 78 1 Identity, size, protected status, fighting serious diseases. There were no employees involved in families, or community and biodiversity value of water activities with incidence or risk of diseases in 2010. Redecard business is carried out in urban areas, and has no members regarding serious bodies and related habitats diseases. EN25 significant impact on biodiversity. The whole water used is significantly affected by the discarded to public sewage collection utilities. Training and education reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Average hours of training per Note: in 2011, the Company will provide the indicator per employee LA10 76 and 77 6 Products and services year. and not only per category. In 2010 there was no reduction in the absolute volume of recycled Programs for skills management Initiatives to mitigate and lifelong learning that 76, 77 The remuneration of statutory directors was not considered for terminals because of a strategic decision for discontinuing (or not) LA11 environmental impacts of support the continued and 80 the analysis of this indicator. EN26 64 POS terminal models. There were 21 tons of recyclable materials 7, 8 and 9 products and services, and employability. coming from terminals. However, since 2008, 100% of POS extent of impact mitigation. obsolete terminals have been recycled. Percentage of employees In 2010, 94% of the total workforce received performance and Percentage of products sold and receiving regular performance LA12 79 and 81 career development reviews. This process is systematized and EN27 their packaging materials that 64 8 and 9 and career development annual. are reclaimed by category. reviews. Social: labor practices and decent work Diversity and equal opportunity By aspect: Employment (74, 75 and 78), Labor/management Composition of governance Disclosure on Management Approach 25, 54 relations (37, 39, 57, 92 and 98), Occupational health and safety (78 bodies and breakdown of LA13 74 and 75 1 and 3 (DMA-LA) and 72 and 92), Training and education (76, 77 and 79-91), and Diversity employees according to groups and equal opportunity (74 and 75). and gender. Employment Ratio of basic salary of men to LA14 75 1, 2 and 3 Total workforce by employment women by employee category. 74, 75 LA1 type, employment contract, and region. and 78 Social: human rights Comparison between benefits By aspect: Procurement practices (40, 68 and 93), Nonprovided to full-time and There is no differentiation in terms of work-loads. There are no discrimination (93), Freedom of association and collective LA3 75 6 Disclosure on Management Approach temporary or part-time employees with temporary labor contract. 25 bargaining (non-material), Child labor (93), Forced and compulsory (DMA-HR) employees. labor (39, 40 and 93), Security practices (non-material), and Indigenous rights (non material). Labor/management relations Procurement Process Percentage of employees Suppliers and contractors that 100% of employees are covered by collective bargaining LA4 covered by collective bargaining 1, 2 and 3 have undergone screening on Redecard contracts have clauses on human rights. agreements. This emcompasses 1,455 employees. HR2 40 and 68 1, 2, 3 and 4 agreements. human rights and actions taken. Complete Partial REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 94 / Annexes / 95 Global Global Indicator Page Situation Remarks Indicator Page Situation Remarks Compact Compact Total hours of employee training Regarding e-learning training on the Code of Ethics and Conduct, Marketing communications Competition Ethics, and Safety and Fraud Prevention, Redecard on policies and procedures provided 8,300 hours of training to 74% of its employees. There concerning aspects of human Programs for adherence to is no specific e-learning system on human rights. However, the HR3 rights that are relevant to laws, standards, and voluntary theme is covered by the Code of Ethics and Conduct e-learning operations, including the codes related to marketing course for around 10 minutes and 30 seconds, with the following PR6 83 percentage of employees communications, including topics: business partners, sanctions and penalties, and conflicts of trained. advertising, promotion, and interest. sponsorship. Non-discrimination In 2010, Redecard had one case of discrimination. Complaints regarding breaches There were no cases of complaints regarding breaches of PR8 of customer privacy and losses 38 Total number of incidents of The Ethics Committee was put in charge of the case. The policy customer privacy and losses of customer data. of customer data. HR4 discrimination and actions on penalties for infringement of rules comprises this type of case, 1, 2 e 3 taken. and the breacher was disciplined according to the policy (formal Social: society advertency). The case is concluded. By aspect: Community (non-material), Corruption (95), Public Disclosure on Management Approach 25, 40 and Child labor policy (39 and 95), Anti-competitive behavior (36, 38 and 95), and (DMA-SO) 95 (SO2) Compliance (95). Operations identified as having There is no risk of child labor in Redecard's operations. There could Corruption significant risk for incidents of be a risk of hazardous work in companies contracted by Redecard, HR6 child labor, and measures taken 39 and 40 1, 2 e 3 but Redecard's contracts contain prohibitive clauses concerning Redecard invests in preventive actions related to the awareness to contribute to the elimination child labor. and prevention of corruption. The Company's Code of Ethics and of child labor. Conduct approaches this theme, and all employees are aware of this document, and sign it on a annual basis. In order to Forced and compulsory labor reinforce the understanding of the Code's contents, all employees in JK and Barueri offices have taken the e-learning course Operations identified as having which also approaches this theme. In addition, Redecard has a significant risk for incidents There is no risk of forced and compulsory labor in Redecard's Percentage and total number of denouncement channel which receives communications of any of forced or compulsory labor, operations. There could be a risk of forced work in companies SO2 business units analyzed for risks type of violation to the code, including corruption. The Internal 10 HR7 39 and 40 1, 2 e 3 and measures to contribute contracted by Redecard, but Redecard's contracts with such related to corruption. Audit manages this channel, and all reports are informed to the to the elimination of forced or companies contain prohibitive clauses concerning this theme. Auditing Committee. compulsory labor. We believe that actions adopted by Redecard represent an Social: Product Responsibility evaluation of corruption-related risks. An evidence of its efficiency is the fact that to the extent of our knowledge there were no By aspect: Customer safety and health (40, 41, 69 and 94), Product corruption-related reports in 2010. 23, 25, 34, Disclosure on Approach Management and service labeling (66, 68 and 69), Marketing communications 54, 66, 82 (DMA-PR) (38, 83 and 94), Customer privacy (non-material), and Compliance There is no formal risk evaluation specifically aimed at corruption. and 83 (non-material). In 2010, all employees at Redecard have taken the e-learning Percentage of employees trained Customer health and safety course on the Code of Ethics, which comprises corruption. New SO3 in organization's anti-corruption 39 10 employees have a 30-day term after their hiring to conclude the policies and procedures. Life cycle stages in which health training. and safety impacts of products In 2010, there were no cases of employees involved in corruption and services are assessed for Actions taken in response to 40, 41 Fraud Prevention Committee, and certification of safety regarding SO4 36 and 38 at Redecard. If any case like this happens, the Ethics Committee is 10 PR1 improvement, and percentage 1 incidents of corruption. and 69 the POS and Redecard's Datacenter system. put in charge and decides on the matter. of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Anti-competitive behavior Product and service labeling The Company did not receive significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. However, there is an administrative process Every semester, Redecard carries out a survey to identify customer registered by the Secretary of the Economic Rights (SDE) in 2009 satisfaction on a general basis as well as per process. This survey to investigate reports of supposed breaches to the economic order has a quantitative aspect, with a telephone approach (Cati), and is Number of legal actions for Practices related to customer based on a representation made by the Brazilian Association of conducted in all regions and markets where Redecard operates. anti-competitive behavior, antisatisfaction, including results 66, 68 SO7 Internet Access, Services and Information (Abranet). In the process, PR5 trust, and monopoly practices of surveys measuring customer and 69 76% of customers are satisfied or very satisfied with Redecard's Abranet indicates a supposed inclusion of anti-competitive and their outcomes. satisfaction. services. commercial clauses and conditions to affiliation contracts proposed by Redecard to intervening companies (sub-acquirers For more information, see Redecard's Internal Portal: associated with Abranet). The Company presented its defense in www.redecard. com.br. August 2009, rejecting the claims. During 2010 the process was handled by SDE. Complete Partial REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 96 / Annexes / 97 Balance Sheet (Ibase and NBCT15) 1 – Calculation Basis 2010 thousand R$ 2009 thousand R$ 2008 thousand R$ 4 – Environmental % % % % % % % % % R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over Net Revenues (NR) 2,618.,268 2,423,344 2,059,509 indicators (continued) OR NR TAV OR NR TAV OR NR TAV Operational Results (OR) 2,075,651 2,069,189 1,695,590 4.1 – Investments related to the production/operation of the company (continued) Gross Payroll (GP) 154,379 106,212 105,957 Conservation of Energy ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Total Added Value (TAV) 2,527,415 2,450,755 2,157,382 Environmental Education 0.51 ND ND ND 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% ND ND ND ND Sector Indicator ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND % % % % % % % % % 2 – Internal Social R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over Other ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Indicators GP NR TAV GP NR TAV GP NR TAV Total 0.51 ND ND ND 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% ND ND ND ND Food 6,762 4.4% 0.3% 0.3% 4,013 3.8% 0.2% 0.2% 3,790 3.6% 0.2% 0.2% 4.2 – Investments in external programs and/or projects Mandatory payroll taxes and benefits 40,373 26.2% 1.5% 1.6% 29,385 27.7% 1.2% 1.2% 28,740 27.1% 1.4% 1.3% Environmental Education ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Private pension plan 4,200 2.7% 0.2% 0.2% 3,712 3.5% 0.2% 0.2% 1,393 1.3% 0.1% 0.1% Preservation and/or recovery of degraded NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA ND ND ND ND Health 7,578 4.9% 0.3% 0.3% 5,146 4.8% 0.2% 0.2% 5,105 4.8% 0.2% 0.2% environments Safety and Health 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Other ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Education 541 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 604 0.6% 0.0% 0.0% 750 0.7% 0.0% 0.0% Total ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Culture 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total investment (4.1 + 4.2) 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% ND ND ND ND Training 2,592 1.7% 0.1% 0.1% 1,983 1.9% 0.1% 0.1% 1,701 1.6% 0.1% 0.1% Distribution of in R$ '000 % sobre total em mil R$ % sobre total em mil R$ % sobre total Crèches or financial investments 27 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 66 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 81 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% assistance for crèches Total investment Sports 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% in environmental ND ND ND ND ND ND preservation Profit sharing 30,391 19.7% 1.2% 1.2% 26,555 25.0% 1.1% 1.1% 26,260 24.8% 1.3% 1.2% Total investment Transportation 789 0.5% 0.0% 0.0% 798 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% 286 0.3% 0.0% 0.0% in environmental ND ND ND ND ND ND Other 4,349 2.8% 0.2% 0.2% 3,926 3.7% 0.2% 0.2% 2,277 2.1% 0.1% 0.1% maintenance Total 97,602 63.2% 3.7% 3.9% 76,188 71.7% 3.1% 3.1% 70,383 66.4% 3.4% 3.3% Total investment in environmental 0.51 ND 31 100 ND ND % % % % % % % % 3 – External Social compensation R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over % over NR over Indicators OR NR TAV OR NR TAV OR TAV Administrative and judicial 0 0 0 Education 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0,0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% processes Culture 11,777 0.6% 0.4% 0.5% 13,105 0.6% 0.0% 0.5% 8.212 0,5% 0,4% 0,4% Fines and indemnity 0 0 0 Health and Sanitation 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% In terms of establishing annual targets to Sports 2,223 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,530 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 1.000 0,1% 0,0% 0,0% minimize waste, the (x) no targets (x) no targets (x) no targets Combat to hunger and overall consumption in 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% ( ) complies with 0 to 50% ( ) complies with 0 to 50% ( ) complies with 0 to 50% food basket payments production/operation, the ( ) complies with 51 to 75% ( ) complies with 51 to 75% ( ) complies with 51 to 75% amount spent to increase Sector Indicator 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% ( ) complies with 76 to 100% ( ) complies with 76 to 100% ( ) complies with 76 to 100% the efficiency of the Other 2,941 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,863 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 2.250 0,1% 0,1% 0,1% company’s use of natural resources: Total contributions to 16,941 0.8% 0.6% 0.7% 18,498 0.9% 0.0% 0.8% 11.462 0,7% 0,6% 0,5% society 5 – Employee composition 2010 IN UNITS 2009 IN UNITS 2008 IN UNITS indicators Taxes 903,963 43.6% 34.5% 35.8% 894,343 43.2% 0.0% 36.5% 805.628 47,5% 39,1% 37,3% (excluding payroll taxes) No. of employees 1,455 793 789 Total 920,904 44.4% 35.2% 36.4% 912,841 44.1% 0.0% 37.2% 817.090 48,2% 39,7% 37,9% No. of hirings 950 172 180 4 – Environmental % % % % % % % % % No. of layoffs 288 168 235 R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over R$ '000 over over over Indicators OR NR TAV OR NR TAV OR NR TAV No. of indirect employees 4,634 2,649 ND 4.1 – Investments related to the production/operation of the company No. of interns 4 29 44 Appropriation of Land N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A No. of employees over 45 109 78 78 Liabilities and No. of employees per age Environmental N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A under 18 0 0 0 Contingencies between 18 and 35 1,024 446 445 Program for Technological and Industrial ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND between 36 and 45 343 269 266 Development n/a – Not Applicable n/a – Not Applicable nd – Not Available nd – Not Available REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 98 / Annexes / 99 5 – Employee composition 2010 2009 2008 2010 IN UNITS 2009 IN UNITS 2008 IN UNITS indicators (continued) ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives between 36 and 60 88 78 78 Profit sharing includes: ( ) top-level executives and mid-level ( ) top-level executives and mid-level ( ) top-level executives and mid-level management (X) all employees management (X) all employees management (X) all employees over 60 0 0 Regarding the suppliers, No. of employees according to their level of education the standards on ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered Unable to read and write 0 0 ethics and social (X) are suggested (X) are suggested (X) are suggested and environmental Junior School completed 28 7 13 ( ) are required ( ) are required ( ) are required responsibility of the High School/Technical company 293 226 292 College completed Ombudsman/ Higher Education in the company Customer in the company 100% in the company 100% 895 427 432 completed Service Center % of complaints Post-graduated 239 133 52 answered and resolved: in Consumer in Consumer in Consumer 100% 17% 0% No. of women 677 358 367 Protection Body Protection Body Protection Body % of management in Courts 100% in Courts 12% in Courts 10% 5% 39% 41% positions held by women in Consumer in Consumer in Consumer Fines and indemnity 75.6 0 0 No. of men 778 435 422 Protection Body Protection Body Protection Body payments to clients % of management in Courts 1,194.9 in Courts 787.0 in Courts 574.6 9% 61% 59% positions held by men Those are: No. of black employees ND ND ND Those are: Those are: 1. Alteration of the Technical Assistance % of management Actions taken by the 1. Alteration of the Technical Assistance 1. Set up of Quality Work Groups Model to repair machinery with problems; positions held by black ND ND ND company to mitigate Model to repair machinery with employees (focused on reducing complaints); 2. Improvements in Redecard’s Merchant or minimize causes of problems; complaints 2. Restructuring of the Customer Affiliation Program; No. of employees with 2. Improvements in Redecard’s Merchant 52 29 29 disabilities or special needs Service Center (new Service model) 3. Implementation of Relationship Project Affiliation Program. Gross compensation divided by the number of 2.0 at the Call Centers. Employees ND ND ND Number of labor cases: Management Staff ND ND ND Against the company 138 141 94 Difference between the With legal grounds 12 14 19 lowest salary paid by the company and the 1.33 2.33 2.26 Ruled not to have legal 35 41 31 minimum legal wage grounds Source Payroll DEC/2010 Payroll DEC/2009 Payroll DEC/2008 Total value of indemnity payments and fines as 576.6 472.9 320.9 6 – Relevant information ordered by the courts: relating to the exercise 2010 2009 2008 Total Added Value to of corporate citizenship distribute (in R$ '000): 2,450.7 2,157.3 Ratio of highest to lowest Distribution of Added remuneration at the 49.88 ND ND in R$ '000 % over total in R$ '000 % over total in R$ '000 % over total Value company Government 934,314 ND 913,886 37.3% 824,556 38.2% Total number of work6 10 6 related accidents Employees 185,584 ND 135,822 5.5% 128,985 6.0% ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives Shareholders 717,176 ND 686,466 28.0% 993,159 46.0% Social and environmental (X) top-level executives (X) top-level executives (X) top-level executives Third parties projects by the company 7,555 ND 6,487 0.3% 7,721 0.4% and mid-level management and mid-level management and mid-level management were selected by: Retained 682,786 ND 708,094 28.9% 202,961 9.4% ( ) all employees ( ) all employees ( ) all employees The company's standard ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives 7 – Other Information for safety and cleanliness and mid-level management and mid-level management and mid-level management at the workplace were ( ) all employees ( ) all employees ( ) all employees Due to changes in the accounting rules (IFRS), we have changed the following information: in line (4) the information relating to 2009 and 2008, and in lines set by (X) all employees + CIPA (X) all employees + CIPA (X) all employees + CIPA 123 and 125 the information relating to 2009. Concerning freedom of ( ) is not involved ( ) is not involved ( ) is not involved association, the right to (X) follows ILO standards (X) follows ILO standards (X) follows ILO standards collective bargaining and ( ) encourages and follows ( ) encourages and follows ( ) encourages and follows internal representation, ILO standards ILO standards ILO standards the company: GRI DMA-LA ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives The company's pension ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives plan covers and mid-level management and mid-level management and mid-level management (X) all employees (X) all employees (X) all employees n/a – Not Applicable n/a – Not Applicable nd – Not Available nd – Not Available REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 100 / Annexes / 101 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on the the Annual Sustainability Report for 2010 that supports the quantitative and qualitative GRI-G3 Application Level of the Annual Sustainability Report data of the engagement Process. of Redecard S.A. for 2010 of Redecard S.A. Scope and Limitations The objective of our engagement was to To the Board of Directors Redecard S.A. was subjected to an internal audit at the same verify whether the data included in the Annual To the Board of Directors Redecard S.A. therefore, less assurance is obtained than December 31, 2010, which was issued on April time that the reporting process started. The Sustainability Report for 2010, with respect to in a reasonable assurance engagement. 29, 2011, we are not aware of any significant process resulted in a report with risk analysis, obtaining qualitative information, measurement The procedures selected depend on modification that should be made to the Introduction recommendations and action plans so that the and calculation of quantitative information, is Introduction the practitioner’s judgment, including information included in the Sustainability We have been engaged to perform a limited report of Redecard could be improved within the presented in accordance with the criteria and We have been engaged to perform a limited the assessment of the risks of material Report for 2010 of Redecard S.A., for this assurance engagement on the following objects: GRI standards and more closely adapted to the guidelines for sustainability reports from the assurance engagement on the GRI Application noncompliance of the Sustainability information to be fairly presented, in all principles established by the AA1000 standard. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) and whether Level, in accordance with the guidelines for Report with the criteria described material respects, in relation to the criteria • Annual Sustainability Report for 2010 of the Process of stakeholder engagement sustainability reports issued by the Global below (Scope and limitations). Within used for Application Level B+. Redecard S.A. (“Report”); Procedures Applied followed the Principles of the Accountability Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3), of the Annual the scope of our work we performed, • Compliance with the process of stakeholder Our limited assurance engagement 1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000APS), Sustainability Report for 2010 of Redecard amongst others, the following procedures: engagement (“Process”) based on the was performed in accordance with the in accordance with the criteria defined in the São Paulo, May 27, 2011. S.A., prepared under the responsibility of (i) planning the work, taking into information disclosed in the Sustainability Brazilian Standard NBC TO 3000, Assurance paragraph “Criteria adopted” above. Opinions, Redecard S.A. management, on which we consideration the materiality and the Report above. Engagements Other than Audit and Review , historical information, descriptive information PricewaterhouseCoopers issued a limited assurance report on April 29, volume of information presented in the Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5 issued by the Federal Accounting Council and information resulting from subjective 2011. Redecard´s management responsibility Sustainability Report; (ii) obtaining an Both objects have been prepared under the (CFC). This standard requires that we comply evaluations are not included in the scope of the Manuel Luiz da Silva Araújo includes designing, implementing and understanding of the internal controls; responsibility of the management of Redecard with ethical requirements and plan and work performed. Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 “S” SP maintaining internal controls over the (iii) examining, on a test basis, evidence S.A. This responsibility includes designing, perform the assurance engagement to obtain proper preparation and presentation of the supporting quantitative and qualitative implementing and maintaining internal limited assurance that no matter has come Conclusion Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to data in the Sustainability Report; (iv) controls over the proper preparation and to our attention that leads us to believe that Based on our limited assurance engagement, provide a limited assurance report on the GRI interviewing the managers responsible presentation of the Sustainability Report. The the objects (Report and Process) are not in we are not aware: (i) of any significant Application Level of this report for the year for the information; and (v) comparing Company’s management is also responsible for accordance with the criteria described below modification that should be made to ended December 31, 2010. information of a financial nature with complying with the Process, in accordance with (Scope and limitations), in all material respects. the information included in the Annual that in the accounting records. These the criteria described below. Our responsibility Sustainability Report of Redecard S.A. for Criteria adopted procedures were deemed sufficient to is to provide a limited assurance report on In a limited assurance engagement, the the year ended December 31, 2010, for this The Sustainability Report for 2010 was allow a limited level of assurance and, the information disclosed in the Annaul evidence-gathering procedures are more information to be fairly presented, in all material prepared in accordance with the guidelines consequently, do not include all those Sustainability Report for 2010 of Redecard S.A. limited than those performed in a reasonable respects, in accordance with the criteria used, for sustainability reports of the Global required for issuing a broader assurance for the year ended December 31, 2010, and a assurance engagement; therefore, less as described above (Scope and limitations), Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) for Application report, as set forth in said standard. limited assurance report on the process of assurance is obtained than in a reasonable and (ii) on any information that would lead Level B+. Following these guidelines, stakeholder engagement (Process). assurance engagement. The procedures us to believe that the Process of complying Redecard S.A. reported 46 essential and Scope and Limitations selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment, with the Principles of the Accountability 1000 additional performance indicators. The objective of our engagement was Criteria adopted including the assessment of the risks of Principles Standard 2008 (AA1000APS) has to verify the GRI Application Level of the The Annual Sustainability Report for material noncompliance of the Sustainability not been carried out in compliance with the Procedures Applied Annual Sustainability Report for 2010, 2010 was prepared in accordance with the Report with the criteria described below (Scope criteria described in the paragraph “Scope and Our limited assurance engagement with respect to obtaining qualitative guidelines for sustainability reports of the and limitations). Within the scope of our work, Limitations” above. was performed in accordance with the information, measurement and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). procedures conducted included the following, Brazilian Standard NBC TO 3000, Assurance calculation of quantitative information, among others: Additional Considerations Engagements Other than Audit and Review , an fair presentation of this information, The process of stakeholder engagement In regards to the definition of the Contents issued by the Federal Accounting Council in accordance with the criteria and based on the information disclosed in (a) For limited assurance on the Report: of the Annual Sustainability Report for 2010, in (CFC). This standard requires that we comply guidelines for GRI Application Level of the Sustainability Report was carried out accordance with the principles of GRI-G3, we with ethical requirements and plan and sustainability reports from the Global in conformity with Accountability 1000 (i) planning the work, taking into noted an increase in the number of indicators perform the assurance engagement to Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). Opinions, Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS) type 1, consideration the materiality and the volume reported as compared to the previous year, obtain limited assurance that no matter historical information, descriptive which evaluates the level of adherence to the of information presented in the Annual which demonstrates a higher degree of has come to our attention that leads us to information and information resulting Principles of the Accountability 1000 Principles Sustainability Report for 2010 of Redecard S.A; transparency in the Company’s social and believe that the Sustainability Report for from subjective evaluations are not Standard 2008 (AA1000APS). This standard (ii) obtaining an understanding of the environmental management. 2010 of Redecard S.A. is not in accordance included in the scope of the work establishes the following procedures: internal controls; with the Application Level B+, in accordance performed. (iii) examining, on a test basis, evidence In the process of stakeholder engagement, with the criteria described below (Scope and • The Process of engagement should that supports the quantitative and qualitative Redecard used two panels for consultation, Limitations), in all material respects. Conclusion consider the main stakeholders; data in the Sustainability Report; and one internal and another external. In addition Based on our limited assurance • There should be a transparent procedure (iv) (iv) interviewing the managers to defining the most significant topics and In a limited assurance engagement, engagement, together with our limited in relation to the determination of materiality; responsible for the information. indicators to be covered in the report, the the evidence-gathering procedures are assurance engagement report of the •The process of Capacity to Answer should stakeholders were able to provide their opinions more limited than those performed in Annual Sustainability Report for 2010 of present a well-defined structure in the b) For limited assurance of compliance with on the previous year’s Sustainability Report. a reasonable assurance engagement; Redecard S.A., referring to the year ended Sustainability Report. the Process: São Paulo, April 29, 2011. Aiming at improving the structure of its (i) obtaining an understanding of the Sustainability Report and its capacity to meet controls and procedures of the engagement of PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5 the demands of the main stakeholders and, the stakeholders through interviews with the therefore, implementing in the most adequate managers responsible for such information; Manuel Luiz da Silva Araújo manner the criteria adopted, Redecard S.A. (ii) examining, on a test basis, evidence Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 “S” SP REDECARD Sustainability Annual Report 2010 Corporate information Redecard S.A. Avenida Marcos Penteado de Ulhôa Rodrigues, 939 Loja I – 12º, 13º e 14º andares 06460-040 Barueri SP, Brazil Investor Relations Email: ri@redecard.com.br www.redecard.com.br/ri Services to Shareholders Available at any branch of Banco Itaú S.A., of which the head office is at Praça Alfredo Egydio de Souza Aranha, 100 – Torre Itaúsa, São Paulo, SP, Brazil Tel.: 55 11 50297780 Email: investfone.investimento@itau-unibanco.com.br Redecard Customer Service Service Center Tel.: 55 11 4001 4433 (Capitals) 0800 784433 (Other locations in Brazil) Ombudsmanship: 11 3133-1880 Credits General Coordination Redecard Investor Relations and Sustainability Area; Marketing Area Sustainability Consulting and GRI Stakeholder Panels and Materiality Matrix – Management & Excellence Collection of Indicators – Investor Relations and Sustainability Department Review of Indicators – Redecard Internal Audit Texts and Editing Report Comunicação – www.reportcomunicação.com.br Assurance PwC English version Vértice Translate Graphic Design and Editorial Report Comunicação – www.reportcomunicacao.com.br Photographs: Redecard’s Image Bank Marcelo Min Rogério Assis Pisco Del Gaiso Veer Distribution: this report will be distributed to shareholders, investors, employees, clients, suppliers, third-sector entities, class associations, press, government and universities. If you have any questions, comments or suggestions, write to: sustentabilidade@redecard.com.br We would like to thank all those who authorized the use of their image and to all internal partners who contributed to the production of this Report. FSC www.redecard.com.br
