2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT 07 CEO’S MESSAGE 08 A GREATER WORLD TO ENTHUSIASM 10 Corporate Strategy 16 Sonae’s Activity In 2010 18 A GREATER WORLD 26 TO CREATE Governance Model 28 Risk Management 31 Human Capital 33 Investment in the Community 36 Stakeholders’ Dialogue 40 A GREATER WORLD 42 TO LEAD Human Capital 45 Environmental Management 47 Responsible Value Chain 56 Promoting Well-Being and Development in Local Communities 68 Commitments 71 A GREATER WORLD TO APPROACH 76 Sonaecom 78 Sonae Sierra 90 A GREATER WORLD 102 TO GROW Statement of Compliance 104 GRI Indicators 106 GRI Table 123 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About the Report Each year, Sonae publishes its Sustainability Report, through which stakeholders are informed about the Company´s strategy, management system, performance and financial commitments in addition to its, social and environmental commitments. This Sustainability Report covers 2010 and was prepared following the guidelines defined by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3. The report was validated by a reputable external company, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and achieved an “A”-grade rating. Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self-declared Third-party checked Optional GRI-checked The information contained in this Report refers to Sonae’s activity, with particular emphasis on its Retail business area. This Report is divided into four main chapters: 1. A Greater World to Enthusiasm – includes information on strategy and the Company’s overall activity, incorporating consolidated performance indicators; 2. A Greater World To Create – describes the Company’s corporate governance model, risk management, and valorisation of human capital. Furthermore, it includes information on relationships with stakeholders; 3. A Greater World to Lead – integrates information on Retail-specific management approaches and respective social and environmental performances; 4. A Greater World to Approach – presents a synthesis of Sonae’s partnership performances: Sonaecom and Sonae Sierra. Both partners have independent and detailed Sustainability Reports, which can be viewed under the Corporate Responsibility headers of their respective sites – www.sonae.com and www.sonaesierra.com. Note: Whenever the scope of reported information does not encompass Sonae’s total activities, this fact will be mentioned in the methodological notes. Information included in the Report The contents of this report were defined according to a materiality analysis, which was aimed at identifying relevant areas in terms of sustainability. Themes were identified via a benchmark analysis of the industry’s sustainability practices and by a process whereby the opinions of the company’s main stakeholders were heard – clients, suppliers, local government bodies, NGOs, experts and analysts. Any queries regarding the information published in this Report or queries regarding Sonae’s Sustainability Policies should be submitted to: Catarina Oliveira Fernandes – Head of Communication, Brand and Corporate Responsibility E-mail: catarina.fernandes@sonae.pt Tel.: 22 0104000 Sonae 2010 Sustainability Report is also published online at: http://www.sonae.pt/ing/sustainability/sustainability-report 7 About the Report 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO’s Message Ever since Sonae was founded, it has seeked to conciliate the efficiency and profitability of its business operations with a social aspect, namely by supporting local communities, the environment, its employees’ personal development and Corporate Governance concerns. This commitment over the years has lead Sonae to adopt, the best transparency policies and company rules, created to guarantee ethical and responsible behaviour on behalf of the organisation, thus strengthening its Sustainability Policy. In actual fact, we can´t exactly refer to the conciliation of objectives, given Sonae´s mission is to clearly prioritise social impact and long-term sustainability over its financial results. What we believe, is that it will be via accomplishing our mission, our capacity to “improve an ever-increasing number of lives” that we will attain our desired financial results. In 2010, we pursued this objective very firmly, and increased the amount of economic value to be distributed by 227 million Euro. Sonae strengthened its position as the largest privately-owned employer in Portugal, with the creation of 3,454 job vacancies, it increased salaries, valued its employees by offering over 1.5 million hours of training, offered its customers discounts via its client loyalty card and coupons, it strengthened the amount it purchased from the Clube de Produtores da Sonae (Sonae’s Producers Club) and distributed dividends 5% greater than the amount distributed when compared to the previous year. In 2010, we supported 3,082 third-sector organizations, which helped communities and families across the Country, with the company´s direct contribution increasing to to 10.4 million Euro. The volume of support given to organizations of this nature increased 12%, which allowed for the development of several initiatives in areas such as Solidarity Culture, Education and Environment amongst others. Such initiatives would hardly be feasible if not for Sonae’s support. Facing the future with a certain level of uncertainty, with what regards the economic conditions, we have before us a great challenge: to grow sustainably. It is our objective to continue supporting families most in need, and our employees. We want to continue to make Sonae, the clients favourite retailer, the best place to work, the most valued partner by our suppliers, at the same time, we want to obtain a high level of recognition within the community regarding current social and environmental challenges. Our mission is to continue to create economic and social value in the long-term, taking the benefits of progress and innovation to an ever increasing number of people. We are committed towards a sustainable future. For all. Paulo Azevedo Sonae’s CEO 9 CEO´s Message A Greater World to Enthusiasm “With our eyes set on the future, we assume the responsibility of offering sustainable solutions to our clients and to society, ensuring efficiency and competitiveness in generating wealth in the long-term. The trust our stakeholders have in the work we develop gives us reason to be proud and it is also a sign of the balance we have assured between the economic, social, and environmental aspects of our business.” Ângelo Paupério, Executive Board Member 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sonae is a retail company with two great partners in the areas of Telecommunications, Software and Media and Information Systems (Sonaecom) and Shopping Centres (Sonae Sierra). In the countries where it operates, Sonae is recognised as an organisation supported by a strong culture of values that contributes towards social and economic development. CORE CORE RELATED ACTIVE BUSINESSES PARTNERSHIPS BUSINESSES INVESTMENTS 100% 100% 50% 55% 100% 100% Sonae MC Sonae SR Food Retail Sonae Sierra Sonaecom Sonae RP Investment Non-food Shopping Telecom, Retail Management Retail Centres SSI & Media Real Estate Portugal, Spain, Brazil, United Kingdom, Australia, Portugal, Spain, USA, Canada, Mexico, Portugal, Spain, Saudi Holland, Brazil, Ireland, Singapore, Chile, France, Arabia, United Arab Portugal, Spain, Brazil, United Kingdom, Poland, Kazakhstan, China, Emirates, Lebanon, Italy, Germany, Greece, Australia, USA, Mexico, Russia, Ecuador, Argentina, Portugal, Spain, Bahrain, Kuwait, Romania, Columbia, Singapore, Chile, Malaysia, Saint Vincent, Germany, China and Brazil Kazakhstan, Qatar, Jordan Serbia, Cyprus Panama, Egypt, France Portugal Columbia Encompassed markets include operations, services provided to third parties, representation offices, franchising agreements and partnerships. Sonae MC is the market leader in Portugal in the food retail sector. It has 415 stores with a total sales area of 544.000 m2, under the following banners: Continente (hypermarkets), Modelo (supermarkets), Bom Bocado (restaurants), Well’s (chemist), Book it (books and stationery), Continente Ice (frozen food) and Pet & Plants (gardening and pets). Sonae SR has a total of 503 stores (89 outside of Portugal) with a total sales area of 364.000 m2, under the following banners: Loop (footwear), Modalfa (clothes), Sport Zone (sports equipment and apparel), Vobis (computer equipment), Worten (appliances and consumer electronics), Worten Mobile (mobile communications) e and Zippy (baby and children clothing). Sonae Sierra is the international expert in shopping centres. 50% of the subsidiary is held by Sonae and Grosvenor (United Kingdom), respectively. It operates on an international level, with a total portfolio of 51 shopping centres and the management of an additional 17 third-party shopping centres. Globally, its portfolio has a GLA of 2.219.863 m2. Sonaecom is divided into two main business units: Optimus, which now integrates the entire offer in mobile and fixed telecommunications and the software and information systems (SIS) area. Additionally, Sonaecom also integrates online and media areas, which encompass a set of businesses such as Público and Miau.pt. Regarding telecommunication services, it has approximately 4 million clients. Sonae RP is a business unit aimed at managing Sonae’s retail real estate assets. Furthermore, it also manages the real estate interests of approximately one hundred commercial venues, as well as several apartment buildings neighbouring the shopping centres. Investment Management Investment management supports the implementation of corporate and business strategy, maximizing shareholders’ return on its companies’ portfolio, which includes Maxmat (home improvement and construction materials), Geostar (travel agency) and MDS (insurance brokerage), companies where it is considered that mergers and acquisitions have an important role to play in generating value. 1 GLA – Gross Leasable Area. 13 A Greater World to Enthusiasm 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Mission To create long-term economic and social value, bringing the benefits of progress and innovation to an ever increasing number of people. Values Ethics and Trust Our fundamental commitment is to create economic value founded on principles of ethics and sustainable development, taking a long term view and based on relationships of confidence and trust with stakeholders. People at the centre of our success Our employees are a distinguishing factor in the markets in which we operate. We believe that developing the competencies and capabilities of each employee, encouraging an internal culture that promotes meritocracy, constant challenges and a readiness for change are the crucial factors to attract human resources of outstanding capability. Ambition This is our guiding force, reflected in the continuous setting of targets that stimulate and challenge our competencies, ensuring the company’s continued bold and resilient attitude. Innovation Innovation is the source and at the heart of our businesses. We believe that learning also occurs through learning and failures, but are aware however of the importance of knowing how to balance this factor within standard risk taking parameters. Social Responsibility We have an active sense of social responsibility in contributing towards the improvement of the communities where we operate, with a strong concern for the environment and the development of human knowledge. Frugality and Efficiency We are well known for our efficiency, encouraging healthy competition and carrying out far reaching projects. We make no apologies for our frugality, seeking to optimize our use of resources, and maximize their return. Cooperation and Independence We take a position of independence and autonomy in relation to central and local government, but are always ready and open to cooperate with governments, with the goal of improving the regulatory, legislative and social framework. Sustainability Landmarks 1995 1996 Launch of Project Horizon, to strengthen Creation of the Environmental Forum, for sharing environmental management as a differentiating experiences and promotion of good practices. factor and as a competitive advantage. Joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. 2001 2000 1999 Creation of BCSD Portugal – Business Approval of Sonae’s Environmental Policy Launch of the Eco2 XXI Programme, with Council for Sustainable Development, and Environmental Management System. the objective of effectively implementing of which Sonae was a founding member. actions to increase eco-efficiency. Sonae´s publishes its first Sustainability Report. 2004 2005 Joined the United Nations’ Global Compact. Signed the World Safety Declaration. Creation of the Sustainability Forum, which evolved from the Environment Forum. 2009 2008 2007 Adopted the Sustainable Fisheries Policy. Signed the HIV/AIDS Code of Conduct. Sonae publishes its first Consolidaded Signed the United Nations’ Declaration Sustainability Report. of Human Rights. 2010 In 2010 held the Sustainability Forum event, under the theme “Sonae for the Better”. Adhered to the Global Business Oath. 15 A Greater World to Enthusiasm 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1.1. Corporate Strategy Sonae’s corporate strategy is supported by creating value through globalization, diversification of investment styles and leverage of assets bases in Portugal Strategy Leverage Diversification the exceptional Globalisation of Investment asset base Styles in Portugal The main strategic priority Adopt the most appropriate Innovate Dilluiton of risk per country investment style Create new businesses New growth avenues Wholly owned businesses Strengthen competitive position Partnerships Minority stakes In Portugal: Capital light approach Leverage on assets and core Format leader in mature markets; (rental vs. ownership; competencies in Portugal, partnerships vs. full control); and develop new projects broad-spanning competencies; in adjacent areas; Accelerate growth and reduce New opportunities to create debt; Strengthen the asset base value. and protect core markets. Release capital via the sale of real estate assets; Minimizes risks. THE THREE PERFORMANCE PILLARS TO ACHIEVE STRATEGIC GOALS Governance Environment Social To maintain the Board of Directors To improve the Company´s To contribute towards the and employees high ethical environmental performance economic, social and environmental standards when interacting with by investments that reduce growth of regions and countries various stakeholders in different its Ecological Footprint. where Sonae operates. Defend countries. human rights and meritocracy. Globalization: Globalisation, focused on core businesses and adjacent business areas, will become the main future growth vector during the course of the coming years. Due to this being the main strategic priority, all necessary resources will be allocated to it, because it grants the opportunity to increase the company’s presence abroad and to transform Sonae into a great multinational Company. Diversification of investment styles: The intention is to leverage Sonae’s resources and the efficiency of the implementation strategy, adopting a style or mix of styles most suited to each business, ranging from detaining the entire capital to detaining several majority ownerships, but also including minority interests with or without special rights. Sonae may participate in the share capital of companies over which it has no control, in situations where it does not have the necessary resources or when third-party contribution may serve as a factor for creating superior economic value. Under these circumstances, consolidation processes will be promoted in addition to other restructuring movements in the sectors involved, such as entering new territories as partners with the capacity to bring technical expertise and develop the necessary network of high-level professional relationships. Leverage the exceptional asset base in Portugal: To continue to explore new business opportunities that derive from the exceptional asset base that Sonae holds in Portugal, as a means in which to create a set of options for future growth. These projects must possess the majority of the following characteristics (i) clear internationalisation potential; (ii) attractive levels of potential profitability; (iii enable them to take advantage of great global trends; (iv) represent the strengthening of competitive position; (v) have the potential to become large business in the medium term. A significant portion of capital will be allocated to these new projects, depending on their capacity to generate growth and economic value. Similarly, special attention will be given to detect as early as possible, signs of success or failure of these investments, so as to, in a timely manner, make decisions regarding further investments, mergers or divestments . Applying the strategy across the different businesses: 1. Focus on leadership and profitability This global strategy is applied to each and every Retail business area, individually and according to their specific characteristics. In the food retail business(Sonae MC), the strategy is directly related to consolidating market leadership in Portugal; studying new adjacent business areas and managing the business in Portugal as a cash-flow generators, whilst at the same time dedicating efforts to seek international opportunities. 2. Focus on growth and internationalisation Regarding Specialised Retail (Sonae SR), the focus is on growth via internationalisation, namely in the Spanish market by the continuous investment and strengthening of Sonae´s presence in Spain. The management of business opportunities in new territories, based on franchise agreements and joint-ventures, is also part of the accelerated growth strategy, as well as the consolidation of the leadership position in the Portuguese market and the increase in profitability. 3. Monetization of real estate assets In the Retail Real Estate business (Sonae RP), additional sale and leaseback asset transactions are planned, with the objective of freeing up capital invested in real estate assets to finance growth. Notwithstanding, the current macroeconomic and financial scenarios have lead Sonae to concentrate the majority of its assets in generating and preserving capital, which alters the Company´s plans and tactics significantly, but not its outlook on the future. 17 A Greater World to Enthusiasm 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1.2. Sonae’s Activity in 2010 Highlights Investments Taxes paid Job Turnover2 Recurring EBITDA Net Debt in the community3 to State creation 5,834 M€ 690 M€ -228 M€ 10,4 M€ 58 M€ 3,454 +5.5% +9% -7,4% +8.3% +24% +8.7% of employees In 2010, Sonae’s turnover grew 5.5% when compared to the previous year, excluding petrol stations, having reached 5,8 billion Euro (from 4.4% to 5,9 billion Euro considering the petrol station business which was transferred to a third-party during the second quarter of the year). This growth was mainly caused by the Specialized Retail business area, with the opening of 51 stores abroad (Spain and Saudi Arabia), which represents a growth of 12.3%, and the Investment Management business, with a growth of 7.8%, a result of the merger between Cooper Gay insurance brokerage (MDS’ affiliate company) with Swett & Crawford. Contibution to Turnover per Business Unit 55% Sonae MC 55% 55% 17% Sonae SR 20% 21% 72% Total core businesses 75% 76% 3% Sonae Sierra 3% 3.2% 18% Sonaecom 17% 15.4% 21% Total core partnerships 20% 18.6% 2% Sonae RP 2% 2% 5% Investment Management 3% 3% 2008 2009 2010 2 The turnover hereby advised excludes the petrol station business, given that it was transferred to a third-party organization in the second quarter of 2010. The figure published in the previous year’s report included this activity and, for this reason, the two figures cannot be compared. Nevertheless, the variation herewith presented reflects the change in turnover over both years excluding the petrol stations business 3 The amount of investment in the community excludes direct contributions from clients. On a comparable basis, the % increase was of 11,7% (9,4M€ in 2009). If one considers the donations received trough our campaigns, the figures would have been 9,6 M€ in 2009 and 11,7 M€ in 2010. Wich in turn corresponds to an increase of 21,8 %. Contribution to EBITDA per Business Unit 32.1% Sonae MC 37.3% 7.7% Sonae SR 7.3% 39.8% Total core businesses 44.5% 13.7% Sonae Sierra 14.8% 28.4% Sonaecom 31.3% 42.1% Total Core partnerships 46.1% 17.9% Sonae RP 20.8% 0.2% Investment Management 0.8% 2009 2010 Economic value generated and distributed Economic Value Generated 6,402 5,937 58 1% 176 3% 10,4 <1% Economic Value 497 Retained 259 693 12% Economic Value Distributed 5,678 5,905 Operational Costs Expenses with Staff Payments to Investors 4.967 Payments to Government 84% Investment in the community Unit: Millions of Euros 2009 2010 The economic value generated reached 6,4 billion Euros, of which 5,9 billion were distributed between operating costs, payments to employees, investors, government and investments in the community, as per the previous chart. The company also received government grants totalling 8,3 million Euro via programmes to support the creation of jobs, Human Potential Operating Programmes, Fiscal Incentives in Corporate Research and Development, the programme to Supply Madeira islands (POSEI) amongst others. 19 A Greater World to Enthusiasm 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Main strategic achievements A – Internationalisation Retail Sonae Sierra Sonaecom Investment Management WeDo strengthened leadership Sonae SR doubled its Expansion into markets with position in Revenue Assurance MDS’ international expansion international presence growth potential (e.g. Brazil) market (25% of market share) Merger Cooper (+51 stores) Gay/Swett & Crawford Entry into new markets via 63% of WeDo’s turnover comes Acquisition of Quorum in Brazil International turnover services rendered from international revenues (+60% I 230M€) B – Diversification of investment style New Organic New Retail Business Model Expansion Partnership and Shopping Centres Formats Models More “Capital Light” Joint–ventures (Worten and Sport Zone Sonae Sierra Canary Islands – 24 stores by 2014) – IPO Sonae Sierra Brasil 95% of new Sales area is leased (195 M€ in proceeds) Franchising (Zippy Canary Islands and Zippy (Vs 33% in 2009) – Reduction of participation Middle East – 84 stores by 2014) in Alexa Berlim (45% ) Rendering of development and shopping Leiria Shopping (53%) Launch of My Super and Continente Horeca centres management services Projects to other entities Sonae RP Sale & Lease-Back operations Partnership Sonaecom/Vodafone – (proceeds of 111M€ and added value of 39M€) investment in fibre optic network C – Leverage and strengthening of asset base Strengthening Strengthening Launch Strengthening of Client Base of Profitability of New Initiatives of Key Competencies Sonae MC Sonae MC 1.3 p.p. growth in market share Launch of new formats: Retail Sonae MC Continente ICE – Increase in client base under Sonae SR 16% increase in EBITDA Meu Super loyalty programmes Sport Zone and Worten gain Continente Horeca – Broadening of Private Label market share in Portugal Sonae SR Programme 2% increase in EBITDA Sonae Sierra – Programmes to increase Sonae Sierra in Portugal Strengthened amount of services operating efficiency Opening of the only new shopping rendered – Increase in logistics efficiencies centre in Portugal – Leiria Sonae Sierra – New logistics platforms with Shopping 35% increase in direct income Sonaecom a higher level of automation – Launch of SMART tariffs, Sonaecom Sonaecom the first all-inclusive tariff Sonae Increase of mobile 41% increase in Free Cash Flow (voice, texts and data) – 1.5 million hours spent communication market share – Pilot development of 4th mobile in training to 21% generation systems 21 A Greater World to Enthusiasm 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Main environmental and social impacts Right from the start, the way in which Sonae approached the Sustainability issue in each business area, lead to the identification of a set of intervention themes. Within this context, it was fundamental to define the main environmental and social impacts of the businesses. Despite the existing particularities of each of the businesses, which in turn generate specific impacts, here are transversal impacts across Sonae’s activity, be it on an environmental or social level. Sonae MC Sonae RP Sonaecom Investment and Sonae SR and Sonae Sierra Telco, SSI & Media Management Retail Real Estate Energy and Emissions Energy and Emissions Energy and Emissions Energy and Emissions Waste Waste Waste Waste Water consumption Water consumption Water consumption Water consumption Environmental Transports Biodiversity and habitats Electromagnetic Fields Transports Impacts resulting from supply chain Creation of direct Creation of direct Creation of direct Creation of direct and indirect jobs and indirect jobs and indirect jobs and indirect jobs Satisfaction Satisfaction Satisfaction Satisfaction and investments and investments and investments and investments in employees in employees in employees in employees Health and safety Health and safety (regarding Health and safety Health and safety Social (regarding employees, employees, store owners, (regarding employees (regarding employees clients and visitors) clients and visitors) and clients) and clients) Involvement with Involvement with Involvement with Involvement with the community the community the community the community Digital inclusion/ Value chain Value chain information society Food security Sonae’s environmental and social indicators4 Energy Consumed per Turnover CO2 Emissions per Turnover 933 GJ/Milion Euros 50.1 ton CO2e/ Milion Euros -1.4% Var. 2009-2010 -32% Var. 2009-2010 Waste Production per Turnover Waste Recovery 19,5 ton/Million Euros 70% +1.3% Var. 2009-2010 +2 p.p 2009-2010 Water Consumed per Turnover Investment in the community per Turnover 380,4 m3/ Million Euros 1,791 €/ Milion Euros generated -5.3% Var. 2009-2010 +5% Var. 2009-2010 Accidents in the workplace Absenteeism rate 1,879 Accidents 0.33% +55% Var. 2009-2010 -0,02 p.p 2009-2010 Training hours per employee 35 h/employee Relevant Facts 2010: some examples Sonae MC´s Private Label Management System received an international certification – granted by SGS ICS – International Certification Services in accordance with ISO 9001 standard; Sonae MC was certified for its Complaints Management System, under ISO 10002 standard, by SGS ICS; Corporate Environmental Certification for the Retail business was renewed, under ISO 14001 standard; Granted an Environmental certification under ISO 14001 standards in an additional three Food Retail units (one supermarket, one meat processing facility and one warehouse) and in a Specialized Retail store; Certification of the Environmental Management System under ISO 14001 standards for a shopping centre and an office facility, both in Germany, and for the construction phase of the Western Tower of Centro Comercial Colombo, in Portugal; Certification, in accordance with OHSAS 18001 standards for Occupational Health and Safety Management system across 10 shopping centres currently in operation and for the construction phase of the Western Tower of Centro Comercial Colombo, in Portugal; Renewal of Sonaecom’s environmental certification under ISO 14001 standard; First External Sustainability Forum Event took place under the theme “Sonae for the better”. 4 Data presented in this table result from the consolidation of all l Sonae business units. The data was calculated according to the most appropriate methodologies for each unit. 23 A Greater World to Enthusiasm 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT External Recognition Sonae was distinguished with the Citizenship Award for Companies and Organizations, promoted by AESE – Escola de Direcção e Negócios (Administration and Business School) and PricewaterhouseCoopers, for the Retail and Consumer category; ACT (Autoridade para as Condições do Trabalho [Authority for Work Conditions]) awarded Sonae with the European Good Practices Award for Risk Prevention in the Workplace; Elected “Company of the Year 2009/2010” by Associação “Aprender a Empreender“ – Junior Achievement Portugal; Retail Technology Award Europe 2010 for the Best-in Store Solution category; Sonae’s Producers Club was distinguished by Confraria do Queijo de São Jorge; At the Efficiency Awards 2010, Continente´s Causa Maior, Mega Pic-Nic Modelo and Chef Online projects received a silver award, in the Social Responsibility, Activation and Sponsorship, and Distribution and Restaurants categories, respectively. The first two projects were also given the Reputation Awards 2010, under the Event and Social Responsibility Project categories, respectively. Project Arredonda received a gold award. Continente and Modelo brands were distinguished as Superbrands 2010; For the 8th consecutive year, Continente was voted as a Portuguese Trusted Brand, for the supermarket and hypermarket store category. Worten was also considered a Trusted Brand under the Network/Store Distribution category; For the 3rd consecutive year, Continente was elected as a Trusted Brand in Environment, under the supermarket and hypermarket category; At the Hipersuper 2010 awards, Continente was awarded with three prizes under the following categories: Best DPH (Drug-store, Perfumery and Hygiene Products), Best Groceries and Best Retailer. Worten received the award for Best Marketing in the non-food retail category; Zippy Baby cosmetics range received a silver award at the Festival do Clube de Criativos de Portugal (Festival of Creative Clubs in Portugal); Equipa Worten Equipa Project was given an honourable mention at Green Project Awards 2010; For the PC Guide Readers’ Awards, Worten received the 1st Prize under the category of Best Hardware Store and also two honourable mentions under the Best Software Store and Best Technical Support Store categories Information regarding prizes and distinctions awarded by Sonae Sierra and Sonaecom may be found under the chapter “A Greater World to Approach”. Membership of external principles, initiatives and associations In 1995, Sonae became a member of World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The company’s active participation in Sustainability issues contributed towards the foundation of BCSD Portugal – Business Council for Sustainable Development in 2010 together with other great Portuguese companies. Since 2004, Sonae has been a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact and, since 2005, it has been a member of the World Safety Declaration. In 2008, it signed the Businesses Code of Conduct and HIV carried out under the scope of the Labour Platform Against AIDS, a partner of Coordenação Nacional para a Infecção VIH/Sida (National Authority for HIV/AIDS). Since 2009, Sonae has been a member of the Commitments of the Food Industry on Food, Physical Activity and Health, regarding marketing and advertising targeted at children. These commitments, developed by FIPA – Federação das Indústrias Portuguesas Agro-Alimentares (Federation of the Portuguese Agricultural and Food Industries) and APAN – Associação Portuguesa de Anunciantes (Portuguese Association of Marketers), aim to change the types of beverages and food products advertised on television, press and the Internet that are targeted at young children under 12 years In 2010, Sonae was the first Portuguese company to subscribe to the “Global Business Oath”, which defines the global management principles of the Young Global Leaders of the World Economic Forum. The “Global Business Oath” establishes that companies and their executives adopt the best practices for Corporate Governance, in defense of values and business ethics. Respect human dignity, do not tolerate bribery, protect the environment and future generations or invest in training its employees are some of the principles established under this commitment. Sonae also participates in the following associations: AEP – Associação Empresarial de Portugal (Portuguese Business Association), APED – Associação Portuguesa de Empresas de Distribuição (Portuguese Retailer Business Association), COTEC Portugal – Associação Empresarial para a Inovação (Business Association for Innovation), ERT – European Roundtable of Industrialists, ECGI – European Corporate Governance Institute, APOGERIS, Junior Achievement Portugal, Associação Comercial do Porto (Porto Commerce Association) and CGOV – Instituto Português de Corporate Governance (Portuguese Institute of Corporate Governance). 25 A Greater World to Enthusiasm A Greater World to Create “At Sonae, we believe that the constant search for an excellent economic, environmental and social performance is an essential condition for the sustainable development of our businesses. The Sustainability Forum and its President, Carlos Bianchi de Aguiar, have decisively contributed towards this development process so that today, we are a case study in terms of how we create value for all of our stakeholders, namely clients, suppliers, shareholders and local communities.” Luís Filipe Reis, Chief Corporate Center Officer 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.1. Governance Model Sonae’s Corporate Governance structure aims to promote Corporate Responsibility and sustainable development, taking into consideration the interests of all of the stakeholders’. Sonae believes that good governance practices are key factors for the sustainable development of the organisation and, in this sense, the Company is truly committed to improving its good governance practices. Board Nomination and Board Board Audit Remuneration Committee of Directors and Finance Committe Board and Corporate Company Governance Officer Secretary Statutory Audit Board Shareholders’ Shareholders’ General Remuneration Committee Meeting Statutory External Auditor Board of Directors Executive Committee The Company’s Corporate Governance structure is composed of the Board of Directors, Audit Committee and Statutory External Auditor, all of whom were elected by the General Shareholders Meeting. The Board of Directors delegated the Company’s current management of Corporate Governance unto an Executive Committee. The members of the Boards, of the Board Presiding the Shareholders Meeting and of the Remuneration Committee are elected for four year periods and may be re-elected after that period. The Shareholder’s General Meeting approved the compensation policy of the statutory governing bodies and persons discharging managerial responsibilities and delegated the determination of the specific values of remuneration to a Shareholder’s Remuneration Committee. The Shareholder’s General Meeting also approved the remuneration of the Shareholder’s Remuneration Committee. Remuneration attributed to Sonae’s statutory governing bodies are competitive resulting in efficiency and effectiveness in attracting talent, they are performance-based, in line with the shareholders’ interests and sustained on a process of transparency. The variable component of remunerations is structured in such a way so as to, establish a connection between monetary incentives and performance level, both on an individual and collective level. In the event that the pre-defined goals (measured according to business and individual performance indicators) fail to be achieved, the value of the short and medium term incentives will be partially or totally In 2010 the Composition of the Board of Directors was as follows: Composition of Board of Directors Belmiro Mendes de Azevedo Chairman Non-Executive Álvaro Cuervo Garcia Independent Non-Executive Michel Marie Bon Independent Non-Executive José Neves Adelino Independent Non-Executive Bernd Hubert Joachim Bothe Independent Non-Executive Christine Cross Independent Non-Executive Álvaro Carmona e Costa Portela* Non-Executive Duarte Paulo Teixeira de Azevedo CEO Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério Executive Nuno Manuel Moniz Trigoso Jordão Executive * Executive Board Member until 31 March 2010 The Executive Committee is composed of members from the Board of Directors: Executive Committe Duarte Paulo Teixeira de Azevedo CEO Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério Nuno Manuel Moniz Trigoso Jordão Note: Álvaro Carmona Portela ended his executive functions on March 31st 2010. 29 A Greater World to Create 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Organizational Structure Sonae’s Executive Committee Human Resources Audit and Risk Management Legal General Counsel and Corporate Governance Planning and Control Finances and Treasury Investor Relations Tax Administrative Services Institutional Relations, Brand and Communication Information Systems Under this structure,the different departments answer to the Executive Commitee. Via the different departments, employees may offer the Governance board their comments or suggestions, even though in terms hierarchy, it is at the top. 2.2. Risk Management Risk Management is embedded in Sonae’s culture and is one of its key Corporate Governance practices, part of all management processes and a responsibility of all employees of Sonae, at all levels of the organization. The objective of risk management is to create value by managing and controlling uncertainties and threats that can affect the business objectives and the going concern of Sonae’s businesses. Risk Management, together with Environmental Management and Social Responsibility, are pillars of sustainable development, in the sense that better understanding and more effective management of risks contribute to the sustainable development of businesses. 1. Create Goals and objectives Risk Management Organisation of Risk Management Common risk language Infrastructure Risk management tools and processes Resources 2. Identify Identify risks and evaluate risks Prioritise risks Investigate causes (drivers) Prepare risk map Identify risk owners 6. Informação 3. Evaluate 5. Monitoring para a tomada risk management and Reporting de decisão strategies Monitor progress executing Determine responses do risk the risk management plan Monitor changes to the risk profile Report progress on executing the plan to risk owners (management and Board of Directors 4. Develop as appropriate) and implement risk management actions Develop risk management action plans Build risk management into the annual planning cycle Risk Management in terms of governance and business is supported by functions carried out by the Internal Audit and Risk Management and Planning and Control departments through especially dedicated teams, which report directly to their respective Boards of Directors. 31 A Greater World to Create 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Internal Audit and Risk Management departments mission is to assist companies in achieving their objectives through a systematic and structured approach in developing and assessing management efficiency and risk control of processes and information systems. The Planning and Management Control department promotes and supports the integration of Risk Management in the companies’ management planning and control process The reliability risks and integrity of the financial and accounting information are likewise assessed and reported by an External Audit unit. At the end of December 2010, the Internal Audit and Risk Management departments had 40 full-time employers, carrying out their role in all of the countries where Sonae is present. The Board of Directors and the Audit and Finances Committee monitor Internal Audit and Risk Management activities.5 In 2010 Risk Monitoring Groups (RMG) were created in the various businesses. They are composed of members from the Executive Committees’, following through with the Enterprise Wide Risk Management annual process, which is based on the activities described below: Activities BSM (Business Risk Formalisation of Monitoring Validation Model) Assessment attitude in light of risk and Reporting Assess BRM risks Validation of Risk Map Define Monitoring actions (individual priorities) with Risk Owners: (how to measure each risk) Analyse proposal attributing an “Owner” Prioritize each risk Company’s Policy (degree of risk to assume) Attribute risk owner Mitigating actions (how to control risks) Method: Method: Method: Method: Bi-annual reassessment Survey Workshop Interviews of risks by owners Outputs: Risk Charter Outputs: Outputs: Semi-annual reporting Creation of a Risk BRM validated of risk evolution Monitoring Group Additionally and in order to support this activity across the entire company, an application tool based on the international COSO standard has begun to be developed internally. The tool will be completed in the first half of 2011. 5 Additional information regarding Corporate Governance may be found in the Corporate Governance Report 2010. 2.3. Human Capital Against the difficult economic context and in 2010 Sonae contributed towards the employability of more 3,454 employees. At the end of 2010, Sonae had a total of 43,268 employees, of which two thirds were women and approximately half were younger than 35 years old. Sonae promotes a balanced and healthy environment, where equal opportunities are a reality and where there is no room for discrimination of any kind. Sonae SR 23.6% Sonae RP Sonae MC 65.1% 0.1% Employees per business unit Investment Management Sonae Sierra 2.6% 4.0% Sonaecom 4.8% Sonae is constantly concerned with its employees’ employability. Thus, retaining the best employees is a priority for Sonae. For this reason, employees are offered the necessary opportunities for career progression, mobility and stability in their careers. Approximately 69% of employees have open-ended contracts. Human rights are at the basis of the company’s values and principles, which is disseminated to employees via the Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. This document defines the expectable relationship between Sonae’s employees and the company’s main stakeholders. Also through this document Sonae expresses principles that include equal opportunities and prohibition of any type of discrimination. Furthermore, Sonae’s entire Human Resource policy is supported by a non-discrimination policy, including union affiliation. Sonae tries to promote a positive social climate. To this extent, the company periodically performs social climate assessments so as to measure the level of employees’ well-being and to be able to act upon any potential risk situations. Employees also have available to them “Sonae’s Ombudsman” created to insure the correct management and transmission of complaints, claims or suggestions made by employees. 33 A Greater World to Create 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Training and professional development Sonae provides employees with opportunities to develop their professional career, motivating them with new challenges and constantly providing them with training courses, so as to define a professional path within the company for themselves. Supporting formal education, promoting internal mobility and performance incentives6, based on each employees performance, are some of the practices already under way. And, since talent is the basis of corporate philosophy, certain initiatives are organized that allow for the selection, early on, of high potential young professionals, in addition to other events that facilitate the acquisition and validation of skills of active employees. Rede Contacto – the social network for recruitment of talent and innovation In 2010, Sonae launched Rede Contacto (Contact Network), the first social network developed by a company in the world –with the objective of recruiting high-potential young graduates. The Rede Contacto is integrated within the Programa Contacto and is a relationship-mediating tool which allows for a greater interaction between Sonae´s companies and young graduate students, facilitating the selection and recruitment processes, as well as its reliability. At the end of 2010, only a few months after its launch, the network surpassed the 10,000 users’ milestone. Young people are challenged to perform different tasks, from academic papers to filling out surveys, also including opinions on specific themes or online quiz games. This vision transforms Rede Contacto into a powerful tool for open innovation, since it was responsible for the creation of more than 700 business ideas. Thus, participants have a space to influence Sonae’s businesses, while they pitch themselves to the company. The challenges also allow the participants to accumulate points that give them access to “Dia Contacto”, an event that gathers approximately 60 high-potential young persons, who will have the opportunity to get to know Sonae from the inside. 6 Sonae’s performance assessment process is applicable to 100% of the workforce in Portugal. Nevertheless, one cannot verify the real proportion of assessments conducted in 2010. Novas Oportunidades Programme (New Opportunities Programme) Since becoming a member of the Novas Oportunidades Programme in 2008, Sonae was responsible for the certification of the competencies of approximately 1,442 employees, of which 775 obtained the 9th grade and 687 the 12th grade. The Valorizar Percursos Project, name given to the project at Sonae, involved more than 4,401 employees, on a national level, improving the level of employees’ qualifications in Sonae’s Food Retail, Specialized Retail, core structures and logistic business areas. In order to strengthen our employees’ continuing training opportunities, in 2004 the Sonae Learning Centre (SLC) was created. This structure is specifically dedicated to top-management executive programmes. SLC promotes training programmes based on seminars, short and medium term courses, events and exhibitions. In 2010, SLC organized a series of seminars and workshops with over 200 participants. Apart from Sonae Learning Centre, each business unit has its own development and learning system. The nurturing of innovation is promoted by sharing knowledge and experiences between business units, converging different ideas, sharing knowledge and opinions and challenges people that combine talent and unique characteristics to work together. Hence, Sonae nurtures innovation, reduces the risk of failure and promotes the sharing and adoption of good practices. To support this sharing of knowledge, Sonae promotes the following forums: FINOV, a forum dedicated to innovation, with the objective of stimulating and supporting an innovation-driven culture at Sonae, able to sustain high level of value creation; Sustainability Forum, with the objective of sharing knowledge on issues related to Sustainability and best practices, increasing awareness across the company regarding issues that require synergies and cohesion to overcome the challenges determined areas; Planning and Management Control Methodologies Forum, with the objective of promoting and discussing the implementation of the best control methodologies across the entire Company; Legal Forum, for the sharing of experiences and knowledge between legal departments, promoting a wide-ranging discussions of essential legal issues and nurturing a common approach to legal procedures and interpretations; Communication and Marketing Forum, with the objective of coordinating negotiations with media companies and sharing marketing best practices; Engineering, Construction and Safety Forum, to discuss the implementation of best practices in issues and matters regarding health and safety; Negotiation Forum, to present, analyse, and discuss negotiation strategies, to identify joint negotiations opportunities and to share experiences and knowledge. Apart from these forums, the Audit Committee and the Finance Committee were created with the objective of acting as platforms to share knowledge and experiences. Not only do the three Advisory Boards – Human Resources, Risk Management and Communication and Information Technologies – share the same lines of action of the abovementioned forums, they constantly review existing internal policies and put forward the necessary alterations for these three areas. These informal departments, which are considered sharing and coordination groups, meet several times throughout the year and organize specific internal seminars, workshops and training courses. 35 A Greater World to Create 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Forum 2010 Event In 2010, under the motto “Sonae for the Better” Sonae organized, the Sustainability Forum Event. The Forum promoted an analysis and assessment of the work performed by Sonae’s companies in three different areas: Better People, Better Planet and Better Purpose. At this event, the results of some of Sonae´s 106 projects which have been conducted over the past five years, with proven quality results were presented. The selection of the projects presented at the event were supported by a group of independent individuals. Tiago Forjaz (creator of The Star Tracker network and Fundação Talento), Teresa Ponce Leão (President of LNEG – Laboratório Nacional de Energia e Geologia National Energy and Geology Laboratory) and Isabel Jonet (President of Entrajuda and Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome President projects) were some of the coordinators for these work groups and were also speakers at the Forum. Under the scope of Task Force People, several projects are worthy of highlight: Sonae Sierra’s CLICK project, an innovation and e-learning platform, involving 7 different countries in 6 languages; Sonae Retail School, a corporate university focused on Retail business. Under Task Force Purpose , emphasis was given to Sonaecom’s Smile project (professional volunteer work) and Sonae SR’s Equipa Worten Equipa (collection of obsolete equipments and delivery of new equipments to institutions). Within Task Force Planet, several projects were presented: Sonae Maia Business Center, the first office building that obtained gold-level LEED certification on the Iberian Peninsula and Sonae Indústria’s Urban Forest, a wood waste recycling initiative according to a perspective of sustainable use of wood and biomass. More than 400 people attended the event, amongst whom were employees, partners, suppliers and institutions. 2.4. Investment in the Community Supporting the social and economic development of communities where Sonae operates, ever since its foundation, has been one of the Company’s objectives. Examples of Sonae’s initiatives, in this sense, regard creating employment, even on a context of economic crisis, and the development of partnerships with organizations from the community, in order to develop projects that improve the quality of life within the communities The total support given to communities amounted to 10,4 million Euros for a total of 3,082 organizations. To this figure, 1,3 million Euros must be added, which was directly donated by Sonae’s clients in initiatives such as Arredonda Project. 3,082 third-sector organizations supported 10,4 million Euros to support the Community Corporate Centre 759m € Sonae SR Sonae MC 2.133M € 6.228M € Community Support 10.4M € Sonae RP Sonae Sierra 21m € 1.180M € Investment Sonaecom Management 140m € 3m € 37 A Greater World to Create 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Casa da Música In 2010, Sonae renewed the patronage agreement with Casa da Música until 2012, committing to continuing to promote Culture and stimulate Innovation. This agreement was announced during the International Music Day celebrations, on October 1st. In addition to being patron, Sonae will support the organization of specific programmes that are aligned with the Company’s vision and values, namely ‘‘País Tema” (Country Theme), ‘‘Residências Artísticas” (Artistic Residences) and ‘‘3ª Fim de Tarde” (Tuesday´s Late Afternoon). Serralves In 2010, Sonae was Serralves’ exclusive patron during the summer. Call for Solutions In 2010, Sonae held two editions of the “Sonae Call For Solutions Flash” competitions, which gave university students participating in the competitions new challenges In answer to the first challenge “What will a hypermarket be like 25 years from now?” launched in March 2010, 100 ideas were developed of which the winner was an idea related to the concept of gourmet products. Sixty students participated in this challenge. In the second edition, which involved the participation of over 80 students more than 200 ideas were generated in answer to the challenge “How to qualitatively improve point of sale experience”. “Learning to be an entrepreneur” – Junior Achievement Portugal This initiative, organized by Sonae’s volunteer workers, provides entrepreneurship lessons to students, with the final objective of stimulating the students’ interest, encouraging them to pursue knowledge within their areas of interest and to discover personal skills and values. Since 2007, employees have actively participated in volunteer work projects, such as Braço Direito, an initiative that allows students to accompany, for an entire working day, the companies’ professionals performing their daily tasks, thus contributing towards their vocational guidance and demystifying some of the job positions. Sonae was elected “Company of the Year 2009/2010” by the entity promoting the project, since the company provides the largest number of volunteers for their mission of promoting entrepreneurship amongst young people in Portugal. “Porto de Futuro” This challenge was launched by the City of Oporto´s Town Hall Education, Youth and Innovation Department aimed at the Porto business community, with the objective of supporting the management and development of 17 school groupings in the region. Within the scope of this programme, which aims to bring the business community closer to the school community, and under its Corporate Responsibilty Policy, it fell upon Sonae to support the Agrupamento Escolar do Cerco (Cerco School Grouping). The partnership involves consultancy support in matters regarding the school’s general management; logistic support, including the management of construction work, control of suppliers’ etc; the promotion of stimulating entrepreneurship and creativity; supporting underprivileged students; and also nurturing professional training and continuing training. 39 A Greater World to Create 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.5. Stakeholders’ dialogue Sonae believes that the satisfaction of its main stakeholders is a value creation factor In this sense, the Company has developed dialogue and involvement strategies with its stakeholders that enables it to ascertain the level of satisfaction between the interested parties, in addition to identifying risks and opportunities. Sonae has identified as its strategic stakeholders: clients, visitors, tenants, employees, suppliers, investors, community, regulatory and governmental and respective listening mechanisms. Sonae’s Stakeholders Retail, Telecommunications, Shopping Centres Clients Employees Investors Community Suppliers Regulatory Media – Websites; – Studies on social – General – Partnerships with – Suppliers’ portal and governmental – Conferences – Suggestions climate meetings representative – Visits and audits authorities – Presentations and complaints – Information on – Quarterly organizations – Reciprocal – Relationship – Responses to system; intranet portal financial reports – Projects training in planning specific surveys – Sonae – Internal – Opinion surveys involving – Opinion surveys and project – Interviews Ombudsman publications – Responses to communities; – Performance stages of new – Opinion surveys – Forum to share specific surveys – Opinion surveys assessment opportunities knowledge – Participation in several sectorial organizations Specific stakeholders Shopping Centres Tenants Visitors – Written memos – Website – Meetings – Suggestions and complaints systems – Training – Sierra Ombudsman – Opinion surveys – Opinion surveys Over the course of its activity, Sonae has maintained a dialogue with each stakeholder via different communication channels, as part of the company’s management processes. Systematically, the company tries to identify concerns and measure the perception stakeholders have of Sonae. For this report, a set of surveys were conducted targeted at the main stakeholders regarding sustainability at Sonae. This survey included specific work on retail with clients and government bodies. Overall results of the surveys carried out on clients, suppliers, local government bodies, service sectors, experts, and analysts Surveys were sent to suppliers, local government bodies, service sectors, experts and analysts. The following response rates were obtained: 25%, 21%, 45% and 8%, respectively. On the whole the stakeholders identified the following subjects as being the most relevant: Economic Pillar and Governance Promotion of the Sustainability Strategy and future commitments; Policies and practices for the preferred selection of local suppliers; Economic information regarding value generated and distributed by stakeholders. Environmental Pillar Inclusion of environmental aspects in the analysis and selection of suppliers; Provision of products with reduced environmental impact (rechargeable batteries, class A appliances, concentrated detergents…); Energetic efficiency, carbon emissions, and use of alternative energy sources. Social Pillar Inclusion of social aspects when selecting suppliers; Human resources management policies and practices; Clients’ assessment and management of complaints. More detailed information on this opinion survey may be found attached. Under the reports for each partner (Sonaecom and Sonae Sierra), more detailed information is provided regarding the involvement strategy and specific initiatives developed by these companies with their stakeholders. 41 A Greater World to Create A Greater World to Lead “The success of the Food Retail Business is the result of a continuous concern with satisfying the customers’ consumption needs in the most advantageous way. Throughout the years, we’ve worked towards this goal, particularly by constantly investing in private label products and by increasing our product portfolio, and also by the success of the customer loyalty card and the strengthening of our brands distinctive competencies that have earned us the customers’ strong acknowledgment.” Luís Moutinho, CEO Sonae MC “Internationalisation defined Sonae SR´S performance in 2010 and will continue to be a path for the future of Specialised Retail. The creation of new business models, such as franchising agreements or making the most of joint-venture opportunities, will also serve to consolidate our sustainable growth strategy.” Miguel Mota Freitas, CEO Sonae SR 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Retail business is hereby mostly represented by Sonae MC and Sonae SR. Sonae MC, as a Food Retail business unit, is market leader in Portugal and operates under the following banners: Bom Bocado, Book.it, Continente, Modelo, Pet&Plants, and Well´s. Sonae SR is a household name in Specialised Retail in Portugal. It operates under the following banners: Loop, Modalfa, Sport Zone, Worten, Vobis, and Zippy. Retail Turnover EBITDA Sales Area Format (M€) (M€) Number of Stores7 (´000 m2)8 Job posts Sonae MC 3,275 231 415 544 28,617 Sonae SR 1,272 45 503 364 9,585 Sonae RP 126 149 36 Investment 207 6 101 63 1,397 Management In 2010, Sonae’s Retail business continued to lead the way across different segments, reflecting the clients’ preference and trust it places in the services and products made available in the stores. A special emphasis should be given to Sonae SR’s internationalisation effort with the opening of 5 stores in Saudi Arabia, under a franchise agreement, and the strengthening of its presence in Spain (14 new stores). Similarly to what happened in previous years, Sonae MC expanded its business in Portugal, opening 37 new stores. 7 National and international Retail stores, including controlled joint-ventures. 8 Sales area for national and international Retail stores, including controlled joint-ventures. 3.1. Human Capital – Retail area The expansion of the businesses benefited employability, which increased 10% in the Retail business. This business unit is composed of 39,635 employees9, the majority of whom have open-ended contracts and work full-time. Sonae’s recruitment policy for operational functions in the retail business area is supported by hiring community members, thus improving employability levels in the regions where the company operates. 93.8% of employees in the retail business work in Portugal, 5.7% in Spain, 0.4% in Brazil and 0.2% in China, the remaining locations have residual percentages Additionally, out of the top 24 managers, only one is an expatriate. 65% open-ended contracts and 35% fixed-term contracts 67% full-time positions and 33% part-time positions 68% of women 32% of men 65% of employees are under the age of 35 1,401 thousand training hours 56,170 training courses 37,7 hours of training per employee The company promotes the employees’ critical and innovative spirit, as well as the development of competencies and knowledge. To answer specific training needs within the Retail business, Sonae Retail School has 22 schools in operation, amongst which are the School of Perishable Goods, Worten School, Leadership School and Management School, where employees attend the best Business Schools for Post-graduate Programmes and improve knowledge and competencies in the different Retail businesses. The training programmes carried out in 2010 cover a panoply of areas ranging from commercial and sales to the technical side of the School of Perishable Goods, to processes and systems, suppliers and products, environmental management, hygiene and safety in the workplace and continued improvement in the kaizen method. 9 This figure does not include MDS Brazil. 45 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1,644 accidents in the workplace 0 occupational diseases 0.000003% rate of accidents in the workplace 0.03% working days lost due to accidents in the workplace 3.8% absenteeism rate (this includes absenteeism due to accidents, occupational diseases, working days lost, absenteeism and deaths related to work) 643 Monitoring inspections 170 Emergency drills Received the European Good Practice Award in Risk Prevention in the Workplace awarded by Autoridade para as Condições de Trabalho (Working Conditions in the Workplace Authority). Celebration of the National day for Prevention and Safety at the Workplace, under the motto “I live Safely in my Workplace… and at home too”. Continente Cascais renewed certification, under OHSAS 18001/NP 4397:2001 standard, the only Portuguese hypermarket with a certified Management System for Safety, Hygiene and Health in the Workplace. Occupational Health and Safety is an essential pillar for Sonae’s sustainable development, because it allows for the optimization of the entire human resources’ potential, a factor that differentiates and drives our success. In 2010, Sonae developed a number of initiatives in this area, with objective of strengthening the safety culture and improving accidents in the workplace and absenteeism indicators. This programme involved a process of assessing the risks in the workplace, Health and Safety training, strengthened the Research and Professional Analysis of Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, as well as the promotion and monitoring of health, through health awareness campaigns in which employees were motivated to participate. In the food retail units, there are local persons responsible for safety (Safety Leaders), who actively participate in the creation and promotion of a safety-oriented culture. FOR THE 3RD CONSECUTIVE YEAR, ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINENTE CERTIFICATIONS WAS VOTED “TRUSTED RENEWAL OF CORPORATE IN 4 NEW UNITS, BRAND IN ENVIRONMENT” ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION. AND RENEWAL ENVIRONMENTAL UNDER THE HYPER CERTIFICATIONS AND SUPERMARKETS IN 13 STORES CATEGORY. 3.2. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT in the Retail business In 2010, the Retail business unit continued to implement eco-efficient measures. Over a decade since the approval of its Environmental Policy, the efficient management of natural resources and the quest for innovative solutions, able to improve the main environmental performance indicators, continue to be a daily reality for the Company. The objectives defined under the Environmental Policy continued to be pursued in 2010, while maintaining and strengthening measures and procedures already in place. Due to the Company’s internal restructuring in 2009, the Corporate Environmental Management System was adapted to the new structure of the Retail business unit, which was certified under the ISO 14001 standard. The environmental certifications of 13 facilities which had been obtained in previous years were maintained. In 2010, 4 additional units were certified: Modelo Bonjour of Algés – was Sonae´s first supermarket to obtain an environmental certification; Warehouse at Maia Sul; Meat Processing Facility at Santarém – was Sonae’s first industrial unit to receive an environmental certification; Worten store in Oeiras – the second non-food business unit to receive an environmental certification. With the certification granted to Modelo Bonjour of Algés and the Meat Processing Facility at Santarém, the Retail business area now has certified units under the ISO 14001 standard in all of the types of facilities the company operates: hypermarkets and supermarkets, non-food business units, warehouses and industrial facilities, thus highlighting the company’s capacity to conduct the environmental management of its operations multiple facilities As an integral part of environmental management, the different banners also conduct environmental awareness campaigns to promote eco-efficiency. Of the initiatives carried out in 2010, the Company emphasizes: Equipa Worten Equipa Campaign: 4,770 tons of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) were gathered, which were converted into 1,377 new equipments donated to charities, amounting to 240,000 Euros. This initiative engaged 700 Worten employees; Corks: distribution of 800 thousand mini-corks and collection of approximately 25 tones (more than 8 million corks); Worten stores began collecting coffee capsules and 82 tonnes have already been shipped to recycling facilities. 10 Alverca’s warehouse certification was not renewed since Sonae no longer uses this facility. 47 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Climate change and the Retail business unit The problematic issues surrounding climate change in the Retail business is closely linked to energy consumed, particularly in the stores, and to the transportation of goods to supply stores. Regarding energy consumed, about ¾ is electricity. The refrigeration of food products, lightning and HVAC systems in stores are the main areas responsible for consumption. The challenge to fight climate change is, therefore, connected with the implementation of efficiency measures, which imply the constant updating of equipments to more efficient ones, the renovation of stores and warehouses or construction of new units, considering sustainable construction criteria and allowing for more energy efficient spaces. With regards to transport, the challenge is controlling and supervising the fleets hired, so as to ensure an efficient use of fuel. This has been achieved by using a software tool to optimize store supply routes and volumes of transported cargo, as well as a tight control of the efficiency of the vehicles, bearing in mind high levels of standard in what concerns the respective GEE emissions into the atmosphere. All of these alterations generate economic opportunities for Retail companies, reducing operating costs associated with the reduction in energy consumed. They may also generate the opportunity to provide, in stores, efficient products which contribute to promoting good practices amongst consumers, as well as the launch of campaigns for energetic efficiency. Many of Worten’s campaigns fall under this scope where it offered 50€ discounts to customers when purchasing A+ and A++a washing machines and refrigerators. On the other hand, climate change may also generate negative impacts in agricultural production, by changing climate patterns in some geographical locations and affecting the availability of some food and organic products sold in these retail units. These effects, which are still uncertain, and not as yet quantified, may bring risks to the business. For this reason, Sonae is conscious and closely monitors the changes, so as to anticipate, whenever possible, the necessary actions to minimize potential impacts on the company’s business. THE RETAIL BUSINESS GAVE CONTINUITY IN 2010 THE RETAIL IN 2010, THE RETAIL TO ITS INSTALLATION OF BUSINESS CONTINUED BUSINESS DECREASED BY 3% AUTONOMOUS POWER STATIONS TO INVEST IN STRENGTHENING THE AMOUNT OF ELECTRICITY PROGRAMME, HAVING INSTALLED THE MEASURES ARISING CONSUMED 12 NEW POWER STATIONS. FROM THE ENVIRONMENTAL PER SALES AREA. AS AT DECEMBER 2010, THE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. TOTAL NUMBER OF POWER STATIONS EXCEEDED 41. Energy and emissions Energy consumption is one of the main environmental impacts in the Retail activity. The electricity consumed over the period was 462,1 GWh, which represents approximately 76% of the total energy consumed by the Retail business area. Compared to the previous year, the overall consumption of electricity remained practically stable 11. Nevertheless, there was an improvement in efficiency, having reduced the level of energy per sales area by 3%, a result of the continuous investment in strengthening the measures arising from the environmental management systems. Electricity consumed (GWh) Electricity consumed (GWh/1000 m2) 454,8 455,4 0.54 0.53 0.51 393,5 462,1 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Comparable basis with previous years Manufacturing plants (6,7 GWh) Still on the subject of electricity, 2010 will be remembered for an increase in the production of autonomous energy from renewable sources. At the end of 2010, under production, supplying the National Grid, there were 34 power stations (32 photovoltaic and 2 wind-powered stations). These stations produced a total of 136,9 MWh, thus preventing the emission of 66,8 ton CO2e. The overall amount of electricity consumed which comprises electricity (in stores, warehouses, office buildings and manufacturing facilities) and fuel used in stores and transportation of goods and employees, reached 2,203,713 GJ, which corresponds to the emission of 199,369 ton CO2e. 11 To ensure that 2010 performance may be compared to the previous year, this analysis (see chart data) only includes electricity consumed in stores, warehouses and office buildings. Manufacturing facilities will begin to be included in 2010. 49 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regarding carbon intensity, in 2010 there was a strong reduction to 41 ton CO2e per million Euros of turnover. This reduction was a consequence not only of the aforementioned measures to reduce specific consumption, but also and mostly, the fact that during 2010, the Company began to purchase energy from different suppliers, with different and lower CO2e/kWh emissions, compared to carbon and other emissions per kWh from the National Grid which constitutes the base of reporting of the previous years. Thus, the aggregated CO2e emission factor in 2010 was 0.34 kgCO2e/kWh, whilst for the figures reported in previous years, the factor was 0.488 kgCO2e/kWh. Carbon Intensity (ton CO2e/M€ in Turnover) 55 53 41 2008 2009 2010 Distribution of energy consumed (GJ) in 2010 1.1% 3.3% 20.1% 2,203,713 GJ 75,5% Electricity at stores, warehouses, office areas and manufacturing plants Diesel for goods’ transportation vehicles Fuel for employees vehicles (diesel : 3.28% and gasoline: 0.07%) Other fuels for stores (natural gas: 0.73%; propane gas: 0.12%; diesel: 0.24%) IN 2010, THE EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PATTERN WAS MAINTAINED, ACHIEVING THE VALUE OF 6.47 CASES PER KILOMETRE TRAVELLED. Distribution of emissions (tonCO2e) in 2010 0.7% 2.7% 16.4% 199,369 tonCO2e Electricity in stores, warehouses, office buildings and manufacturing facilities 80.1% Diesel for goods’ transportation vehicles Fuel for employees vehicles (diesel : 2.69% and gasoline: 0.05%) Other fuels for stores (natural gas: 0.46%; propane gas: 0.10%; diesel: 0.19%) Transportation and Logistics In 2010, the fleet hired to supply stores covered 37,4 million kilometres, 8% more when compared to the previous year. The need to travel longer distances using larger vehicles with greater capacity, which necessarily have higher consumption rates per unit, was reflected in the 14% increase of carbon emissions. Notwithstanding, the transport of 6,47 cases per kilometre travelled shows an improvement in transport efficiency when compared to the previous year. The contracts for the fleet hired have grown increasingly more demanding, with technologically cleaner vehicles, so as to reduce the environmental impact of polluting emissions at the store supply level. Thus, in 2010, 82% of vehicles complied with EURO4, EURO5 or EURO6 standards, while the rest of the fleet complied with EURO3 standard. When compared to the previous year, vehicles in compliance with at least the EURO4 standard, have increased by 14 p.p., which shows a significant improvement on the fleet being used. Km made No. of cases transported per Km Kg CO2 per 1000 cases transported 136 135 37,418 6.44 6.47 129 34,712 5.94 33,016 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 51 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REDUCTION OF THE TOTAL WATER CONSUMED PER SALES AREA BY 8%. Refrigerant gases Since 2006, a programme has been developed to replace chilling stations’ equipments to reduce the use of refrigerant gases that could potentially harm the environment. The progressive reduction of the number of stores that have equipments with R22 gas has continued and, as of December 2010, only 7 stations (in 4 stores) contained this gas. Refrigerant Gases 21% 17% 10% 78% 69% 57% 7% 9% 10% 15% 5% 2% 2008 2009 2010 Glycol R404 R427A R22 Water In 2010, the total water consumed at Continente, Modelo and Modelo Bonjour stores was 757,734 m3, representing a 3% reduction compared to the consumption of the previous year. On a comparable store universe like for like basis, the reduction was 7%. Specifically regarding the consumption per sales area, there was an 8% reduction when compared to the previous year, remaining at 1.46 m3/m2. The reductions noted result from the strengthening of the monitoring process, the continuous implementation of measures and waste control. The water consumed is supplied by the public network, although some stores have water boreholes, to collect water which in turn is used in irrigation systems and to clean outside pavements. Sonae does not as yet have a systematic method of controlling consumption associated with water from boreholes. Public network water consumed per sales area (m3/m2) 1.71 1.58 1.46 2008 2009 2010 The overwhelming majority of liquid effluents generated at Sonae’s facilities are flushed into public collectors. There are only 3 stores in which this procedure is not followed, due to the absence of public infrastructure. In these cases, the stores have waste water treatment stations, with (secondary) biologic treatment, to ensure that effluents comply with applicable legal dispositions. Since the effluents generated by stores are urban effluents flushed unto public collectors, Sonae cannot measure, as is commonplace with these types of effluents, the quantities disposed of. Notwithstanding, if one applies the factor used in engineering for such cases (which assumes that 80% of water consumed results in liquid effluents), it can be estimated that in 2010, our stores generated approximately 606,187 m3 of liquid effluents. 53 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77% OF WASTE MANAGED WAS RECOVERED. Waste In the Retail business area, waste management encompasses, on the one hand, waste produced by its activity and, on the other, collection and management of waste brought by clients to the stores, a process which Sonae has encouraged for some time now, thus promoting a responsible environmental citizenship. In 2010, waste managed by the Retail business area reached 65,866 tons, 5% more than that compared to the previous year. Of this total, 3% corresponded to hazardous waste. Cardboard represents the largest fraction of waste with 48%, followed by Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), representing 37%. Noteworthy is the sharp increase in the collection of corks (+113%), polystyrene (+61%), light bulbs (+48%), batteries (+21%) and waste electrical and electronic equipment (+21%). In contrast, there was a significant reduction in wood (-34%), clothes hangers (-59%) and cooking oil (-33%). In 2010, Sonae also started the collection of coffee capsules in Worten stores and 82 tonnes have already been shipped to recycling facilities. Waste production by type 1,558 2.4% 3,517 5.3% 4,973 7.6% 31,627 48.0% 65,866 ton 24,190 Card 36.7% MSW WEEE Plastic Others Waste recycling increased to 76.9%, 1.7 p.p more than during the previous year, which is the result of a continuous effort to increase the recovery of organic materials and recycling processes, and also to reduce the disposal of waste in waste land sites. Waste by disposal method (%) 62.2% 63.3% 61.0% 25.4% 24.8% 23.1% 9.3% 8.7% 8.5% 4.2% 4.3% 5.2% Land waste site Recycling Organic recovery Energetic recovery 2008 2009 2010 Waste by disposal method (ton) 5.579 3,398 8,5% 5.2% 15,212 23.1% 65,866 ton Land waste site 76.9% Recycling 41,676 63.3% Organic recovery Energetic recovery Total valorisation 55 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.3. Retail Business Responsible Value Chain The Retail business supply chain is quite complex and extensive, which obliges Sonae to be concerned with the relationships it has with suppliers that are a part of the company’s activity. In this sense, Sonae tries to promote an ethical relationship with suppliers, to provide the consumer with responsible products and to communicate transparently with the consumer. Responsible Consumption Promotion of Healthy Eating Habits Portfolio of healthy foods Regarding Private Label products, in 2010 the product ranges which promote healthy eating habits were maintained. The following results were achieved (in comparison to the previous year): The “Área Viva” product range reached a total of 71 product references in 2010, an increase of 9%; At the end of 2010, the “Equilíbrio” product range totalled 123 product references, which corresponds to an increase of 40%. At the end of the year, the “Bio” product range had 49 references, compared to 57 the previous year; Launch of gluten-free Private Label products, featuring the Associação Portuguesa de Celíacos (Portuguese Celiac Association ) logo. By the end of 2010, 14 Private Label products had been approved by this Association. By negotiating with suppliers, the company kicked-off its optimisation of nutritional profile for its Private Label products. This involved reducing at least one of the contents which had a negative impact health wise (fat, saturated fat, sugar and salt). An example of the result was that in 2010, 70 tonnes of sugar were reduced in the Private Label yoghurts. Information contained on the Label Regarding information contained on the label, it is mandatory to include a series of information that encompasses: Nutritional composition, via the nutritional traffic light, introduced in 2008 along with the campaign “Follow the colours”; Information on allergens; Information regarding product characteristics preparation and conservation (if applicable), as well as specific information pursuant to applicable legislation. Some Private Label Products bear the Fundação Portuguesa de Cardiologia (Portuguese Cardiology Foundation), “A healthy choice” logo which proves it meets criteria in terms of levels of fat, salt and sugar levels as defined by the Foundation. In 2010, the Company introduced the Nutritional Traffic Light Conversion Card, which allows for the conversion of nutritional information found in other brands into Continente Private Label Products Nutritional Traffic Light. This procedure enables clients to compare products that have the Traffic Light on their labels with products that don´t, thus empowering them to make healthier choices. Projecto Vida Hiper Saudável (Hyper Healthy Life Project) The project, which began in 2009, aims to promote healthy eating habits. In 2010, the following activities continued to be organized: In-store nutritional advice: with the presence of 2 nutritionists in Continente stores, over 10,000 clients received nutritional advice, screenings (blood pressure, Body Mass Index, percentage of body fat mass and weight), and received guidance in terms of nutritional characteristics and how the products work. The clients were also offered, free of charge, a Nutritional Personal Shopper service to accompany them throughout their shopping, helping them to make healthier choices and to understand labels. Online nutritional advice: clients had the possibility to ask questions online via the website. Re launch of the nutrition micro site – www.vidahipersaudavel.continente.pt – providing customers with numerous sources of information regarding health, food and healthy life styles Educational spots at customer services desks: creation of 3 educational spots, shown on the television sets located at the customer services desks, with the themes Nutritional Traffic Light, Taste of 5 and Reduction in Salt Consumption. Online competition “Taste of 5”: online photography competition to promote the consumption of fruits and vegetables as foods that contribute towards healthy eating habits and overall health. 25 people were awarded Continente vouchers. Workshops at Schools: 51 workshops were conducted, directed at children and youngsters, at schools and retail stores, with the objective of raising awareness towards the importance of adopting healthier eating habits. The main campaigns, such as Nutritional Traffic Light and Taste of 5, were discussed during these workshops according to the target audience. 2nd Edition of the Hyper Healthy Fortnight: an initiative particularly focused on children. Several schools were invited to the stores, where several educational games were held. Screenings and nutritional advice also took place, as well as a fruits and vegetables tasting. Internal training courses: To ensure that the information passed on to clients is coherent and with a spirit of promoting a healthier life style, and preventing diseases linked to bad diet. Contrapeso (Counterweight) Programme: Sonae’s employees were provided with an innovative weight control programme in Portugal, centred around lifestyle. The objective was to lose weight healthily by means of a varied diet where no foods were forbidden. 57 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Partnerships established to promote healthy eating habits So as to raise clients’ awareness regarding healthy eating habits, several new informative leaflets were created in addition to partnering and participating with several organisations in the following initiatives: Sociedade Portuguesa de Gastrenterologia (Portuguese Gastroenterology Society): Creation of a leaflet about Lactose Intolerance; Sponsorship and presence at the Gastroenterology Seminar, featuring an Área Viva stand. Sociedade Portuguesa de Hipertensão (Portuguese Hypertension Society) Creation of a Hyper Healthy Life and Hypertension leaflet ; Sponsored the Portuguese Hypertension Society at an event held in Matosinhos, for the World Hypertension Day. Associação Portuguesa de Nutricionistas (Portuguese Nutritionists Association) Presence at the Annual Congress by sponsoring a conference and a stand where nutritionists provided participants with information regarding the Nutritional Traffic Light, Taste of 5 and the Hyper Healthy Life Project. Promotion of Sustainable Fishing In 2009, with the publication of the Sustainable Fisheries Policy, Sonae started promoting not selling endangered species and selecting suppliers according to the type of fishing methods used, thus ensuring the protection of marine biodiversity. The selection of suppliers ensures the inexistence of suppliers featured on Greenpeace’s black lists and requires suppliers to present capture certificates. Fresh Fish is also labelled with a specific tag – Proof of Purchase at the fish market. These measures ensure the respect for legislation in force and sustainable fisheries criteria, giving consumers the confidence that they are purchasing more responsibly. In 2010, Sonae invested in the following actions under its Sustainable Fisheries Policy: Development and implementation of information dedicated to the theme of Sustainable Fishing on the company’s website; A specific learning unit regarding the Sustainable Fisheries Policy was introduced at Sonae’s School of Perishable Goods; 50% increase in suppliers with capture certificates; The General Supply Contract features a clause with specific requirements under this theme; Spiny dogfish is no longer sold at Sonae stores, since it is an endangered species; More than a 95% increase in value and quantity sold of codfish solely and exclusively captured in the Barents Sea; Greenland’s Halibut is no longer sold at Sonae´s stores, since it is an endangered species; Increase of more than 30% in line-fished products, including the launch of “Selected” products. Sustainable Fisheries Project Apart from the initiatives presented above, a project was developed to reinforce this theme, implemented in three stages: 1. Traceable Fisheries – which allows for a greater control and easier access to fish on the market (Fresh Fish, Frozen Fish and Salted Codfish). 2. Check that suppliers are not on any Black Lists – Greenpeace’s black lists data were crossed with Sonae’s suppliers list and none of Sonae’s suppliers were found on these lists. 3. Implementation of a Traffic Light System, which allows for better decisions on which alternatives to sell. Fishing methods used are harmful to other species/habitats; There are some problems with regard to the fishing method used; Fishing methods are not harmful to the species existence. Other sustainable products Textiles In 2010, Sonae’s textile brands (Zippy and Modalfa) maintained its Biocalce certification for footwear, which ensures that no chemical products potentially harmful to health and the environment are incorporated. In addition to this, 90% of footwear sold is tested against the presence of prohibited substances. In all leather goods, Sonae ensures that no threatened species or harmful colouring agents are used. Also, several heavy metal analysis programmes are developed to ensure that the manufacturing processes are clean. No animals are used on the tests performed. Preference is given to textile suppliers with Oeko-Tex certification, which ensures that there aren’t any substances harmful to health and the environment. Tests are performed randomly to detect the presence of prohibited substances according to specifications. Textiles in childcare products and toys were already submitted to specific and more rigorous product safety standards. In 2010, these standards were adopted by the entire adult wear product range. During 2010, an internal process for the certification of textile suppliers began. The process should be launched in 2011 and has the objective of pre-qualifying suppliers who should comply with a requirement checklist, defined by Sonae. This checklist will include aspects related to the environment and social responsibility, allowing for a greater control of products and suppliers, thus improving Sonae’s relationship with them. The textile brands’ catalogues are printed on FSC – certified (Forest Stewardship Council) paper, which comes from sustainably managed forests and other controlled sources. 59 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 AUDITS CARRIED OUT 1.024 INSPECTIONS OF FINAL PRODUCTS CARRIED OUT Household Appliances and Consumer electronics Safety warranty and minimising health risks In the electronics business, under the Worten banner, an initial assessment is carried out to ensure that all (internal and legal) requirements are fulfilled. All of the Private Label Suppliers are audited with the aim of classifying and validating them. All new suppliers are mandatorily audited. During these audits, the following requisites are included: electrical safety, electromagnetic compatibility, and energy efficiency requirements, as well as compliance with RoHs (heavy metals) and REACH (hazardous substances) standards, amongst others. In addition to the abovementioned audits, safety analysis of Private Label products are also carried out via partnerships with externally certified laboratories, and quality control is carried out at the warehouse to ensure the product conforms with all of the requisites before it reaches the final customer. The compliance with these requirements ensures the minimization of the products’ impacts on the user’s health and safety. Quality control: Audits on product samples at reception (product, marking and packaging); Check is carried out at the warehouse to filter out any products which do not conform to standard; Fortnightly audits in warehouses to correct faults in logistic operations, at the product level, process and equipments; Control of items returned to recover goods returned to stock or sold at outlet. Energy efficiency and increase of product life Products are chosen according to their energy efficiency grade (which should be the best possible one according to specific range). Thus, in the stores, feature areas dedicated to energy-saving products were created. In 2010, the sales for A, A+ and A++ energy efficiency levels appliances increased to 88.5%, compared to 87.4% the previous year. Similarly to what had happened in the previous year, in 2010 several campaigns were also developed to promote the purchase of more efficient appliances, which consisted of offering a 50€ discount in appliances with higher levels of energy efficiency. Furthermore, a campaign to trade old equipment by more efficient products was also in place, where the client benefitted from a 10% discount. Under the scope of home delivery services, used and end-of-cycle equipments were collected and in turn sent to recycling facilities. Worten also provides several services that promote a longer product lifecycle, such as refilling of cartridges and an outlet store, which offers slightly faulty products (originating from operating failures and recovered) to be sold at a lower cost. Without this service, these products would be sent to recycling facilities. 88.5% of appliances sold have A, A+ and A++ energy efficiency levels: 66.2% Level A 21.5% Level A+ 0.8% Level A++ 4,238 refilled cartridges As usual in this type of activity, an after-sales service is available – “Worten Resolve” – that provides clients with support in terms of checking over the products, ruling out any problems and fixing faulty products. This service also results in an extended lifecycle for the products, thus contributing towards a reduction in the quantity of waste produced and customer satisfaction. Product labelling Private Label product labels fulfil a set of requirements that guarantees their safety, correct use, tips on where it should be used and information on after-sales service. More Eco-friendly products and packages In the food retail business, the “ECO” product range was launched. This range is dedicated to eco-friendly products, and at the end of the year it featured 7 new products such as kitchen paper towels. In addition to this, 7 new automobile related products were launched, with equally eco-friendly characteristics. Containers used by the company also became more eco-friendly as they were replaced by mono-material containers. By reducing the amount of carton in the packaging of some of the products and by altering the amount and quantities of the products per package, the result was more eco-friendly packaging in the food retail area. In the textiles area, the optimal use of plastic packaging is promoted, including a greater number of items per package and by printing labels directly on the plastic, instead of using inlays or hangtags for this effect. In the consumer electronics area, in 2010 an “eco-friendly” packaging image was designed for batteries, in addition to using this eco-friendly image in all packaging relative to recycling points, with the aim of increasing information made available to the customer, regarding how to correctly recycle waste packaging. 61 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Plastic Bags Sonae’s policy regarding the use of plastic bags has been to encourage clients to use reusable bags. In 2010, there was an increase of 64%, in the number of reusable plastic bags purchased (as per those made available in the stores), compared to the previous year. The two types of reusable plastic bags made available in the stores are: APED’s (Associação Portuguesa de Empresas de Distribuição – Portuguese Retailers Association) Green Bags and Continente’s reusable plastic bags. In addition to this initiative, ever since 2007, all of Sonae´s food retail stores have provided oxo-biodegradable bags. Reusable plastic bags 2,376,738 1,451,423 1,135,044 2008 2009 2010 Product Safety Sonae is concerned with maintaining food safety and product control management systems, which include the compliance with a set of criteria regarding production and product processes, assessed by audits, visits to suppliers’ facilities and product analysis. Quality Certification Sonae’s Food Retail business unit received the certification under the ISO 9001:2008 standards for its Private Label management system. This distinction attests to the quality Sonae’s invests in developing Continente’s Private Label ranges for the following categories: food, hygiene (toothpaste, shower gel etc.), cosmetics (body lotion, sunscreen etc) and general cleaning products, as well as in monitoring these products and suppliers after the products have been developed and launched. In the food retail area, selection audits are carried out on all international suppliers, who may or not be qualified to integrate Sonae’s group of suppliers. The criteria to qualify as a local or EUinternational supplier depends on the existence of certifications in food management and/or quality management (for example, ISO 9001, ISO 22000, IFS, and BRC, amongst others). Suppliers from other parts of the world are subject to qualifying audits performed by the Department of International Trade (see “Ethical Relationship with Suppliers”). In the case of Private Label goods, laboratory analysis are also carried out. Food Retail Audits In the food retail unit, 601 audits were conducted, representing 71% of the total number of suppliers. This figure decreased 7 p.p. compared to the previous year, due to a reduction in audits conducted on international suppliers. Notwithstanding, audits on national suppliers increased. It should be noted that such audits include a set of questions regarding environmental issues. Regarding the analysis performed in 2010, a total of 5,600 analysis were conducted on external laboratories, which represents an increase of 11% compared to the previous year. Internal analysis were estimated as an overall figure of 500,00012, which cannot be compared to what was published for the previous year, since the reported figure did not reflect the correct number of analysis performed. This figure includes all types of analysis conducted internally. Audited food suppliers 86% 82% 78% 75% 76% 70% 71% 71% 63% 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of national suppliers audited Percentage of international suppliers audited Total percentage of suppliers audited 12 In previous years, the number of internal analysis (conducted at Maia and Azambuja warehouses Quality Control Departments) only accounted for room temperature analysis. In 2010, the figure also includes analysis carried out on controlled-temperature products, which include all perishable goods (Fruits and Vegetables, Delicatessen, Bakery) and Frozen Food (Fish and Meat). 63 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical relationship with suppliers So as to increasingly integrate more suppliers into the company’s policies and practices, Sonae has been developing mechanisms so that it can maintain partnerships with a greater guarantee of harmony between social and environmental practices for both parties. Qualification audits were carried out on 507 suppliers, in other words, 10% of the active suppliers (representing 4% of the total amount purchased from suppliers) 29% of international suppliers were audited, representing 17% of the total amount purchased from suppliers. 49 suppliers (only 10% of audited suppliers) obtained a C-level classification grade. Environmental, labour and human rights clauses are included in contracts with the supplier, and are applicable to national and international supplier, so that they become committed with what the company considers an acceptable levels of responsibility. Apart from these requisites, Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conducts establishes the commercial relationships between the parties involved. Purchases to suppliers (in millions of Euros) Number of suppliers 1,708 852 1,552 1,343 488 696 3,485 3,442 3,304 2,943 2,884 2,909 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Purchases to national suppliers Number of national suppliers Purchases to international suppliers Number of international suppliers Note: The figures included in the graphs refer solely to purchases and number of suppliers for products sold by Sonae MC and Sonae SR. SONAE PRODUCERS CLUB HAD A TOTAL OF 233 MEMBERS (+3% COMPARED TO 2009) 168 M€ WORTH OF PURCHASE MADE zz TO SONAE´S PRODUCERS CLUB (+20% COMPARED TO 2009) 123 MIL TONS (+7% COMPARED TO 2009). The Department of International Trade is responsible for the qualification and selection programme of international suppliers. In 2010, the checklist that forms the core of the auditing process was expanded to include an additional 286 questions grouped into 20 distinct sections. In each section, there are a number of questions which are considered fundamental to evaluating the supplier. The sections regarding the environment, ethics and hygiene and safety are composed of 26 questions, 6 of which are considered fundamental and represent 9% of the overall auditing survey. In planning the audits to be performed, priority is given to suppliers who supply critical areas such as food supply, toys, electrical and electronic items and products from the Well’s format (health and opticians). Suppliers are classified according to levels (A, B and C). Suppliers who don´t achieve acceptable results (C level) may be subjected to corrective action plans and new audits or may be excluded from the list of suppliers. In 2010, 3 suppliers were found to be in a critical situation regarding child labour criteria. In one specific case (qualification audit), corrective actions were implemented. In the other two cases, the suppliers were excluded from the selection phase. Sonae’s Producers Club Sonae’s Producers Club (SPC) is a good example of ethical relationships with suppliers, since it is based on a philosophy that promotes fair trade with national suppliers. Established in 1998 with the mission of promoting high quality level and safe local produce, SPC consistently supports its members in a structural way. Thus, producers are given a guarantee of selling their produce, whilst, at the same time, Sonae is certain that it is offering its customers products made in Portugal with proven quality levels of quality. The basic foundations of Sonae’s Producers Club are: Planning: promoting the sale of national produce by optimizing production capacities, providing technical support and access to several agreements between the company and external entities. It also provides Modelo and Continente customers with fresher Portuguese products; Certification: guarantees the standardisation of quality and food safety of the products, promotes the selfevaluation of productive systems, communicates and discusses future challenges with the market, guarantees traceability until the end consumer and promotes environmental responsibility; Sharing of knowledge: analyses the productive systems and requirements of local production, the consumers profile, market trends and selling strategy; it promotes product and processes innovation, training and information, via a means of fluid communication, with a common goal in sight – competitiveness. 65 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IN 2010, DURING SONAE FRUITS & VEGETABLES: PRODUCERS CLUB XII 172 AUDITS CARRIED OUT. MEETING UNDER THE THEME BUTCHERS: 13 AUDITS CARRIED “WE CREATE INNOVATION”, FOR THE OUT; 5 TO SLAUGHTERHOUSES, 2 FIRST TIME, 4 PRODUCERS FROM INFORMAL VISTIS/YEAR TO EACH THE CLUB WERE GIVEN A SONAE PRODUCER. PRODUCERS CLUB INNOVATION AWARD, AND THREE RECEIVED DELI: 42 AUDITS CARRIED OUT. HONOURABLE MENTIONS. BAKERY: 8 AUDITS Purchases made to SPC’s members (millions of Euros) 168 140 130 2008 2009 2010 Via SPC it is intended that responsible behaviour amongst consumers also be promoted, namely by: Purchasing local produce – packaging that advertises the product is 100% local; Stimulating the consumption of fruits and vegetables, by promoting “Taste of 5” on fruit packages, thus contributing towards healthier eating habits. The existence of a range of products appealable to children incentivizes the consumption of fruit; Purchasing quality– SPC’s certificate checklist covers a wide range of issues that guarantee Product Quality and Food Safety. Products are certified by independent external organizations and possess the SPC seal that states “Certified Product”. Some of the initiatives worthy of note carried out by Sonae´s Producers Club in 2010 are: Its continued support in developing organic products; Its support the use of reusable CHEP boxes, replacing cardboard transport boxes, mainly for cheese producers; Identify producers products on SL, QF, and BIO ranges; The campaigns it created to disclose members of SPC were initiated, by advertising in leaflets promoting fresh produce, and magazines distributed in-store and in newspapers; Programme Contracts were celebrated with all producers of fruits, vegetables, cheese, and olive oil; SPC’ initiated the sale of olive oil including the entire procurement process, 5 selection audits, analysis of preselected olive oils (approximately 50 producers) and launch olive oil for sale. Complaints and suggestion management The complaints and suggestion management system is an important means through which we receive suggestions and opportunities to improve services and products made available. For this reason, in previous years, the company has invested in Sonae MC’s complaints and suggestion management system which resulted in it receiving a certification under ISO 10002:2007 standard. Also during 2010, a certification process which follows the same complaints and suggestion management system guidelines for Worten was underway. In 2010, the company received 82,227 complaints and suggestions, an increase of 3.2% compared to the previous year. Increases were noted across all formats apart from the food retail formats (Continente and Modelo) and Vobis. Sonae’s Ombudsman is also a means in which to receive suggestions and complaints, which may be submitted by clients, employees or stakeholders. In addition to complaints management, a number of client satisfaction studies are carried out, in accordance with themes that should be analysed (for example, customer service, product quality, image, etc) and in accordance with different assessment methodologies (e.g., mystery client, quarterly report, studies, surveys, online panels, etc.) across all of Sonae’s different formats. These also contribute to improving services and products made available in the stores. 67 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8.4 MILLION EUROS TO SUPPORT COMMUNITIES (15% MORE COMPARED TO 2009) IN THE RETAIL BUSINESS 3.4. Promoting well-being and development In local communities where the retail business operates Sonae believes that the company’s businesses may contribute towards the promotion of the social and cultural wellbeing of the communities where it operates, and in this sense, for many years it has supported initiatives, projects and events that enables the sustainable development of the populations. In 2010, the Company continued with the many projects carried out in previous years, and maintained its partnerships with the community. The Retail business invested a total of 8.4 million Euros, distributed amongst initiatives that promote areas such as Education, Culture, Health, Environment, Science and Innovation and Social Solidarity. To this figure, an additional 1.3 million Euros must be added which was the result of direct client contributions via several Retail initiatives, such as the Arredonda Project. The table below illustrates a few examples of initiatives and projects developed by the different retail formats, with the objective of generating value for society and its organisations. Area Project Goal 2010 Results Continente Health Missão Sorriso (Mission Smile) The funds raised by the sale of books, CDs 500,000 Euros were donated in and game featuring this project’s label were equipment and materials to the paediatric converted into clinical supplies, ´recreational units of 11 hospitals. supplies or equipment to support paediatric and neonatal units in the hospitals supported by Missão Sorriso. Environment Hipernatura (Hypernature) With the involvement of local government 122,000 Euros were invested in improving bodies and Quercus’ support, a number 10 areas. of green areas withing the catchment areas of Continente hypermarkets are selected with the objective of improving it to be used as a recreational area and to promote the adoption of a healthier lifestyle. Modelo Society Causa Maior (Greater Cause) This Project intends to fight against the social 393,000 Euros were raised and donated exclusion of senior citizens, promoting their to the Portuguese Red Cross, integration into society and contributing Sonae’s partner for this cause. towards their active ageing. For each “Popota Show” book sold (2€ retail price), 1€ was given to this cause. Area Project Goal 2010 Results Modelo Environment, Parques Modelo (Modelo Parks) So as to motivate local communities to practice 5 Modelo Parks were built. An investment Health regular physical exercise and outdoor family of approximately 144,000 Euros. and Society activities, parks are built, composed of a garden area, a senior park area, and a childrens park area, in communities where Modelo stores operate. Environment Pilhas de Livros (Piles of Books) Battery recycling awareness-raising campaign, 128,000 Euros worth of books were given and Education which simultaneously nurtures reading habits to 128 schools contemplated under by offering books to schools. the initiative. Modalfa Society Crescer Seguro (Growing in safety) Fundraising by selling 180,000 scarves aimed Of the total funds raised, APAV at supporting causes that contribute towards was granted 210,000 Euros families’ living conditions. The Crescer Seguro and Ajuda de Berço 150,000 Euros. Project was developed in partnership with RTP (Portuguese Public Television Network) and implemented with APAV and Ajuda de Berço. Sport Zone Sports Sport Zone Runs Organization of Sport Zone Half Marathon, The three events raised approximately Father’s Day Run and Run for Women. 31,000 Euros and were attended by approximately 43,000 individuals. Sport Zone Events Promotion for youngsters sports by organizing 21,700 people attended these events such as Kid’s Cup, Street Basket Deeply, events and a total of 260,000 Euros National Youth Surf Circuit, Gira Volei Project was invested. and XCM Portuguese Cup. Sponsorships Sponsorship of several sport federations Sponsorships amount to 120,000 Euros and associations, including: Portuguese Olympic Committee, Portuguese Paralympics Committee, Portuguese Sports Federation for the Disabled People, Portuguese Gymnastics Federation, Portuguese Canoeing Federation, Portuguese Surf Federation 69 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Area Project Goal 2010 Results Worten Environment Equipa Worten Equipa For each ton of Waste Electrical and Electronic In 2010, the quantity of waste collected and Society (Team Worten Team) Equipment (WEEE), the Equipa Worten Equipa increased to 4,770 tons, helping during Project offered 50 Euros in new equipment the first collection stage, a total to charity organizations within the stores’ of 124 institutions. A total of 1,377 catchment areas. For those who want to new equipments were donated. support this initiative but do not have obsolete Worten invested a total of 240,000 Euro equipments, Worten sells Equipa Worten Equipa during the project. magnets (1 Euro), the total of which reverts to this project. Society Arredonda (Round up) By rounding up the price of gods purchased A total of 486,000 Euros was raised in Worten stores, the Arredonda Project helped to support this organization. Ajuda de Berço. Apart from 1 million round ups performed in stores, this year people also helped via Facebook. On this platform alone, 21,562 Euros were raised. Zippy Health Zippy Sunny Watch Partnering with Hospital de São João 9,700 Euros were donated to Joãozinho, and RTP and during the summer months, São João’s Paediatric Hospital. Zippy promoted a prevention campaign against sun exposure particularly aimed at children. Education Sabias que... (Did you Know…) Zippy raises awareness regarding child safety, TV show broadcasted by RTP. by providing practical advice broadcasted on RTP´s “Sabias que...” TV show, during the summer months. Sonae RP Health Associação Sol Donations aim to improve the current conditions 21,500 Euros were donated to support of Casa Sol and the construction of a new this cause. Casa Sol to foster children supported by this organization, which supports children affected/infected by AIDS. 3.5. Retail Business Commitments 2008-2012 Commitments Promotion of healthier products and eating habits Promote information with a view to: Clients – Inducing healthier eating habits; – Inducing sustainable consumption habits Extend commitments with quality, environment and society throughout the value chain. Support Suppliers in complying with market demands. Increase the number of audit visits to manufacturing facilities; Suppliers Implement increasingly more demanding eco-efficiency requirements in all areas encompassed by Sonae’s Producers Club. Reduce the Ecological Footprint in compliance with the Environmental Policy Reduce the consumption of electricity by more than 6% on a comparable basis; Sustainably invest in the installation of autonomous energy production systems from renewable sources; Progressively reduce potential Green House Gases (GHG) emissions; Environment Reduce environmental impacts caused by waste production; Reduce potential water consumption in stores; Broaden environmental certifications and raise populations’ awareness towards good environmental best practices. Contribute towards good citizenship behaviour and social cohesion Invest in raising awareness in society so as to induce good citizenship behaviour, social cohesion Community and sustainability. To become a household name Company´s continuous effort to be a space of personal fulfilment, and professional and personal development Employees To increase the employees’ level of qualification. 71 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Commitments What we did in 2010 Promotion of healthier products and eating habits Goal achieved To broaden the Private Label product range 123 References “Continente Equilíbrio” in the Equilibrium and Organic segments. (35 more than on the previous year). Launch of gluten-free Private Label products. 49 “Continente Bio” References, including the launch of bio-processed products. 14 gluten-free Private Label products were launched. Goal achieved To promote healthier eating habits, providing more Continuation of the Projecto Vida Hiper Saudável and better information regarding healthy food options (Hyper Healthy Lifestyle Project). and product characteristics. Launch of Contrapeso (Counterweight) Programme. To develop a weight-control programme for clients and employees. Raise awareness amongst school children regarding Clients “Healthy eating habits”. Goal achieved Invest in more environmentally friendly products. An eco-friendly car product range was launched, with seven To launch an eco-friendly car product range. new products in addition to an ECO range with 7 products such as kitchen paper towels. Goal achieved Improvement and broadening of quality control Certification was obtained for the Development and certification processes. of Continente Private Label products and monitoring Improvement of product development and monitoring of products and suppliers, after development/launch processes. under the NP EN ISO9001 standard in 2010, which allowed for an improvement in product development To obtain Certification for Continente’s Private Label and monitoring processes. Product Development and Monitoring of Products and Suppliers after Development/Launch under NP EN ISO9001 standard. Extend commitments with quality, environment and society throughout the value chain. Support Suppliers in complying with market demands. Goal achieved Continue to increase the number of qualification The number of qualifying audits increased during 2010. and selection audits carried out on suppliers. 41,2% more audits were carried out compared to the previous year. Goal achieved To implement increasingly more demanding Eco-efficiency requirements in all areas encompassed eco-efficiency requirements in all areas encompassed by Sonae’s Producers Club have been increasingly by Sonae’s Producers Club. more demanding. In 2010, Sonae’s Producers Club certification for its members was initiated. Goal achieved To reduce the amount of non-sustainable fish sold: Reduced provision of non-sustainable fish: Suppliers –T  o replace species at risk of being extinct – Spiny dogfish is no longer marketed; monk fish sales (spiny dogfish) or threatened species (monk fish); have been reduced by 20%; – 1 00% of codfish sold comes from recognized – – 100% of codfish sold come from origins with Sustainable Fisheries policies; proven sustainable fisheries policies (Barents Sea), which represent 95% of the total of codfish products sold; –R  eduction of species captured by trawling – Species captured by trawling were reduced by 35%; and promotion of line-fished species; Increase, of 40% inline-fished products; –C  omplete elimination of Greenland’s Halibut – Greenland’s Halibut and Atlantic codfish and Atlantic codfish; are no longer sold; –T  o increase sales of fish originating from Docapesca, – 10% sales increase in fish originating from Docapesca; an organization that uses artisan/sustainable fishing methods; 2010 Commitments What we did in 2010 Extend commitments with quality, environment and society throughout the value chain. Support Suppliers in complying with market demands. –T  o increase the sales of Aquiculture Products; – Increase in the sales of fish farming products, in all species (156% in general), except for gilt-head sea bream (-36%); – Introduction of Organic Products; –T  ests were conducted on organic products, which nevertheless failed to be become selling items –T  o increase employees' training and information –A  specific learning unit regarding the Sustainable Fisheries Suppliers provided on Continente’s website under the Sustainable Policy was introduced at Sonae’s School of Perishable Fisheries Policy; Goods, so as to increase training on the subject. More than 500 employees attended this unit. –T  o provide information, to customers, on type –D  evelopment and implementation of information of fishing technique used, capture technique dedicated to the theme of Sustainable Fisheries and proof of purchase in the fish market. on the company’s website, so as to provide information on the matter to customers. In-store information was also reinforced ( Greenpeace posters and CCL label). Reduce the Ecological Footprint in compliance with the Environmental Policy Goal achieved To reduce electricity consumed by more than 1% Electricity consumed was reduced by 1.6% on a comparable on a comparable store universe basis. store universe basis(food retail). Goal achieved To maintain the focus on installing new energy production In 2010, 16 additional autonomous energy power stations autonomous systems from renewable sources, according were operating, a total of 34 production power stations to the guidelines of the new regulations on the matter. were operating by the end of the year. Goal achieved To ensure that 80% of fleet vehicles are in compliance 82% of fleet vehicles are in compliance with EURO 4 with EURO 4 or higher standards. or higher standards. Goal achieved To maintain the R22 refrigerant gas replacement R22 refrigerant gas has been reduced to only 2% Environment programme in equipments that have not been replaced of the equipments used. so far. Goal achieved To provide an broadened range of reusable plastic bags. Several kinds of reusable plastic bags are offered in stores. Goal achieved To surpass the waste recovery rate achieved in 2009. Waste recovery rate achieved 76.9%, surpassing the 2009s figure by 1.7 p.p. Goal achieved To increase the number of facilities certified under Environmental certification under ISO14001 standard ISO 14001 standard. in an additional three Food Retail units (one supermarket, one meat processing facility and one warehouse) and in one Specialized Retail store. Contribute towards good citizenship behaviour and social cohesion Goal achieved Continue with projects that have positive social impacts Emblematic projects, with great widespanning social Community on communities, particularly on health, education, impacts were continued, such as “Missão Sorriso”, environment, culture, sports, and leisure activities. “Causa Maior”, “Pilhas de livros”, “Hipernatura”. A group of additional projects were also implemented in these support areas. To become a household name Goal not achieved Employees Materialization of Sonae’s Human Resources Policy Human Resources Policy is being developed and should (adapted to the company’s new organizational structure). be published during 2011. 73 A Greater World to Lead 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Commitments 2011 Commitments Promotion of healthier products and eating habits Maintain the Private Label Equilibrio and Bio ranges broad product offer. Maintain Certification under ISO 9001 standards regarding the process for launching Private Label goods and guarantee that all procedures defined by the standard are applied. To promote healthier eating habits, providing more and better information regarding healthy food options and product characteristics. Promotion of more eco-friendly products To promote campaigns that incentivate the use of equipments that consume less energy Clients To reduce/eliminate packaging material in Private Label product ranges where labels can be directly printed onto the product, thus eliminating paper labels (e.g., Private Label camping equipment range, sleeping bags, camping tends, etc). Incentivate the use and make available a broad range of reusable bags. Improvement and broadening of quality control processes and certifications Improve development and monitoring processes of non-food products. Extend to the non-food products the Certification for Development of Continente Own Brands and monitor the product and supplier after development/launch in accordance with NP EN ISO 9001 standards. Extend commitments with quality, environment and society throughout the value chain. Support Suppliers in complying with market demands. Maintain the plan of strengthening the number of suppliers audited, qualifying and selection auditing. Implement increasingly more demanding eco-efficiency requirements in all areas encompassed by Sonae’s Producers Club. Begin the Sonae’s Producers Club certification for its members. To contribute towards sustainable fishing Suppliers To increase the marketing of species that act as alternatives to threatened species. To increase the sales of fishfarming products. To reduce the sales of fish caught by trawling. Improve (current and new) suppliers’ traceability and information and the origin of the fish. To improve consumers’ information on type of fishing used. 2011 Commitments Reduce the Ecological Footprint in compliance with the Environmental Policy Reduce electricity consumed by more than 1% on the same store universe level of the stores that consume the most energy (food retail stores). Keep focused in installing new power stations to produce autonomous energy from renewable sources, complying with new legislation pertaining to Micro and Mini Generation of energy. To ensure that more than 85% of fleet vehicles are in compliance with EURO 4 or higher standards. Maintain the R22 refrigerant gas replacement programme in equipments that have not as yet been Environment replaced. Make available an extensive range of reusable bags. Surpass the waste recovery rate achieved in 2010 by, at least, 0.5%. Reduce the consumption of drinking water by more than 2% on a comparable store universe basis Increase the number of facilities certified under ISO 14001 Environmental Certification. Develop an International Environmental Management Guide to support operations abroad. Contribute towards good citizenship behaviour and social cohesion Continue with projects that have positive social impacts on communities, particularly on health, Community education, environment, culture, sports, and leisure activities. To become a household name Formalise Sonae’s Human Resources Policy (adapted to the company’s new organizational Employees structure). 75 A Greater World to Lead A Greater World to Approach “Our commitment towards sustainable development is directly linked with our ambition of becoming the best telecommunication services provider in Portugal. We believe that this industry has numerous opportunities and we are strongly committed in developing innovative products, services and solution that satisfy the needs of the markets where we operate and generate value for our clients, partners, shareholders and community.” Miguel Almeida, CEO Optimus “We believe that today, an industry-leader company also needs to be a leader in corporate responsibility issues, since our business is not isolated from the environment nor from society. Therefore, we also believe that shopping centres such as ours, which satisfy our customers’ needs and which are built according to sustainability patterns and are integrated within the communities, will always be a more attractive investment than others that are built without considering such concerns.” Fernando Oliveira, CEO Sonae Sierra 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1. Sonaecom Profile Sonaecom is divided into two main business units: Optimus, which now integrates the entire offer in mobile and fixed telecommunications and the Software and System Information Services (SSI) area. Additionally, Sonaecom also integrates online and media areas, which encompasses a set of business such as Público and Miau.pt. Mission Sonaecom is an entrepreneurial growth company that chooses exceptional people to work and unlock their full potential. Sonaecom relentlessly pursues the creation of innovative products, services and solutions that fulfil the needs of its markets and generate superior economic value. Sonaecom simplified structure Sonae SGPS – 53,17% France Telecom – 20,00% Free-float and other qualified shareholdings – 24,30% Sonaecom Own shares – 2,53% 100% 100% Optimus – Comunicações, S.A. SSI Optimus (Mobile and Fixed) WeDo, Mainroad Bizdirect and Saphety Products and Services WEDO OPTIMUS Business Assurance services and solutions, Fixed and mobile communications for private focused on optimising performance and risk individuals and businesses, including traditional management systems and processes. offers of voice, data, internet, television, as well as wholesale services to third parties. MAINROAD SONAECOM IT Managed Services and Solutions, PÚBLICO IT Security, Business Continuity, Benchmark daily newspaper in Portugal IT Service Management and ITIL for over 20 years. consulting, supported by its Data Centres. SAPHETY BIZDIRECT Services and solutions that cover electronic invoicing, Sale and marketing of multi-brand IT solutions, supported electronic transaction security, paper-free offices and wholly by partnerships with the main market manufacturers, and integrated billing solutions. the management of corporate software licensing contracts, based on new business models. 79 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability management In 2010, and in order to systematize and promote a continuous improvement in sustainability management, Sonaecom defined two management cycles: The strategic cycle, with a duration of three years, of great reflection and opened to stakeholders, whose contributions define the strategy, the objectives and action plans, and The monitoring cycle, on an annual basis, within which the results of the actions performed are analyzed, strategy is assessed and reporting is produced. DEC Strategic cycle NOV OCT DEC NOV OCT SEP JAN Analysis of internal and sector data Listening to Sonaecom stakeholders SEP JAN Analysis of internal key indicators and external variables, conclusions about stakeholder concernsof(Sustainability Analysis Bureau, internal and sector Manager and those responsible for data quality control) data Listening Front line to Sonaecom managers stakeholders workshop: definition of guidelines and commitments. Executive Analysis ofCommittee: internal keyapproval of guidelines indicators andvariables, and external commitment conclusions about stakeholder concerns (Sustainability Bureau, Manager and those responsible for data quality control) Front line managers workshop: definition of guidelines and commitments. AUG FEB Executive Committee: approval of guidelines and commitment AUG JUL MAR FEB JUN MAY APR JUL MAR JUN MAY APR Monitoring cycle JAN FEB MAR JAN FEB MAR APR DEZ Internal Audits APR MAY Analysis of results of internal means of listening to stakeholders Collection and monitoring of key indicators DEZ Internal AuditsReport (SR) Sustainability MAY Analysis verification External of results ofofinternal SR means of listening to stakeholders Collection and monitoring of key indicators Sustainability Report (SR) External verification of SR NOV JUN NOV JUN OUT AUG JUL SET OUT AUG JUL SET Sustainability Strategic Areas Sonaecom’s sustainability strategy is settled unto four essential pillars: Our People: To contribute towards the development of employees and suppliers in a global way, promoting a more balanced management of their professional and family life. Preserving the Environment: To manage the business’ environmental impacts (Energy, Resources, Waste, and Electromagnetic fields – EMF, among others) and to take advantage of the ICT industry’s potential, presenting the market with products and services that nurture the construction of a low-carbon economy. Quality of life: To ensure that Sonaecom’s stakeholders act transparently and in respect for ethical principles of the market and society and to promote the safe use of our products and services by our clients. Energizing society: Technology is not an end in itself; we are interested in what it can do for our clients, for our employees and, broadly speaking, for society. We want to ensure access and to educate civil society in the use of ICTs, regardless of age, skill level, language, culture and literacy by developing products and services with great social value. 81 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Office Sonaecom’s Executive Comittee Sustainability Bureau Responsible: Executive Committee Member Sonae Sustainability Forum Coordination: One of the Permanent Members Permanent Members Non Permanent Members Corporate Responsibility Non Permanent members participate Environment Office in different projects depending Human Resources on the specifics of each. Risk Management 2010 Net Clients of mobile IT services Turnover EBITDA Result business area revenues Employees 921 M€ 194 M€ 3,604 thousand 129 €/employee 2,073 41 M€ -3% +10.4% +5% +2.6% 2.2% The economic value generated reached 935 M€, of which 781,9 M€ were distributed amongst employees (12.3%), government (0.6%), society (7.7%), suppliers (77.5%) and financial institutions (1.9%). Creation and Distribution of Value Government 4,527,590€ Employees 96,550,733€ Society* 60,189,328€ Wealth created Wealth distributed Customer revenues Value distributed 935,012,622€ to stakeholders Value retained 781,937,578€ 153,039,044€ Suppliers 606,174,830€ Banks 14,531,097€ * Community investment and contribution to Information Society. 83 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Socially, the Career Development and Performance Assessment measures, previously started, have been continued. Training hours provided to employees were slightly reduced (0.5%), achieving a total of 58,176 hours, i.e., an average of 28 hours of training per employee. The investment made in this area was 1,9 million euros. In terms of the environment, in 2010, the Company renewed its certification for Environmental Management System pursuant to ISO 14001 standards, thus continuing to improve internal management processes and encourage stakeholders to become involved and to be informed about Sonaecom’s environmental management programmes. Energy management measures continued to be implemented and reinforced, thus promoting energetic efficiency across the company’s operations and reducing carbon emissions by 27%. Regarding waste management, a study was conducted on Municipal Solid Wastes (MSW) that identified improvement opportunities, particularly for the recycling of a portion of these wastes. Recycled waste was 80% in weight. Considering community support, there is a significant increase in the employees’ contribution in volunteer work (from 1% to 12.3%), mainly to empower citizens for inclusion. Indirect energy consumed kGJ 398 397 370 6 6 4 Electricity Thermal 2008 2009 2010 Total CO2e Emissions, t Percentage of recycled waste 3,734 85.2% 4,062 80.1% 2,731 37,955 33,959 25,716 17.9% 3,608 4,091 4,836 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Direct Indirect Others indirects (scope3) Training hours Percentage of volunteer work 74,007 12.3% 58,459 58,167 1.0% 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 Note: In 2008, the Smile Programme was restructured and relaunched at the end of the same year. This is why the previous chart fails to mention percentage values for volunteer work in 2008. 85 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT External Recognition Best Contact Centre in Portugal and Best Contact Centre Award in the Telecommunications’ category, received by Optimus and awarded by “APCC Portugal Best Awards 2010”. Optimus’ contact centre was also distinguished by the International Faculty for Executives (IFE) and by Call Center Magazine, with the Global Contact Centre award. Optimus and its Flagship Store at Casa da Música (Porto) also won the International Innovation Award – InAVation Awards 2010. Sonaecom is also proud to have employees whose exceptional performance has been recognised by third-party entities: Rui Paiva, CEO of WeDo Technologies, received the Best Leader Award 2010, organized by Leadership Business Consulting, under the “Leader in New Technologies” category. Público’s journalists Luís Villa-Lobos, Ricardo Garcia, Maria João Guimarães, and Lurdes Ferreira saw their works, developed in the areas of Society and the Environment, being recognized and awarded by several entities. Case Studies Optimus’ Corporate Responsibility Programme Optimus’ Corporate Responsibility Programme aims to surpass the exclusion of children and teenagers suffering from severe or chronic health conditions. By offering full communication and entertainment solutions (stateof-the-art laptops with mobile broadband internet access – Kanguru –, free communications and maintenance support), Optimus has significantly contributed towards the decrease of the exclusion effects suffered by these children and teenagers. Through a partnership established between Optimus, Acreditar, Associação SOL and Fundação do Gil, the routines and needs of children receiving clinical treatment were assessed in order to identify the solution best suited for the programme’s objectives. In 2010, 58 equipments were donated. Optimus’ Green Life In 2010, Optimus Green Life brand was created, which is much more than a brand: it a materialization of Sonaecom’s environmental responsibility policy, representing a position and a way of being and feeling the company’s business. Appearing as a consequence of a reflection made by an internal work group, Optimus Green Life enables a global approach to the Company’s activity, focused on mitigating risks and (internal and external) impacts, both transversally and strategically. The brand is used internally to ensure the good environmental performance of all processes. Such is achieved by deeply analysing each process, by rigorously monitoring its impacts, and by defining an impact reduction strategy. Externally, the Optimus Green Life seal was created and associated with some products designed to provide those who choose them a more sustainable means of communication: communication costs, equipment costs, transportation costs, energy costs and reduction of paper consumption by issuance of electronic receipt. Optimus Green Life packages were also created (with a greatest eco-efficiency if compared to traditional ones) for three types of equipments (Nokia C3, C5 and Central ON) and on the business market the Company launched the first phone of a more environmental efficient range (Sony Ericsson Elm). For corporate clients, Green Life offers include: An Individual and Network Plan, which aggregates a fixed-line and a mobile line, all on the same mobile phone; A virtual central exchange with Central ON; Use of Optimus Kanguru, staying connected anywhere and avoiding travels; Use of advanced web-based solutions, such as e-Services, which saves paper; Data transmission solutions (M2M), allowing machines to communicate amongst themselves and thus optimize processes. 87 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Smile – Sonaecom’s Community Intervention Programme Engaging and supporting community by means of Sonae’s corporate Professional competencies – Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). Smile Competências (Competencies) is the area of the Smile Programme where Sonaecom can add more value. The work developed in this area has the objective of, on the one hand, fighting against e-exclusion, specifically through training and courses, and, on the other hand, promoting the work of third-sector organizations that are the company’s partners. By introducing new technologies and human resources’ training, means, resources, time and people are freed and able to become dedicated to their mission: supporting the community. In order to promote volunteer work and to raise Sonaecom employees’ awareness towards its importance, the Company gives each employee 8 hours per year to conduct volunteer work. Additionally, for each vacation day the employee spends doing volunteer work, the Company gives the employee an additional day to perform more volunteer work (to the maximum extent of 3 days). In 2010, the Company witnessed an exponential increase on the employee’ engagement and organization of this programme, which may be measured by 1.426 hours spent conducting volunteer work (almost eight times more than the previous year). This programme thus supported 25 organizations (two more than during the previous year). Mobi.E In a country where the transport sector is responsible for 25% of carbon dioxide emissions (according to Fundo Português de Carbono), investing in alternative mobility mechanisms is increasingly important. Mobi.E, Programme for Electrical Mobility, aims to position the country as a pioneer in the development and adoption of new energetic models towards sustainable mobility. Optimus was responsible for the operationalization of the communications used on Mobi.E electrical vehicles’ power stations. The system installed uses state-of-the-art technology and allows a safe and reliable communication between stations and the central, with a great flexibility when choosing stations and without the need to install new communication infrastructures. Project Attitude+ The Project Attitude+ has two strands: on the one hand, to increase the client’s satisfaction regarding the way he/ she is served and, on the other, to know what motivates complaints made by clients. The project, which encompasses Sonaecom’s partners, has a strong orientation towards the training of the agents’ employees that are involved in contacting with the Client, in areas that include: Processes; Procedures; Systems and particularly Culture, where the Attitude is reinforced as being an unquestionable and critical factor for success. Every month, according to the acknowledgments or compliments communicated to the Company by its clients, the assistants who used their attitude to set the difference are awarded trophies. In 2010, 35 assistants were awarded for having a dedication that surpassed all expectations. SMART Tariffs The mobile phone has an increasing central role in the customers’ daily life and the growing availability of services and applications leads to an intensification of the use of the Internet on mobile phones and the growing demand for more sophisticated equipments, including smartphones. Optimus’ SMART tariffs, developed for the individual clients’ market, are based on new post-paid tariffs with unlimited calls between Optimus numbers and free access to the Internet and consumption control functionalities in real time. These tariffs have reinforced consumption control mechanisms to produce a more carefree use of post-paid tariffs, since the customer is able to control in real time the consumptions made by consulting available minutes and text messages and the total value of the invoice and by receiving alerts according to the consumptions made. Internet of Things If the appearance of the Internet has completely revolutionized our life, IoT is a potential tool to cause a new revolution in the way we see our daily life. By allowing the inclusion of objects from our daily life in a global communication network, acting as data receivers and emitters that influence the actions developed by them, IoT creates a world where, for instance, our alarm clock communicates with our schedule to calculate the time when we need to wake up. On the other hand, if an unusual traffic increase is detected during the morning, the alarm may be automatically altered to answer that condition. Furthermore, our house’s central heating will be activated sooner (so that we may be able to enjoy some thermal comfort when we wake up). IoT creates a world where machines communicate between themselves, thus significantly increasing our quality of life, optimizing our schedules, and, if associated with energy rationalization processes, decreasing the environmental impact of our daily life. 89 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.2. Sonae Sierra Organizational Profile Sonae Sierra is the international shopping centre specialist. Founded in Portugal in 1989, the company is held by Sonae (50%) and Grosvenor (50%), presenting a business approach that integrates ownership, development and management of shopping centres and the rendering of third-party services. Mission and Values Sonae Sierra strives to be the international expert in shopping centres. Its mission is to be the international shopping centre specialist that provides ultimate shopping experiences to customers and creates outstanding value to shareholders, investors, tenants, communities and staff, while contributing to sustainable development. Sonae Sierra’s vision and mission are underpinned by a set of core values and principles regarding its business culture, responsibility towards its staff, the environment and local communities where its operates and independence from political power. Managed Shopping GLA 3 new projects under Managed Third-party Visits to managed Contracts with store Centres different construction shopping centres centres tenants stages and 7 being constructed 51 2,2 million m2 17 442 Million 8,521 Sonae Sierra’s organizational structure reflects its main business units – Ownership of European Shopping Centres, Development and Management – and operations in Brazil. Sierra Investments Sierra Developments Responsible for developing Owner of Sonae Sierra assets, shopping centres in Europe providing asset management and Colombia. Its activities include services being responsible all procurement aspects, for investments in Europe. concept development, It also holds, ,47.5% and 50.1% architecture and construction of Fundo SierraPortugal management, as well as rendering and Fundo Sierra respectively knowledge-based services and acts as asset manager. to third party organizations. Portugal / Spain / Italy / Portugal / Spain / Italy / Germany / Germany / Greece / Romania Greece / Romania/ Colombia Sierra Management Sonae Sierra Brasil Responsible for management and marketing aspects It operates autonomously of European shopping centres, by investing, developing as well as rendering and management an increasingly knowledge-based services larger number of shopping to third party organizations. centres on Brazil. Portugal / Spain / Italy / Germany / Investment / Promotion / Greece / Romania/ Colombia Management of Shopping Centres 91 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Responsibility Management System Sonae Sierra’s main Corporate Responsibility (CR) issues are managed via CR Management System, which has a cyclical model and which allows for continuous performance improvements across the nine most important impact areas of its operation: Energy and Climate Waste Water Biodiversity and Habitats Health and Safety Communities and visitors Store Owners Employees Suppliers Policies and strategies are established for these items, in order to transform the company’s values and commitments into practical actions. Performance and goals are monitored to ensure that objectives are being fulfilled in the long term. CR Governance The CR Management System is managed by six Workgroups, which encompass the impact areas identified above. Those in charge for each Workgroup are represented at the CR Steering Committee, which is presided over by the CEO. The CR Steering Committee is responsible for supervising the identification and management of relevant issues in this area and for ensuring that the company’s performance on critical areas is monitored and progressively improved. Communication Vision and Mission Environmental Policy; of Information Safety and Health Policy, etc. Corporate Value and Key Principles Verification CR policy and Validation CR Monitoring Objectives and Revision Goals and Key Performance Indicators 2010 2010 was a challenging year for shopping centres. Notwithstanding, Sonae Sierra opened a new shopping centre in Portugal and concluded another’s expansion in Brazil. Both projects added value to Sonae Sierra’s portfolio and brought new retail experiences to their catchment areas. Direct Revenues increase 7% and EBITDA rose 13%. Inauguration of LeiriaShopping in Portugal, with 100% of GLA occupied at time of opening; Inauguration of the Parque D. Pedro Shopping’s extension, at Campinas, Brazil, with 100% of GLA occupied at time of opening; Increase on management services rendered to third-party shopping centres, featuring 17 third-party contracts at the end of the year. Energy and climate. GHG emissions Energy and climate: efficiency in electricity consumed of our shopping centres and corporate offices (excluding store owners) of our shopping centres (tCO2e/m2 GLA) (kWh/m2 mall and sanitary facilities) 0.074 558 553 0.071 527 514 0.067 0.034 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 93 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Water: Efficiency in water consumed (excluding tenants) Waste: Total recycled waste against total waste produced of our shopping centres (litres/visit) (% by weight, in shopping centres) 4.0 51 3.8 3.7 3.6 46 42 35 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Tenants: Average occupancy rate Communities and visitors: CR marketing investments (% by GLA, on shopping centres) and other contributions to communities (millions €) 2,380 96.6 95.8 95.9 96.4 1,219 1,143 n.a. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Employees: Investment in employees’ training Security and Health: Number of non-compliances by hour and development (€ per capita) of Security Preventive Observations (SPO) 1,239 10.5 1,195 7.9 900 776 5.7 5.8 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Proportion of suppliers with ISSO 14001 certification Proportion of finished projects in previously urban areas (by area) (%) 100% 100% 100% 58% 51% 27% 17% n.a. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 95 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT External Recognition Sonae Sierra kept providing market leader services for tenants and investors and maintained the company’s commitment with international standards regarding Security, Health and Environmental Management. Market leadership was, once again, recognized by several awards and certifications: Best Developer Award for Portugal, Spain and Italy by EuroMoney magazine’s “Real Estate Awards For Excellence”; Valecenter was considered the “Best Refurbishment and Extension” by the “ICSC European Awards 2010”; Winners of the “European Risk Management Awards 2010” under the “Best Environmental Risk Control” category; Certification under ISO 14001 standard for the Environmental Management Systems of a new project under construction, one operating shopping centre and a corporate office; OHSAS 18001 certifications obtained for the Security and Health Management Systems of an additional project under construction and ten operating shopping centres. Case Studies Environmentally aware construction – LeiriaShopping LeiriaShopping was inaugurated in March 2010, less than two years after the start of the construction and refurbishment work. The new shopping centre represents a strong revitalisation of the local economy through the creation of 1,489 jobs, the hiring of local companies and the inclusion of local retailers and franchisees to make up around 23% of the centre’s tenant mix. The architecture of the shopping centre is inspired by landscapes and culture of the Leiria region: its pine forest, coast and traditional local glass manufacture. The project team worked together to conceive and implement a range of energy saving measures including heat recovery and free-cooling systems, high efficiency electrical motors, use of variable frequency drives, energy efficient lighting equipments and solutions, use of high level insulation materials to minimise heat losses. The measures implemented represent an annual reduction of 1,785 kWh, in electricity consumption when compared to the standard solutions in the market. This corresponds to an estimate saving of 125,000 Euros. The shopping centre received A-level energy efficiency certification, in compliance with European legislation regarding the energetic performance of buildings. The shopping centre is also equipped with solutions to decrease the consumption of water, to increase the use of rain and ground water, the recycling of all waste produced and real-time surveillance of all environmental aspects, including indoor air quality, illumination levels and use of public services. A low-cost minibus facilitates the visitors’ access to the shopping centre. Energetic efficiency improvement at Freccia Rossa Freccia Rossa, in Italy, was developed by Sonae Sierra and inaugurated in 2008. Despite the implementation of many environmental features, the centre’s operational electricity consumption was among the highest in Sonae Sierra´s portfolio at 737 kWh per m2 in 2009. In 2010, Freccia Rossa was submitted to an energetic audit, which identified opportunities to achieve significant reductions in the energy used. Several changes were made, including adjustments in the definitions of Centralized Technical Management, which monitors heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and illumination systems. As a consequence of such measure, significant energy savings were obtained. In 2010, the shopping centre registered a total electricity consumption of 5,156 million kWh. enabled Sonae Sierra to reduce electricity costs by 15%, and improve Freccia Rossa’s electricity efficiency by 18%, going from 737 kWh per m2 to 607 kWh per m2 in 2010. Increasing water efficiency at a “High-Risk” Shopping Centre in Spain In 2010, Sonae Sierra applied the Global Water Tool (developed by World Business Council for Sustainable Development – WBCSD) to all projects under development and shopping centres in operation. This tool allows companies to map their use and assess risks relative to their global operations by comparing a company’s sites with water and sanitation data on a country and watershed basis. The shopping centre with the greatest danger of water shortage was Plaza Mayor in Spain. In 2010, a new landscape plan was implemented, designed to reduce water consumed in Plaza Mayor’s gardens. This plan included replacing grass areas with autochthonous plants that require minimum watering whilst preserving the aesthetic qualities of the landscape. As a result of such improvements, Plaza Mayor registered, in 2010, a water consumption efficiency of 3.5 litres per visit, representing an improvement of 27% if compared to the 4.8 litres consumed per visit in 2009. 97 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Successful co-operation with tenants achieves a high recycling rate at Loop5 Our experience shows that ensuring that tenants correctly separate waste is particularly important for the correct waste management processes in shopping centres in order to increase the proportion of recycled materials. When Loop5 was inaugurated in Germany, in October 2009, the shopping centre implemented a “pay-per-weight” waste management system, whereby tenants’ waste is weighted separately by type and the associated cost is directly charged to the tenant through a card system. Recyclable packaging materials (plastic, metal, plastic foil and glass) are free of charge. In order to motivate tenants to recycle, mixed waste (unsorted) have higher costs when compared to paper, cardboard, organic waste and wood. The waste that is not recycled or subjected to composting processes is incinerated with energetic recovery. Loop5 also organizes regular training sessions and delivers brochures to explain the recycling programme and procedures to tenants. Tenants with the lowest recycling rates were identified and meetings were held to promote the environmental and economic benefits of the good waste separation. As a result of this scheme, Loop5 was able to increase its recycling rate, from 48% in 2009 to 65% in 2010 (average of the last three months of the year to allow like-for-like comparison). Engaging with contractors to deliver high safety and health standards on construction sites Sonae Sierra’s activity is guided by remarkable Safety & Health (S&H) standards, which are conveyed to all construction projects, according to the company’s corporate values and objectives. In 2010, there was an increase in the number of accidents in two construction sites: Torre Ocidente, in Portugal, and Le Terrazze, in Italy. To understand the nature of such accidents, project management teams organized S&H workshops with contractors’ top management representatives.. These workshops were an opportunity to present Sonae Sierra’s S&H objectives and performance to contractors’ top management and to hear their perspectives on procedures, as well as to reinforce contractors’ commitments towards S&H excellence. As a result, new measures were identified to improve construction sites’ S&H management, including: Planning for the participation of contractors in safe practice index (SPI) visits to the site; Clarifying the accountability of contactors’ foremen in managing their teams’ work; Establishing minimum levels of contractor S&H technician rotation across construction sites; Promoting greater coordination between contractor S&H technicians and the construction teams, thus guaranteeing that construction tasks are planned in a timely manner and adequately executed. 99 A Greater World to Approach 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Promoting biodiversity in Portugal European biodiversity is severely threatened by alterations of land use, creating an excessive pressure on the environment, pollution, invasive species and climate change. In Portugal, Sonae Sierra has actively participated in several local initiatives to protect biodiversity, including tree-planting projects, protection of reforested areas, as well as awareness-raising activities and exhibitions in shopping centres. Within the context of the United Nations’ International Year of Biodiversity, Guimarães Shopping was challenged by Guimarães City Hall to support a project to preserve the city’s biodiversity, by creating nests in the citys parks’ trees. The shopping centre offered 50 bird boxes and 12 open nests. Bird boxes were made of recycled wood and adapted to birds such as sparrows, goldfinches, nightingales, chaffinches and Eurasian wrens. “We would like to congratulate Guimarães Shopping’s commitment towards social and environmental responsibility, as demonstrated through the shopping centre’s participation in projects run by the Guimarães City Hall. This commitment promoted strong partnership and cooperation between the shopping centre and the City Hall” – Amadeu Portilha Municipal Councillor on Environmental Matters, Guimarães City Hall. Helping tenants through challenging times with cost-savings measures Sonae Sierra’s most important option – to be a flexible and proactive owner amidst adverse economic conditions – prevailed throughout 2009. One of the markets particularly affected was Spain, where efforts were undertaken to reduce tenants’ costs through operational efficiency measures. At Parque Principado, the shopping centre’s administrative budget was cut in 11%, when compared to the previous year, and this reduction was maintained throughout 2010. This was achieved through a series of measures, including: Reducing the use of lighting within the mall, shop unit fronts and the car park during certain period, which resulted in a saving of more than 12,00 Euro per year; Reduction of administrative fees, saving more than 48,000 Euro per year; Optimization of cleaning and security services, saving more than 90,000 Euro per year. The positive feedback obtained from tenants recognized that the shopping centre had difficult decisions to make in order to reduce costs and to help them surpass these difficult times. Community Day: Making a difference in local communities Community Day is a volunteering initiative engaging the entire company and organized once a year. Each European country and Brazil, where Sonae Sierra operated, is free to choose the type of activities to be carried out. In 2010, a total of 498 Sonae Sierra’s employees, from the shopping centres and office business units, participated on Community Day, dedicating more than 2,500 hours of their time. In Europe, Sonae Sierra’s employees supported disadvantaged children and adults through a number of different activities. For instance, Guimarães Shopping’s employees, in Portugal, refurbished the study room of the Associação Apoio à Criança (Child Support Association) and equipped it with furniture and electronic appliances donated by the shopping centre’s tenants. In Spain, 29 employees from the Madrid offices, Luz del Tajo and Plaza Éboli, dedicated one morning to autistic children. Activities for disadvantaged or disabled adults included the creation of green areas in three elderly people centres in Spain and Romania, refurbishing a local library in Portugal and donating clothes and food items in Greece and Spain. In Brazil, a decision was made to promote oral hygiene in different educational institutions for children with disabilities or from economically deprived families. In total, employees from ten shopping centres and central offices paid for more than 150 visits to orphanages, kindergartens, associations, schools and community centres to raise awareness towards oral hygiene, performed with the help of educational activities for children aged 3-4, involving videos, lectures, games, lunch, theatre and drawing activities. Family Day In December 2010, Sonae Sierra’s offices across Europe celebrated Christmas in the central offices and shopping centres by holding the Family Day. Employees’ children, from 5 to 13 years old, were invited to spend a day in their parents ‘office. The objective behind this initiative was to inform children of their parents’ professional life, teaching their professional activities in a fun way. Children took part on a series of activities, including guided visits to workplaces, a visit to Santa Claus cave, creation of Christmas decorations, facial paintings, recycling workshops, story-telling, music, cinema and dance. 112 parents and 163 children took part of the Family Day across 23 European Sonae Sierra’s offices. A survey was conducted to gain some insights on the employee’s opinions and comments and highly positive feedback was obtained: 97% reported that their children had enjoyed the Family Day and 100% declared that they wish the initiative was organized again. In general, employees felt that Family Day promoted their engagement towards Sonae Sierra. 101 A Greater World to Approach A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 105 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Annexes GRI Indicators The values presented are mainly related to the Retail business area. Whenever this situation is not applicable, the specific scope of the indicator will be mentioned. Economic Performance Indicators (EC) EC1. (Million €) 2009 2010 Direct Economic Value Generated 5,937 6,402 Revenues 5,937 6,402 Distributed Economic Value 5,678 5,905 Operating Costs 4,783 4,967 Employees’ compensation and benefits 655 693 Payments to capital providers 183 176 Payments to governments 47 58 Donations and other community investments 9,6 10,4 Economic Value Accumulated/Retained 259 497 Scope of indicator: Sonae EC3. Sonae’s Retail business area has no benefit plan obligations. EC4. Financial assistance received from the government, from revenue grants, investment grants and tax reductions was 8,328,000€ (scope of indicator: Sonae). EC6. Compras a fornecedores (milhões €) 2009 2010 National suppliers 3,304 3,485 International suppliers 696 852 Total 4,000 4,337 Scope of indicator: Sonae MC and Sonae SR. EC7. The company’s hiring policy defends that operational functions must be occupied by people from the communities where business units are located, thus contributing towards regional employability levels. 96% of senior managers belong to local communities. EC8. Infrastructure investments and services provided, primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagements achieved 6,512,257€ at Sonae. Labour Practices and Decent Work (LA) LA1. Employment type and employment contract 2010 % No. fixed-term contracts 14,012 35% No. open-ended contracts (permanent) 25,623 65% Total workforce 39,635 100% No. full-time workers 26,694 67% No. part-time workers 12,941 33% Total workforce 39,635 100% Scope of the indicator: Retail Number of employees by region 2010 % Portugal 37,174 93.8% Spain 2,253 5.7% China 67 0.2% Brazil 141 0.4% Scope of the indicator: Retail LA2. Number of employees by age group Women Men Total Under 18 0 0 0 18 to 34 15,860 8,374 24,234 35 to 44 6,678 2,428 9,106 45 to 54 2,444 934 3,378 55 to 64 263 187 450 Over 65 0 6 6 Total 25,245 11,929 37,174 107 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Termination of contracts Women Men Total Under 18 0 0 0 18 to 34 8,223 5,337 13,560 35 to 44 854 287 1,141 45 to 54 211 56 267 55 to 64 22 22 44 Over 65 5 3 8 Total of contracts terminated 9,315 5,705 15,020 Turnover rate Women Men Total Under 18 0% 0% 0% 18 to 34 54,7% 35,5% 90,3% 35 to 44 5,7% 1,9% 7,6% 45 to 54 1,4% 0,4% 1,8% 55 to 64 0,1% 0,1% 0,3% Over 65 0.0% 0,0% 0,1% Total 36.9% 47.8% 40.4% Scope of indicator: Retail – employees in Portugal. The method used to calculate the turnover rate was: Turnover rate = number of contracts terminated per age group and gender/number of total workforce of the same age group and gender LA4. The entire workforce of Sonae’s Retail business area in Portugal (total of 37,174 employees – 100%) is covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5. For the employees of the Retail business area, the minimum notice period regarding significant operational changes is in compliance with the applicable norms of the Labour Code and Collective Work Agreements. LA7. 2010 Number of work related fatalities 0 Number of accident at the workplace (with or without sick leave) 1,644 Number of accidents during home/work travels (with or without sick leave) 171 Total number of accidents (with or without sick leave) 1,815 Accident rates 0.00003 Absent days due to work related accidents 21,461 Rate of lost days due to work related accidents 0.03 Number of absent days due to occupational diseases 0 Rate of occupational diseases 0 Total number of lost days 21,461 Rate of lost days 0.034% Number of absenteeism hours 2,390,676 Workable hours by the total of employees 62,950,885 Rate of absenteeism 3.8% Scope of indicators: employees at Corporate Centre, Sonae MC, Sonae SR, Geostar and Maxmat. The methods used to calculate these indicators were: Rate of accidents = no. of accidents/workable hours by the total workforce Rate of lost days due to work related accidents = no. of absent days to due occupational accident/workable hours by the total workforce Rate of lost days = no. of lost days/workable hours by the total workforce Rate of absenteeism = no. of absenteeism hours//workable hours by the total workforce LA8. Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programmes Participants Number of actions Training and awareness-raising programmes 80,478 78 Counselling programmes 180 4 Prevention and risk-control programmes 1,285 7 Other Social Responsibility Initiatives 156 2 Scope of indicators: Retail 109 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LA10. Average of hours of training by employee category 2010 Directors/Supervisors 33 Senior Management 37 Middle Management 34 Highly skilled or qualified employees 32 Semi-skilled employees 32 Unskilled employees 39 Trainees/apprentices 50 Total 37.7 Scope of indicators: Retail employees in Portugal LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning No. of courses Commercial Academy 5 School of Perishable Goods 16,533 Sales School 2.246 Processes/System Training (workflows, SAP, Retek, Procurement Chain, Break) 748 Technical training on suppliers/products 719 Environmental Management 324 Safety, Hygiene and Health at the Workplace 9,565 Continuous improvement / Kaizen 26,030 Total 56,170 Scope of indicators: Retail – employees in Portugal LA12. The performance assessment process is applied to 100% of Sonae’s workforce. Nevertheless, it was not possible to assess the real proportion of reviews made on 2010. LA13. 2010 Employee category Age group Women Men Under 18 0 0 18 to 34 10 29 35 to 44 65 148 Directors 45 to 54 40 103 55 to 64 14 42 Over 65 0 1 Total no. of Directors 129 323 Under 18 0 0 18 to 34 48 36 35 to 44 29 31 Senior Management 45 to 54 4 2 55 to 64 0 2 Over 65 0 0 Total no. of Senior Management 81 71 Under 18 0 0 18 to 34 528 393 35 to 44 605 494 Middle Management 45 to 54 181 226 55 to 64 19 43 Over 65 0 0 Total no. of Middle Management 1,333 1,156 Under 18 0 0 18 to 34 8,136 3,950 35 to 44 5,213 1,506 Highly skilled or qualified employees 45 to 54 2,017 532 55 to 64 215 90 Over 65 4 Total no. of Highly skilled or qualified employees 15,581 6,082 Under 18 18 to 34 598 155 35 to 44 175 53 Semi-skilled employees 45 to 54 64 25 55 to 64 4 8 Over 65 0 1 Total no. of Semi-skilled employees 841 242 Under 18 0 0 18 to 34 18 49 35 to 44 29 49 Unskilled employees 45 to 54 15 14 55 to 64 7 2 Over 65 0 0 Total no. of Unskilled employees 69 114 Under 18 0 0 18 to 34 6,522 3,762 35 to 44 562 147 Trainees/apprentices 45 to 54 123 32 55 to 64 4 0 Over 65 0 0 Total no. of trainees/apprentices 7,211 3,941 Scope of indicators: Retail employees in Portugal 111 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LA14. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 2010 Directors/Supervisors 0.81 Senior Management 1.00 Middle Management 0.94 Highly skilled or qualified employees 0.99 Semi-skilled employees 0.90 Unskilled employees 0.91 Trainees/apprentices 0.99 Scope of indicators: Retail – employees in Portugal Human Rights Indicators (HR) HR1. Supply agreements contain a binding clause which mentions that suppliers must “comply with applicable norms and legislation regarding child labour, human rights and prohibition of discrimination, whatever the reason may be, against workers.” This clause is included on the following Retail business area’s contracts: general provision agreements, health area provision agreements, expendables provision agreements, home wear provision contracts, gross supplier brand agreements and remaining standard provision agreements. HR2. Suppliers that have undergone human rights screening 2010 Total number of contracts 5,072 No. of contracts that include human rights clauses 507 Percentage of contracts that include human rights clauses 10% Scope of indicators: Retail. HR4. At Sonae, there aren’t any cases of corruption in the company. HR5. In Sonae’s Retail business area, there aren’t any operations that endanger freedom of association and collective bargaining. See LA4 indicator. HR6. At Sonae, there isn’t any risk of child labour existing. Value chain risks for the Retail business area are minimized by existing control processes, described on chapter “Responsible Value Chain”. HR7. At Sonae, there isn’t any risk of compulsory labour existing. Value chain risks for the Retail business area are minimized by existing control processes, described on chapter “Responsible Value Chain”. Society Indicators (SO) SO1. There are several moments that assess the impacts and benefits of activity on communities. After a new unit has been installed, local organizations and authorities need to be contacted to obtain licenses and permits and to guarantee conditions that cause minimal impacts on communities. During operations, numerous initiatives are developed to support the community, centrally and via each brand, promoting social well-being and cohesion on communities. These are frequently performed in partnership with local organizations. More information on local communities’ support may be found under “A Greater World to Create”, under the area dedicated to community investments and on Chapter “Promoting well-being and development of local communities”. SO2. Throughout its Risk Management process, Sonae implements the Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Framework (COSO) international methodology, which allows for the identification of different types of risks and threats to business development, both strategically and operationally. Since the risk of corruption was not identified as a priority risk for the business, no assessments were conducted in this sense. For the Retail business area, the Code of Ethics and Conduct considers this risk and no reports were made of any case. More information on risk management processes may be found under “A Greater World to Create”. SO3. No training was provided regarding anti-corruption policies and procedures, since this is not a relevant risk for Sonae, under the risk management process described on chapter “A Greater World to Create”. Retail business area’s employees receive the Code of Ethics and Conduct, where some corruption prevention principles are defined. SO4. No corruption incidents took place at Sonae. Therefore, there was not a need to implement actions to answer this type of incident. SO5. Through the company’s partner associations, Sonae puts forward a set of themes that may influence public policy positions. The opening of department stores on Sundays was one of such cases. This theme was regulated during 2010. SO8. In the Retail business area, there were 8 noncompliance processes, which ended during 2010, that resulted on the payment of 18,550€. No non-monetary sanctions were applied. 113 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Product Responsibility Indicators (PR) PR5. No. of suggestions and complaints registered, by brand 2010 OBS. Continente 41,314 There are numerous ways to measure customer satisfactions, which are performed Modelo 13,971 according to the themes to be assessed Modelo Bonjour 378 (for instance: customer service, Modalfa 3,929 product quality, image, etc.) and according to different assessment methodologies Zippy 456 (e.g., mystery client, quarterly report, Worten 20,023 studies, surveys, online panels, etc), on Sonae’s different brands. Vobis 827 Each one of these studies has individual Sport Zone 563 results that are scrutinized to ensure the best possible answer to customers’ Well´s 510 needs. Apart from these tools, Bom Bocado 208 there is also Sonae’s Ombudsman, which is managed centrally Book.It 24 and is responsible for all types Loop 24 of complaints. Scope of indicators: Retail. PR6. Since 2009, Sonae subscribed the Commitments of the Food Industry on Food, Physical Activity and Health, regarding marketing and advertising targeted at children. These commitments, developed by FIPA – Federação das Indústrias Portuguesas Agro-Alimentares (Federation of the Portuguese Agricultural and Food Industries) and APAN Associação Portuguesa de Anunciantes (Portuguese Association of Marketers), want to change the types of beverages and foods marketed on the television, printed press and the Internet that are targeted at young children (<12 years old). PR9. In the Retail business area, there were 27 noncompliance processes, which ended during 2010, that resulted in the payment of 197,087.59€. Environment Indicators (EN) EN1 and EN2. Materials used Since Retail is a predominantly commercial activity, by definition it is quite sparse in direct consumption of materials. Even though, regarding the high number of employees and internal administrative processes, Sonae’s retail business area is responsible for a somewhat high consumption of paper. This situation has deserved the company’s attention and actions, by adopting more controlled and efficient printing mechanisms (by replacing equipments and internal procedures), by increasingly more using dematerialization processes (in internal processes and while interacting with our suppliers), and by promoting the use of recycled paper. As a result of the efforts performed, 2010 witnessed a 34% decrease in office paper consumption, while 47% of paper used was recycled. Raw material (Kg) 2009 2010 Total paper consumed 642,225 421,425 Recycled paper consumed 351,888 197,130 % of recycled paper 54.8% 46.8% Scope of indicators: Retail – Portugal EN3 e EN4. Consumption in GJ 2008 2009 2010 2009-2010 Var. Consumption of natural gas (GJ) 15,888 15,137 16,193 7% Consumption of propane gas (GJ) 4,866 5,097 2,609 -49% Consumption of diesel on stores (GJ) 6,060 6,421 5,190 -19% Consumption of diesel on goods’ transportation vehicles (GJ) 358,331 388,007 442,025 14% Consumption of diesel on employees’ vehicles (GJ) 59,871 63,508 72,328 14% Consumption of gasoline on employees’ vehicles (GJ) 1,733 1,698 1,473 -13% Total direct energy (GJ) 446,748 479,868 539,817 12% Electricity (GJ) stores 1,416,472 1,637,330 1,639,506 0.1% Electricity (GJ) manufacturing units ND ND 24,389 Total indirect energy (GJ) 1,416,472 1,637,330 1,663,895 1.6% Total consumed energy (GJ) 1,863,220 2,117,199 2,203,713 4% Scope of indicator: Fuel consumptions regard food stores, employees’ vehicles and fleet vehicles hired for the Retail business area in Portugal. Electricity consumed includes stores, warehouses, manufacturing centres and offices working for the Retail business area in Portugal. Conversion factors used: Information Source Natural Gas PCI (GJ/m3) 0.03846 APA Propane Gas PCI (kcal/kg) 11,070 Galp Energia Diesel Average density (kg/m3) 837 APA PCI (GJ/t) 43.33 Global Reporting Initiative 2006 Gasoline Average density (kg/m3) 740 Galp Energia PCI (GJ/t) 44.80 Global Reporting Initiative 2006 Other factors 1 Kwh=860 Kcal = 3.600.000J International Energy Agency 115 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Electricity by primary source (GJ): 2010 Hydropower 354,784 PRE Hydropower 15,828 Wind power 116,118 Cogeneration and micro production PRE 188,015 Natural gas 544,536 Fuel oil 19,942 Coal 266,212 Nuclear 108,389 Geothermal 2,436 Diesel 30,832 Other sources 16,803 EN8. In 2010, the total water consumed by the Retail Business Area (Continente, Modelo and Modelo Bonjour), in Portugal, was 757,734 m3. Although some stores have water boreholes, the company still does not have a systematic method to control consumptions associated with using borehole water. EN10. No water was recycled. EN11. The Retail business area has no facilities in areas of high biodiversity value. EN12. The Retail business area has no facilities in areas of high biodiversity value. Sonae’s impacts might happen as a consequence of the products marketed by the company. In this sense and in 2009, the Company published its Sustainable Fisheries Policy, through which the company tries to reduce or minimize effect on endangered species or at risk of becoming extinct. Sonae was clearly and objectively endorses, via the Producers Club, the use of farming processes that have lower impacts on the environment and biodiversity. More information on this theme may be found on chapter “Responsible Value Chain”. EN13. No operations took place that caused alterations to surrounding habitats, thus eliminating the need to restore them. Sonae’s impacts might happen as a consequence of the products marketed by the company. In this sense and in 2009, the Company published its Sustainable Fisheries Policy, through which the company tries to reduce or minimize effect on endangered species or at risk of becoming extinct. On the other hand, under the Producers Club’s processes, all fruits and vegetables must be produced in an “integrated protection” or “organic farming”. More information on this theme may be found on chapter “Responsible Value Chain”. EN14. Sonae’s Sustainable Fisheries Policy (regarding the Retail business area) has clear objectives to minimize effects on the diversity on endangered species or at risk of becoming extinct. The programme is supervised and its annual objectives are reported on this document. More information on this theme may be found on chapter “Responsible Value Chain” and on chapter “Commitments”. EN16. Emissions – ton CO2e 2008 2009 2010 2009-2010 Var. Natural Gas 891 849 908 7% Propane Gas 360 377 193 -49% Natural gas (GJ) 449 476 385 -19% Propane gas (GJ) 26,552 28,751 32,754 14% Diesel on stores (GJ) 4,436 4,706 5,359 14% Diesel on goods’ transportation vehicles (GJ) 119 116 101 -13% Direct Emissions (tonCO2e) 32,808 35,276 39,701 13% Electricity (tonCO2e) stores 192,011 173,742 157,328 -9.4% Electricity (tonCO2e) manufacturing units ND ND 2,340 Indirect Emissions (tonCO2e) 192,011 173,742 159,669 -8.1% Total Emissions (tonCO2e) 224,819 209,018 199,370 -5% Scope of indicator: Fuel consumptions regard food stores, collaborators’ vehicles and fleet vehicles hired for the Retail business area in Portugal. Electricity consumed includes stores, warehouses, manufacturing centres and offices working for the Retail business area in Portugal. Emissions factors used: Information Source: Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente Natural Gas Emission Factor CO2 (Kg CO2/GJ) 56.10 (Portuguese Environment Agency) Instituto do Ambiente (Environment Institute) /Inventário Nacional de Gases de Efeito Propane Gas Emission Factor CO2 (Kg CO2/GJ) 73.98 de Estufa de 2005 (2005 National Inventory of Greenhouse Gases) Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente Diesel Emission Factor CO2 (Kg CO2/GJ) 74.10 (Portuguese Environment Agency) Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente Gasoline Emission Factor CO2 (Kg CO2/GJ) 68.60 (Portuguese Environment Agency) The emissions factor was calculated according to emission factors of electricity traders (Source: ERSE and ENDESA). Electricity Emission Factor CO2 (g CO2/GJ) 345.46 The distribution of the consumption across Sonae’s different business units by the different traders was considered. 117 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EN17. CO2 Emissions (ton CO2e) 2008 2009 2010 2009-2010 Var. Emissions by vehicles 26,552 28,751 32,754 14% Km made 33,015,570 34,711,757 37,418,198 8% No. of transported cases 196,154,824 223,624,447 242,010,281 8% No. of transported cases /Km made 5.94 6.44 6.47 0.4% KgCO2e/1000 transported cases 135 129 135 5% Scope of indicator: Emissions result from the vehicles contracted to serve the Retail business area, in Portugal. EN20. NOx Emissions (ton NOx) 2008 2009 2010 2009-2010 Var. Consumption of diesel on goods’ transportation vehicles 287 310 354 14% Consumption of diesel on employees’ vehicles 48 51 58 14% Consumption of gasoline on employees’ vehicles 1 1 1 -13% TOTAL NOx Emissions 336 362 412 14% SO2 Emissions (ton SO2) 2008 2009 2010 2009-2010 Var. Consumption of diesel on goods’ transportation vehicles 75 81 93 14% Consumption of diesel on employees’ vehicles 13 13 15 14% Consumption of gasoline on employees’ vehicles 0 0 0 -13% TOTAL SO2 Emissions 88 95 108 14% Scope of indicator: Emissions result from the employees’ vehicles and the vehicles contracted to serve the Retail business area, in Portugal. EN21. The estimated volume of waste water generated by the Retail business area in Portugal is 606,187 m3. Since there is no control on waste water volume, on the estimated performed, one considered that 80% of the water consumed (calculated under EN8 indicator) is rejected as waste water. Except for stores at Vila Franca de Xira (Continental Portugal), Cancela, and Ribeira Brava (Autonomous Region of Madeira), the overwhelming majority of liquid effluents generated at Sonae’s facilities are flushed into public collectors. In the abovementioned cases and in the facilities of Oliveira de Azeméis, Torres Vedras e Santarém, stores have waste water treatment stations, with (secondary) biologic treatment, to ensure that effluents comply with applicable legal dispositions: discharge in natural environment; discharge under applicable Municipal Regulations. At these waste water treatment plants, effluents’ quality is monitored. EN22. Waste Produced (ton) 2010 Card 31,627 Plastic 3,517 Wood 923 Styrofoam 203 Hangers 89 Batteries 118 Light Bulbs 20 IT Expendables 13 Food oil 3 Hazardous WEEE 1,945 Non-hazardous WEEE 3,028 Cork 25 Packaging 7 SLI Batteries 75 Coffee Capsules 82 MSW 24,190 TOTAL 65,866 Waste by type (ton) 2010 Hazardous waste 2.171,4 Non-hazardous waste 63.694,4 Waste by destination (ton) 2010 Recycling 41,676 Land waste site 15,212 Organic recovery 3,398 Energetic recovery 5,579 Scope of indicator: Retail business area’s store in Continental Portugal, with direct management of waste produced. Maxmat stores are excluded from this scope, as well as stores in shopping centres where waste management is performed by the shopping centre. 119 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EN23. Sonae considers that spills are only significant if they affect the facilities’ external environment. This situation never happened as so no significant spills took place as a consequence of Retail operations. EN28. In 2010, 2 processes came to an end, on the Retail business area, which resulted in non-significant fines (<5.000€). Methological note: The calculations performed to determine indicators and variations compared to the previous year, were performed based on the real figures, not rounded figures, collected via Sonae´s internal information systems and management systems. As such, the figures included in the document, in some cases rounded figures, may thus suffer slight differences. Stakeholders survey Results from clients’ interviews and surveys made to local government units Interviews carried out with clients had the objective of identifying environmental and social practices considered as being relevant by the client and of attesting the notoriety of some sustainability initiatives developed by Sonae. 610 people were surveyed, by phone, clients of Continente, Modelo, Modelo Bonjour, Worten, Vobis, Sport Zone, Modalfa, and Zippy. 47.5% Products provided to 47.9% lower-income clients 40.5% 35.1% Products promoting 39.5% healthy eating habits 41.3% 39.5% Environment protection 50.1% measures 56.2% Measures implemented 32.8% to ensure 38.6% product quality 41.6% 33.9% Measures implemented 27.0% to ensure security 19.9% 2008 2009 2010 Out of a vast set of environmental and social issues suggested, clients identified “products provided to lower-income clients” as the most relevant topic, followed by environment protection measures, products promoting healthy eating habits, measures implemented to ensure security and measures implemented to ensure product quality. Similarly to what had happened on previous years, the concern over providing products to lower-income clients is stable, the concern over security issues increases and the concern over the rest of the topics decreases. The initiatives most emphasized by clients were: Continente – Missão Sorriso (86.4%) and Troca de Lâmpadas (76.8%) Modelo – Causa Maior (63.2%) and Pilhas de Livros (33.2%) Modelo Bonjour – Causa Maior (55.4%) Worten – Campanha Arredonda (85.3%) Modalfa – Campanha Nós (62.8%) Zippy Campanha Nós (63.8%) Sport Zone – Corrida da Mulher (53.7%) and Meia Maratona Sport Zone (44.6%) 121 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Local government units prioritize economic, environmental and social themes according to the following order: (1 being the most important theme): Economic Themes 1. Information regarding Governance and risk assessment model. 2. Policies and practices to sell products and services to underprivileged people or people residing in isolated areas. 3. Infrastructure investments and services provided, primarily for public benefit (through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagements). 4. Risks and economic opportunities for Sonae, occurring from climate change. 5. Policies and practices for the preferred selection of national suppliers. 6. Promotion of the Sustainability strategy and future commitments. 7. Economic information on value generated and distributed by stakeholders. Environmental Themes 1. Inclusion of environmental aspects when analyzing and selecting suppliers. 2. Energetic efficiency, CO2 emissions and use of alternative energy sources. 3. Environmental impacts resulting from more efficient product transportation and use of vehicles. 4. Environmental awareness raising campaigns for visitors, employees and community. 5. Reusable bags, with a lower environmental impact. 6. Separation, reuse and recycling of waste. 7. Policies and practices that promote greater efficiency on the consumers’ travels to stores. 8. Initiatives to recover packaging and products sold, battery recycling, collection of used appliances. Social Themes 1. Inclusion of social aspects when analyzing and selecting suppliers. 2. Human Resources’ management policies and practices. 3. Support to the training and qualification of employees, inclusively regarding ethics. 4. Investments on the community via patronage, sponsorship, volunteer work or other mechanisms. 5. Customers’ satisfaction assessment. 6. Providing healthy products and raising clients’ awareness. 7. Policies and practices to include clients with physical or psychomotor disability. 8. Policies and practices to design and sell products for specific groups or minorities. 9. Sale of low-cost products and services. 10. Non-compliance incidents with communication and marketing regulations and codes. GRI Table UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail 1 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO, chairman, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the 9 organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities regarding the company’s 22, 48 activity. 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation 131 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 12, 13 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating 28-30 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 131 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered 12 in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 12, 131 2.7 Markets served 12 2.8 Dimension of reporting organization, including number of employees, net sales and 13, 18 quantities of products and services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 29 ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 24, 86, 96 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 7 3.3 Reporting cycle 7 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents, including email 7 address and website. 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: determining materiality; prioritizing topics within the report; and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use 7, 22, 40, 41, 120, 121 the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries or regions, products or services, divisions, 7 installations, subsidiaries, leased, joint ventures, as well as other specific boundaries). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 7, 106-120 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, partly-owned companies, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other situations that can significantly affect 7 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the 106-120 Indicators and other information in the report. 1 This refers to the pages of the current document, except when the Cor. Gov. R. (2010 Sonae’s Corporative Governance Report) and the Man. R. (2010 Sonae’s Management Report) are mentioned. 2 Sonaecom’s and Sonae Sierra’s GRI indicators may be found on the respective Reports. 123 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of 106-120 base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 106-120 measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 123-129 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, 7, 104, 105 explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or 28, 29 organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons 29 for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non29 executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 28, 29, 35 direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the 29, Corp. Gov. R. 33-40 organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Corp. Gov. R. 14, 15, 41 are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body to define organizational strategy with regard to issues linked Corp. Gov. R. 70 with economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status Principles 1 to 10 14, 33 of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, Principles 1 to 10 Managmnt. R. 70 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Managmnt. R. 70 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Principle 7 31, 32 addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Principles 1 to 10 25 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: has positions in 25 governance bodies; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 40 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 40 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 40 type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 41, 120, 121 through its reporting. Economic Indicators Management Approach – Economic Performance 14-17, 71-75 Aspect – Economic Performance EC1*. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 19, 106 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Principle 7 48 activities due to climate change. EC3*. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 106 EC4*. Significant financial assistance received from government. 19 Aspect – Market Presence EC5. ratios of standard entry level wage by compared to local minimum wage at Principle 1 NA significant locations of operation. EC6*. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 64, 65, 106 significant locations of operation. EC7*. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the Principle 6 106 local community at locations of significant operation. Aspect – Indirect Economic Impacts EC8*. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 106 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the 68-70 extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Indicators Management Approach – Environmental Performance 14-17, 47, 71-75 Aspect – Materials EN1*. Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 114, 115 EN2*. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Principles 8 and 9 114, 115 125 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail Aspect – Energy EN3*. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principles 8 50, 115 EN4*. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Principles 8 49, 115 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Principles 8 and 9 49 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Principles 8 and 9 49-51, 60, 61 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Principles 8 and 9 49 Aspect – Water EN8*. Total water withdrawal by source. Principles 8 52-53 EN9. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principles 8 NA EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Principles 8 and 9 116 Aspect – Biodiversity EN11*. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Principles 8 116 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12*. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected Principles 8 116 areas. EN13. Habitats protected or restored. Principles 8 116 EN14*. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Principle 8 116 EN15. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Principle 8 NA habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect – Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16*. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 49-51, 117 EN17*. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 118 EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Principles 7 to 9 49-52 EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 NA EN20*. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 118 EN21*. Total water discharge by quality and destination. Principle 8 53, 118 EN22*. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 119 EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 120 EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of Principle 8 NA transported waste shipped internationally. EN25. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of Principle 8 NA water and runoff. Aspect – Products and Services EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Principles 7 to 9 47-55, 59-62 extent of impact mitigation. UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail EN27. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Principles 8 and 9 NA by category. Aspect – Compliance EN28*. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Principle 8 120 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Aspect – Transport EN29. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the Principle 8 51 workforce. Aspect – Overall EN30. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Principles 7 to 9 NA Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicators Management Approach – Social Performance (Employees) 14-17, 34-35, 71-75 Aspect – Employment LA1*. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 107 LA2*. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Principle 6 107, 108 group, gender, and region. LA3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or NA part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. Aspect – Labour/management Relations LA4*. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Principles 1 and 3 108 LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is Principle 3 108 specified in collective agreements. Aspect – Security and Health at Work LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health Principle 1 NA and safety programs. LA7*. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Principle 1 46, 109 of work-related fatalities by region. LA8*. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious Principle 1 109 diseases. LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Principle 1 NA Aspect – Training and Education LA10*. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 45, 110 category. LA11*. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 110 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12*. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 110 reviews, by gender. 127 A Greater World to Grow 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail Aspect – Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13*. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other Principles 1 to 6 111 indicators of diversity. LA14*. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Principles 1 to 6 112 by significant locations of operation. Social Performance Indicators – Human Rights Management Approach – Social Performance (Human Rights) 14-17, 64, 71-75 Aspect – Investment and Procurement Practices HR1. Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone Principles 1 to 6 112 human rights screening. HR2*. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Principles 1 to 6 112 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees Principles 1 to 6 NA trained. Aspect – Non-Discrimination HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Principles 1, 2 and 6 112 Aspect – Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5. Cases where there is a significant impediment to freedom of association and performance of collective bargaining agreements and measures that contribute to Principles 1 to 3 112 eliminate such impediments. Aspect – Child Labour HR6. Cases where there is a significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures Principles 1, 2 and 5 112 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Aspect – Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7. Cases where there is a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of forced or compulsory Principles 1, 2 to 4 112 labour. Aspect – Security Practices HR8. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or Principles 1 t 2 NA procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect – Indigenous Rights HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Principles 1 e 2 NA actions taken. Social Performance Indicators – Society Management Approach – Social Performance (Society) 14-17, 36, 71-75 Aspect – Community SO1. Nature, scope and efficiency of programmes and practices to assess and manage 36-39, 68-70, 113 impacts of operations on communities, including entry, operations and exit. Aspect Corruption SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Principle 10 113 corruption. UN Global GRI Compliance Indicators Compact Retail SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and Principle 10 113 procedures. SO4*. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 113 Aspect – Public Policy SO5. Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Principle 1 to 10 113 lobbying. SO6. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Principle 10 NA and related institutions by country. Aspect – Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7. Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and NA monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect – Compliance SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 113 for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Social Performance Indicators – Product Responsibility Management Approach –Social Performance (Product) 14-17, 56-63, 71-75 Aspect – Customer Health and Safety PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services Principle 1 62, 65 categories subject to such procedures. PR2. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life Principle 1 NA cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect – Product and Service Labelling PR3. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage Principle 8 56, 58, 61 of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Principle 8 NA codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5*. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 114 customer satisfaction. Aspect – Marketing Communications PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to 114 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and NA sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect – Customer Privacy PR8. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Principle 1 NA privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect Compliance PR9*. Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 114 * Indicators verified in independent audit 129 A Greater World to Grow “Work in Progress” An overview on the process of creation of Sonae’s Sustainability Worlds Credits Sonae, SGPS, SA Lugar do Espido, Via Norte Consultants: Sustentare, Lda. 4470-909 Maia – Portugal Graphic Design: Ivity Tel: +351 220 104 000 Printed by: Lidergraf Fax: +351 229 404 634 Published: July 2011 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
