Paper works – naturally Sustainability Review 2010 CONTENTS EDITORIAL Editorial 3 Myllykoski in brief 4 Myllykoski’s Paper Cycle 2010 6 The roots of Myllykoski’s corporate responsibility work lie in family A sustainability index for the paper industry 8 ownership, traditions and values, while the trunk is based on responsible Innovation in grinding technology results practices, legislation, management systems and standards, and last but in a quantum leap in energy efficiency 11 not least, competent personnel. The branches grow out of resource Myllykoski and responsibility 12 efficiency, R&D work, close co-operation with customers and other Economic responsibility 16 stakeholders and work to meet their expectations. Page 20 Environmental responsibility 22 The activities of companies play a critical role in moving towards Energy 23 Page 22 a more material and energy eﬃcient society. A material eﬃcient mode of operating is vital for global sustainable development, as it saves natural resources and the Raw materials 25 environment, helps to curb climate change and also achieves cost savings. Operating principles 28 In the decisive role is active research and development work seeking Environmental impact of operations 31 concrete solutions for improving material and ecological eﬃciency. The Galileo Emissions and waste 33 project presented in this report is a perfect example. During 2010 Myllykoski started Biodiversity 36 to introduce new hi-tech grinding technology at its mills with excellent results: Responsible products 37 energy consumption fell by almost a third. Transport 38 The sustainability of paper mills has a signiﬁcant eﬀect on the sustainability Social responsibility 40 of print products, and keen co-operation among all of us throughout the publication Personnel 41 paper value chain is thus vital. I am pleased to say that once again in this report we Occupational health and safety 44 are able to give our customers and suppliers a say, as they present their eﬀorts on the path toward sustainability. Social commitment 47 Co-operation, learning and networking are also among the key principles Research and development 48 of the Global Compact initiative. Myllykoski, a signatory since 2008, embraces the Glossary 49 core values of the Global Compact presented as ten principles in the areas of human GRI Application level 50 Page 27 Page 39 Page 16 rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption. Myllykoski Sales’ offices and agents 52 For Myllykoski the year 2010 was a time of decision making in a challenging operational environment. The demand for graphic printing papers developed Editor in chief positively, but proﬁtability deteriorated due to unsatisfactory price trends and rising Leena Hytönen raw material costs. In December 2010 it was announced that the owners of Myllykoski Editorial team Group and Rhein Papier GmbH have signed an agreement to sell the companies to Karsten Bode, Rüdiger Brames, Thomas Christl, Wolfgang Haase, Asta Halme, Martin Heinrich, Dan Mallett, Werner Manzinger, UPM-Kymmene Corporation. Catharina Månsson, Rudolf Neumüller, Johann Oberndorfer, Developments in the communication media of today are rapid and exciting. Erkki Peltonen, Elina Saarivuori, Judith Schlumberger-Steger, Antti Surokivi, Minna Tolonen, Nicole Uebe, Bernd Weikopf, I am convinced that print products will hold a strong position co-existing with other Kristiina Ylönen media platforms, because paper works – naturally. Publisher Myllykoski Corporation Graphic design Sverre Norrgård People’s President and CEO Photos E.ON, Mediashots, Myllykoski photo library, PVO, Timo Väre Printing H. Heenemann GmbH & CO KG, Berlin Inside pages MY VOLUME 90g/m2 2 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 3 Myllykoski in brief Myllykoski in brief MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Total annual Paper Paper Mill Country ISO ISO OHSAS EN PEFC FSC machines capacity, grades EMAS tonnes 14001 9001 18001 16001 CoC CoC SC, Lang Papier Germany ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ 3 1) 615,000 newsprint Madison USA ❄ ❄ ❄ 1 220,000 SC MD Albbruck Germany ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ 3 320,000 LWC MD Plattling Germany ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ 2 1) 400,000 LWC Myllykoski Finland ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ 3 600,000 SC, LWC Paper works Paper Paper works – naturally Plattling Papier Rhein Papier Germany Germany ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ ❄ 1 1 1) 380,000 310,000 SC newsprint at – naturally Myllykoski–since since1892 1892 ISO 14001 EMAS ISO 9001 an international standard for environmental management European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, relevant only within the European Union an international standard for quality management 1) Deinking plant OHSAS 18001 an international speciﬁcation for occupational health and safety management systems Paper is by nature a very local product. The Myllykoski papers’ main EN 16001 Energy management system PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation schemes. The SFI and CSA SFM programmes are also endorsed by PEFC ingredients, wood ﬁbre, water and energy, originate from local sources FSC Forest Stewardship Council close to the mills in Germany, Finland and the United States. But the CoC a certiﬁed Chain of Custody system that conﬁrms the amount of wood raw material originating from certiﬁed forests SC Super Calendered, uncoated magazine paper Myllykoski customers in over 70 countries ensure that at the end of the LWC Light Weight Coated magazine paper day paper becomes truly international. Myllykoski specialises in the developPapier) is a company that operates indener Rhein Papier GmbH) amounted to forms to the GRI Guidelines. Adherment, production and marketing of pendently, but is owned directly by the EUR 1.1 billion. ence to GRI indicators is illustrated and high-quality publication papers. It opshareholders of Myllykoski Corporation explained in a separate GRI index table Every decision counts erates seven paper mills in Plattling and organisationally managed by MylScope and objective of this at www.myllykoski.com under the sec(Bavaria), Ettringen (Bavaria), Alblykoski. tion Corporate responsibility. IN OUR DAILY LIVES, WE ALL HAVE OPPORTUNITIES TO MAKE CHOICES THAT bruck (Baden-Württemberg) and Hürth Myllykoski Corporation, the Finnreview Responsible production and use of CAN HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAIN (North Rhine-Westphalia) in Germany, ish parent company of the Myllykoski The Myllykoski Sustainability Review print and paper and sustainable business ABLE DEVELOPMENT. MYLLYKOSKI WORKS CLOSELY WITH ITS CUSTOMERS, in Kouvola, Finland, and in Madison in Group, is the holding company and par2010 covers Myllykoski Group’s and its solutions are the common goals of the SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS TO FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE LIFE CYCLE FOR the State of Maine in the United States. ent company of the Myllykoski Group alliance partner Rhein Papier’s producentire Graphic Communications Supply PRINT MEDIA. EVERY CHOICE COUNTS AND CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE. The mills have a total annual capacity companies (excluding alliance partner tion units and other functions in operaChain, including forestry, pulp, paper, of close to 3 million tonnes. Myllykoski Rhein Papier GmbH). It offers managetion throughout 2010. Sales offices and inks and chemicals, publishing and printIn the Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010, Carlos Ramos Cardenas from Telemploys 2,600 people. ment services to its subsidiaries as well as corporate functions are not included. ing. This review seeks to illustrate what evisa »page 15, Brigitte Dittrich-Krämer and Ulrich Freundschuh from BASF The Finnish roots of the familyto the alliance partner. Myllykoski CorThe data on environmental emissions is Myllykoski has done to ensure the sus»page 21, Stuart Auld from PMP Limited »page 30, Joana Barata Correia and owned parent company date back to poration’s headquarters is located in Koubased on the reporting practices in the tainability of paper manufacturing and to Lars Carlson from Inter IKEA Systems Media »page 35, Bernhard Gallus from 1892, when the brothers Claes and Fredvola, Finland, with an office in Helsinki. country and locality concerned. highlight the main focal areas and activiHubert Burda Media »page 39 and Ralph O´Connor from Graphic Communirik Björnberg founded the company Myllykoski’s “MY” brand papers The review presents Myllykoski’s ties of Myllykoski’s sustainability work. cations »page 48 discuss how their companies strive to make a diﬀerence. Myllykoski Träsliperi Aktiebolag. are a varied range of wood-containing business operations from the perspecThe review is published in English and recovered fibre based uncoated and tive of corporate responsibility, covering and German, and is also available on MylOperations and governance coated publication papers for products economic, environmental and social perlykoski’s website at www.myllykoski.com such as magazines, newspapers, cataformance. The Global Reporting Initiaunder the section Corporate responsibilThe Myllykoski Group is comprised logues, brochures, direct mail, school tive’s reporting framework and indicators ity. Myllykoski has published joint Enof subsidiaries and affiliate companies: books and outdoor posters. The interna(GRI/G3) have been used as a guideline, vironmental and Sustainability Reports among others, the mills (Lang Papier, tional sales network, with a presence in and the main structure of the review folsince 2002. The Myllykoski mills in EuMadison (Myllykoski 60%), Myllykoski over 50 countries through its own local lows the division into economic, envirope publish unit-specific Environmental Paper (Myllykoski 65%), MD Albbruck offices and agencies, is the key contact ronmental and social responsibility. The Reports, which follow the principles of and MD Plattling) and the Myllykoski for publishers, printers, retailers and review has not been externally assured, EMAS reporting. These publications can Sales network. catalogue producers worldwide. but Tofuture Oy, which specialises in also be found on Myllykoski’s website. The alliance partner Rhein Papier In 2010, the net sales of the Mylcorporate sustainability, has checked the GmbH (Rhein Papier and Plattling lykoski Group (excluding alliance partpublication and confirms that it con4 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 5 Myllykoski’s Paper Cycle 2010 Myllykoski’s Paper Cycle sums up the total material, energy and emission flows to and from the Myllykoski paper mills in Germany, Finland and the United States. For mill-specific data, please refer to the Environmental Reports published by the mills, available at www.myllykoski.com. As a general rule, fibres can be re-made into new paper products five to seven times before they become too short and damaged. Tools for communicating MY PAPERS environmental performance LWC 840,000 t ENVIRONMENTAL LABELS SC 1,130,000 t The Blue Angel eco-label is awarded Newsprint 520,000 t RECOVERED PAPER 977,000 t RECYCLING for products of Lang Papier and Rhein Myllykoski is one of the biggest users of recovered paper among European The use of recycled materials saves the Papier. Myllykoski Paper’s products have Myllykoski’s ”MY” brand papers are a varied range of wood-containing and renatural resource base. Paper is the most publication paper producers. The amount of recovered paper consumption by been approved for use in Nordic Swan covered ﬁbre-based uncoated and coated publication papers for magazines, recycled product in Europe. Recovered Myllykoski corresponds to the volume of publication papers collected from the eco-labelled print products. Paper Pronewspapers, catalogues, brochures, direct mail, school books and outdoor postpaper sourced by Myllykoski originates households of 18 million people. ﬁle product declarations oﬀer informaers. Paper is based on a renewable natural raw material, stores carbon throughfrom households, printers, industry and tion on the environmental performance out its lifecycle, and is recyclable. commerce. of products. LOGISTICS WOOD 2.4 million m3 CARBON FOOTPRINT The business is both local Myllykoski’s own wood-sourcing units supply pulpwood to the mills mainly Product carbon footprint assessments from local forests. A certiﬁed Chain of Custody (CoC) process from forest to end FORESTS are an essential part of Myllykoski’s and global and applies Forests sequester CO2 from the atmoslong-haul logistics. Raw use conﬁrms the amount of wood originating from certiﬁed forests and makes climate change action strategies. The PAPER PRODUCTION phere and store it as biomass carbon material transports constiit possible to trace back the origin of wood. product carbon footprints cover the while providing raw material for the entire product life cycle, from “cradle to Myllykoski’s seven mills in Germany, tute about 2% of a typical industry. Sustainable forest managegate”. Finland and the United States produce high quality product carbon footprint ment ensures that forest carbon stocks publication papers from fresh and recovered ﬁbres. (to mill gate). One of the remain stable. main targets of logistics CHEMICAL PULP 300,000 t Total paper production 2,490,000 t operations is to increase Chemical pulp is often added to mechanical pulp to give paper greater strength MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS the share of rail transporand better runnability. Myllykoski purchases chemical pulp from selected pulp All mills are covered by: Mechanical pulp 740,000 t tation. producers and requires that the suppliers are PEFC CoC and/or FSC CoC certiFresh spruce logs are debarked and wood ﬁbres are ﬁed or working towards certiﬁcation and that they use elemental chlorine-free ISO 14001 and/or EMAS environmental separated from each other by grinding or reﬁning. bleaching. management system RESPONSIBLE WOOD ISO 9001 quality management system 1) De-inked pulp 680,000 t PROCUREMENT OHSAS 18001 occupational health and Recovered paper is repulped, de-inked and washed on-site. Forest certiﬁcation provides assurance safety management system 1) NON-WOOD RAW MATERIALS that the wood used in products origiPEFC and/or FSC Chain of Custody Mechanical, de-inked and/or chemical pulps nates from sustainably managed forPigments and fillers 640,000 t EN 16001 energy management system are made into slurry with pigments, ﬁllers and additives. ests. Myllykoski supports PEFC and FSC 1,2) Mineral pigments and ﬁllers are needed to smooth the paper and improve the 1) The slurry forms a paper web in the paper machine’s printing properties. A variety of chemicals are used in stock preparation, bleachforest certiﬁcation systems. excl. Madison 2) excl. Myllykoski Paper wire section. The paper web is pressed, dried and ing, process control and cleaning. The chemicals comply with REACH requireﬁnally calendered and/or coated. ments. Suppliers are selected and monitored to ensure that the agreed sustainability criteria are met. WASTE FOR UTILIZATION WATER 12.5 m3/t Thermal reuse 296,000 t Papermaking processes require large quantities of water as a coolant, material Other reuse 81,000 t carrier, in steam production, and in forming hydrogen bonds to consolidate the structure of the paper web. Process water is drawn from rivers or groundwater A large part of the solid waste generated in the EMISSIONS INTO WATER EMISSIONS INTO AIR wells and re-circulated to the maximum extent possible in the process. Wasteprocess is thermally valuable organic biomass BOD 310 t CO2 fossil 1,150,000 t water is treated before being released into a watercourse. Emission levels are and sludge from recovered paper deinking and continuously monitored. COD 5,100 t SO2 2,100 t eﬄuent treatment. Part of the ash is used as P 50 t NOx 1,400 t raw material in the concrete industry and DIPsludge in the building products industry. Untreated eﬄuent contains nutrients Particles 42 t ENERGY and oxygen-demanding substances that dissolve into wastewater from The majority of airborne emissions Purchased electric energy 3,600 GWh wood, used chemicals and other raw are formed during the combustion of Thermal energy 2,850 GWh materials. Biological treatment removes fuels for energy production. Fossil carSOLID WASTE these harmful compounds eﬀectively bon dioxide emissions aﬀect climate Landfill waste 14,000 t Paper production requires large quantities of both electricity and heat. The clibefore eﬄuent is discharged. Nutrients change. Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen Hazardous waste 460 t mate impacts of purchased electricity depend on the local circumstances and contribute to eutrophication. oxides contribute to acidiﬁcation and available fuels, for which the electricity user has limited control. Myllykoski’s oneutrophication. going energy projects will have a positive impact on the energy balance and CO2 emissions. 6 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 7 Sustainability index Sustainability index Environmental safety Electricity ducted with the Myllykoski experts at the Personal safety Steam mills to gather check-lists of ideas on how Biodegradability CO2 to improve the sustainability of production processes at the mills. In the case of paper and print, susProﬁt SO2 tainability goes far beyond single features such as carbon footprint or recovProductivity ered fibre content. Life-cycle thinking NOX is essential. “Monitoring sustainability offers a long-term perspective and inFibre yield sight for efficiency improvements. SusCO tainability indices enable production 56,5% units to identify their weak points and Waste compare the situation with the indusFine particles BELOW AVERAGE try averages. They offer useful baselines for investment decisions and improveA Sustainability Index ments that will further sustainable development.” “Sustainability indices also add Fiber origin Claims ABOVE AVERAGE Freshwater for the Paper Industry Eﬄuent water transparency and support communication. I also believe that, if properly Accidents COD used, sustainability indices add value to Energy Water product propositions thus making them Nitrogen AOX Quality an asset in marketing,” says Jarkko, sumPhosphorus TSS Economy How to measure sustainability? Certiﬁcates, scorecards, and eco-labels are ming up the fundamental thinking and Chemicals goal setting behind the Sustainability In the Sustainability Index circle, sustainability increases from the centre towards No data proliferating, but many of them oﬀer only a narrow view of sustainability. Index. the outer circle. Sustainability is also indicated as an overall average in the centre. Best practices Myllykoski, Kemira and a young talented paper engineer wanted to go further. The Sustainability Index, developed by Jarkko Kutvonen, oﬀers a comprehensive tool for evaluating the paper industry’s sustainability. Guido Clemens, Sustainable development is an overarchthe opportunity to do my Master’s TheManager R&D, ing goal of our societies and is increassis on the subject,” says Jarkko Kutvonen, Rhein Papier: ingly being integrated into business opdescribing how the project started up. erations and industrial processes. But, are “Sustainability means much more than we doing the right things and focusing Sustainability goes beyond just examining ‘footprints’ for water, CO2 or on the right performance indicators? energy. Knowing the size of the ‘footprint’ single issues When Jarkko presented his idea for and understanding the impacts incurred The objective of the study was to develop online screening of sustainability factors, I over the entire life-cycle of products and a Sustainability Index for specific paper was happy to ﬁnd a 360° view that allows services are essential elements in improvlines, which takes into account ecologifor monitoring a great many detailed asing the sustainability of any business. cal, economic and social aspects of suspects. However, the paper industry, among othtainability. During the interview we arrived at an ers, lacks appropriate tools for measuring The project consisted of an exteninteresting complete survey of our mill in sustainability. Myllykoski and Kemira, a sive literature search, developing compoterms of sustainability. We were able to see company offering chemical products and nents for a Sustainability Index and the the strengths and the weaknesses of Rhein integrated systems for improving energy, mathematics related to it, interviews with Papier outlined on a single sheet. water, and raw material efficiency, starta wide group of paper industry stakeholdBenchmarking with diﬀerent mills ed to look at the idea from the process ers, developing a tool for drawing a visual using the same catalogue of questions control point of view. image of the index and calculating tentamakes it easy to deﬁne your position and “At this point I was finishing my tive standard index values for Myllykoski’s future targets regarding sustainability asJarkko Kutvonen graduated in 2010 from the Aalto studies at the Aalto University School of newsprint and SC mills. Over and above University School of Science and Technology, pects. ” Science and Technology and was given that, more than 20 interviews were conmajoring in Paper and Printing Technology. 8 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 9 Sustainability index Energy efficiency Measuring is a challenge Lang Papier, Rhein Papier and Plattling a comparison should be made between Papier. Four different paper machine the same type of paper lines and paper The first step in developing a Sustainabililines were examined, two of which were grades, and this requires a substantial ty Index for paper was to select and define newspaper lines and two SC paper lines. amount of data.” the indicators which were perceived as the Jarkko is convinced that measuremost relevant to sustainability (Table). A roadmap towards ment of sustainability will become a The next step was to develop a standard procedure in the future. “To mathematical model that would make sustainability guarantee the needs of future generaall the indicators capable of comparison. The study showed that the Sustainability tions, we need to have a solid long-term The values of the indicators were scaled Index enables production units to efdevelopment path that is socially desirato be between zero and 100 per cent, fectively identify the areas they need to ble, economically viable and ecologically 100 per cent being the most sustainimprove, and it can thus be used for desupportable. Sustainability Index-type able case. The scaling was based on the veloping paper processes and products. tools can surely guide us in the right dibest practice values (defined as paper An Index-type tool can also be used rection, helping us to create a roadmap industry averages) and was done using a as a benchmarking tool within a compatowards sustainability. The future of our mathematical equation so that the best ny. “It is important to note, though, that planet is in our hands.” practice values were set at 50 per cent. This enabled a clear and consistent visual presentation. In addition to the visual presentation, the Sustainability Index is presented as a calculated value. Indicators of the Sustainability Index Energy Water Chemicals Economy Quality Innovation in grinding “Measuring sustainable development proved to be harder than I originally imagined,” Jarkko confesses, “but • CO • Electricity • Greenhouse gases • AOX • COD • Eﬄuent water • Biodegradability • Environmental safety • Personal safety • Fibre yield • Productivity • Proﬁt • Accidents • Claims • Fibre origin technology results in a quantum the hardest part was fitting all the different indicator values into one single visual illustration that would be extensive, clear • NOx • SO2 • Fresh water • Nitrogen (N) • Waste leap in energy eﬃciency and simple at the same time. Also, the re• Steam • Phosphorus (P) sults had to be comparable.” • Fine particles • Total suspended Mechanical pulp provides excellent printability, its production process uses very All the data required for calculating solids and testing the index were acquired from little or no chemicals, and the pulp yield and thus material eﬃciency are on a maximum level. However, the downside is that the process is relatively energyintensive. Myllykoski is playing a pioneering role in implementing a new Eco-efficiency of paper products grinder technology that signiﬁcantly reduces energy consumption. How can we further improve the environmental performance of paper products? What can players in the value chain contribute to this? Rising energy costs have been an imporBy the end of 2011, one fourth of significantly and we expect that, with furtant driving factor, but nowadays great Myllykoski’s pressurised groundwood ther process development, we can reduce In Bavaria, the two-year project “Eco-eﬃcient Paper Products” tackled these questions. On behalf of the Bavarian State Ministry of the Environment and Public Health (StMUG), the Bifa Environemphasis is placed on solutions that imcapacity will be using the new “Galileo” up to one third of the specific energy conmental Institute, in cooperation with 16 enterprises and four federations, analysed the compreprove material efficiency altogether as technology. The target is to accomplish sumption of the grinding process.” hensive life cycles of ﬁve paper products. Lang Papier participated in this study by supplying well as having the lowest possible envithe transition of Myllykoski’s pressurised “Besides bringing considerable process data. ronmental impact. groundwood mills to the new technolelectricity savings in the production of In the pressurised groundwood sysogy by the end of 2012. mechanical paper grades, this new techThe scope of the study covered the entire life span of the paper products from the production tem, the refining of the wood into fibres “The first results are very positive,” nology also gives us a significant advanof raw materials through paper making and conversion into paper products to ﬁnal disposal. is done by grinding the logs against a says Jukka Kejonen, Director, Product tage in terms of our carbon footprint as The study also covered raw and source materials, energy input, disposal of waste material and all revolving abrasive surface usually made Development. “The electricity consumpcompared to the existing peer pulping transports. The environmental impacts were compiled in an ecology index. of ceramic. The research focus has for a tion of the grinding process has decreased methods,” Jukka Kejonen points out. The most signiﬁcant potentials for improving eco-eﬃciency were identiﬁed in the following long time been searching for solutions areas: that would produce the highest quality • Increasing energy eﬃciency final product with the lowest possible In July 2010 the “Galileo” grinding surface was installed in • Minimising CO2 emissions from steam and electricity generation energy consumption. pressure grinder 18 at MD Albbruck. “In comparison to grind• Improving the recovery of waste heat In 2010, after many years of sciener 19 with a conventional grinding stone, the speciﬁc energy • More eﬃcient supply of raw materials tific work and pilot testing, the research consumption decreased by 30 per cent and the production project took an important step, when the volume increased by 15 per cent,” Michael Braun explains In its conclusion, the study states unambiguously that using wood for paper production is markedly with satisfaction. mill-scale implementation phase began. better for the environment than directly incinerating it. Wood ﬁbre used for paper making is recycled He works as Development Engineer at the mill and has The initial pioneering implementation been keenly involved in the project. “We are also very pleased many times as recovered paper until it is disposed of and used to generate energy. work was carried out at Myllykoski Pathat the quality properties of the screened groundwood For more information, please visit http://www.ipp-bayern.de per, followed by the installation at MD pulp, such as freeness and strength, are as good as ever.” Albbruck and Plattling Papier. 10 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 11 Myllykoski and responsibility Myllykoski and responsibility Sustainability the answer to a global challenge Dr. Karsten Bode has been Myllykoski’s Director of Sustainability since October 2010. He explains how sustainability translates into action at Myllykoski and what kind of strategies are being developed. Mr. Bode, since 2009 you have been involved in elaborating a comprehensive strategy process. How were sustainability issues What are the key aspects of the Could you give us some integrated into this process? new sustainability strategy? concrete examples? We took the opportunity to develop our The key aspects remain the three dimenIn the future one of the crucial issues will corporate strategy, sustainability stratsions of sustainability: the environment, be to define, record, monitor and comegy and energy strategy virtually simulsocial responsibility and the economic municate even more quantitative targets taneously and consistently in terms of basis. When revising our strategy we than now. In each of the three dimencontent. This enabled us to incorporate concentrated on addressing the key facsions of sustainability there are still a sustainability issues into our strategy tors for successful sustainability, which, few more key figures to be defined and process in the best possible way, so as to in our view, are management, concrete reviewed, in order to improve the moniunderline our approach, that sustainabilactions and the definition and monitortoring of the set goals and the communiity is an integral part of all our business. ing of quantitative metrics. cation of progress. 12 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 13 Myllykoski and responsibility Myllykoski and responsibility A global commitment What other areas of activity are During the strategy process to sustainability addressed by the new you have extensively addressed Myllykoski has been a signatory company of the United Nations Global Compact initiative since 2008. sustainability strategy? global mega trends. What were The Global Compact is a global network of businesses and other stakeholders from around the world committed to your conclusions with respect sustainability and responsible business practices. The core values of the Global Compact are presented as ten principles in Let’s have a look at social responsibility: to sustainability? the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. It aims to mainstream the ten principles in this area we have been successful in in business activities around the world and to catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including the Millennium terms of occupational health and safety There is one major aspect: sustainability Development Goals. and a lot has been achieved in the fields with all its dimensions used to be among A comparison between Myllykoski’s reporting and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines and the Gloof metrics and continuous improvethe top issues on the agenda in advanced bal Compact principles is presented in the GRI index at http://www.myllykoski.com under the section Corporate Rement. However, there are also issues industrial societies only and forced peosponsibility. such as performance monitoring, manple there to take corresponding actions. agement culture, training and advanced Since for some time already sustainabiltraining that need to be developed furity issues have been gaining increasing The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ther in this direction. importance in emerging countries, too, HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should: Another aspect is our internationenterprises will in the long run face al1. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and al commitments, for example, our parmost the same conditions worldwide in 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ticipation in the Global Compact. The this respect. This provides a basis for fair LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold: commitment to the Global Compact is competition and – more importantly – a Dr. Karsten Bode heads Myllykoski’s sustainability 3. the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; justified. Looking at the traceability of shared path to sustainable development. work since October 2010. 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; our actions or omissions, we can, how5. the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and ever, still improve verifiability and doc6. the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. umentation. Another field of action is ENVIRONMENT Businesses should: the way we generally deal with commu7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; nities and our stakeholders. In this area Myllykoski´s Sustainability Functional Core Network 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and company-wide, consistent policies need OPERATIONS SUPPORT 9. encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. to be defined and implemented. SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTION ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should: Human Corporate Legal.. 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sourcing Energy Resources Communications Aﬀairs. & SALES FUNCTIONS Let’s get down to the Myllykoski mills Sales and Marketing environmental dimension of Carlos Ramos Cardenas, sustainability. Which are the relevant issues in this area? Director of Corporate Social Development, Televisa, Mexico Climate protection and resources con“Televisa is the largest media company in the Spanishswitched to lower grammages and we give consideration to servation have already directed our efspeaking world and the magazine publisher with the the size of print runs. forts towards an improvement of our highest paper consumption in Latin America. Our most In our corporate oﬃces and TV production sites we enCO2 balance, and we are also working Corporate Responsibility at Myllykoski relevant sustainability issues are therefore related to our courage meticulous sorting of waste and other residues in on the implementation of the 20-20-20 Together with a team, Dr. Karsten Bode, Director Sustainability, has the managepaper consumption. compliance with the environmental law requirements of the targets set up by the European Comment responsibility for sustainability work at the company. The work is being coTo improve the sustainability performance of our Clean Industry regulations. mission. The paper industry already ordinated in the diﬀerent mills with the support of the Sustainability Core Group operations, we are committed to buy only paper whose Televisa puts a lot of effort into Social Responsibility has a long track record of thrifty usage and several work groups. Generally Myllykoski’s sustainability work is steered by wood ﬁbre originates from sustainably managed forests. and community projects. We have recently published the of that vital natural resource, water. In the Executive Board. The quality properties and price of the paper are obvisecond edition of ‘Mi Libro Verde’ (My Green Book), a book a global context this issue will, however, ously important, too, but sustainability is a paramount intended for children about biodiversity and human impacts certainly gain even more importance. The Corporate Responsibility Committee, a body headed by the Executive Vice prerequisite. on nature. It attempts to educate children about sustainable President Technology and with representatives of the top management, advises In the future we will not only be talkthe Executive Board and the Sustainability Team. Ultimately the President and In our own operations we promote eﬃcient reactions, and the underlying message is that we all count. ” ing about the carbon footprint, but also cycling, for example, of returned magazines. We have CEO of the Myllykoski Corporation is responsible for issues concerning Corporate about the water footprint of an enterResponsibility. prise or product. 14 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 15 Economic responsibility Economic responsibility 2010 – A year of 2010 challenges TITLE XXXXXX Financial performance and Myllykoski Group’s profitability fell in At Lang Papier and Myllykoski Paper neprofit-improving activities 2010 compared to 2009. The operative gotiations were started on personnel recash flow was negative. ductions during the last quarter of 2010. Economic responsibility The global economy recovered considerably in 2010 after a severe recession. In Adequate profitability being a prerequisite for all sustainability in business, The Myllykoski Group publishes a separate Annual Report, which provides the paper industry this was seen as an Myllykoski continued to further develop a review on the company’s financial reincrease in paper demand since spring its organisation and processes. There sults. The alliance partner Rhein Papier 2010. As a consequence, paper machine were several projects aimed at optimisis not included in the figures. operating rates improved towards the ing processes and increasing efficiency. end of the year. The Net Working Capital Reduction Ownership of the Group Price development in publication Project was carried out with the goal of papers was negative at the beginning reducing working capital sustainably at On 21 December 2010 Myllykoski’s ownof the year. Newsprint paper prices deMyllykoski entities, considering all levers ers announced the sale of Myllykoski clined by as much as one fifth. There of Working Capital. Operations were Corporation to UPM-Kymmene Corwere some price increases during the secreorganised at the Group’s mills to enporation. The transaction is subject to ond half of the year, but the price level of hance competitiveness. At MD Plattling the approval of the competition authoripublication paper remained low. Prices negotiations to reduce the workforce by ties, among others. The target is to close for fibre increased heavily and remained approximately 80 positions were conthe transaction during the third quarter on a high level. As a consequence, the cluded during the first quarter of the year. of 2011. 16 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 17 Economic Responsibility Economic responsibility Economic responsibility MYLLYKOSKI GROUP *) MYLLYKOSKI GROUP *) MYLLYKOSKI GROUP *) operations. Pension plan arrangements is carrying on operations according to plan NET SALES PRODUCTION NUMBER OF PERSONNEL, AVERAGE Economic sustainability are made according to local regulations as a part of sustainability and proceeding with the planned projects. EUR million 1,000 tonnes and practice. The Myllykoski Group has Economic sustainability requires a defined benefit plans in Germany and in strategy long-term, far-sighted business orienta1,600 2,500 4,000 the United States. In 2010 there were deThe economic success of Myllykoski is tion in all decision making and presup1,400 2,000 fined benefit plans for 3,200 present and reflected in the Group’s economic reposes investment in businesses with fu1,200 3,000 former employees. The defined benefit sponsibilities to its stakeholders, includture profitability potential. Innovation, 1,000 1,500 plans covered 59.5 per cent of present ing customers, personnel, owners, supadequate product and service quality and 800 2,000 1,000 employees at the end of the year 2010. pliers, neighbouring communities etc. efficient use of resources are essential fac600 Myllykoski observes its ethical values tors for sustainable development. Further400 500 1,000 Public sector and Code of Conduct in all relationmore, active business risk management 200 Corporate taxes are a major source of ships with its stakeholders. plays a crucial role in all processes. 0 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 income for local and national communiUntil the transaction with UPM has ties. In 2010, net taxes paid by the Mylbeen closed, Myllykoski’s responsibility is to lykoski Group to governments totalled continue business normally and to achieve MYLLYKOSKI GROUP *) Economic impact EUR 2.9 (EUR 5.1) million. the targets set for the year 2011. Myllykoski NET SALES BY DESTINATION 2010 (EUR 1,123 million) Myllykoski’s operations have an ecotunities. In 2010, the Myllykoski Group nomic impact on the local and national acquired materials and services amountMyllykoski Group communities where the Group operates. ing to EUR 966 (EUR 936) million. Myllykoski is a family-owned company The total investments of the Myllykoski that sells a varied range of wood-conGroup were EUR 18 (EUR 35) million, Financial facts and ﬁgures 2010 taining and recovered fibre based unincluding EUR 9 million worth of incoated and coated publication papers to vestments in property, plant and equippublishers, printers and retailers in over ment in 2010. 70 countries, as well as buying materials and services from its suppliers. MyllykosEmployees Germany 35% ki pays salaries to local employees and • Net sales of the Myllykoski Group in 2010 were EUR 1,123 million, which is 7.3 France 7% per cent less than in 2009 (EUR 1,212 million). UK 7% taxes that benefit local communities and The Myllykoski Group has 2,400 emFinland 2% economies, both directly and indirectly. ployees in Europe and in the United • Operating loss for 2010 was EUR 49 million (loss of EUR 18 million). Operating Other EU 24% States. The salaries paid by the Myllykoski loss without non-recurring items was EUR 63 million (profit of EUR 10 million). Other Europe 3% Customers Group directly affect the employees’ purNorth America 13% • Operating loss for October December 2010 was EUR 34 million (loss of EUR chasing power, and consequently also the Other 9% 55 million). Operating loss without non-recurring items for October December Myllykoski mainly serves business-toeconomic vitality of the local community 2010 was EUR 29 million (loss of EUR 11 million). business customers through its interor region. Most of the Myllykoski paper national marketing and sales network. mills are situated in regions where Myl• The loss for the year 2010 was EUR 113 million (loss of EUR 68 million). The Most of the Group’s mills are situated in lykoski plays a central role as one of the loss without non-recurring items was EUR 70 million (loss of EUR 7 million). MYLLYKOSKI GROUP *) Central Europe, close to the customers. biggest private employers in the area. PRODUCTION BY PAPER GRADE 2010 • Operating cash flow in 2010 was EUR -22 million (EUR 153 million). In 2010, the total sales of the Myllykoski In 2010, personnel expenses to% Group amounted to EUR 1,123.0 (EUR talled EUR 161.9 (EUR 180.5) million, • Low paper prices and high fibre prices affected profitability negatively. 1,212.0) million. Deliveries to Europe EUR 127.6 million of which was paid in • On 21 December 2010 Myllykoski’s owners announced the sale of Myllykoski accounted for 78 per cent of Group sales, wages and salaries (EUR 139.2 million), Corporation to UPM-Kymmene Corporation. The transaction is subject to the and to North America for 13 per cent. including incentive bonuses based on approval, among others, of the competition authorities. The target is to close the achievement of key targets. The wages transaction during the third quarter of 2011. Suppliers and salaries paid in Europe totalled EUR 112.1 (EUR 116.9) million, while the Myllykoski provides a reliable source corresponding figure for North AmerThe Myllykoski Group publishes a separate Annual Report that provides a review of of income and plays an important role ica was EUR 15.6 (EUR 22.3) million. the company’s financial results. The alliance partner Rhein Papier is not included in Magazine 88% in the success of many contractors and The decrease in personnel expenses was the figures. Newsprint 12% supplier companies. Many functions, mainly due to the sale of the Alsip and such as maintenance and IT, have been Utzenstorf paper mills in 2009. *) The alliance partner Rhein Papier is not fully or partly outsourced to external The Myllykoski Group has estabincluded in these figures. partners, which in turn offer job opporlished a number of pension plans for its . 18 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 19 Economic responsibility Economic responsibility Two Sides inal The origs gaining wireles nication. commu ground Print an Myths ad Paper ation imagin tch our . lity to stre er medium can es. the abi oth teri Two Sides is an initiative launched by Print and te our creativ and stim Paper has ula informa t tion, por It’s full of that a great ide ity as no requires no bat table and a! teri al. In Europe nd Facts Now isn’ recycla ble ma vested are har companies in the graphic communicaa renew sts, able and ry year than d mass every It’s also s are planted and fore grown by mo eve re of Eur more tree covering mo than 30% sinc re ope’s lan 1950. e s e nication year, hav l commu sing tions supply chain, including forestry, Paper is Print and UK studies hav il and interne medium. combining gns e sho ma erfu also a pow wn that adv yield respon se rate. erti t can campai itional 25% pulp, paper, inks and chemicals, pre-press, up to an Renewabl add e, Recycla ble and Powerfu l. press, finishing, publishing and printing. d Pape Print an great r have a ntal The common goal of the initiative sto me environ to tell ry Print and have a Paper environ great is to promote the responsible producmenta story to l tell tion and use of print and paper, to discuss paper’s sustainability credentials, and in particular to show how, in a world of In 2010, the initiative, which origa wide membership across all sectors scarce resources, print and paper’s unique inated in the UK, started to become of the graphic communications supply recyclable and renewable qualities are truly pan-European as it was launched chain. Myllykoski has been a participant fundamentally valuable. It offers a forum in seven new countries with national since 2009. for the industry to work together and networks and local information mateshare experiences, improve standards and rial. Two Sides is closely connected with practices, and strengthen consumer conPrint Power, a campaign to promote For more information, please visit In May 2010, E.ON’s new gas and steam turbine power station for the Plattling mills went on stream, giving new economic impetus to the whole region. For fidence in paper products. the effectiveness of print media. It has www.twosides.info District Administrator Christian Bernreiter (left) the new power plant is a future-oriented investment that sets an example for others. In addition to Christian Bernreiter, the photo taken at the power plant’s topping out ceremony, shows Siegfried Ramsauer, Mayor of Stephansposching, Monika Weinl, Vice President of the Regional Council, Bernhard Fischer, CEO of E.ON Generation and Erich Schmid, Mayor of Plattling. (Photo: E.ON) Dr. Brigitte Dittrich-Krämer, Senior Manager Viable infrastructure for rural areas Sustainability, Sustainability Center and Heading east from Munich towards the new buyers, mainly in the energy sector, had numerous constructive discussions, Ulrich Freundschuh, Key Account Manager, county town of Deggendorf you will is a concern shared by Christian Bernreiter: and measures were swiftly taken to imPaper Chemicals Division, BASF SE, Germany agree with District Administrator Chris“Of course we understand the company’s prove noise protection to levels far beyond tian Bernreiter’s description of his native worries in this respect. Our dialogue with the legal obligations.” region: “This is a place to live and work, the company also includes issues like this. Over the years the Plattling “Sustainability is ﬁrmly rooted in our company, both strategically and organisationally. As an integral part of BASF’s value based management, it helps us to minimise risks, enhance the existing busiwhere others spend their holidays.” On the And the dialogue is very important to us, mills have invested continuously, and not horizon you can see the mountains of the because it’s the only way to learn where only in machinery and technologies. For ness and create new business opportunities. BASF is also a founding member of the United Nations Bavarian Forest, which together with the and how we can help to optimise the busiChristian Bernreiter it is also very signiﬁGlobal Compact initiative. adjacent Bohemian Forest form Central ness environment.” cant that the company can oﬀer attracWe have recently conducted an extensive stakeholder and corporate survey to identify which Europe’s largest coherent forest area. A “Building the Plattling green ﬁeld tive apprenticeships for young people. sustainability issues are most important for society and thus most relevant for BASF. Through the treasure which not only makes the region site in 1982 was an important milestone in “Demographic trends make training vaidentiﬁcation of key sustainability issues, we develop solutions which will help to meet future soattractive for thousands of tourists but the area’s development,” explains Christian cancies in this region particularly imporcietal needs. The focus is now on energy, resources, climate change, water availability and quality, which is especially valuable for another Bernreiter. The locating of the Myllykoski tant. If young people don’t have positive product stewardship, health care and human rights. reason: today the wood resources of the Alliance Partner Rhein Papier’s new paper prospects in this vicinity, they will migrate The most important tool for evaluating sustainability performance is our eco-eﬃciency analyBavarian Forest are very much in demand mill in the area 25 years later was seen as to the big cities and the rural areas will sis, which looks at environmental impact in proportion to a product’s cost-eﬀectiveness. It helps since wood is a sustainable alternative to a new economic opening. Industry ex’bleed dry’. ” Today, the Plattling Mills oﬀer, fossil fuels, a sustainable building material perts were surprised at how quickly and directly and indirectly, some 700 jobs thus us, our customers and customers’ customers to decide which products are the best choice, both and a renewable resource for the paper cooperatively local and regional oﬃcials contributing, together with an extensive ecologically and economically. industry. responded to the 500 million euro project. variety of small and medium-sized enterWe want to build a sustainable relationship with our business partners and therefore we choose For Myllykoski’s Plattling mill, “It was probably helpful that in the years prises, to a healthy structure in the area. suppliers, carriers and service providers who perform well in the ﬁelds of environmental and social too, the site’s proximity to this unique natbefore, Myllykoski had become an estabChristian Bernreiter is impressed by the responsibility. Risk matrices help us to identify potential high-risk suppliers. ural landscape in the heart of Europe has lished enterprise in the region,” Christian new gas ﬁred power plant for combined BASF was the ﬁrst company in the chemical industry to publish a corporate carbon footprint been an advantage since the very beginBernreiter points out. heat and power generation, the latest in 2008. Climate protection is of strategic importance. We are continually optimising our production ning. Due to the mill’s location, the wood Of course, the District Adminisinvestment at Plattling, but not only beprocesses to reduce emissions. needed today to produce 800,000 t/a of trator knows that there is no industrial procause of its enormous dimensions. “This Furthermore, innovative technology solutions and chemical products developed by BASF, e.g. printing papers can be supplied without duction without environmental impact: future-oriented project sets an example having to be transported long distances. “Myllykoski’s planning for the Plattling mill for many other companies and sectors. for the paper manufacturing process, help to reduce water use and pollution, to save energy and to However, the competition for wood rehas been thorough and transparent right The project shows that the paper industry support the entire process of recycling paper. Our chemicals make it possible for the consumer to sources that has arisen between the trafrom the start, and the company has been is an innovative sector that has a future read newspapers and books and to use carrier bags produced from recovered paper. ” ditional wood converting industry and very cooperative. To take an example, we and will make a future for many people.” 20 20 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 21 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility ENERGY Environmental responsibility Material and energy eﬃciency are an integral part of Myllykoski’s strategy aiming to reduce the ecological footprint of its operations. The highest standards of environmental performance, including responsible wood sourcing from sustainably managed forests are key elements for ensuring a reduced impact on the planet. Combating climate change: focus on energy eﬃciency and conservation Energy efficiency and climate change isThe EU’s 2020 targets are challenging, tricity and low-emission fuels have given sues are key elements of Myllykoski’s new and the means for achieving them are cause for concern. Energy Strategy, which was approved in not yet within sight. Myllykoski’s Energy The proportion of renewable ener2010. Working Group, which drew up the Engy is already significant, and the general In terms of the environment, the ergy Strategy, believes that the targets are trend in energy production will further Energy Strategy’s main targets stem achievable by participating in the develincrease it. from commitment to the EU’s 20-20-20 opment of new energy efficiency tools. The agreed targets are to be divided target for 2020: The single most challenging target into mill-specific targets. The mills are all • Energy efficiency will improve by 20 is the boosting of energy efficiency. This different, and their ages also differ, which per cent over the 2005 level. The indiwill require Myllykoski to take a pioneermeans that the development potential cator used is energy consumption per ing role in developing and implementing varies due both to the external and the paper tonne produced. new technology and methods. internal conditions of the mills. • Carbon dioxide emissions attributable Myllykoski has already done a lot New technologies will be utilized to paper production will be reduced to restrict carbon dioxide emissions, for as extensively as possible in order to by 20 per cent from the 1990 level by example, when power plants are rebuilt. improve energy efficiency. In 2010, 2020. One problem will be the increase in the Myllykoski Paper, together with Aalto • In 2020, 20 per cent of the energy costs of production resources caused by University and Motiva Oy, an affiliated used will be produced from renewable the indirect effects of emissions trading. government agency specialising in enersources. The constantly rising prices of both elecgy and material efficiency, conducted a 22 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 23 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility RAW MATERIALS “The new fresh fibre grinding technology brings considerable energy savings.” Thomas Christl, Management Systems, MD Albbruck Managing sustainability throughout the supply chain pilot project to analyse the mill’s steam energy efficiency can be ensured well ENERGY EFFICIENCY Wood procurement some 145 kilometres. At the Plattling site tent. At Rhein Papier, the fibre base is and condensate systems. The project into the future. DEVELOPMENT AND TARGET the share of incoming roundwood trans100 per cent graphic recovered paper. At brought good results, and on their baAn important energy project in Speciﬁc energy MWh/t In 2010, the amount of roundwood deported by rail was as high as 55 per cent. MD Plattling, the use of post-consumer sis a national recommendation for the 2010 was the completion of test runs 2.8 Target (-1.5%/a) MWh/t livered to the Myllykoski mills totalled recovered paper was increased. Platanalysis of steam and condensate sysat Plattling’s new power plant and the 2.4 million cubic metres (solid o.b.) of Recovered paper tling’s DIP plant is one of the few special tems is currently being drawn up. This start-up of commercial operation in 2.7 spruce and fir pulpwood. The mills in facilities in Europe that can process and collaboration project built on an earthe first half of the year. The new natu2.6 Germany consumed about 1.4 million Myllykoski is one of the biggest users of recycle the fibres of wet-strength labels lier project carried out a few years ago, ral gas powered CCHP power plant cubic metres, Myllykoski Paper in Finrecovered paper among European profrom the beverage industry. At Plattling where the heating and cooling systems marks a major improvement in the 2.5 land about 650,000 cubic metres and ducers of wood-containing publication Papier’s line 1 the deinked pulp content were analysed with a view to optimising mill’s carbon footprint and, owing to Madison in the United States about papers. Recovered paper consumption could also be increased. 2.4 them. the low emissions and high efficiency 372,000 cubic metres. at Lang Papier, Rhein Papier, Madison Groundwood pulp has long been of the combined heat and electricity 2.3 Myllykoski’s wood-sourcing teams and the Plattling mills totalled 977,000 Chemical pulp manufactured by traditional methods in production, it serves as a reference for in Germany and the United States are tonnes in 2010. grinders. In 2010 Myllykoski introduced the targets set for energy production. 2.2 responsible for wood procurement. In Myllykoski uses recovered paper Chemical pulp is purchased from selecta new technology for the grinding phase. The ultra-modern gas turbine power 2.1 Finland, Myllykoski Paper’s wood sourcmainly in the form of collected or sorted ed pulp producers under long-term conBy participating in the development of plant produces all the heat required ing is handled by Harvestia Oy, a joint newspaper and magazine paper. The retracts in Europe and North America. In new, pioneering technologies and bringby both Plattling Papier and MD Plat2.0 venture company owned by Myllykoski covered paper grades purchased by Myl2010, purchases from regional chemical ing them into use at an early stage, the tling as well as two thirds of their elec// // Corporation and Powerflute Oy, and lykoski originate mainly from sorting pulp producers increased. 0 continuous improvement of the mills’ tricity requirements. 2005 2010 2015 2020 since December 2010 also by Vapo Oy. sites that process paper from municipalMyllykoski requires its chemiVapo Oy is a Finnish sawmill and energy based household collection. The rest cal pulp suppliers to comply with Mylcompany, and through the new shareare sourced directly from printers and lykoski’s Sustainability Policy and they holder, Harvestia will expand its operaunsold newsprint and magazine paper must be either PEFC and/or FSC Chain tions, particularly in the procurement of from retailers. National and EU-level inof Custody certified or committed to logs and energy wood. itiatives are important in diverting more working towards certification. In addiAll the Myllykoski mills are certipaper from landfill to separate collection tion to the origin of wood and Chain of fied according to the PEFC and/or FSC for recycling. Custody information, the chemical pulp CoC standards. Madison was awarded In Lang Papier’s newsprint and SC suppliers are monitored on the basis of SFI/PEFC CoC certification in January paper grades, the average recovered fibre their environmental performance. In 2011. The German mills transferred from content remained on a high level at 91 2010, PEFC and FSC certified chemisingle-site PEFC and FSC certifications per cent. Several grades are produced cal pulp deliveries were substantially into integrated multi-site chain of custody with 100 per cent recovered fibre concreased at all mills. certification as of the beginning of 2011. In 2010, about 60 per cent of pulpwood supplied to the mills in Germany originated from PEFC and/or FSC certified forests, while in Finland the share Staff trained in GHS: one chemical, one label was 87 per cent. At the Madison mill Currently many diﬀerent countries have their own standards for chemical hazard in Maine, United States, 34 per cent of classiﬁcation. The United Nation’s GHS (Globally Harmonised System of Classiﬁcathe pulpwood came from PEFC (incl. tion and Labelling of Chemicals) is intended to replace these multiple systems SFI, ATFS, CSA) and/or FSC certified with one uniform system. GHS is a common and consistent approach to deﬁning forests. and classifying hazards, and communicating hazard information on labels and The average haul distance for the safety data sheets (SDS). MD Albbruck, Rhein Papier, MD Plattling and Plattling mills in Germany was 200 kilometres, Papier trained their personnel in GHS in 2010. in Finland 135, and in the United States 24 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 25 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility Chemicals Chemical safety is constantly monitored from REACH’s list of Substances of as part of the environmental and quality Very High Concern (SVHC) are used DOWNWARD TREND IN CHEMICAL management systems. Safety informain paper making processes at the mills. USAGE AT RHEIN PAPIER tion and training are provided for all According to REACH, manufacturers those who handle the chemicals. Suppliof substances are required to register the ers of chemicals go through a detailed assubstances of which they manufacture kg/t sessment process with regard to environmore than one tonne per year. Myllykoski 50 mental, safety and social issues. Paper has registered dithionite, which is 40 The industry is responsible for asused in mechanical pulp bleaching, and 30 Main freshwater sources and treated effluent destinations sessing and managing the risks posed MD Albbruck is registering the ash genby chemicals, as regulated in the EU by erated in energy production. 20 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, AuMadison in the United States is Treated effluent 10 Mill Location Water source Note destination thorization and Restriction of Chemicommitted to minimising the use of toxcals). Myllykoski confirms that it comic chemicals in its production processes 0 Ettringen, Bavaria, 69% River Wertach • Groundwater levels are 06 07 08 09 10 Lang Papier River Wertach plies with the requirements set out in the as part of its ISO 14001 programme. Germany 31% groundwater continuously monitored. REACH Regulation, and no chemicals • Withdrawal is minimal Rhein Papier has steadily reduced the use of process chemicals, especially in the Madison, Maine, United compared to the typical Madison 100% River Kennebec River Kennebec deinking process. Good progress has been States ﬂow of 140 m3/s of the River achieved by chemical optimisation and Kennebec. continuous process operation adjustments. 88% River Alb • Groundwater levels are MD Albbruck Albbruck, Germany River Rhein 12% groundwater continuously monitored. • Withdrawal is minimal KUVA? MD Plattling, Plattling, Bavaria, 99% River Isar Plattling Papier River Isar compared to the typical ﬂow Germany 1% groundwater of 174 m3/s of the River Isar PROCESS WATER “A big step forward in reducing • Withdrawal is minimal m3/t Myllykoski water consumption has been 20 Paper Kouvola, Finland 100% River Kymi River Kymi compared to the typical ﬂow of 291 m3/s of the River Kymi. made.” 100% groundwater • Filtrates replace the use of 15 Hürth, North Rhine– sourced from freshwater completely in the Martin Heinrich, Rhein Papier River Rhein Westphalia, Germany GbR Wasserwerk de-inking process and partly Management Systems, 10 Dirmerzheim in the paper machine. Lang Papier 5 Water 0 Water is an essential prerequisite for lykoski nominated a joint internal task 06 07 08 09 10 life on earth. Human activity, climate group for developing water management Water footprint change and other processes in nature and water strategies further. Topical isIn 2010, good progress has continued in rehave caused increasing concern about sues include freshwater and wastewater ducing the specific process water consumpThe water footprint and water proﬁle are attempts to illustrate the impact tion of the mills. Myllykoski Paper’s water of the user on freshwater resources and the environment at large. For paper regional deprivation of clean freshwarelated performance and efficiency, perconsumption decreased by 4 m3/t after the manufacturing processes, forests are the sources of fresh ﬁbre. The complex ter. Industrial and agricultural procmits and risk management, as well as repair of a disc filter on a paper machine. forest water system challenges attempts to calculate water balances. Trees use esses are dependent on the availability water profiles and footprint calculations. The current average process water demand rainfall water and tap into groundwater resources simultaneously. In addition, of fresh water and are at the same time In 2010, the total withdrawal of of the Myllykoski mills is 12.5 m3/t. Rhein the evapotranspiration of growing trees must be taken into account. Paper large consumers of water. process water was 31 million m3. In six Papier’s newsprint production is leading manufacturing uses surface or groundwater in the processes and for cooling Sparing use of water is important years, the specific usage of process water the way with a water requirement of less purposes and releases it back into the water system as wastewater and as to Myllykoski in spite of the fact that the has decreased by 32 per cent. than 8 m3/t. steam into the air. mills are not located in high water stress areas. Ample supplies of surface water are Myllykoski, as part of the pulp and paper industry, recognises its responsibility to further develop the sustainable use of freshwater. In accordance with the available for most of the mills. Only the need for resource conservation, new ways to cut down water consumption Rhein Papier facility in Hürth, Germany, Lang Papier exceeded its goals in reducing water at the mills are being sought. Myllykoski also participates in the development is fully dependent on ground water. Myllykoski mills have been successconsumption of water footprint methodology and standardisation through national paper industry associations and the Confederation of the European Paper Industry, ful in the long-term work to reduce the The year 2010 brought an almost 10 per cent decrease in speciﬁc water usage at Lang CEPI. Currently the associations are preparing the European Pulp and Paper fresh water demand of their processes and Papier. Speciﬁc wastewater volume is now less than 8 m3/t, including all facilities at the Industry Water Proﬁle. Myllykoski is also participating in studies related to have carried out improvements to optimill site. The results were achieved by increasing eﬄuent recycling and improving the forest water footprint methodology as a partner in the Finnish Forest Cluster mise water use. Water is recycled within deinking process. EﬀFibre project. the mills many times over. In 2010, Myl26 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 27 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility OPERATING PRINCIPLES Complying with legislation and best Myllykoski environmental responsibility goals and achievements 2010 Goals for 2010 Achievements environmental Develop responsible use DMadison developed a Sustainable Forestry Policy, increased the use of FSC certiﬁed ﬁbre and developed an SFI/PEFC CoC and controlled wood programme and SFI certiﬁed ﬁbre sourcing practices of natural resources with programme, which were endorsed in January 2011. Environmental expenditures special attention to fibre DThe speciﬁc water use of Myllykoski mills was reduced by 8 per cent as compared to 2009. The mills are working on a number of certification, water use and recycling • At Myllykoski Paper the water consumption of a paper machine was reduced by 4 m3/t environmental protection initiatives and improvement projects. In 2010, activiDPlattling Papier increased the deinked pulp content in its products Continuous improvement • Quality management systems have ties focused on the energy efficiency of been certified according to ISO 9001 the fresh fibre based grinding process. DThe speciﬁc carbon dioxide emissions of Myllykoski were reduced by 12 per cent as compared Myllykoski’s environmental work is at the European mills. The new grinding technology imto 2009. At Madison, the site GHG emissions were reduced by 18 per cent from 2009. based on the principle of continuous im• Occupational health and safety manplemented at the MD Albbruck mill will DSeveral projects were carried out to improve energy eﬃciency, e.g. Decrease specific carbon provement. The Myllykoski Sustainabiliagement systems certified according bring considerable energy savings and dioxide emissions and • Investments in energy eﬃcient groundwood technology at MD Albbruck, Myllykoski Paper and ty Policy defines the framework and preto OHSAS 18001 are in use at all Euthus reduce the carbon footprint comincrease energy efficiency the Plattling mills requisites for the work. Company-wide ropean facilities. pared to the existing main pulping methas well as the share of goals define the focus areas, and at mill • Energy management systems were ods used. Another major environmental • New whitewater heat exchanger at Madison renewable energy in level each mill sets the individual targets certified according to EN 16001 at investment was made at Lang Papier to accordance with the EU • Lighting systems replaced with energy eﬃcient ﬁxtures and lamps at Madison and Lang Papier for managing material environmental isall German mills in 2010. In Finland, enable switching to low-emission fuels climate policy • EN 16001 energy management system certiﬁcates for all German mills sues such as the lean use of energy, water Myllykoski Paper has the Finnish Enin energy production. In addition, sevand materials, and responsible sourcing ergy Efficiency Agreement System in eral small-scale measures were carried out DMyllykoski Paper will be able to purchase more hydroelectricity in 2012 due to the decision of of wood raw material. The mills are complace. to improve wastewater treatment plant the hydropower provider to renew a turbine mitted to minimising environmental • PEFC and/or FSC Chain of Custody operations (MD Plattling, Lang Papier, impacts through target-setting and are standards are applied at all Myllykoski Myllykoski Paper) and heat recovery from Reduce noise emissions DMyllykoski Paper drew up a noise reduction plan responsible for ensuring that their promills. The German mills transferred bleaching filtrates (Plattling Papier). at mill sites DMadison implemented process modiﬁcations and installed a new silencer at power plant duction processes are in compliance with from single-site certificates to crossenvironmental permits and national and country multi-site chain of custody cerCompliance local regulations. tification as of the beginning of 2011. No serious deviations from the environManagement systems and Environmental risk mental permit conditions took place in the Myllykoski mills in 2010. Temporary chain of custody management deviations were reported as presented in Key figures for the Myllykoski Group’s *) environmental activities Continuous improvement is supported The most significant environmental risks the table. by the implementation of certified manin paper production are connected with 2008 2009 2010 agement systems. The management syschemical handling and process malfuncPermit activities Environmental expenditure, incl. 38.5 33.9 25.6 tems are assessed regularly by means of tions. All Myllykoski mills have identidepreciation, EUR million external and internal audits. fied and weighted the site-specific enviAll Myllykoski mills have valid environ% of net sales 2.6 2.8 2.3 • Environmental management systems ronmental risks that are involved in daily mental permits. Lang Papier was granted certified according to ISO 14001 covoperations. a permit by the District Administration Environmental investments, EUR million 21.8 2.9 2.9 er all Myllykoski mills and, apart from In 2010, the Plattling mills improved for the conversion of a fuel oil boiler to a Plattling Papier, EMAS is in place in their environmental risk management by gas-fired boiler, and a first partial permit Environmental provisions, EUR million 13.0 11.8 11.2 the European facilities. EMAS audits training personnel in soil and water profor the planned new power plant. Mylin 2010 were carried out according to tection and in chemicals classification lykoski Paper was granted a three-year Environmental expenditures include costs for wastewater treatment, waste management, environmental administration and training. the new version of EMAS III, which and labelling. Lang Papier issued updated delay on the enforcement of the tighter Environmental investments include investment costs related to emission treatment and prevention, e.g. new equipment. emphasises climate change issues and guidelines for its staff for cases of emergenwastewater emission limits stipulated by Environmental provisions are made to provide for the possible costs of emission trading and discontinued use of industrial more sustainable procurement and cy. The guidelines for oil spillage occurthe Eastern Finland Permit Authority in landﬁlls in the future. *) The alliance partner Rhein Papier is not included in these ﬁgures. product application. rences were revised at Myllykoski Paper. the environmental permit. 28 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 29 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OPERATIONS Compliance with the environmental permits in 2010 Mill Lang Papier Status COD limit for eﬄuent exceeded on one occasion. Note DCorrective measures taken. Improving resource Madison BOD limit exceeded due to high load in the eﬄuent. DSource identiﬁed. No further violations measured. eﬃciency is a top priority MD Albbruck No deviations. Paper making affects the environment COD limit for eﬄuent exceeded due to DR&D activities focused on lowering the COD load in many ways. Myllykoski takes into acReducing dependence on fuel oil technical problems with nutrient dosage and of eﬄuent and pre-treatment of high COD loaded MD Plattling high binder content in the eﬄuent. wastewater streams. count the impacts throughout the entire In 2010, Lang Papier converted one of the existing fuel oil boilers to a gas-ﬁred supply chain, from raw material procureboiler. Boiler conversion is a transition solution until the plan to construct a new Noise levels partly exceeded. DSources identiﬁed and corrective measures in progress. ment to the end use. The environmental combined heat and power plant is realised. The main advantage of using gas Two minor oil leakages to river from heat-oil DTask group for oil management and pollution response impacts of Myllykoski have been graduinstead of fuel oil is the substantially lower level of emissions. The daily mean Myllykoski Paper ally reduced due to the company’s longlimit values of nitrogen oxide emissions will be cut by two-thirds and for sulphur exchanger. continued its work. term commitment to e.g. energy and oxides by up to 98 per cent. Also CO2 emissions will be reduced. In addition, the COD limit for eﬄuent exceeded due to high amount of traﬃc decreases as oil no longer needs to be hauled in and ﬂy ash out. COD load and technical problems with nutrient DFocus on R&D activities, see MD Plattling above. material efficiency, modern technologies Plattling Papier dosage and aeration. and responsible sourcing. AOX limit exceeded once. DNo further violations measured. Rhein Papier No deviations. Environmental impacts of Myllykoski’s operations Aspect Derives from… …and has this impact Measures to reduce the impact Use of managed forests DChain of Custody veriﬁcation, adherence to (biodiversity, products Wood raw forest and nature conservation legislation Wood procurement and services from forest material and sustainable forestry guidelines, ecosystems, land use chemical pulp suppliers monitored. Stuart Auld, aspects) Group Sustainability Manager, Environmental impacts DHigh standards for partners in accordance Non-wood raw related to raw material with Myllykoski Sustainability Policy, Supplier’s activities PMP Limited, Australia materials production (use of energy, supplier audits, selection of sustainable raw natural resources etc.) materials. “Sustainability is an increaschallenge of proving its environmental credibility. This Climate change (fossil CO2, ingly important consideraneeds to be combated on two levels: ﬁrstly by improvDImproved energy eﬃciency, use of best CH4), acidiﬁcation (SO2, tion throughout our procureing public sentiment towards paper, and secondly by Air emissions Energy production available techniques, increased use of NOx), eutrophication (NOx), ment process. A review of the growing the share of FSC and PEFC accredited forests renewable fuels. dust (particles) carbon footprint of all paper and raising their public proﬁle. Oxygen demand (COD, DOptimised processes, eﬃcient eﬄuent grades is a mandatory part It is important for the industry as a whole to be Water emissions Paper production BOD) and eutrophication treatment, reduced use and maximised reof PMP’s procurement prosending out a clear, concise, consistent and factually (N, P) circulation of process water. cedures. supported positive message. PMP works closely with a Disposal at landﬁlls, risk To minimise our impact on the environment, PMP number of industry bodies including the Australasian Paper production, energy DMaterial eﬃcient processes, re-use of bySolid waste of soil and groundwater has engaged in a number of investment projects in rePaper Industry Association (APIA) on a number of camproduction products and waste. contamination cent years, including quick bake ovens, high eﬃciency paigns aimed at informing consumers and improving Paper production, energy DBest available techniques, noise control RTOs, compressor upgrades and installation of energy environmental perception. Noise Nuisance locally production measures and monitoring. eﬃcient lighting. We’re also rolling out FSC, PEFC and Raising the profile and coverage of FSC and Anaerobic microbial ISO 14001 certiﬁcation across our print facilities. PEFC accredited forests will provide both environDProcess optimisation at eﬄuent treatment activity in e.g. eﬄuent Aside from the direct actions taken to reduce mental benefits and enhance public perception of Odour Nuisance locally plant and paper mill, oxidative treatments treatment or sludge greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and paper as a renewable and environmentally friendly as necessary. handling waste to landﬁll across our sites, PMP is working with communication medium. As consumers become Rail, truck and ship DOptimisation of the use of transport customers and suppliers to help reduce greenhouse more educated about sustainable forestry, the share Logistics transports of raw materials Air emissions, noise capacity, use of modern equipment, high gas emissions. We have recently developed a carbon of certified forests will need to rise to meet the deand products standards for logistics partners. footprint calculator which enables customers to accumand. By nurturing this cycle, we can make a positive rately determine the emissions attributed to the publichange for the environment, as well as embedding DBest practices in storage and handling of Risk of soil and chemicals, compliance with landﬁll permits cation of their product. the linkage between print and sustainability in the Accidental spills, use of Soil pollution groundwater and legislation (landﬁll insulation, gas The paper and printing industry faces a growing public mindset. ” landﬁlls contamination collection and treatment, leachate water treatment). 30 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 31 Environmental Responsibility Environmental responsibility EMISSIONS AND WASTE CO2 t (fossil)/t 0.6 SO2 kg/t 1.5 NOX kg/t 0.8 Making progress in 0.4 1.0 0.6 0.4 environmental performance 0.2 0.5 0.2 Water emissions oped to control erosion and contamina0 0 0 tion in the log storage area. Refinements 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 The mills’ effluents are purified in bioin the surface water collection system logical wastewater treatment plants. improved stormwater quality notably, Since the beginning of the EU emission The company’s specific emissions of Long-term energy conservation projects Myllykoski Paper, Lang Papier and MD and helped to prevent the carryover of trading scheme in 2005, Myllykoski’s sulphur dioxide have declined by 25 and the switch to cleaner fuels have Albbruck operate their own treatment floatable chips and sawdust into the specific fossil CO2 emissions per tonne per cent since 2006. In 2010, fuel oil resulted in a reduction of 21 per cent in of produced paper have fallen by 23 per consumption was discontinued at Lang the company’s specific nitrogen oxide plants, whereas MD Plattling, Plattling Kennebec River. Plattling Papier imcent. For more information about the Papier and reduced at Madison, which emissions between 2006 and 2010. Papier, Madison Paper and Rhein Papier proved stormwater subsurface percolacompany’s achievements in reducing fossil contributed to the fall in emissions. have outsourced the function to external tion, which reduced the load on the efCO2 emissions, please see page 29. operators. fluent treatment plant. The effects of treated effluent on the recipient water course are moniWaste tored according to environmental perPARTICLES COD BOD “Air emissions continue to mits and reviewed internally and by relThe key objective of waste management kg/t kg/t kg/t be reduced due to the energy evant environmental authorities. MD at all mills is to reduce the amount of 0.08 2.5 0.20 conservation projects.” Plattling, Plattling Papier and Lang waste that is generated. An efficient way Papier monitor the impacts by using a of reducing waste is to improve the mate0.06 2.0 0.15 Dan Mallett, bioaccumulation pool with a popularial efficiency of the processes. 1.5 tion of carp. In 2010, a slight copper During the past few years Rhein 0.04 0.10 Manager of Sustainability, 1.0 accumulation was observed at the PlatPapier has managed to reduce the recov0.02 0.05 Madison tling mills, however the sources remain ered paper utilisation factor successfully. 0.5 unclear, as copper-containing chemicals This means that for a tonne of finished 0 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 are not in use at the mills. paper, 5.4 per cent less recovered paper Air emissions is needed than before. The work continIn 2010, good progress was continued in Slight progress is to be seen in the Over the period 2006-2010, BOD Storm water control and ues, and another filter for fibre recovery Air emissions are mainly caused by fusoil protection in pulp preparation will be installed. reducing particles emissions. The 73 per company’s specific COD discharges after discharges have declined by 20 per cent. cent reduction over the five year period is the 2008 increase caused by the increasing Biological treatment removes the els burned in energy production. Major In 2010, Lang Papier reduced the due to the combustion of fuels with lower number of higher value added products in oxygen-demanding substances effectively. changes have been made in energy manStorm water management continues to specific amount of waste by 12 per cent particles emissions, and also to energy production. In 2010, the Plattling mills had agement over the past years. The share be a major focus at the Madison mill. by optimising deinking plant processes conservation projects. occasional problems in complying with of combined heat and power generation Best management practices were develand stock screening. the COD limit and are currently focused on has been increased, and energy efficiency improving the effluent treatment plant’s improved. Where suitable, fuels have capacity. been switched from coal and oil to biofuels and natural gas. All of the German mills have obtained EN 16001 energy P kg/t management certificates, which were inIn 2010, specific phosphorus emissions deteriorated at the Madison mill. Although the troduced to support the mills in improv0.025 ing their energy efficiency and reducing overall P load going from the mill to the publicly owned wastewater treatment plant 0.020 (POTW) remained similar to that of previous years, P discharges into the receiving water greenhouse gas emissions. “Permit conditions have not been 0.015 increased. Factors that contributed to this increase included reduced BOD releases from Madison developed and impleexceeded since 2001, even though the the mill to the treatment plant and an overall change in the treatment plant operating mented the Mandatory Reporting of limits have been tightened several 0.010 system, which resulted in adjusting the treatment capacity to meet the parameters, such Greenhouse Gas Monitoring Plan as as incoming BOD. The POTW has no total P limit on its effluents. times over the past few years.” 0.005 stipulated by the United States EnvironEven if the overall emission load increased, some mills have reduced phosphorus 0 emissions significantly. Lang Papier and MD Plattling attained the lowest specific P mental Protection Agency (EPA). The 06 07 08 09 10 plan describes how the mill will quanMinna Tolonen, emissions in their records. tify its greenhouse gas emissions during Environmental Engineer, the year in preparation for reporting in Myllykoski Paper 2011. 32 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 33 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility All waste cannot be re-utilised. Re“Open meetings with the local sidual solid waste, mainly ash or wastewaresidents and administration ter treatment plant sludge, is disposed of at landfills operated by external operators to discuss noise reduction (Madison, MD Albbruck) or by the mills were arranged.” themselves (Myllykoski Paper). Myllykoski Paper is affected by the Finnish Waste Tax Wolfgang Haase, Marked growth in sales of certified Act, which will extend waste taxation to Management Systems, industrial landfills in 2011. papers Lang Papier and MD Albbruck Plattling mills The demand for certiﬁed papers continued to grow in 2010. Lang have closed their landfills. At Madison, Papier and the Plattling mills, for example, tripled and doubled two-thirds of the sludge landfill’s surface their sales of PEFC certiﬁed papers, respectively, compared with area has been closed. the previous year. All landfills, both operative and closed, are being monitored for enviNoise and odour mitigation power plant. The Plattling mills arranged Myllykoski supports and promotes both PEFC and FSC forest ronmental impacts in accordance with information exchange meetings with the certiﬁcation systems, which are international, non-proﬁt, nonpermits and regulations issued by the Environmental permits set limits for the local administrators and residents. Mylgovernmental organisations dedicated to promoting legal and relevant authorities. Local commercial noise emitted by production facilities lykoski Paper and MD Albbruck have sustainable forest management through independent third-party or municipal landfills are utilised to disduring both day and night time. Comalso received complaints about noise. certiﬁcation, to ensure that timber is produced with respect for the highest ecological, social and ethical standards. All of pose of normal municipal solid waste. pliance is monitored through regular For odours, there are no set limit Myllykoski’s mills are certiﬁed under the PEFC and/or FSC CoC noise level measurements. All mills have values in the environmental permits. standards. made investments over the last years to Occasional odour problems in the vicombat noise. cinities of some of the mills are caused PEFC is the predominant forest certiﬁcation system within the Myllykoski Paper compiled a noise by anaerobic microbial activity releaswood procurement areas of the Myllykoski mills. In Germany, over reduction plan to mitigate noise from ing malodorous compounds, such as 90 per cent of the certiﬁed forests are certiﬁed under the PEFC sludge handling, from pressurised air reduced sulphuric compounds. Notistandard. The main wood procurement areas in Germany are the production and from the blowers at a pafications by local residents regarding forest-rich states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, which are per machine. Noise from wood chipping unpleasant odours are taken seriously. PEFC certiﬁed to 76 and 82 per cent, respectively. operations was studied and found to be Processes are optimised continuously in within the permit limits. order to manage incidental odours, and Noise can have an adverse effect on oxidative treatments of wastewaters are the neighbourhood. In 2010, Madison carried out as necessary. In 2010, Platreceived noise complaints from local restling and Myllykoski Paper received idents and implemented process modicomplaints from local residents conJoana Barata Correia, Sustainability “The amount of waste per tonne of finished paper has fications, installing a new silencer at the cerning odour. Aﬀairs and Lars Carlson, Senior Advisor, been reduced by 20 per cent Inter IKEA Systems Media over the past five years.” Most of the by-products and waste generated at the Myllykoski mills are re-utilised. Developing re-utilisation “At IKEA, we believe that by integrating the environmental, social and economic dimensions in all our activities we can actively contribute to o havBernd Weikopf, plays an important role in waste management at the mills. ing a positive impact on both people and the environment. This is a continuontinuManagement Systems, ous and never-ending process, but we are on the way. Rhein Papier Means of treatment Share 2010 Rather than focusing on one speciﬁc sustainability issue, we aim m at taking a holistic approach, both when evaluating the suppliers that collaborate ollaborate Thermal utilisation with us and when, for example, assessing the sustainability impact of the printed media products that are distributed in all the countries where IKEA is present. Improved raw • Eﬄuent sludge 75% Since the beginning of our work, most of the focus has been, and still is, on collaborating with our sup• Fibre sludge from de-inking material recovery • Bark pliers, in order to ensure that they produce our products with the minimum possible environmental and social impact. For paper purchasing decisions, we do a detailed evaluation of the supplying company, the paper mill at Albbruck and the paper grade in particular, before we purchase any paper. This allows us to take the actual sustainability Other utilisation • Soil/land construction (eﬄuent sludge, ash from power plant) proﬁle of the supplier and the product into consideration when making purchase decisions. MD Albbruck has increased material eﬃciency by introducing a microIKEA has a set of Sustainability Requirements that all our suppliers have to comply with. They cover a wide • Composting (eﬄuent sludge) ﬁlter on its bleaching lines. Valuable range of sustainability-related topics, from the environmental to the social aspects. By developing our speciﬁc • Raw material for building products industry (ﬁbre sludge from 21% ﬁbre raw material is recovered and ddeinking) sustainability requirements further, we have constantly been promoting the continuous environmental and returned back to the process from • Raw material for concrete industry (ash from power plant) social improvement of both our own and our suppliers’ operations. the ﬁlter. The resulting reduced sol• Raw material for composting factories and mulch To minimise our impact on climate change, we try to print as locally and close to the ﬁnal markets as posids load going to the eﬄuent treatproducers (bark) sible in order to avoid excess transportation and we optimise our printed products, making them as eﬃcient ment plant also reduces the volume as possible – by working on the layouts and maximising communication to the consumers, and by minimising of high water content sludge that needs to be deposited, compressed Waste to landfill 4% waste. We also encourage our suppliers to implement actions that minimise their impact on climate change. ” and disposed of. Hazardous waste ~0.1% 34 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 35 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility BIODIVERSITY “The importance of biological diversity to human society is hard to overstate. An estimated 40 per cent of RESPONSIBLE “Few things in life are as versatile, reliable and practical as paper.” the global economy is based on PRODUCTS Confederation of biological products and processes.” European Paper Industries (CEPI) United Nations Environment Programme on the thematic area of biodiversity (www.unep.org) Sustaining our lives Fish continue their Renewable and traceable raw journey upriver at The United Nations declared 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity. Biodiversity forms the foundation for the fir pulpwood used to produce groundwood pulp is purchased from private forest owners as well as from communiMD Albbruck materials. Certiﬁed production. forest industry’s activities: the industry depends on wood raw material. Attention to biodiversity is an inherent part ties and state-owned forests. Rigorous forest certification schemes and standards under the auspices of the PEFC and In 2010, MD Albbruck installed a ﬁsh ladder beside the existing hydropower plant. It is a structure that facilitates the ﬁsh’s natural migration. Recyclable, labelled and safe of forest industry companies operations and sustainable forestry. Wood fibre is Myllykoski’s most FSC guarantee that the wood raw material originates from legal and sustainable sources. Fish can now bypass the hydropower plant by swimming up a series of relatively low steps into the waters products. important raw material. The spruce and on the other side. Product safety Recycling All the purchased raw materials have an Myllykoski products are well suited for mental labels that set strict environmenMyllykoski Paper shares site with impact on the quality of the end prodrecycling. Paper is the most recycled tal and sustainability criteria for paper nature’s diversity uct. Likewise, they have an impact on the product in Europe, with a recycling producers and promote environmentally environmental aspects and safety of the rate of 72.2 per cent (2009). The paper sound products. The beautiful silver ﬂanked salmon (Salmo salar), making their way up the River product. industry has played an important role Myllykoski continued using Paper Kymi are living proof of the vitality of the river that ﬂows past Myllykoski Paper’s Myllykoski’s wood-containing and in achieving this high level. Recovered Profile environmental product declaramill in South-Eastern Finland. Salmon reproduction in the River Kymi stopped in recovered fibre-based products are based fibre is a major fibre raw material for tions with updated datasheets to comthe middle of the last century due to industrial pollution, dredging and dams. on natural raw materials. ManufacturMyllykoski, one of Europe’s largest users municate the environmental performChallenges still remain in the form of polluted sediments, but the recreational use ing conforms to established technology of recovered paper among publication ance of its main MY-grades. Madison of the river has improved substantially. Improved water quality, the building of ﬁsh and involves the use of approved chemipaper producers. continued to participate in EPAT, a passes and ﬁsh stocking have revived the river’s salmon stock. Salmon is a sea ﬁsh and only migrates to rivers to breed. Many Myllykoski Paper employees ﬁsh in the cals. No substances of very high concern paper assessment tool to determine the river; here you see Mikko Lindqvist and the salmon he caught. (SVHC as defined by REACH) are used Environmental labels and environmental impacts of the manufacin manufacturing. The chemical pulp is turing operations involved in making The quality of the river water close to Myllykoski Paper’s wastewater treatment ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) or TCF product declarations paper. plant is also inspected by an otter (Lutra lutra). The otter is listed in the 2010 Red (Totally Chlorine Free), which means The Blue Angel eco-label is awarded for The Myllykoski mills are covered List of Finnish Species and classiﬁed as Near Threatened. This particular otter has that no chlorine gas is used in bleaching. the products of Rhein Papier and Lang by ISO14001 environmental managechosen the area around the hydropower plant and wastewater treatment plant as Myllykoski products are used for Papier. Myllykoski Paper’s products have ment systems, and all mills apply either one of its homes. Otters lead a relaxed ‘bachelor’ lifestyle, ﬁshing and playing. publication papers, including newsprint, been approved for use in Nordic Swan PEFC or FSC certified chain of custody in which the effects on human health are eco-labelled print products. Both are systems, or both. not significant. voluntary, third-party-verified environ36 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 37 Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility TRANSPORT Improving the environmental MODAL SPLIT 2010 Shares of truck/rail transports in outbound sustainability of the logistics % transportation 100 80 networks 60 In 2010 Myllykoski shipped more than termediate storage facilities. The consist40 2.5 million tonnes of paper products ently high percentage of rail transport worldwide. The amount of greenhouse ensured savings of 2800 tonnes of CO2 gases generated could be reduced thanks for Myllykoski in 2010. 20 to new distribution concepts and the Madison achieved an exceptionally consistently high share of transport by high proportion with 70 per cent of all 0 rail. outgoing traffic carried by rail. Myllykoski Myllykoski From the German mills more than Europe*) North America 75 per cent of all transports are by truck, Rail Distribution logistics Truck whose top speed is limited to 85 km/h. In 2010 Myllykoski Logistics focused As a result of this measure, fuel con*) Myllykoski Paper, ex Lübeck, Antwerp once again on distribution logistics. On sumption was reduced by 350,000 litres the one hand, Myllykoski strives to offer of diesel in 2010. its customers the best possible service at Thanks to the good average utilizaMyllykoski Paper ships some 300,000 tonnes of publication papers via the Hamina harbour. acceptable costs, and on the other, the tion rate of the trucks, Myllykoski can group wants to offer and utilise as many show excellent figures for the different environmentally sustainable transpormills in 2010. Especially at Lang Papier tation concepts as possible. Another and Rhein Papier the average payload Slow steaming Bernhard Gallus, contribution to improving the environwas close to the theoretical optimum. mental record was Myllykoski’s adopAnother positive result was the optimal Due to high fuel costs and the global Director, Environment, Hubert Burda Media GmbH, Germany tion of Combined Traffic Concepts. load size of transports from Myllykoski economic crisis in 2009 the “Slow Steaming Concept” has increasingly become a standAlready during its first year, combined Paper to the ports of shipment. ard for sea container transport. “Our commitment to Climate ergy friendly products and eﬃcient house construction. Our mill deliveries from Plattling and EttrinWhen selecting potential logistics, Protection is strong. Together My Life web site is designed for people who are interested in gen reduced the CO2 emissions by 300 partners and hauling companies, MylEquipped with modern propulsion systems, with seven other leading mema healthy and sustainable lifestyle. tonnes. lykoski expects them to be able to present vessels can nowadays reach top speeds of bers of the German business Sustainable paper production is essential for the acceptThe biggest advantage of this conrelevant certifications. Myllykoski also up to 27 knots (50 km/h). community we have signed the ance of magazines. The protection of old growth forests and cept is that the average payload exceeds prefers to co-operate with companies position paper ‘2 Degrees – Gersafeguarding biodiversity in forestry are important aspects of the normal utilisation rate of a truck by operating with appropriate modern Though vessels are – in terms of C02 emisman Entrepreneurs for Climate this. Together with my colleagues in other German publishing at least 4 tonnes, and besides that, the equipment, and EURO V trucks have sions – the least polluting of all transport Protection’ in support of the houses, the VDZ-compiled position paper ‘Printing products majority of transports are by rail. been used in 80 per cent of all transports carriers, there is still potential to reduce eﬀorts to establish a global cliand ecology’ still forms the basis for paper procurement by ecologically harmful greenhouse gases All Myllykoski mills (except Mylwithin Europe. mate protection agenda and to limit global warming to Hubert Burda Media. even further. A speed reduction from 25 lykoski Paper) have excellent railway sidto 22 knots, for instance, can cut the fuel two degrees above the pre-industrial level. I ﬁnd that we still need more transparency regarding enings that enable deliveries and unloading Inbound Logistics consumption of a vessel by approximately Burda Media was one of the ﬁrst printing and pubvironmental and social aspects within the paper chain. Credible of important raw materials by rail, and pa30 per cent. lishing houses to be certiﬁed under the EMAS regulachain of custody certiﬁcations facilitate the communication of per can also be loaded onto the wagons. Plattling Paper showed an exceptionally tions in 1996. We control the environmental impact and environmental aspects to the customers, and FSC and PEFC are An intelligent combination of ingood trend in wood deliveries by rail, Being well aware of its environmental energy eﬃciency of our production sites on the basis increasing in popularity among the public. Our printing plants coming and outgoing traffic considerably almost 55 per cent of the wood being responsibility, Myllykoski prefers, where of key ﬁgures and benchmarks of the entire printing inhave been certiﬁed under the FSC and PEFC regulations since reduces costs and – by avoiding empty delivered by rail. MD Plattling, too, was possible, to co-operate with shipping dustry. In our new printing house we have been able to 2007. However, the amount of certiﬁed paper on the market is runs – also the environmental load. able to increase the share of rail transcompanies oﬀering “Slow Steaming”. The halve energy consumption and therefore also to halve still very low. It would certainly be desirable to see more certimills in Germany in particular were able to In 2010, rail transports accounted ports to 10 per cent. CO2 emissions. ﬁed paper on the market and – in the long term a standard for apply this principle on a large scale in their for more than 20 per cent of all outgoing Pulp is being delivered to the mills container transports, and 55 per cent of all In our magazines we also inform our readers about printing magazines and catalogues. ” transport. In order to enable just-in-time almost exclusively by rail, and the wagshipments could be arranged by slowclimate change; we give advice on saving energy, endeliveries to the customers, most of the ons are reloaded with paper after the steaming traﬃc. rail transports have to be arranged via inpulp has been discharged. 38 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 39 Social responsibility Social responsibility Social responsibility Myllykoski incorporates a diversity of structures and cultures. The company interacts with a number of diﬀerent stakeholder groups, and this necessitates action and dialogue that go beyond the scope of internal business operations. Personnel The difficult market situation was a parpersonnel to be carried out in a socially shut-downs of short duration. Flexible ticularly serious challenge for HR mansustainable manner. Some employees working hour arrangements and the imagement in 2010. Employees both at were employed by partner companies plementation of training, education and the corporate level and at the mills have within outsourcing schemes. Despite the general qualification schemes minimised been affected by the necessary economic implementation of early retirement and the impact on the employees concerned measures. At the same time, Myllykoski interim pension schemes and fixed-term and the need for reduced working hours. has continued to develop its HR mancontracts, lay-offs could not completely Plattling’s PM 10, which had been shut agement in line with its strategy, with be avoided. At Ettringen, a project called down temporarily, could be restarted in the focus on giving support to managers Trendbreaker was started in autumn 2010 March, which was earlier than expected. and employees alike during the necessary to secure the future of the location. It will At the end of 2010, Myllykoski Paper change processes. also involve negotiations with the Works was forced to close down PM 6 at its In addition to Myllykoski’s Code Council aimed at adjusting the personnel Finnish mill on a temporary basis as a reof Conduct and other internal guidestructure, with a total of 85 jobs at stake. sult of the market situation. Temporary lines, the company’s HR policy is based The market situation and raw matelay-offs of a total of 80 employees were on the principles of the UN’s Global rial supply were to some extent very chalagreed on within the Co-Determination Compact and the applicable laws and lenging, and resulted in several machine Procedure. regulations. In 2010, Myllykoski had an average headcount of 2,711, which was four per cent less than in the previous year. This decline resulted primarily from measures Myllykoski Code of Conduct to adjust the personnel structure. The Myllykoski is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct in its Phoenix project, aimed at making the business operations. The Myllykoski Code of Conduct deﬁnes the ethical Plattling site fit for the future, was started principles for all of the company’s activities and its employees in terms of in 2009. Among other measures, it led to compliance with laws and regulations, competition rules, preventing bribery, a reduction of 82 jobs. In March 2010, a human rights and recognition of the general principles of equality of reconciliation of interests and the redunopportunity and fairness. All suppliers must comply with the principles of the dancy programme was negotiated locally Myllykoski Code of Conduct. Myllykoski regularly reviews the contents of the with the Works Council on the basis of Code of Conduct and makes any necessary amendments. During the period the collective agreements in force and under review, no amendments were necessary. The Myllykoski Code of Conduct the right of co-determination. Careful is available on the internet at www.myllykoski.com. HR planning allowed the downsizing of 40 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 41 Social responsibility Social responsibility Myllykoski social responsibility goals and achievements 2010 Goals for 2010 Achievements + Best frequency and severity results achieved since the Health and Safety process started in 2005. Encourage and sustain a + Health and Safety leadership and culture programmes implemented at Myllykoski Paper, culture of safety and health Lang Papier and MD Albbruck. PERSONNEL GENDER DISTRIBUTION 2010 PERSONNEL AGE PROFILE 2010 PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY 2010 – Further development of safety Key Performance Indicators not achieved. Select and retain the best + Coordinated eﬀorts made to attract and recruit young professionals. people for Myllykoski by + MY College leadership programme continued. promoting an attractive + Development of skills and competencies within the new tasks and roles after organisational work environment changes (partly achieved). Strengthen and make the + Support provided for organisational restructuring eﬀorts. best use of individual and + Common metrics developed and utilised. collective performance and – Further development of performance management not achieved. Male salaried 20% < 20 years 3% Germany 69% the ability to change Male hourly 67% 21 30 years 10% Finland 18% Female salaried 10% 31 40 years 20% United States and Canada 10% Implement the Myllykoski + Code of Conduct training made part of the basic training programme within the Myllykoski Female hourly 3% 41 50 years 36% Other Europe 3% Code of Conduct in all Sales Network. 51 60 years 26% operations – Group-wide training scheduled for 2010 postponed. > 60 years 5% *) TRAINING DAYS AND COSTS PERSONNEL BY YEARS OF SERVICE 2010 Investing in further for all new trainees of the German mills. systems. The idea management system education In 2010, they numbered 22. was re-organised at the Plattling mills in EUR 700 2.0 < 1 year Myllykoski also actively promotes 2010. This measure soon proved to be 1.9 The focus of HR development in 2010 local co-operation with schools, techsuccessful, and the number of initiatives 600 1.8 1 5 years was on providing employees with the nical colleges and universities. For exassessed and rewarded went up. 500 1.7 skills needed for the change processes ample, in 2010, a total of 45 students 400 1.6 that had been initiated. Overall, in 2010 completed their practical training at 1.5 6 10 years Human rights 300 Myllykoski employees participated in the MD Albbruck mill. The trainees 1.4 11 20 years training sessions amounting to some benefit from highly skilled vocational Myllykoski has operations in Europe and 200 1.3 2,700 days, 1,500 days fewer than in the support and fair employment condithe United States. Compliance with hu1.2 100 1.1 previous year. An average of EUR 372 tions in accordance with the initiative man rights, prevention of discrimination 21 30 years 0 1.0 per employee was invested in further “We are a fair company”. Madison and of any kind and the non-use of forced la2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 education, which is EUR 117 less than MD Albbruck also encourage paper bour and child labour are guaranteed by > 30 years in 2009. Over and above that, several engineering students by granting them legislation and extensive regulations and Training costs / person measures were carried out to implement scholarships. guidelines in place at Myllykoski. The Training days / person 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 and develop the leadership culture, and At all the mills efforts are being Myllykoski mills guarantee freedom of in addition a series of training courses made to increase efficiency and add value. association and collective bargaining was arranged in the areas of occupationProjects started in this area at the mills and have comprehensive regulations al safety, quality, environmental protecin Plattling, Ettringen and Myllykoski, concerning the protection of employPERSONNEL TURNOVER *) salaried tion and communication, which will be for example, strive to make these efforts ees. Adherence to these regulations is a hourly total continued in 2011. more systematic and to integrate all the matter of course for Myllykoski. A spe% In 2010, Myllykoski continued its areas involved. The projects include cific section is included in contracts to 12 commitment to vocational training, encontinuous development of initiative inform partners and suppliers expressly couraging employees to participate in 10 advanced master’s and technical training courses to acquire further qualifications. MY College 8 In 2010, more than 40 young people participated in vocational training at the Myllykoski’s HR strategy aims at supporting current and future managers 6 internally. This is achieved, for example, through the corporate-wide manageMyllykoski mills in Germany, bringing rial training programme MY College. In 2010, 19 employees took part in the 4 the proportion of Myllykoski trainees in programme. The ﬁrst module focused on leadership, which was handled from *) all the mills providing training to 2.5 per many diﬀerent perspectives and in relation to Myllykoski’s ﬁeld of operations. 2 Alsip, Dachau and Utzenstorf Papier are cent. As part of the training concept, the The themes of the other modules were business understanding and ﬁnancial 0 not included. trainees are introduced to co-operation management. The programme was rounded oﬀ in February 2011 with the mod2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 across the mills. For this purpose, an inule Creative and Innovative Corporate Culture. troduction week, including a workshop lasting several days, is organised annually 42 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 43 Social responsibility Social responsibility of this obligation and to commit them with the EU Directive 94/45/EC of 22 to guarantee compliance with the regulaSeptember 1994. In 2010, representations. tives of the employees of the Finnish Building and German mills met the company’s management in Myllykoski in Finland. knowledge to Constructive dialogue strengthen In December 2010 the EWC held an Myllykoski implements industrial co-deextraordinary meeting in Unterschprofitability termination processes in its companies in leißheim to give information about compliance with the laws and regulations and discuss the owners’ announcement The Myllykoski Sales HR in force. Employees’ co-determination is that they will sell Myllykoski Group organisation focused in 2010 the responsibility of the Works Council and Rhein Papier GmbH to UPMon strengthening employees bodies created at all mills. Considering Kymmene Corporation. in their role as brand ambasthe difficult market environment and sadors. With this in mind, an interactive training programme the company’s position, it was a great Outlook was developed to provide challenge to reach an understanding on in-depth knowledge on the solutions to the company change procThe print business today is undergoing company, sales, products, esses and necessary adjustments through major changes, placing particular decommunications, ﬁnances and constructive dialogue. mands on companies operating in the controlling. The participants On the European level, the Europaper industry and their employees. could complete the training in pean Works Council (EWC) has been Developing the employees’ skills and adthe form of self-study courses representing the interests of Myllykoski justing existing structures to the new opand have their learning evaluemployees for already 15 years. It serves erating environment are key challenges ated by taking tests. as a forum for cross-border communifacing HR management. cation and co-operation in accordance It’s people that count Occupational Through its programme recognising good performance in occupational safety Myllykoski wants to promote safe work practices and create a high level of awareness of occupational safety. The highly coveted Chairman’s Award recognises the best overall performance health and safety of the year in occupational safety: absolute number of accidents, improvement in accident ﬁgures from the previous year, innovations concerning practices and processes, outstanding successes and performances, involvement of employees and commitment to occupational safety. CHAIRMAN’S AWARD 2010 GOES TO MADISON An important element of Myllykoski’s 2010, all the mills in Europe now have The Madison mill had the longest acciMadison improved its ranking in Safety Improvement Visits by another 5 per cent. At the end of the year, HR strategy is to create and maintain a an occupational health and safety mandent-free period (no medical treatment the mill had achieved 112 days without accidents requiring medical attention. This was the result of work culture of occupational health and safeagement system certified under OHSAS required), lasting four months. Myllykocarried out over the past few years aimed at inﬂuencing the personnel’s behaviour. One of the tools applied ty. Ensuring a safe working environment 18001 in place. ski Paper, MD Albbruck, Rhein Papier is the Behavior Safety Process (BSP). In addition, a series of other measures were carried out that positively and promoting the health of employees and Plattling Papier all showed positive inﬂuenced the employees’ awareness of OHS issues through education and communication. are both inherent parts of a company’s Fewer accidents development. A negative trend was reresponsibility. In this spirit Myllykoski is corded at MD Plattling. It is also worth mentioning that the accident severity rate (per million worked hours) came down by 52 per cent from a high level in 2009. Madison’s employees achieved the lowest accident frequency within working towards the goal that every perIn 2010, the number of accidents continThe absolute number of accidents Myllykoski: their performance in terms of this indicator improved by 35 per cent compared to the previous son returns home safely every day. ued to decline. Over seven months, Myldecreased between 2005 and 2010 from year. In keeping with this goal, Myllykoslykoski recorded an accident frequency 244 to 91. ki has established occupational safety of less than 25 per million worked hours. Two mills had recorded an increase SAFETY STAR AWARD 2010 TO RHEIN PAPIER systems at the mills to control the qualIn the best month, the figure went down in accident severity rates in 2009 and The Safety Star Award is granted to the mill showing the greatest improvement in occupational safety ity of safety measures and to ensure the to only 12. in 2010 focused their efforts on comindicators. In 2010, Rhein Papier’s accident frequency rate declined by 38 per cent. With less than 18 transparency and traceability of the proThe yearly average is around 24.44 bating this trend. Their efforts paid off : accidents per million worked hours, the mill, along with Madison, achieved the best result among all the cedures in place. These also ensure legal (<25), down by 6.4 per cent from the premeasures introduced following a careful Myllykoski mills. It also managed to keep its lost-time accident hours down to the same low level as compliance in this area. Following the vious year. This is the best score ever since analysis of the causes led to a gratifying in 2009, reaching the second best result for this indicator, with 388 lost hours. certification of Plattling Papier in spring the statistics were introduced in 2005. decrease in the severity rate. 44 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 45 Social responsibility Social responsibility Social responsibility Madison continued and expanded employees prior to shut-downs. TechniStaying healthy, looking its comprehensive programme of becal and organisational measures, such as ahead haviour audits in 2010. A total of 2,065 using scooters instead of bicycles, led to observations were made, which is 224 a reduction of hazards during the latter Some mills carried out actions throughmore than in the previous year. half of the year. out the year related to promoting a Myllykoski Paper focused on healthy diet. Various other health prostrengthening managers’ commitment tection measures were implemented with to safety and their influence on develAward-winning measures the focus on prevention. Madison, for ABSENTEEISM FROM 2006 TO 2010*) ABSENTEEISM DUE TO SICKNESS AND ACCIDENTS AT WORK 2010*) opment in this area. One objective has Rhein Papier developed a tear-off slip example, offered voluntary health risk been improved analysis of accidents for emergency situations, containing surveys in 2010 and started a campaign absence hours/ Accident rate absence hours/ Accident rate and addressing of near-miss situations. key information on what to do in case of to assess the employees’ risk of having a regular contracted hours Sickness rate regular contracted hours Sickness rate All employees also receive information an emergency. The institution for statuheart attack. % % about occupational safety issues on tory insurance and prevention awarded Myllykoski Corporation’s employ5 8 a weekly basis. Lang Papier followed a commendation for this information ees in Unterschleißheim were, for the 7 a similar policy and concentrated on medium as an exemplary idea. second time, offered the opportunity to 4 6 educating managers in OHS issues in Following their one-location conparticipate in an extensive first-aid train2010. cept, Plattling mills created a common ing course. Participation rates were grati5 3 In 2010, Rhein Papier started to occupational safety function to make fyingly high. 4 provide contractors with additional inbetter use of existing synergies. The statTo protect employees and prevent 2 3 structions prior to starting work and utory instructions were also standardised the possible effects of a pandemic that 2 also introduced the same concept for at the mills. might put the company’s operations at 1 risk, Myllykoski has a pandemic plan in 1 place, which can be brought into action 0 2006 2007 0 at any time. 2008 2009 2010 tal in. so n pe r uc k r pie ttlin g ier ier To /Adm adi ki Pa lbr g Pa la Pap Pap A Social commitment M s P ein g les ko MD La n MD Rh tlin Sa y lly P lat M SEVERITY AND FREQUENCY*) Madison’s The best month in terms of this indicator was March, Contributing to the well-being of soIn connection with the implemenemployees active in with a severity rate of 1,209 (per million worked hours). The ciety beyond statutory obligations is a tation of the new sustainability strategy, Severity Frequency lowest absolute severity rate was also recorded in March, at natural part of Myllykoski’s corporate consistent guidelines for Myllykoski’s voluntary work 4,500 40 374 hours. The annual average severity rate was 3,029 lost culture. commitment to social issues are under Since 2008, Madison has sponsored 4,000 35 hours (per million worked hours) and the absolute number In 2010, Myllykoski mills supportinvestigation at company level. the Employee Volunteer Program 3,500 30 of lost hours amounted to 11,279. The number of lost hours is ed various projects and initiatives within In 2010 Myllykoski supported a and supported employees’ eﬀorts 3,000 25 calculated as follows: any time lost due to an accident exceedthe scope of their possibilities, thus range of projects run by GreenLife Soto actively contribute to the life of 2,500 ing half an hour is counted, including time lost in 2010 for showing their commitment to the local ciety. A feasibility study for a tree planttheir local community. Their contri20 accidents that occurred in 2008 and 2009. communities in which they operate. The ing project “Million tree” in Namibia bution under this initiative amounts 2,000 15 support ranges from paper sponsoring showed how the project could be underto 650 hours of voluntary work, of 1,500 which 282 hours in 2010. Around 10 Measures for health and a safe working (for example, to schools, kindergartens taken in the arid soils of Namibia and 1,000 28,000 people beneﬁt from this and Munich’s street magazine BISS) and how it would benefit the local popula500 5 environment individual donations to the long-term tion in terms of water and food security work, which includes organising elementary school trips, providing 0 0 The annual Safety Improvement Visits (SIV) introduced promotion of initiatives. In addition, a and land improvement. Another project 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 sports training for youth, maintein 2006 are a major instrument for ensuring continuous imlarge number of employees are involved supported by Myllykoski was to protect nance work on church buildings Severity provement. They are carried out alternately as self-assessments in voluntary work through local initiathe sea mammal Dugong dugon in the and activities for the United States (lost hours per million worked hours) and as external evaluations, and their lists of measures are uptives and organisations as well as trade Indian Andaman Islands. Army Reserves. Frequency (number of accidents per million worked hours) dated. and industry associations. Monthly occupational health and safety themes are inAt company level, Myllykoski also troduced in all mills and communication on them is improved co-operates widely with local and interPaper art *) Alsip, Dachau and Utzenstorf Papier are to increase their effectiveness. The monthly themes help to national organisations, in particular in not included. build awareness of current conditions and events among the the paper industry. These include the Newsprint as a way to express modern visual art – an original idea that Rhein employees. Finnish Forest Industries Federation Papier immediately found fascinating, when the organisers of a Hungarian modFurther measures to improve occupational safety have (FFIF), the German Pulp and Paper Asern dance festival in North Rhine-Westphalia were recruiting sponsors for their been started and rolled out at the mills. The training and tarsociation (VDP), the American Forest event. This is how Rhein Papier’s MY NEWS made its grand entry as a minimalistic backdrop and screen for video projections. All in all, this was a spectacular event, get setting programme initiated at MD Albbruck deserves & Paper Association (AF&PA) and the proving once more that: Paper works! special mention. The focus is on all organisational levels under Confederation of European Paper Inthe headline “Cultural change in occupational safety”. dustries (CEPI). 46 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 47 Social responsibility Glossary Research focus on resource eﬃcient production technologies AOX Adsorbable organic halogens. In practice, a measure of the amount of chlorine bound to organic substances. These comEMS Environmental Management System. A method of organising a company’s environmental work systematically in accordNOX Nitrogen oxides. These gases are generated during combustion and are found in ﬂue gases. They contribute to acidiﬁcation pounds occur when pulp is bleached with ance with established procedures. EMS reand eutrophication. chlorine-containing chemicals, but may also quires continual improvement as well as an Myllykoski is one of the founders of developing radically new energy and To further improve the sustainoccur naturally. environmental policy, objectives, an action OHSAS 18001 Contains the requirements programme, an organisational and thirdfor an occupational health and safety (OHS) Forestcluster Ltd, which operates reresource efficient production technoloability of paper production, the associaBOD Biological oxygen demand. This exparty audits to ensure compliance with the management system, to enable an organisasearch programmes aiming at new innogies and by finding means to reduce its tion’s R&D activities concentrate now presses the amount of oxygen required for system. May be built up on the basis of ISO tion to control its OHS risks and improve its vations and the development of more efficapital intensiveness. The target is to imon the efficiency of production procbiological oxidation of organic matter in the 14001 or EMAS. performance. cient and sustainable technology. During prove the entire cluster’s efficiency, flexesses. During 2010 a company-wide opeﬄuent. 2010 Myllykoski participated in all five ibility and sustainability. The focus of timisation programme led to successful EN 16001 European standard for energy P Phosphorus. A naturally occurring chemiresearch programmes, which are: Inteltangible work today is on new forming reduction of fresh water consumption CARBON FOOTPRINT, a measure of the management system cal element and an important nutrient. Contotal amount of greenhouse gases (GHG) tributes to the growth of algae in waters. ligent and Resource Efficient Production technologies, resource efficient process and consequently also in the amount incurred – directly or indirectly – along the EPAT Environmental Paper Assessment Tool. Technologies (Eff Tech), Efficient Netdesign and nanocellulose applications. of effluents, reduction of rejects from product’s supply chain. The main GHG gases A tool for buyers and sellers of paper prodPCC Precipitated calcium carbonate. working Towards Novel Products and Myllykoski is a long-standing memthe deinking process and paper maare carbon dioxide CO2, methane CH4, and ucts, which provides consistent language Processes (Eff Net), Value through Intenber of the International Association of chinery, and thereby in the amount of nitrous oxide N2O. and metrics on the environmental impacts PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of sive and Efficient Fibre Supply (Eff Fibre), the Deinking Industry (INGDE). The residues, while the energy consumption of paper manufacturing operations. Forest Certiﬁcation. CCHP Combined Cycle Heat and Power proFuture Biorefinery (FuBio) and Cusassociation supports research and develof groundwood production was also reduction, i.e. heat and power cogeneration EURO V trucks European emission stanREACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisatomer Solutions for the Future (FoCus). opment projects aiming at increased utiduced. with a combined cycle unit consisting of a dards deﬁne the acceptable limits for extion and Restriction of Chemicals. The EU Even though the nature of the lisation of recovered paper. One of the Safe useage of functional chemicals gas turbine, boiler and steam turbine. haust emissions of new vehicles sold in EU chemicals regulation that aims to improve Forestcluster programmes is strategic, focuses of INGDE’s present work is cowithin the production process is essential member states. the protection of human health and the many of them produce new fresh ideas operation within the production chain in order to achieve the challenging goals CEPI Confederation of European Paper Inenvironment. It gives the industry greater and innovations for immediate execuand especially in the area of digital printset for occupational safety. This has been dustries FREQUENCY RATE The total number of inresponsibility for managing the risks from juries multiplied by 1,000,000 and divided by chemicals and providing safety information tion. Myllykoski focuses particularly on ing, in order to maintain and improve considered in the R&D work. There is a CHP Combined Heat and Power production, the total hours worked. on the substances. the Eff Net-program. The goal of the the recyclability of printed products – continuous quest for new chemicals that i.e. heat and power cogeneration with a boilprogramme is to improve the competia prerequisite for the production of recyare safe both for employees and for the er and steam turbine. FSC Forest Stewardship Council. SC Super Calendered, uncoated magazine tiveness of the whole forest cluster by cling papers. environment. paper. CO2 Carbon dioxide, a gas released during GHS Globally Harmonised System of Classiﬁcombustion. Fossil carbon dioxide contribcation and Labelling of Chemicals is an interSEVERITY RATE The total number of lost utes to the greenhouse eﬀect, and is formed nationally agreed system set to replace the hours due to injuries multiplied by 1,000,000 when coal, oil or gas is burned. various diﬀerent classiﬁcation and labelling and divided by the total hours worked. Ralph O´Connor, Director of Environmental Aﬀairs, standards used in diﬀerent countries. CoC Chain of Custody, a system for monitorSFI Sustainable Forestry Initiative. Graphic Communications, United States ing the origin and supply chain of wood raw ISO 9001 An international standard for qualmaterial. ity management systems. SO2 Sulphur dioxide. A gas generated during the combustion of sulphur-containing fuels “ Everything starts with the Today, when large paper consumers put out a request COD Chemical oxygen demand. This exISO 14001 An international standard for ensuch as coal. forests. The most relevant for quotation, there is always a separate environmental compresses the amount of oxygen required to vironmental management systems. issue today is ﬁbre from susponent. While in most cases this does not win a company the chemically oxidise matter in the eﬄuent. SVHC Substances of Very High Concern are tainably managed forests that business, it can certainly exclude a company from the procLCA Life Cycle Assessment. Compilation of mainly substances that are carcinogenic, muhave been certiﬁed to a credess. The questions include legal sourcing, ﬁbre certiﬁcation, DIP Deinked pulp. Pulp that has been prothe inputs, outputs and environmental imtagenic or toxic for reproduction, as deﬁned ible internationally recogChain of Custody, recycled content, water usage reduction, duced by deinking recovered paper. Ink is repacts of a product system throughout its life by REACH. moved from the paper by both physical and cycle. nised standard. Increasing the carbon emissions, landﬁll waste and Lacey Act Compliance. chemical means. TCF Total Chlorine Free. Chemical pulp that amount of certiﬁed ﬁbre availWe concentrate on providing the “Best Fit” for the cusLWC Light Weight Coated magazine paper. has been bleached without any type of chloable is a critical issue, which tomer in the correct grade, basis weight and environmental ECF Elemental Chlorine Free. Chemical pulp rine. beneﬁts the forest owner, the performance to match the quality requirements of their printthat has been bleached with a chlorine deN Nitrogen. A naturally occurring chemical environment, the paper maker and, of course, the cused product and their values. The options have to be good berivative such as chlorine dioxide (ClO2), but element and an important nutrient. ContribVOC/VOM Volatile Organic Compounds, tomer. Chain of Custody certiﬁcation provides customcause our customers demand options that meet all of their without elemental chlorine. utes to the growth of algae in waters. Volatile Organic Materials. ers with the assurance that the ﬁbre used to make paper criteria and our reputation depends on exceeding their exEMAS European Eco-Management and Auhas been legally sourced and that the forest is managed pectations. dit Scheme. See EMS. to sustainable standards. We should educate the consumers to understand that We are the largest independent paper and print paper is made from a renewable resource that is recoverable broker in North America and with our parent company and recyclable. Increased paper recovery and diverting paper Unisource WorldWide, Inc. we have instituted a Sustainfrom landﬁlls is the most important thing consumers can do ability Scorecard for our supply chain partners, modelled to protect the environment. The recovery rate in the United after Wal-Mart. The intent is to get a better understandStates has hit an all-time high of 64 per cent, but we can do ing of our supply chain, shared information and areas better and also work to provide a cleaner stream of recovered where we can mutually cooperate. paper to the recyclers. ” 48 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 49 I AM THE ONLY Independent third-party veriﬁcation of GRI Guidelines Application Level In compiling the 2010 Sustainability Report Myllykoski used the Global THING YOU’RE Reporting Initiative's (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Accordingly, Myllykoski makes a self-declaration that the Report meets the requirements for the GRI's Application Level B. Third-party review conducted by the corporate responsibility specialist LOOKING Tofuture Oy conﬁrmed that the Report meets the requirements for GRI's Application Level B. Adherence to GRI standard disclosures is illustrated and explained in the GRI index at http://www.myllykoski.com AT RIGHT Your feedback is welcome This Sustainability Review presents Myllykoski’s business operations from the perspective of corporate responsibility, covering the company’s economic, environmental and social performance. Please send your views and comments to sustainability@myllykoski.com. NOW Additional copies of the Sustainability Review can be ordered via Myllykoski’s website, by email or from our headquarters: Myllykoski Corporation Eteläesplanadi 20 FI-00130 Helsinki Finland I am the power of print. By picking up the newspaper, magazine or catalogue, tel. +358 9 348 9640 consumers are actually investing their time and attention in seeking information. Learn more about print media at printpower.eu. sustainability@myllykoski.com www.myllykoski.com To order the brochure online, take a picture of this code with your mobile. ADD PRINT, ADD POWER 50 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 51 Your MYLLYKOSKI contact: EUROPE TURKEY Fineks A.S. | Karamanciftligi Cad. Otokoc Binasi | 34750 K. Bakkalkoy Istanbul AUSTRIA, EASTERN EUROPE (BULGARIA, CROATIA, SLOVENIA) Tel. +90 (216) 576 32 00 | Fax +90 (216) 576 69 69 | info@fineks.com Merckens Papier und Karton Handelsg.m.b.H | Bendlgasse 16 | 1120 Vienna Tel. +43 1 523 35 00 0 | Fax +43 1 526 12 28 | info.austria@myllykoski.com UK & IRELAND Myllykoski Sales Ltd. | Third Floor | 11-15 St. Mary at Hill | London | EC3R 8EE BELGIUM, LUXEMBURG Tel. +44 (0) 0207 398 5060 | Fax. +44 (0) 207 283 5079 | info.uk&ireland@myllykoski.com Myllykoski Sales S.A. | Avenue du Chateau Jaco 1 | 1410 Waterloo Tel. +32 2 357 81 00 | Fax +32 2 357 81 09 | info.belgium@myllykoski.com NORTH AMERICA CYPRUS (in part AFRICA, NEAR EAST, ASIAN COUNTRIES) CANADA BOMO-CYPAP Pulp and Paper Ltd. | P.O. Box. 60227 | 8101 Pafos Myllykoski Sales Inc. | 1010 de la Gauchetiere West, Place du Canada, Suite 2285 | Montréal, H3B 2N2 | Québec Tel. +357 26 841 000 | Fax +357 26 841 099 | paper@bomo-cypap.com Tel. +1 514 878 1977 | Fax +1 514 878 2155 | info.canada@myllykoski.ca CZECH REPUBLIC, SLOVAKIA MEXICO Merckens Papier o.s. | Roháčova 14 | 13000 Praha 3 Representaciones M-real alliance Mexico S.A. de C.V. | Piso 34, oficina 18, WTC, Montecito No. 38 Tel. +420 603 173 287 | Fax +420 603 152 618 | martin.hlavac@myllykoski.com Col. Napoles | C.P. 03810 Mexico City DENMARK Tel. +52 55 5488 1664 | Fax +52 55 5488 1667 | mrealallmexksi@mx.inter.net Myllykoski Sales AB | Thorvald Niss Gade 14 | 5610 Assens USA Tel. +45 64 74 24 43 | Fax +45 64 74 14 43 | claus.nicolaisen@myllykoski.com Myllykoski North America | 101 Merritt 7, 5th floor, Norwalk | Connecticut 06851 ESTONIA Tel. +1 800 323 3443 | Fax +1 203 229 7450 | info.usa@myllykoski.com Antalis AS | Linamäe 6 | Tänassilma küla | Saku vald | EE-76406 Harjumaa Tel. +372 68 00 911 | Fax +372 68 00 913 | info@antalis.ee LATIN AMERICA FINLAND ARGENTINA, CHILE, PARAGUAY, URUGUAY Myllykoski Sales Nordic | Korkeavuorenkatu 34 | 00130 Helsinki Dinarco Internacional S.A. / Subagent: Codipa S.A. | San Martín 627 5º Y 6º PISO | (C1004AAM) Buenos Aires Tel. +358 93 48 96 39 | Fax +358 93 48 96 52 | info.finland@myllykoski.com Tel. +54 11 4314 6600 | Fax +54 11 4314 3675 | ines@codipa.com.ar FRANCE BRAZIL Myllykoski Sales s.a.r.l. | 9, Rue Ybry | 92200 Neuilly sur Seine SAMAB CIA.INDUSTRÍA E COMÉRCIO DE PAPEL | Rua Julio Gonzalez, 132 30º andar | 01156-060 São Paulo SP Tel. +33 1 46 41 79 50 | Fax +33 1 46 41 79 60 | info.france@myllykoski.com Tel. +55 11 3670 0800 | Fax +55 11 3670 0917 | central@samab.com.br GERMANY ECUADOR, COLOMBIA, PUERTO RICO Myllykoski Sales GmbH | Beim Glaspalast 1 | 86153 Augsburg WILLIAMS & CIE SARL | Le Panorama C, 57 Rue Grimaldi, MC-98000 Monte Carlo | Monaco Tel.:+49 (0) 821/567 454-0 | Fax: +49 (0) 821/567 454-50 | info.germany@myllykoski.com Tel. +377 97 97 67 37 | Fax +377 97 97 67 38 | anton@scswilliams.mc GREECE PERU Costas Lazarakis | 63 Hermou St. | Glyfada 16674 REPCO PERU SAC | Calle Conde de la Vega 103 # 201, Urb Chacarilla | Surco | Lima Tel. +302 10 898 2488 | Fax +302 10 898 2838 | klazarakis@lazarakis.com Tel. + 511 991 647673 | jouni.repcoperu@gmail.com HUNGARY VENEZUELA Merckens Papir BT | Pusztaszeri u. 74 | 1025 Budapest AV. RIO PARAGUA, CONJ. RES. PRADO HUMBOLDT, EDIFICIO DATILERA Tel. +36 1 345 00 31 | Fax +36 1 345 00 32 | maria.mate@myllykoski.com Local DLA-2, Prados del Este | 1080-A Caracas ITALY Tel. +58 212 977 1961 | Fax +58 212 979 2913 | oficina_siegel@yahoo.de Myllykoski Sales S.r.l. | Via dei Missaglia n. 97 Fabbricato A2 | 20142 Milano Tel. +39 02 8930 5829 | Fax +39 02 8260 854 | info.italy@myllykoski.com MIDDLE EAST LATVIA JORDAN, LEBANON, PALESTINE, SYRIA Antalis AS | Granita iela 17 | Stopinu pag. | LV-Rigas rajons LV2119 BOMO-CYPAP Pulp and Paper Ltd. | P.O. Box. 60227 | 8101 Pafos Tel. +371 710 0811 | Fax +371 710 0801 | antalis@antalis.lv Tel. +357 26 841 000 | Fax +357 26 841 099 | paper@bomo-cypap.com LITHUANIA ISRAEL Antalis UAB | Ukmergès str. 369A | LT-12142 Vilnius Nirplex Exclusive Agencies | 23 Hamelacha st. „Afeq“ Park Rosh Ha‘ayn, (P.O.B 11436) | Rosh Ha‘ayn 48091 Tél. +370 52 49 66 88 | Fax +370 52 49 62 41 | info@antalis.lt Tel: +972 (3) 9003131 | Fax: +972 (3) 900 3151 | itai@nirplex.co.il NETHERLANDS EGYPT, SUDAN Myllykoski Sales B.V. | Oude Rijn 61 a | 2312 HC Leiden BOMO-CYPAP Pulp and Paper Ltd. | P.O. Box. 60227 | 8101 Pafos Tel. +31 71 54 22 150 | Fax +31 71 54 22 151 | info.holland@myllykoski.com Tel. +357 26 841 000 | Fax +357 26 841 099 | paper@bomo-cypap.com POLAND ASIA PACIFIC Myllykoski Sales Sp. zo.o. | ul. Koszykowa 54 | 00-675 Warszawa Tel. +48 22 630 8545 | Fax +48 22 630 8544 | info.poland@myllykoski.com AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND Paper Agencies Pty. Ltd. | 554 Burwood Road, Hawtorn | Victoria 3122 PORTUGAL Tel. +61 3 9819 4911 | Fax +61 3 9819 4250 Myllykoski Sales S.A. | Av. Columbano Bordalo Pinheiro, 84 7º Dtº | 1070-065 Lisbon Tel. +351 217 222 950 | Fax +351 217 222 959 | info.portugal@myllykoski.com INDIA U.K. Paper Mart PVT Ltd | Asha Building, Ground Floor, 23 Dongarsi Road, Malabar Hill | Mumbai 400006 ROMANIA Tel.: +91 (22) 2367 2573 | Fax: +91 (22) 23367 3545 | subahu@ukpapermart.com Paper & Board Alliance | 56, Smaranda Braescu Str., Sector-1 | Bucharest 014204 Tel. +40 21 2332053 | Fax +40 21 2332051 | adrian.murarus@pballiance.ro JAPAN Marubeni Pulp and Paper | 4-2 Ohtemachi 1 Chome, Chiyoda-ku | Tokyo RUSSIA, UKRAINE Tel. +81 3 3282 4923 | Fax +81 3 3282 9669 OOO Myllykoski Sales Ltd. | Kutuzovskiy prospekt 76 | Ru-117639 Moscow M-Trading Ltd. | Fuji Hgts 405, 2-15-19 Minami Aoyama | Tokyo 107-0062 Mobile +7 985 767 4408 | alexey.pirozhkov@myllykoski.com Tel. +81 3 3408 9461 | hideki.nakakubo@mtrade-ltd.com SCANDINAVIA Myllykoski Sales AB | Stora Nygatan 13 | 411 08 Gothenburg AFRICA Tel. +46 31 165 550 | Fax +46 31 204 250 | info.scandinavia@myllykoski.com SOUTH AFRICA SERBIA, MONTENEGRO, MACEDONIA, BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA PaperForce CC | 75 Essenwood Road, Berea | Durban 4001 FIN PAPIR | Majke Jevrosime 12 | 11000 Belgrade Tel. +27 31 202 9422 | Fax +27 31 202 9426 | sales@paperforce.co.za Tel. + 381 11 33 42 042 | Fax + 381 11 33 46 765 | velibor@finskipapir.com 36 Pondicherry Ave | Hout Bay Cape Town, 7806 SPAIN Tel. +27 (0) 21 790 1611 | Fax +27 (0) 21 790 1703 Myllykoski Sales S.A. | Calle Alcalá 87, 7º Dcha. | 28009 Madrid MOROCCO, TUNISIA Tel. +34 91 436 00 02 | Fax +34 91 577 32 10 | info.spain@myllykoski.com BOMO-CYPAP Pulp and Paper Ltd. | P.O. Box. 60227 | 8101 Pafos Vía Layetana 15, 2º, 3ª, 08003 Barcelona Tel. +357 26 841 000 | Fax +357 26 841 099 | paper@bomo-cypap.com Tel. +34 93 315 18 55 | Fax +34 93 315 01 52 | info.spain@myllykoski.com SWITZERLAND Myllykoski Sales AG | Postfach 136 | 4566 Kriegstetten Tel. +41 (0) 32 323 6363 | mobil +41 (0) 79 330 1379 | info.switzerland@myllykoski.com 52 Myllykoski Sustainability Review 2010 www.myllykoski.com
