Report on activities supporting the UN “Global Compact” initiative and the European Business Campaign on Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) carried out within the framework of the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2010 Introduction The Mission of the Approved Partner Programme is to promote modern management methods and reliability and responsibility in business as significant principles in the creation and functioning of civic society as well as related education, in particular through the dissemination of good examples of reliable operation of companies involved in social environment initiatives and caring for the natural environment (www.solidnypartner.pl ). The main objectives of the Programme also include dissemination of economic, legal and other knowledge about the economic market and modern methods of corporate management, paying special attention to the standards observed and followed in the European Union. The “Approved Partner” Programme is the initiative of the Reliable Business Association and the European Education and Consulting Centre (until end of 2004 – Business Promotion Centre) introduced in 1995 in Wielkopolska. At the time it was the only programme of this type in Poland. A multi-step company verification system combined with ongoing monitoring of company reliability are among the main values of the new version of the Programme implemented in 1999, which makes it distinct among other similar initiatives. The verification procedures are systematic based on verification requests submitted by companies and the documents, which are assessed in line with the principles stipulated in the Programme regulations. The assessment checks how reliably a company conducts its business, whether it pays its liabilities on time, whether it is solvent, whether it observes legal and administrative regulations and the principles of fair competition, whether the methods used internally and externally are friendly, what the quality of its goods and services is, how involved it is in the issues of the social environment and how it cares for the natural environment and last, but not least, how prepared it is to function in the European Union. In the period under discussion systematic marketing activities connected with the Programme were carried out, including ongoing monitoring and verification of the companies participating in the Programme. The documentation defined in the Programme regulations submitted by the company was collated and prepared for analysis by the Licence Bureau of the “Approved Partner” Programme (maintained by the Centre for European Education and Consultancy) and the Verification Committee (composed of representatives of the Association) assessed the companies seeking the award or extension of the right to use the “Approved Partner” logo and honorary title in their marketing activities. Activities supporting the “Global Compact” initiative and the European Business Campaign on Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) Systematic support (media coverage, Internet, e-mail campaigns and dissemination of information at conferences and meetings) was continued in 2010. It aimed to popularize knowledge and help in the implementation of the UN “Global Compact” initiative and the European Business Campaign for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) announced by the European Commission. Representatives of the organizers of the “Approved Partner” Programme took part in the following activities: promotional campaign was continued (January December 2010) in cooperation with specialized agencies, including mail shots with information about the “Approved Partner” Programme, “Global Compact” and CSR sent to over 15,000 Polish companies, accompanied by a telemarketing campaigns. www.solidnypartner.eu website was launched in February 2010. It promotes laureates of the “Approved Partner” Programme (which is celebrating its fifteenth anniversary this year) and other companies offering top quality goods and services. One of the main aims of the programme and the website is creation of the “zone of greater safety in business”, which is a value particularly important for prospective customers during the “crisis of confidence” 18 May 2010 Michał Wieczorek. representing the Reliable Business Association, took part in the conference on responsible business (combined with a discussion panel targeted at companies from Wielkopolska), organized in the Municipal Office of Poznań as part of the Responsible Poznań project by a chapter of AIESEC affiliated with the University of Economics in Poznań. Since October 2009 Michał Wieczorek, Deputy President of the Reliable Business Association, has taken part in the work of the expert group assisting the Corporate Social Responsibility Unit at the Ministry of Economy, headed by Rafał Baniak, Deputy Minister of Economy. The Unit promotes CSR and creates conditions for its development in Poland. The Unit was appointed by virtue of a regulation of the Prime Minister issued on 8 May 2009. It is composed of representatives of many ministries and central offices as well as voluntary partners. Some statistics on the involvement in the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2010: 8 companies (of which 3 medium and 5 small). The percentage of women managers in these companies in the period covered by the report was as follows: medium companies – 11%-65% (no change compared to 2009), small companies – 0%-50% (no change compared to 2009), There is no information on discriminatory practices regarding remuneration of women. Involvement in activities protecting the natural and social environment Natural environment In 2010 the companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme continued or started the following ecological activities: collection of post-production waste, ion exchange treatment of electroplating wastes, hazardous waste reduction, reduction of gas and dust emission programmes prepared by companies (and approved by the county government), use of ecological raw materials in production, Freon recovery, use of low emission fuels, continued activities to reduce detrimental effects of production to the environment: upgrading and reconstruction of production assets, i.e. exchange of insulation on heat networks and assembly of condensation neutralizers in boiler houses, continued work to protect flood banks, stabilize river banks and repair water engineering facilities and constructed acoustic screens, participation in local programmes carried out in schools, aimed to make the children aware why it is important to protect the natural environment collection of used packaging, waste paper, cells, etc. (assistance in organization and transport). The above activities have been carried out for a number of years by: „Stabilator” Sp. z o.o., Gdańsk, “X-comp” Sp. z o.o., Szczecin, ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES”, Koło, and others. Modern management methods compatible with international standards (mainly ISO 9001, in some cases ISO 14001 and HACCP) were implemented in over 60% of the companies participating in the Programme. About 12% of the companies in this group implemented Integrated Management Systems (Quality, Environment, H&S), among them: “Stabilator” Sp. z o.o., Gdańsk, Zakład Wytwarzania Artykułów Ściernych ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES, Koło, operation of the wholesale market in Poznań in line with the ISO 9001 and HACCP management systems (“Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza” S.A., Poznań). Social environment In 2010 the companies participating in the „Approved Partner” Programme were involved in the following social activities: assistance in repairs of public buildings, support to day care centres, social welfare centres, management of youth sports teams, secondment of company employees to work for the social environment, assistance in the provision of hardware for school computer suites, assistance extended to public libraries in counties and towns and to district community centres (e.g. ZUI „NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. – Łomża, „X-comp” Sp. z o.o. – Szczecin, „ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” – Koło, Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych „Protektor” – Poznań, and others), participation in the “Entrepreneurship Development Programme” under the auspices of the Szczecin University of Technology and the Mayor of Szczecin, supporting the JAPA Small Theatrical Forms at the Hospital for Children in Szczecin (“X-comp” Sp. z o.o., Szczecin), employment of graduates and work placements for students (e.g. “STABILATOR” Sp. z o.o. from Gdańsk financed work placement as part of the “Holiday Work Placement Programme 2010” organized by the City Office in Gdańsk; the programme aims to help students and unemployed university graduates in Gdańsk, Gdynia and Sopot to acquire or deepen practical knowledge and join the labour market; „SGB – TRANS –LEASING Polskie Towarzystwo Leasingowe” Sp. z o.o. from Poznań organized work placements for students), cooperation with appropriate institutions in the field of training courses and work placements for the unemployed (e.g. permanent cooperation between the Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A. – Poznań and the County Labour Offices, which refer unemployed to basic courses in flower arranging), cooperation with the County Labour Office and Family Support Centre – employment of disabled persons and creation of jobs for them (“ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” – Koło), professional insertion of women (creating workplaces for unemployed women – designers – „AIRTECH Paweł Wierzowiecki”, Poznań), tangible donations (products) to schools, kindergartens, social care centres; also financial help extended to natural persons (e.g. to help treat children with chronic medical conditions) and legal persons (foundations, associations, etc.) „STABILATOR” Sp. z o.o.Gdańsk, sponsorship of different events for children, including cultural and sports events (e.g. “STABILATOR” Sp. z o.o. – Gdańsk sponsored the “Atelier” Theatre in Sopot through the “Art 2000” Foundation, co-organization of the Novum Jazz Festival and the Young Jazz Performers New Hope for Jazz festival; sponsorship of the Chamber Philharmonic in Łomża and the North Mazovian Museum in Łomża, regular school marathons – ZUI “NOVUM” Sp. z o.o., Łomża, school chess competitions – “AIRTECH Paweł Wierzowiecki”, Poznań), charity campaigns (e.g. “Give Help While You Can” – “STABILATOR” Sp. z o.o., Gdańsk, ZUI “NOVUM” Sp. z o.o., Łomża) and social campaigns. The total value of the financial contribution to these activities in 2010 amounted to over PLN 70,000.00. Creation of new jobs – in 2010 as many as 10 jobs were created in the companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme. It should be emphasized that accomplishment of the different activities connected with the “Approved Partner” Programme and dissemination of information about the principles of the “Global Compact” and “CSR” were financed from very limited funds contributed by the Programme participants. Outstanding companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2010 and in the previous years „WIELKOPOLSKA GILDIA ROLNO-OGRODNICZA”, S.A. Poznań, Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych „Protektor” Biuro Zachodnie Sp. z o.o. Poznań, „STABILATOR” Sp. z o.o. Gdańsk, „SGB-TRANS-LEASING Polskie Towarzystwo Leasingowe” Sp. z o.o. Poznań, „X-comp” Sp. z o.o. Szczecin, Zakład Usług Informatycznych „NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. Łomża, „AIRTECH Paweł Wierzowiecki” Poznań, Zakład Wytwarzania Artykułów Ściernych „ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” Robert Andre – Koło. Prepared by Michał Wieczorek
