Our vision of sustainability sustainability report 2010 The Company ALFA is a Mexican company comprising four business groups: Alpek (petrochemicals), Nemak (high-tech aluminum auto components), Sigma (refrigerated food) and Alestra (telecommunications). ALFA is the world’s leading manufacturer of high-tech aluminum engine heads and blocks. It is one of the world’s largest producers of PTA and PET, and has a leading market share in other petrochemicals in Mexico. In addition, ALFA is Mexico’s leader in the processed meats and cheese market and one of the most important value-added telecommunications services companies in Mexico. In 2010, ALFA reported revenues of $136,395 million pesos (U.S. $10.8 billion), and EBITDA of $15,958 million pesos (U.S. $1.3 billion). Currently, ALFA has manufacturing operations in 16 countries and employs more than 56,300 people. ALFA’s shares are quoted on the Mexican Stock Exchange and on Latibex, the market for Latin American shares of the Madrid Stock Exchange. Contents Sustainability Report 2 ALFA: global footprint and businesses 4 Message from the Chairman of the Board and the President 5 our philosophy 6 our vision of sustainability 8 corporate governance and business ethics 10 the ALFA Employees 14 the community 18 The environment 22 economic impact 25 Principles of the global compact 26 GRI index about this report Highlights of the year 13 102 The ALFA Employees The Community plants educational, set internal records in industrial health-care, and social-assistance safety. institutions received support from ALFA. 1,860 courses and more than 1.4 million $ 6.5 million pesos contributed to man-hours of training. the Teletón in Mexico. 250,000 120,000 participants in recreational events. visited the ALFA Planetarium. people +7.9 10,794 The Environment Economic Impact million U.S. $ tons of CO2 were not emitted thanks to ALFA‘s recycling and energymillion economic value generated. saving programs. 20% less CO2 emissions over 56,300 employees, the last 10 years, while 31% are women. production increased by 48%. 4.1 million GJ of energy saved in the last U.S. $ 889 million in investment and acquisitions. four years. 1 alfa: Global Footprint and Businesses Poland Germany Czech Republic Hungary Austria Slovakia Canada United States Dominican Republic Costa Rica Mexico El Salvador Brazil Peru Argentina Alpek Nemak One of the largest producers of PTA and The world´s leading manufacturer of highPET in the world; the only producer of tech aluminum auto components. polypropylene in Mexico. Also, it operates • Main products: Aluminum heads and the largest expandable polystyrene site in blocks for gas and diesel engines, and the Americas. transmission parts • Main products: PTA, PET, polypropylene, • Plants: 27 in 12 countries expandable polystyrene, caprolactam, • Capacity: 43 million equivalent heads per ammonium sulphate, urethanes, glycols, year polyester fiber, and nylon polymer • Employees: 18,067 • Plants: 21 in 3 countries • Capacity: 5.8 million tons per year • Employees: 4,076 2 ALFA serves the following industrial sectors: petrochemicals and plastics, auto parts, food and beverages, textiles, packaging, construction, furniture, and telecommunications. China China presence in 16 countries 82 production plants 56,300 employees Sigma Alestra The leader in the processed meats and One of Mexico’s leading value-added cheese markets in Mexico. telecommunications services companies. • Main products: processed meats, cheese, • Main services: data transmission, Internet, yogurt, and prepared foods managed services, security and hosting, • Plants: 34, plus 145 distribution centers in local telephone and long distance services 9 countries • Presence: 200 cities across Mexico • Capacity: 1,000,000 tons per year • Employees: 1,696 • Employees: 29,197 3 Message from the Chairman of the Board and the President We present ALFA’s 2010 Sustainability Report, the first to be sity and 2,320 people participated in the ANSPAC (Mexican National produced using the methodology of the Global Reporting InitiaAssociation for Self Improvement) program. tive (GRI). Of particular note is the fact that during the year ALFA Through the ALFA Foundation and its companies, ALFA supported broadened and reinforced its sustainability programs. more than 100 educational, health care, social assistance and environFrom an operating and financial standpoint, ALFA achieved mental initiatives. For its part, the ALFA Planetarium hosted more than favorable results. In addition, the foundations were laid for future 250,000 visitors. profitable growth through investments and acquisitions. All of It is important to give credit to the thousands of ALFA employees this was done with the clear aim of creating value for the Comwho joined it in participating in the sustainability programs described pany’s stakeholders. above. ALFA congratulates them for their willingness to unite efforts In the area of sustainability, the ALFA companies made progress. For and contribute to a noble cause. The company encourages them to instance, they invested in projects aimed at reducing and optimizing continue to do the same in future years, taking part in an activity that the use of energy and enhancing their CO2 emissions reduction is a source of pride for all involved. programs. Of special significance were the U.S. $4.6 million invested in energy efficiency projects, the processing of 460,000 tons of recycled aluminum, and the start-up of a PET bottle recycling plant San Pedro Garza Garcia, N.L., Mexico in the U.S. February 1, 2011. Regarding industrial safety, the ALFA companies achieved important milestones during 2010: seven plants accumulated a year without suffering disabling accidents, while four others reached their second year without such accidents, and two plants, Polioles Altamira and Nyltek, extended their accomplishments to four consecutive years. Armando Garza Sada (left) On another front, the ALFA companies offered 1,860 courses and Chairman of the Board of Directors 1.4 million man-hours of training. Moreover, 15,400 employees Álvaro Fernández Garza (right) attended the 35 instruction programs offered by the Sigma UniverPresident ALFA achieved favorable results in the main financial lines and laid the foundations for future profitable growth. 4 Our Philosophy mission vision values Our commitments Integrity: Our actions are governed by To become a source of our commitment to ethical conduct and pride for our workers Stockholders: Achieve outstanding longsocial responsibility. and shareholders; exceed term value creation through profitable Respect and Empathy: We consider growth, continuous portfolio optimization diversity as a strength. We seek to stakeholder expectations and by carefully investing in new business incorporate individuals with different through leadership, opportunities. backgrounds and experiences. We aspire Employees: to be a great place to work. to provide a work environment that innovation and long-term To attract and develop the best talent, promotes trust and cooperation. exceptional performance. motivating them to achieve their full Results Oriented: We are committed to potential. value creation and to the continuous Clients: to exceed expectations with improvement of our businesses. All superior experiences and innovative our employees embody a personal offerings. commitment to improving the Suppliers: to build long lasting mutually performance of the company. beneficial relationships. Innovation and Corporate Training: Community: to promote safe and Encourage and reward innovation sustainable operations. To contribute to and development of new business the development of our communities. opportunities. Client focus: Dedicated to exceeding our clients’ needs. Since 2006 ALFA has adhered to the United Nations Global Compact. 5 Our Vision of Sustainability ALFA branched ALFA believes that generating value For ALFA, sustainability is a process of contithrough a model of sustainable developnuous improvement. In 2010, in accordance out from a group ment is key to its permanence and growth. with its philosophy and under the leadersAs part of a community, it must not only hip of the new management team, which of companies that generate economic value, but also contriassumed its duties in March of that year, it established the bute to the development of its employees and communities, as well as carry out its continued to develop programs to improve the health, industrial safety, and integral defirst private-sector activities with deep respect for the natural environment. velopment of its employees. It also supported institutions that foster a better quality of employee health, life in the community and promote energyALFA branched out from a group of savings, recycling, and emissions-reduction training, and savings companies that, early in the twentieth programs. century, established the first private-sector plans in Mexico. employee health, training, and savings ALFA also created an organizational unit plans in Mexico. dedicated to coordinating, supporting, and monitoring sustainability initiatives, as well ALFA has maintained this tradition for as to strengthening its sustainability vision, more than 35 years. Over time, it has enculture, and policies. hanced these programs, fitting them to the needs of the present moment and of the regions where it has a presence. Social Mission Business Vision strategy / sustainability Economic Values Environmental 6 For ALFA, its stakeholders are those groups who may be directly or indirectly affected by the company’s activities. Stockholders Employees Commitment with our stakeholders Clients Suppliers Community 7 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics A solid structure of corporate goverBoard of Directors Member Committee nance has been one of ALFA’s pillars since José Calderón Rojas Independent Proprietary Audit and Corporate Practices its founding. The company adheres subsEnrique Castillo Sánchez Mejorada Independent Finance tantially to Mexico´s Code of Best Corporate Valentín Díez Morodo Independent Human Resources Practices, which governs its performance in Francisco Javier Fernández Carbajal Independent Finance this area. Álvaro Fernández Garza Related Proprietary Finance Dionisio Garza Medina Related Proprietary Finance The Board of Directors of ALFA has 13 Armando Garza Sada Related Proprietary Finance proprietary members, who have no Claudio X. González Laporte Independent Human Resources alternates. They are elected on the basis Ricardo Guajardo Touché Independent Finance and Audit and Corporate Practices of their professionalism, business careers, David Martínez Guzmán Independent Finance Adrián Sada González Independent Human Resources leadership, experience, and adherence to Federico Toussaint Elosúa Independent Audit and Corporate Practices ALFA values. Nine of them are indepenGuillermo F. Vogel Hinojosa Independent Audit and Corporate Practices dent directors. The Chairman himself does not occupy an operating position in the Carlos Jiménez Barrera Secretary structure of the company. The Board of Directors supervises the Resources, and Audit and Corporate The compensation of the members of the company´s economic, social and environPractices. The Committees are headed by Board of Directors is determined based on mental performance through ordinary independent members and meet at least standard practices for companies of similar and/or extraordinary meetings held during twice a year to resolve matters within size and industry in Mexico. Other company the year. their sphere of competence. All of the officers and executives have both fixed directors participate in at least one of and variable compensation, with the latter In order to carry out its functions cothese committees. The Audit and Corbeing calculated based on reaching certain rrectly, three Committees support the porate Practices Committee is formed by previously established targets, and overall Board of Directors: Finance, Human independent members only. company results. Nine out of the 13 Board members are independent. 8 ALFA has trustworthy and transparent means of registering complaints and a strict follow-up procedure. ALFA has several channels of communicaSince several years ago, ALFA has put • Alestra carries out weekly and monthly tion between the Board of Directors and its in place a Transparency Mailbox, which surveys and interviews with customers. shareholders, including minority shareholis a mechanism whereby inappropriate ders. These include: conducts can be reported anonymously, • Alpek performs continuous evaluations by telephone or e-mail. regarding product quality and customer • The Corporate Communications Deservice. partment, which is an area devoted to The mailbox can be accessed by a different providing information and attention to telephone number depending on the Human rights are of vital importance shareholders. It also serves to inform country from which the call originates. The to ALFA. Since 2006, the company has the Board of investor‘s concerns regarmailbox provides ALFA employees with a adhered to the United Nations Global ding the company. trustworthy and transparent manner of Compact. • The Annual Shareholder‘s Meeting, where sending their comments and concerns to shareholders can directly express their ALFA at any moment. All of the company’s staff in security concerns and opinions to the Board. areas have received specific training in • The Transparency Mailbox, which can be Exceeding the expectations of customers safety policies and procedures, as well as used by shareholders, employees, custoand consumers is one of ALFA’s core in human rights, a concern which is also mers, suppliers, and external audiences. values. Through a toll-free phone vital regarding relationships with suppliers number, e-mail and web pages, they can and contractors. There is a corporate policy that regulates communicate their views and opinions: conflicts of interest at ALFA. There are anti-corruption policies and procedures • Sigma gave effective attention and response in place, which are known and adopted to 90.7% of the calls it received during 2010. by directors and employees. Such policies and procedures govern the personal, • Nemak maintains representatives at professional, and working relations of all customer´s plants, monitoring product the members of the organization. quality daily. The principal associations to which ALFA belongs: • American Foundry Society (AFS) • Mexican Internet Association (AMIPCI) • Nuevo Leon State Civic Institutions • National Association of Chemical Industry Council (CCINLAC) of Mexico (ANIQ) • Mexican Council of Businessmen (CCE) • Association for the Self-Improvement, • Mexican Enterprise Council of Foreign A.C. (ANSPAC) Trade, Investment and Technology • National Chamber of Electronic, (COMCE) Telecommunications and Information • Mexican Business Coordinating Council Technology Industry (CANIETI) (CMHN) • National Chamber of Transformation • Mexican Council of Science and Industry (CAINTRA) Technology (CONACYT) • Canadian Foundry Society (CFS) • German Association of the Automotive • Mexican Employers Confederation Industry (GAAI) (COPARMEX) • Hungarian Foundry Association (HFA) 9 31% of ALFA’s 10 employees are women. ALFA believes its employees are the foundation of its sustainability project. ALFA endorses the principles of equal opportunity, development, gender equality, and respect. It makes every effort to offer its employees quality of life based on a balance between work and family life, human development, health, and industrial safety. ALFA fosters a workplace environment in which employees are listened to and respected, where the working environment facilitates communication and collaboration. ALFA allows and encourages employee’s access to and communication with all organizational levels. The ALFA Employees 15,400 employees enrolled in the Sigma University. 11 2,320 people participated in the programs offered by ANSPAC. At the end of 2010, ALFA employed a total staff of 56,300 employALFA companies offer medical services in most of their work centers ees, of whom 31% were women. There is no difference in the base to care for the health of their employees. They also promote a salary for men and women, since salaries are determined by position culture of preventive health care, with activities such as health fairs, and not by gender. Some 46% of ALFA employees belong to a union campaigns against contagious diseases, nutritional advice, sports and work under a collective bargaining agreement. 96% of employprograms, and physical exercise. ees have a permanent contract. Of this number, 95% work full time and 5% part time. Average monthly turnover is 1.97%. Training Training is one of the pillars for the development of ALFA’s emploALFA employees receive benefits, including pensions plans, educayees. The main achievements in this area in 2010 included: tional aid, and medical assistance, which exceed those required by law in the countries where they work. ALFA’s pension system con• 1,860 training programs and more than 1,420,000 man-hours sists of a fixed contribution plan, fully supported by the company, of training. which ranges from 4% to 17% of an employee’s salary. • 15,400 employees participated in 35 programs offered by Sigma University. Industrial Safety and Health • 2,320 people in Mexico, the U.S., Costa Rica, and the Dominican Keeping high standards for industrial safety and health within the Republic participated in the programs offered by ANSPAC on subjects ALFA companies is a permanent task. Many of ALFA’s employees such as self-esteem, respect, personal improvement, and ethics. take part on safety, health, industrial hygiene, and environmental protection committees. In 2010 significant progress was made in all In addition to training programs, the ALFA companies carried out of these areas. At the consolidated level, ALFA reduced its Injury Rate performance evaluations that helped to design development plans for (number of days lost by occupational risks for every million manalmost 80% of the employees. In order to foster professional develophours of exposure) from 307 in 2009 to 94 in 2010. The Frequency ment of ALFA’s executives, a mentoring program was implemented Rate (number of disabling accidents for every million man-hours of throughout the different companies in which 66 staff members particiexposure) was also reduced from 11.39 in 2009 to 10.77 in 2010. pated. They had the opportunity to develop essential skills to continue Seven plants recorded one year with zero disabling accidents, four advancing within the organization. Another program, known as “ALFA more reached two years while the Polioles plant in Altamira, Mexico, Leaders”, was aimed at young professionals who have shown excepand Nyltek extended their safety records to four consecutive years. tional qualities in terms of leadership, innovation and learning ability. 16 were designated as Sigma workplaces “Family Responsible Company“. 12 Several principles govern the relationship between ALFA and its employees, in terms of their growth, permanence, and commitment: • Health and Industrial Safety. The physical safety of its employees is ALFA’s highest priority. Accordingly, it gives special attention to the development of safer work procedures and programs. Alestra was recognized for the Family-Work Balance “Effective Safety and Health at ALFA believes the balance between work and family activities is a Workplace”, by the Mexican Ministry key for the integral development of its employees. To promote this of Labor and Social Welfare. relationship, in 2010 the ALFA companies organized a series of activities in which 13,782 employees and their families participated. • Training and development. The Such activities included Family Days, ANSPAC and summer camps, strength of a company is based on the Likewise, a total of 175 sporting and recreational events were held, ability, responsibility, and integrity including year-end celebrations, Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, and of its employees. Accordingly, ALFA Child’s Day, in which more than 120,000 people participated. offers training programs for all areas, levels, and functions. Sigma operates an Employee Assistance Program that consists of a toll-free phone number through which employees and members of • Family development. ALFA’s their families can receive emotional, legal, financial, and nutritional sustainability program is extended counseling 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. to the families of its employees through educational and recreational An Inclusive Company activities. Since 2004, ALFA has belonged to the Movimiento Congruencia (Congruence Movement), an organization that promotes the • An inclusive company. ALFA integration of people with disabilities into the workforce, seeking to offers employment opportunities widen their job opportunities. Last year, 201 persons with disabilities irrespective of nationality, gender, were employed in the ALFA companies. creed, race, economic condition, or sexual orientation. ALFA also promotes the employment of handicapped people. U.S. $ million invested 3.2 in industrial safety. 13 1,641 tons of food donated to the benefit of 290,000 people. 102 educational and social assistance institutions 14 supported. The ALFA companies have a permanent commitment towards the communities where they operate. This commitment is manifest every time they contribute to the solution of common problems. The aim is to build long-term mutually benefitial ties. ALFA therefore directs its actions following three priorities: education, nutritional health, and the environment. Every one of its companies in the 16 countries in which it operates, implements particular programs in the community, with the support of the ALFA Foundation. The Community + 3,300 students benefited by agreements with universities. 15 The ALFA Planetarium received more than 250,000 visitors, including 75,000 students from 533 schools. In 2010 the social actions carried out by ALFA benefited 102 ALFA companies have signed agreements with the CONACYT (the educational, health, social assistance, and environmetal institutions. Mexican Council on Science and Technology) and with public and Additionally, ALFA employees devoted 1,281 hours of volunteer work. private universities in various countries to promote technological development, research, and post-graduate education that benefited The ALFA Foundation 3,328 students. In order to promote the exchange of knowledge, The mission of the ALFA Foundation is to promote and support 295 outstanding students from universities in Mexico, Germany, the initiatives that contribute to the construction of a better future for Czech Republic, the U.S., and other countries performed internships the community. The Foundation focuses its efforts on: in several ALFA plants, complementing their academic studies with hands-on experience that will enrich their professional development. • Education, within and outside of the company, as the main factor of social development. The ALFA Planetarium offered government-certified diploma • Nutritional health, with a special focus on child nutrition, a programs in robotics and astronomy to primary school teachers. In growing problem all over the world. 2010, a total of 245 teachers participated in these courses. • The environment, mainly by raising awareness of its importance and the impact that individual actions can make. Nutritional Health Sigma donated 1,641 tons of food to the Mexican Association of In alliance with various institutions worldwide, the ALFA Foundation Food Banks, to the benefit of some 290,000 people. engages in sustainable projects, thus ensuring that it will benefit the largest number of people year after year. Sigma also took part in the “Learning Health” initiative of the Ministry of Education of the state of Nuevo León, designed to create Education mechanisms and programs to improve the nutritional health of ALFA continued to support educational institutions at all levels, both public school children. rural and urban, as well as schools in disadvantaged areas, schools for children with disabilities, and universities. Support was given Social Assistance through economic contributions and/or in kind. ALFA, and Sigma in particular, continued to collaborate with the Teletón, an Mexican institution devoted to the rehabilitation of children with disabilities. In 2010, some $6.5 million pesos was 295 college students performed internships at ALFA’s companies. 16 The ALFA Planetarium Since its founding in 1978, the ALFA Planetarium has sought to foster an appreciation of science and technology, in particular among children and young people. Considered the first interactive museum in Mexico, it includes an IMAX Dome projection hall (the first IMAX in Latin America), as well as didactic exhibition areas and interactive games. It is one of the raised, with ALFA contributing $5.5 million and the rest coming most frequently visited cultural spaces from employee donations. in Mexico. In 2010, ALFA provided support to communities that were affected In 2010 the Planetarium hosted more by Hurricane Alex, which in mid-year hit northeastern Mexico, leavthan 120 events and received ing thousands homeless. On the one hand, the ALFA companies, the more than 250,000 visitors, including ALFA Foundation and employees joined efforts to support affected more than 75,000 students from 533 communities collecting food, water and blankets, as well as cleanup schools. New spaces were opened for of homes and streets. On the other hand, the program “Hand in workshops and learning games, and Hand” was created, where Sigma and its employees donated more a variety of exhibitions, workshops, than U.S. $120,000, which were delivered to nearly 100 of their colcompetitions, tournaments, celestial leagues who were affected by the floods. In 2010, more than 600 observations, and science weeks employees from different companies dedicated more than 1,800 were held. hours of voluntary work in support of their communities. In collaboration with the DIF, a On Sigma Day, employee volunteers collected more than 500 toys government-run family development which were donated to community centers in Monterrey. agency, and the Ministry of Social Development of the state of Nuevo As in every year, DAK Americas participated in community activities León, Mexico, the Planetarium organized by the United Way, such as campaigns to collect donawelcomed 4,980 visitors from tions of food and medicines. different community centers and/or less developed zones. $ 6.5 pesos contributed million to the Teletón. 17 585,000 GJ of energy saved and 200,000 tons of CO2 emissions avoided in 2010 as a result of projects undertaken by ALFA in 2010. 4.6 million tons of CO2 avoided by Nemak in 2010, due to the recycling of 18 460,000 tons of aluminum. Efforts to reduce the carbon footprint produced by its operations are an integral part of ALFA’s business strategy. Considerable investments are made every year to this end, including the purchase of equipment and technology to responsibly use natural resources and to reduce, reuse, and recycle raw materials and inputs. The promotion of environmental awareness within and outside the ALFA facilities is also a part of this effort. The Environment 78% of Alfa’s energy consumption is natural gas, the cleanest fossil fuel. 19 Primary energy source used by ALFA’s operations Other 3% Fuel oil 8% Coal 11% Natural gas 78% Energy This represented a reduction in CO2 emissions of 4.6 million tons, In the 2007-2010 period, ALFA invested U.S. $53 million (including equivalent to what 1.7 million compact cars emit in one year. U.S. $4.6 million in 2010) in 240 energy efficiency and productivity projects including, among others, the optimization of energy conToward the end of the year, Clear Path Recycling, an ALFA sumption, cogeneration projects, and improvements in waste water subsidiary, began operations in the U.S. The company is involved in treatment. These projects have produced significant environmental the recycling of PET bottles. In the few months it operated in 2010, benefits, since reductions in the consumption of energy translate Clear Path recycled 6,350 tons of containers. This meant energy into a decrease in the emissions associated with their production savings in the amount of 110,000 GJ, equivalent to the annual and use. The total energy savings generated by these projects from energy needed by 900 average homes in the U.S. At the same time, 2007 to 2010 was 4.1 million gigajoules* (GJ) per year, equivalent by recycling such containers, the need for 38,000 cubic meters of to the energy saved by retiring 370,000 compact cars. The energy sanitary landfills was avoided. projects started up in 2010 reduce energy consumption by 585,000 GJ per year and CO2 emissions by 200,000 tons. Clean Air Indelpro has a system in place that allows for the use of gases that In order to keep improving its ecological performance, ALFA has used to be burned in PEMEX refineries and converts them into raw continued to use more natural gas as a primary energy source, which materials for polypropylene production. By utilizing these gases, is cleaner than other fossil fuels. In 2010, 78% of ALFA’s production more than one million tons of CO2 emissions are saved every year. facilities consumed natural gas instead of other energy sources. The Energy Integration Program of Grupo Petrotemex uses residual Recycling energy from processes to generate electricity. By doing so, it has reduced Nemak is one of the largest processors of recycled aluminum in 120,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year. This program was registered the world. The use of recycled aluminum makes it possible to with the United Nations as a Clean Development Mechanism. save 95% of the energy necessary to produce aluminum from bauxite, according to the International Aluminum Institute, with ALFA has also developed and participated in various electricity cothe resulting emmision reduction. Nemak used 460,000 tons of generation and self-supply projects which reduce CO2 emissions in recycled aluminum, equivalent to 33 billion average-size cans. Mexico by approximately 1.2 million tons a year. * 1 Gigajoule = 278 kWh 13 million m of water processed at ALFA’s 3 20 33 treatment plants. Annual emissions avoided due to Awards and Certifications: actions undertaken by ALFA Tons of CO2 equivaActions lents estimated • Sigma: Certification as a “Clean Industry” (SEMARNAT), ISO 9002, TIF Recycled aluminum, Nemak 4,600,000 (SAGARPA), USDA, and Certification Co-generation and self-supply of electricity 1,200,000 to Export to the European Indelpro project 1,000,000 Community Energy efficiency and fuels 865,000 Grupo Petrotemex Energy Integration 120,000 • Alestra: ISO 9000, Quality ISO 27001 Information Safety, Certification as a Recycling of PET bottles, DAK Americas 110,000 “Clean Industry” (SEMARNAT). Total 7,895,000 In summary, as a result of investing in environmental and energy ALFA companies promote environmental awareness among their efficiency projects, ALFA achieved significant CO2 reduction (see table). employees through conferences and lectures. Other activities include the cleaning of public spaces, the donation of trash bins to schools, To measure Green House emissions, the calculation tools from “The and tree planting. GHG Protocol Corporate Standard” of the Greenhouse Protocol Initiative are used. Sigma has joined the Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness Program of the Mexican Ministry of the Environment and Natural Water Resources (SEMARNAT), through which it offers training in environIn 2010, ALFA treated 13 million cubic meters of water, allowing mental matters to its suppliers. for reuse of such vital resource in its production processes. Sigma achieved savings of 17% in the consumption of water for its The Sigma Verde (Green Sigma) and Acciones Verdes (Green Acprocesses. Nemak Monterrey reduced water consumption by 15% tions) programs of ALFA Corporate Headquarters included plastic per unit of production. Grupo Petrotemex started up a project which and paper recycling campaigns and the collection of discarded cell generated savings of 400,000 cubic meters of water, enough to phones and batteries, as well as reforestation activities and lectures. supply 1,100 homes per year. In addition to contributing to the conservation of the environment Environmental Awareness around its facilities, DAK Americas participated once again in the ALFA companies participate in actions in support of biodiversity. “Adopt a Highway” program, through which it collaborates in keepFor instance, Petrotemex, Univex, and DAK Americas work on the ing clean several miles of highway close to its facilities. protection and maintenance of more than 1,482 acres of ecological reserves. Grupo Petrotemex and Indelpro participate in the program In 2006 ALFA started the Energy Initiative, with the objective of to protect the Lora turtle in southern Tamaulipas, Mexico. gathering talent and unifying the efforts it has been making in facing the challenges of water availability, energy efficiency, and climate change. It also has an Innovation and Sustainability Department. Several research and development projects are currently underway to meet those challenges. • Alpek: Certified as a “Clean Industry” (SEMARNAT), the “Actívate y Recicla” (“Get Up and Recycle”) Award and “Management and Integral Responsibility System (SARI). (National Association of Chemical Industry). • Nemak: Certification in ISO 14001 and Re-Certification in ISO-TS/16949, Certified as a “Clean Industry” (SEMARNAT), BS OHSAS 18001, Outstanding Sponsor of Miskolc University 2010. 21 56,300 direct employees. U.S. $ million in 889 investments and 22 acquisitions. ALFA is involved in businesses where long-term investments, technology development, innovation and competitiveness are key. ALFA contributes in different ways to the economy of the communities in which it participates: investments that create new jobs, the purchase of raw materials and goods and the contracting of services from local suppliers; and the payment of taxes whether federal or local, among other. Economic Impact + 4,000 suppliers supported. 23 Revenue Breakdown in 2010 Alestra 3% Sigma 25% Alpek 45% Nemak 27% Over the past few years, ALFA has successfully faced difficult global Sigma operates a program that offers support in the form of training circumstances thanks to the competitive strength of its businesses, and financing to small dairy producers. In 2010 it worked with almost the talent of its people and a solid financial condition. 200 dairy farmers who improved their milk production as a result. Innovation is another key factor. ALFA is one of the companies with Other results of working hand-in-hand with the value chain include the highest investments in research and development projects in greater productivity, a quicker response time, the development of Mexico. Its products are subject to strict quality standards and are new markets and applications, better positioning, and more comconstantly evaluated at every stage of their life cycle. petitive costs. In 2010 the ALFA companies worked with more than 4,000 suppliers, 10% of whom were small or micro-businesses. The criteria for selecting and approving investment projects are based on an integral approach, which takes into account their enviIn 2010, for the third year in a row, ALFA offered a degree program ronmental impact as well as programs to minimize and mitigate it. in “Strategy, Planning, and Innovation”, targeted at small and medium-sized businesses and organized by the Centro de Competividad The growth and strengthening of the value chain is important to ALFA de Monterrey (Monterrey Competitiveness Center) and CAINTRA in and is a part of its commitment to the economic development of the the state of Nuevo León. markets it serves. ALFA companies have established long-term relationships with suppliers, in which the learning process, innovation, and the • Direct economic value created of U.S. $10,794 million (net sales + exchange of best practices move in both directions. financial income + sales of assets). • Direct economic value distributed of U.S. $10,146 million (Cost of Nemak, for example, created the Supplier Development area in order to sales + salaries + social benefits to employees + other expenses + enhance its supply chain. Its main objectives are: payment of taxes + dividends + interest payments + investment in the community). • To strengthen the system by which supplier performance is • Economic value retained of U.S. $648 million (economic value measured. created – economic value distributed). • The creation and implementation of a Risk Management model; • Special support projects (Six Sigma). • The search for potential suppliers. Financial Highlights 2009 2010 Share Value (Mexican pesos) 82.01 124.40 Majority Net Income (U.S. $ million) 157 392 EBITDA (millions of U.S. $) 1,055 1,260 24 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact seeks to promote, Human Rights: The Environment: through collective action, responsible Principle I. Businesses should support and Principle VII. Businesses should corporate practices that will enable the respect the protection of internationally support a precautionary approach to business community to be part of the proclaimed human rights. environmental challenges. solution to the challenges posed by globalization. Principle II. Business should make sure Principle VIII. Businesses should that they are not complicit in human undertake initiatives to promote greater In this way, the private sector, in rights abuses. environmental responsibility. collaboration with other entities, may contribute to making the global economy Labor: Principle IX. Businesses should more sustainable and inclusive. Principle III. Businesses should uphold encourage the development and the freedom of association and the diffusion of environmentally friendly By having embraced the Global Compact effective recognition of the right to technologies. since 2006, ALFA reaffirms its commitment collective bargaining. to sustainability. Anti-Corruption: Principle IV. Businesses should uphold Principle X. Businesses should work the elimination of all forms of forced and against corruption in all its forms, compulsory labor. including extortion and bribery. Principle V. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle VI. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 25 GRI Index 1. Strategy and Analysis Page 4. Governance Page Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 9 1.1 organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 4 principle is addressed by the organization. organization and its strategy. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 4.12 14, 19, 23 programs, principles, or other initiatives. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4, 7 4.13 Memberships in associations. 9 2. Organizational Profile 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 5, 7 2.1 Name of the organization Front cover Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services. 2 4.15 to engage. Inside front Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 4.16 5, 7 cover engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Back cover Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 9 2.5 Number of countries / states where the company operates. 2 stakeholder engagement. Inside front ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. cover EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 1, 24 2.7 Markets served. 2 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 12 Inside front 2.8 Scale of reporting organization. cover, 2 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 24 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, suppliers at significant locations of operation. 2.9 6 structure, or ownership. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2.10 Awards received in 2010. 12,13, 21 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 20 3. Report Parameters EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 20, 21 Inside back 3.1 Reporting period. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based cover EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 20 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report (if any). 4 result of these initiatives. Inside back Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions 3.3 Reporting cycle. EN7 20, 21 cover achieved. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 21 Inside back 3.5 Process for defining report content. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions cover EN18 21 achieved. Inside back 3.6 Boundary of the report. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and cover EN26 20, 21 services, and extent of impact mitigation. Inside back 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. cover SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Inside back Breakdown of total workforce by employment type, and 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries. cover LA1 employment contract. 12 Inside back 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group and cover LA2 12, 22 gender. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided Inside back 3.10 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees. 12 in earlier reports. cover Significant changes regarding previous periods, coverage or Inside back Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 3.11 LA4 12 valoration methods of the report. cover agreements. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the Inside back Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 3.12 LA6 12 report. cover management-worker health and safety committees. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Inside back Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control 3.13 LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 12, 13 assurance for the report. cover community members regarding serious diseases. 4. Governance LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee. 1, 12 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 8 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support LA11 12, 13 the continued employability of employees. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body. 4 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body. 8 LA12 12 development reviews. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 9 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women. 12 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Percentage of security personnel trained in the company’s policies 4.5 governance body, senior managers, and executives and the 8 HR8 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 9 organization’s performance. relevant to operations. Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Percentage of employees trained in company’s anti-corruption 4.6 9 SO3 9 conflicts of interest are avoided. policies and procedures. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products 4.7 the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 8 PR1 24 and services on clients are assessed. organization’s strategy. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of 4.8 5 PR5 9 conduct, and principles. surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 4.9 8 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 4.10 8 performance. 26 About this Report This report contains the actions We believe our degree of application and programs carried out, and the corresponds to level B. results achieved, by ALFA in 2010. It has been drawn up in accordance with the methodology of version 3.0 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for sustainability reports. The report cycle is annual and the use of this methodology will be maintained in the future. All of the information and figures contained in this report refer to the consolidated operations of ALFA and its business groups worldwide. Interviews, questionnaires, and field visits were carried out in preparing this document. In order to determine the contents of this report, an analysis of ALFA’s most relevant activities in the economic, social, and environmental areas was made. McBride SustainAbility collaborated in the determination of materiality, analysis, methodology, and writing of the report. Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on all Report on: criteria listed for 1.1 Level C plus: G3 Profile Same as require2.1-2.10 1.2 Disclosures ment for Level B 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9-3.13 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.164.17 Management Management Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 ManageApproach for Approach for Standard Disclosures ment Approach Not Required each Indicator each Indicator Disclosures Category Category Report on each Report on a core G3 and minimum of 20 Sector SuppleReport on a Performance ment* Indicator minimum of 10 G3 Performance Indicators, at with due regard Performance IndiIndicators & Secleast one from to the Matecators, including tor Supplement each of Econoriality Principle at least one from: Performance mic, Environby either: a) each of: EconoIndicators mental, Human reporting on mic, Social and Rights, Labor, the indicator or Environmental Society, Product b) explaining Responsibility the reason for its omission design: www.signi.com.mx *Sector supplement in final version ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. Ave. Gómez Morín 1111 sur Col. Carrizalejo San Pedro Garza García, N.L. C.P. 66254, Mexico Ph. +52 (81) 8748-1111 Fax: +52 (81) 8748-2552 www.alfa.com.mx sostenibilidad@alfa.com.mx
