2011 J&K Sai Star Society Brig Amarjit Singh Randwal Brief for the Year 2011/12 12/1/2011 Brief for the Year 2011/12 1 J&K Sai Star Society Brief : Rural Development and & Poverty alleviation J&K SAI STAR Society Nagrota Gujroo, Ramkot, Jammu 184205 (J&K) INDIA Registered No. 4680/S, under J&K Govt. Act VI of 1998 (1941 AD) ( Donations Exempted from Income Tax Under Section 80 G of the IT Act ) Member United Nations Global Compact Committed to ---“Sustainable Rural Development, Healthcare and Education” Sainiks, Agriculturists and Intellectuals Society for Total Agrarian Rural Reforms (Sai Star) are a charitable NGO dedicated to improve the quality of life of rural population in remote villages. The Society is mainly devoted to Rural Development, Promotion of Youth Activities and Adventure Sports, Healthcare, Environment up-gradation, empowerment of Women , Children; Welfare of Ex-servicemen and widows. Vision To improve quality of life of rural population by sustainable development at grass root level. Mission All inclusive development by working at gross root level and employing sustainable technologies and information with regard to Healthcare, education, agriculture. Correct use of natural resources and environment with special emphasis on empowerment of women, children and welfare of ex-servicemen and widows. Geographical area Covered; Motivation & objective behind the Project The State of Jammu and Kashmir has geographical area of 2.22 lakhs sq kilometers which is 6.93 percent of total Indian Territory. Out of total area Ladakh covers 70%, Jammu 19% and Kashmir 11%. As per 2001 census population of the State is one crore and 70 thousands; population density per sq km is 99 and 75.12% of the people live in rural areas. There are 22 Districts, 6758 villages and 2700 Panchayats. Brief for the Year 2011/12 2 J&K Sai Star Society It was observed that some of the remote areas of J&K State are most neglected specially in the field of Education and Healthcare. Keeping this in view SAI STAR SOCIETY has presently undertaken rural development work in backward areas of Udhampur and Kathua Districts of Jammu Division. People living Below Poverty Line are worst suffers and need Civil Society intervention. Means and Methodology Adopted in Achieving the Objectives There is a difficulty in getting funds for the NGO in J&K State due to the following reasons: J&K State is ranked and Number 2 amongst the most corrupt State and it is experienced that it is difficult to get funds from the State Govt. without indulging in unfair means/accounting system.  Central Govt. funds are also routed through the State Govt. and misuse of funds is similar.  There is no corporate presence in the State; thus possibility of CSR funds is almost zero.  UNO and International funding agencies are neither interested in J&K State, nor are they encouraged by the Central Government to fund Social Projects in the State. Sai Star Society being member of UN Global Compact and following its charter, specially adhering to the principle of Anti-corruption, it was decided to get help for most of the projects in kind and act as a facilitator specially for Army Sadhbavna programmes, where chances of misuse of funds is not there. Thus, methodology has been Self-Help, and receipt in Kind, where the Society acts as a facilitator for the development projects. Development Work Undertaken and Impact on Target Group Health and Family Welfare  Sai Star Charitable Dispensary is being run by the Society on Self-Help model. Poor patients are given free treatment and medicines. Patients requiring specialized treatment are identified and referred to the stakeholders i.e., Army Sadhbavna for providing the advance treatment in Civil/ Army Hospitals.  Society Ambulance is provided for conveyance of patients from the Dispensary to ECHS polyclinics at Udhampur, Jammu, Samba and other civil hospitals.  Medical Camps are organized regularly in remote villages with assistance from Army Sadbhavana programme. Free Medical Treatment is also provided to patients at the Society Brief for the Year 2011/12 3 J&K Sai Star Society run charitable dispensary.  Health check up are carried out in Rural Schools and Health record cards issued to the students to carry out follow up treatment.  A study was carried out on “Identification of Gaps in Implementation of NRHM and suggest possible avenues for its improvement involving local NGOs”. The study report was presented to State & Union Health Ministers and local medical authorities. Some of the recommendations made in the report have been implemented by the Government. Consequently, improvement has taken place in NHRM, like increase in salaries of NRHM Doctors and ASHA Workers. Education & Youth Activities  The Society has been successful in upgrading some of the Schools in remote areas through State Govt. where poor students, especially Girls are able to get higher education.  There was shortage of teachers in rural schools. A case was taken up with Education Department and this deficiency was made up.  On line admission is being facilitated for drop out students at NIOS.  Donation of furniture and Computer was arranged to Govt High School Babey through Army Sadbhavana. This school is located in remote rural area and its up-gradation was also sponsored by the Society.  Six weeks internship training was imparted to MBA students of SP Jain Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai every Year. Welfare of Ex-Servicemen, Widows and local Marginalized Community  Assistance was provided to Ex-servicemen in becoming ECHS Members by preparing their documents.  Cases were taken up for ESM with various Regimental Record offices pertaining to arrears of pensions, especially 6th pay commission.  Documentation in respect of widow pensioners above 80 for additional pension was done in 27 cases and submitted to their record offices and PCDA (Pensions) Allahabad.  Penury grand cases were taken up with Sainik welfare department and local administration for the effected personnel. Brief for the Year 2011/12 4 J&K Sai Star Society General Welfare and Miscellaneous Work  A Single window Helpline is being run by the Society to improve the quality of life by providing daily assistance and counseling to all helpless and needy. This Helpline has done an excellent work like helping Handicaps, assistance to widows in sorting out local disputes, Bank cases, RBA cases, and even resolving local domestic disputes.  Special assistance was provided to organize marriages of poor Girls.  Environment awareness campaign is being organized and an Environmental park is being established. Community Development A community Development Centre (CDC) has been constructed at village Babey, District Udhampur with assistance from Army Sadhbavna, which has been equipped with TV, DTH, adequate furniture and other facilities. This will be maintained & run by the society for the rural people. This will act as focal point for social, educational, environmental and agricultural awareness of rural population of the area. Source of Funding and Application of Funds in last 3 Years Sai Star is a Self-Help Society and most the work is being done on voluntary basis. Contributions are done by individual members of the Society and some of the income is generated by Society work itself. Details of the individual contribution and income generation are as under:Funding from agencies Nil Statutory/Govt Nil Corporate Nil 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Individuals 0.59 lakh 0.58 lakh 0.85 lakh Income Generation 0.08 lakh 0.31 lakh 0.22 lakh Total 0.67 lakh 0.89 lakh 1.07 lakh Donation in kind 1.57 lakh 5.99 lakh Brief for the Year 2011/12 5 J&K Sai Star Society Financial Management  The Society has laid down Standard operating Procedures, which are practiced in prudent financial management.  Accounts are audited by nominated Chartered Accountants, who can be nominated for maximum three years and are approved by AGM. Presently Gupta Gupta and Associates, 142, Sector3, Trikuta Nagar, Jammu are designated CAs for the Society.  Financial and Audit Report is scrutinized by the BOM and discussed/approved by the Annual General Body Meetings. The society being Member of the UN Global Compact adheres to financial accounting & practices as laid down in its Charter. Copy of the audited Balance Sheet, Receipt and Payment account for the Year 2009-10 is attached. Summary of Impact in area of Intervention Most of the Projects are implemented through the State Government or Indian Army and Sai Star Society acting as one stop contact point for planning, execution and subsequent running of the same, without getting involved into financial transactions directly. However, impact has been significant on the poor villagers get benefitted not only by working on the project, thereby earning livelihood, but also became beneficiary of the same project facilities. Impact on the Health in Target area  300 to 500 poor patients being provided free treatment every month.  Society Ambulance being provided for evacuation of serious cases as on required daily basis.  On an average 6000 to 7000 rural poor treated annually during the Medical Camps organized in remote villages.  Healthcare awareness and Medical check up every month with follow up Health Cards issued to students in school.  Regular awareness Campaign in rural area regarding use of Local Herbs and ISM, which has been very helpful to rural poor in disease prevention.  Functioning of NRHM got improved by constructive inputs from grass-root level to Health Ministry. Brief for the Year 2011/12 6 J&K Sai Star Society Education  Two Rural School Up-graded to Class 10th & 12th has enabled BPL Boys/ Girls to continue their education. In some cases number of girls who had discontinued their schooling again got admission after 5 / 8 years. 20 of them have passed Class 10th (Photos on website).  Two Sainik Star Primary School being run by the Society at Balpur in Udhampur District and Preet Nagar,Jammu to provide quality education to BPL Children.  Computer and furniture donated to rural Schools.  Education of Drop-out students managed through NIOS.  Quality of education improved through additional qualified staff.  Annual Rural Internship training is being organized for PG students of SIMC Pune and SP Jain Institute of Management & Research, Mumbai under their Department of Corporate Citizen ( DOCC) Programme.  Project Studies carried out to assist rural youth as under :Study scope of Vocational Training for Rural Youth in remote areas of Kathua District and feasibility of establishing an institute for the same. Design and execution of higher education and career awareness programme for rural youth in educational institutes of Jammu Province. Welfare of Ex-Servicemen, Widows and BPL  More than 100 pension related cases being processed, taken up and settled through PCDA (Pensions) Allahabad every month through ESM Helpline.  ECHS and CSD Smart Cards documentation being done in 1015 Cases every month.  CSD Canteen services being provided to entitled Ex-servicemen at their Doorstep every week through Army Sadhbavna assistance.  BPL public and other deserving cases being assisted in their documentation to get financial assistance from local administration.  Financial and Material assistance provided to families for poor Girls marriages in 12 Cases during the year.  A Community Development Center constructed and being run by the Society for the Resident of Backward Area (RBA). Brief for the Year 2011/12 7 J&K Sai Star Society  Waiting Rooms constructed on Dhar Road for use of ESM patients.  Environment Awareness Campaign conducted in rural area.  Interaction with ICRC and local Red Cross to assist families of Indian Prisoners languishing in Pakistani Jails. Way Ahead Future Action Plan Following facilities/and projects will be undertaken:  Establishing a Sainik Helpline at Balpur, Udhampur District.  Construction of a Community Development centre on Dhar – Udhampur Road.  To get link Road constructed between R. C. Peak and High School Garh Samna Banj to connect a remote high altitude area.  To establish an ECHS Polyclinic for Ex-servicemen at Nagrota Gujroo in Kathua District.  To establish a Dispensary in Remote area of Udhampur district and Mobile Medical Unit to provide basic Healthcare facilities to BPL Population at their Doorstep.  To Establish a Vocational Training Institute (ITI) for rural youth. Project Study already completed.  To establish & maintain a Mobile Library and Career Counseling Unit for Higher & Vocational Educational awareness in Rural areas. A project for designing & execution is currently in progress by a team of PG Students of SP Jain Institute of Management & Research Mumbai. “What the human mind can conceive, believe and dare, It can surely accomplish” -President, Sai Star Society. Brief for the Year 2011/12 8 J&K Sai Star Society
