GLOBAL COMPACT September 2011 Dassault Aviation is one of the major players in the global civil and military aircraft industry. A reasonably sized and financially secure private international group, with a presence in more than 70 countries across 5 continents, Dassault Aviation has been profitable ever since its creation in 1936. Structured to adapt its production to market cycles, Dassault Aviation encompasses a rich industrial network of high-tech companies in France, Europe, and many countries worldwide. In order to achieve its objectives in a highly competitive and increasingly global economy, Dassault Aviation builds on strong values, a clear identity and strict ethical standards Its values are: customer spirit, human qualities, technological excellence and innovation, economic performance, openness to the world, environmental protection measures. In 2003, Dassault Aviation, whose Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is Mr Charles Edelstenne, joined the UN Global Compact initiative. The Group supports the ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption .Its is through this commitment that Dassault Aviation has progressively incorporated the Global Compact principles into its strategy, culture and daily operations. Dassault Aviation confirms its commitment to the Global Compact for 2011. Dassault Aviation is committed to the respect of Human Rights as stated in Principle 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, whether in France where Dassault Aviation designs and manufactures aircraft or in the United States where the company makes the completion of some of its business jets. Dassault Aviation is also watchful regarding its suppliers which are mostly located in industrialised countries. In 2010, a number of substancial measures have been taken regarding labour standards under principles 3 and 6 of Global Compact. These measures are illustrative of a strong and steady orientation in favour of social progress and equality at work. They also belong to Principle 1 (human rights) of the Global Compact. Dassault Aviation has signed 11 agreements with unions in 2010. This demonstrates a higher level of social dialogue. To name a few of the latest agreements: -September 9, 2010, agreement on the role, means and career of union delegates; -December 14, 2010, agreement on part-time workers -June 14, 2010, agreement on work-induced stress evaluation and prevention -October 7, 2010, agreement on the employment of handicapped persons. With 7.5% of handicapped persons among its salaries, Dassault Aviation belongs to the 14% of French companies which employ a higher level of handicapped persons than legally required. In addition, Dassault Aviation is a founding member of HANVOL, a non-profit organisation helping the training and employment of handicapped persons in the aircraft industry. In 2010, Dassault Aviation has taken several environmental steps related to Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. For several years, Dassault Aviation has gradually developed an environmental policy and an organizational structure that helped reinforce environmental considerations at all its sites. Dassault Aviation has received ISO 14001 certification of their environmental management systems ). In its general terms of purchase, the company recommends to its suppliers to respect the 10 principles of the Global Compact and to obtain ISO 14000 certification. Compliance with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) European Union Regulation has been a priority in 2010. Based on transparency and precaution, REACH is to improve the protection of human health and the environment through the better and earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. It also calls for the progressive substitution of the most dangerous chemicals when suitable alternatives have been identified. Dassault strongly supports REACH from design to delivery and through all the steps of the manufacturing process so as to provide aircraft with a lower environmental impact. Besides Dassault Aviation implements a policy of resources savings and reduction of waste, notably regarding water and energy (information campaign through Intranet and leaflets in November 2010). The company also supports car sharing or the use of bicycles (transport policy between company sites; employee polls to evaluate non polluting transportation alternatives). Dassault Aviation follows a policy of a prevention against corruption. This is in compliance with the French law which, ever since 2000, has enacted and applied stringently numerous international conventions under the OECD, the UN and the European Union against foreign corruption practices. The Dassault Aviation policy is stated in its Chart of Ethics and is in accordance with Principle 10 of the Global Compact. In order to promote business ethics, Dassault Aviation has initiated within the AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe, ASD, a committee in charge of elaborating European business ethics standards. These Common Industry Standards have been approved by the Council of the ASD then chaired by Dassault Aviation CEO Charles Edelstenne and signed by Dassault Aviation. Within Gifas, the French aerospace industries association, Dassault Aviation contributes to good governance standards through several committees. Dassault Aviation participated in building up the Global Principles or shared ethics principles between European and American industry professionals, which is under ratification. For the Dassault Aviation values, reports click: http://www.dassault-aviation.com
