Contents Foreword Overview IFC Foreword 2 About this report 6 Milestones 2010 Brewing a Better 8 What we said and what we’ve done 10 Brewing a Better Future Future, Together Brewing a Better Future IMPROVE 12 Green Brewer 22 Green Commerce During 2010 we accelerated the transformation of our business and our platforms for future EMPOWER growth. Through our acquisition of the beer 26 Engaging Employees operations of FEMSA in Mexico and Brazil, 30 Heineken Cares we welcomed new shareholders, new IMPACT colleagues and iconic brands into 36 Responsible Consumption our business. 40 Partnerships for Progress We also transformed our approach to building 44 Enablers a more sustainable business with the launch of 47 Millennium Development Goals our Brewing a Better Future initiative. This ten-year Appendices journey will have a significant impact on the way 50 Appendix 1: Reporting basis in which we bring our products to market, improve 54 Appendix 2: Overview of environmental and measure our environmental performance, performance contribute to our communities and engage with 56 Appendix 3: Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table our internal and external stakeholders. It is a 65 Appendix 4: List of Operating Companies considerable undertaking that puts renewed focus and Business Units on our need to create value at all levels of society. 67 Appendix 5: Independent Assurance We shared our new thinking and commitments Report from KPMG with our stakeholders last year both in our 2009 IBC Reference information Sustainability Report and at our launch symposium in April 2010. What I said then is worth repeating now: introducing Sustainability online this new initiative will not come without its challenges. The fact is that defining programmes and setting KPIs is not enough. The real key to success will be to translate our philosophy into actions that make us think and behave differently. So we are investing a significant amount of time and resources in integrating Brewing a Better Future into our business processes, governance, and engagement models. To help us, each of our majority-owned businesses and our Head Office • Full HTML of this Sustainability Report has formed dedicated sustainability committees. with added functionality and features Each has developed a three-year sustainability at www.sustainabilityreport.heineken.com plan and each has ensured that sustainability is • An overview of our Brewing a Better being discussed at the Management Team level. Future approach • Downloadable information relating to our six strategic initiatives • The sustainability reports of our markets Sustainability was also a key agenda item at five We cannot undertake our journey alone. We believe of our Executive Committee meetings and our that there is much we can learn and much we can Sustainability Steering Committee comprises five share with others on these issues. It is through Executive Committee members. Alongside this greater co-operation that we will move faster and we took the decision to incentivise our senior go further. But we also need feedback. So please managers against a sustainability target. contact us and continue to let us know how we are We improved our transparency: 21 of our markets doing, and what we can do better. It is only with published their own annual Sustainability Report input on your expectations that we can ensure we and by 2015, all of our majority-owned businesses are on the right track to Brewing a Better Future. will have done so. I thank you, our business partners, NGOs, our consumers, our employees and other stakeholders As I point out each year, transparency also means for taking this journey with us. Most of all, I look being honest when we fall short of our own or forward to what we will accomplish together. others’ expectations. The inclusion of our new Mexican business in 2010 was primarily responsible for an increase in the number of fatalities to 14. We believe that a single fatality is one too many and our sympathies go out to the family, friends and colleagues of those we lost in 2010. We will not accept the loss of life of any individual working on Jean-François van Boxmeer our behalf. We will continue to focus on accident Chairman of the Executive Board/CEO prevention through education and ever more stringent safety policies in the coming years. Amsterdam, 31 March 2011 We were also disappointed that for the first time in four years, Heineken was not ranked as one of the top five beverage companies within the SAM Dow Jones Sustainability Index. It is our intention to return to the ranking and we believe that by delivering our Brewing a Better Future commitments, we will do so. But we were also proud of the recognition we received for our efforts. At the end of the year we were invited by the United Nations to become an inaugural member of Global Compact LEAD, a group of leading, sustainable enterprises that are asked to set new, higher benchmarks for sustainability. In September, our groundbreaking sustainable supply chain initiative in Sierra Leone won a World Business and Development Award from the United Nations Development Programme and our continued membership of FTSE4Good was confirmed. We also made another major step in our support of African development by doubling our investment in the Heineken Africa Foundation to EUR20 million. This means we now have a minimum of EUR1 million per year available for health-related projects across our African markets. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 1 Overview About this report “We will do whatever we can, wherever we can, to increase the value we add.” Sean O’Neill Chief Corporate Relations Officer Our local Sustainability Reports 2 Accountability Assurance The printed and digital versions of this report We believe that the data and statements in this are key elements of our public accountability report should be externally assured. We do not and demonstrate our genuine commitment expect our stakeholders to accept only internal or to transparency. They complement our subjective assurance. So, as in previous years, we Annual Report and our corporate website have asked KPMG to provide us with independent, www.heinekeninternational.com. limited assurance on both the facts and the wording in this report. KPMG summarises its activities and In this year’s report, we have included a Global conclusions in Appendix 5. In addition, we have Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reference Table (see further improved and extended the scrutiny by page 56) and a brief summary of some of the our internal audit teams. This improves the quality ways in which we contribute to the United Nations and robustness of the data. Millennium Development Goals (see pages 47, 48 and 49). Via our membership of the Global Compact Reporting standard and Global Compact LEAD, Heineken supports We would welcome the introduction of a global these important ambitions. reporting standard that ensures the data and reporting of every organisation is independently A new reporting structure assessed. It is the only way that accurate Brewing a Better Future represents a new way comparisons can be made and the most effective of thinking and acting. As we promised last year, practices identified and quantified from which we have changed the style and scope of this year’s others can learn. It is also the best way to report in order to bring it in line with this new, ensure the integrity of information and data integrated approach. for stakeholders. The diagram on page 10 will help you to understand Stakeholder dialogue the structure of both this report and our approach Stakeholders are a vital part of our Brewing a to Sustainability. You will see that Brewing a Better Better Future journey. They help us to stay focused Future is focused on the delivery of three strategic on what matters and warn us if we are moving imperatives – Improve, Empower and Impact. off-track. However, balancing business needs Each of these is divided into two key initiatives, and financial sustainability with the expectations six in total. Additionally, in order to support the and requests of our stakeholders is not easy and delivery of our plans, we have created five key means we can never deliver 100 per cent of enablers. This report dedicates one chapter to every stakeholder’s expectation. Our commitment each of the three strategic imperatives and we though is that we will do whatever we can, have dedicated a single chapter to cover all of wherever we can, to balance these competing the enablers. needs and increase the value we add. You will also read a number of good and best Who we spoke to practices in the report. These represent only This year we engaged many different stakeholders a small proportion of the positive changes in dialogue, including: we are helping to make. For more examples of what we are doing, please visit • Employees www.heinekeninternational.com. Our global climate survey formed a key part of the feedback from employees. In total, 46,539 We recognise that our impact – both positive (86 per cent) of our colleagues responded to and negative – is highest within our Operating the survey. In addition, online, internal surveys Companies. With that in mind you may also want were held with different groups of employees on to read some or all of the 21 local sustainability issues such as communication and sustainability. reports that our businesses published in 2010. These reports can be downloaded from • Employee representatives our website. It is an important principle that our employees are free to associate wherever in the world they work. We maintained strong links with employee representatives through regular European and local works councils of Heineken, as well as meetings and discussions with trade unions. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 3 Overview | About this report • Investors Market-based dialogue As always, we maintained close contact with In addition to the direct stakeholder dialogue as our investors via road show events, specific described above, we have also been active in our presentations on sustainability, meetings markets. Our local sustainability reports provide and financial market conferences. us with a strong basis for discussions with local stakeholders. As our sustainability agenda • Shareholders associations expands, we are in the process of designing a As a listed company, we have regular dialogue system that can fully capture our total stakeholder with shareholder groups and regulators. This dialogue at both a global and local level. year, at a central level, we had dialogue with the Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame In 2010, we also delivered our commitment to Ontwikkeling (VBDO) and IMSA through a conduct a reputation survey among employees, combination of meetings, correspondence, governmental and political stakeholders, media, Annual General Meeting (AGM) and discussions. NGOs and trade associations in nine key markets. One of the seven dimensions of our reputation • NGOs is ‘responsibility and sustainability’. We will use We maintained contact with NGOs although the outcome of the survey in our discussions with not as many as in 2009 when we had stakeholders and the continuous review of our an extensive consultation in order to build Brewing a Better Future Approach. In 2010, we our Brewing a Better Future initiative. This year, achieved an overall reputation score of 4.06 out at a corporate level, we met, corresponded of a possible 5 and a score of 3.84 in relation or consulted with, among others, the World to ‘responsibility and sustainability’. This is a clear Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Oxfam Novib, indication that we need to improve both the the International Labour organization (ILO), action and – in particular – the communication Amnesty International and Stichting Onderzoek that supports our work. Multinationale Ondernemingen (SOMO). What our stakeholders told us • Other stakeholders Though we used many different channels for our In order to have objective views on our dialogue, we clearly identified common themes approach and performance, external parties and requests. Here is what we heard and did are regularly consulted. This takes place in response: via input into or consultation on Heineken’s sustainability approach. Besides Jean-François • More communication on environmental van Boxmeer, the following speakers took part responsibility in the symposium on sustainable development −− 21 markets published sustainability reports organised by Heineken (in alphabetical order): −− We made a further commitment that all markets will do so by 2015 • Jacqueline Cramer, former Dutch Minister −− Issued five Heineken N.V. corporate of Environment and Spatial Planning announcements relating to • Wouter van Dieren, Managing Director, IMSA sustainability initiatives • Paul Hohnen, Sustainability Strategies −− Held a public sustainability symposium • Peter Lacy, Managing Director Sustainability in Amsterdam Services, Accenture −− Delivered nine senior executive • Tobias Webb, Managing Director, media interviews. Ethical Corporation. See also: • Harder targets and KPIs in all areas http://www.heinekeninternational. −− More specific targets and KPIs in areas com/100413heineken_announces_10_year_ covered by Brewing a Better Future. brewing_a_better.aspx • More and clearer local sourcing targets In addition, Baroness Jean Coussins from the UK −− Commitment to move to 60 per cent local acts as an advisor on corporate responsibility to sourcing in Africa by 2020 the Company. She is former Chief Executive of −− Committed to review regional approach 2011 the Portman Group and has served on the Better −− Established a joint venture in Mexico to Regulation Commission of the UK and the locally source 50,000 tons of corn starch Advertising Standards Authority and sits as previously imported a cross-bench peer in the House of Lords. −− Agreement in Ireland to locally source 100 per cent of barley in 2011 4 −− In April 2010, we organised a workshop in the International Brand health measurement tool Netherlands with local buyers to generate buybased on consumer input in and new ideas on local sourcing. −− For the development of new sustainable packaging, we have interviewed consumers • Higher levels of community support about their behaviours and attitudes towards in developing markets sustainable and responsible solutions (past, −− Expanded our agriculture sourcing and current and future). growing projects −− Invested a further EUR10 million in the As you read through this report, you will see more Heineken Africa Foundation about how we have incorporated this feedback −− Increased both the absolute amount (EUR5.8 into our programming and our actions. million in 2009 to EUR23.2 million in 2010) and percentage invested (0.3 per cent of operating Your feedback profit BEIA in 2009 to 1.0 per cent in 2010) We actively encourage all of our stakeholders of Corporate Social Investment; investments to give us their feedback. We would like to know in local communities in both cash and product. which aspects of Brewing a Better Future are working well. But we also want to know in what • More, and more visible Responsible areas you think we could do better and whether Consumption programmes you think there are actions we need to take or −− 34 markets now have a partnership relating issues we need to address but which are not yet to responsible consumption on our agenda. Please contact us, because your −− We committed money and resources to GAPG/ feedback will allow us to learn and improve. ICAP global actions (see page 40) −− We made new commitments for European You can reach us via email, post or twitter: Forum on Alcohol and Health. Sean O’Neill, Chief Corporate Relations Officer • Clearer Responsible Consumption policy Vera Zandbergen, Manager Global Sustainable −− Committed to review our Alcohol Policy in 2011 Development −− In 2011 we will review and publish new Responsibility@heineken.com guidelines for responsible commercial communication. PO Box 28 1000 AA Amsterdam • More attention to human rights The Netherlands −− All five Heineken regions were closely involved in the (further) development of our new Twitter address: @Heineken_CR Employees’ & Human Rights Policy. In addition, we discussed the content of the new policy We thank you for taking the time to review this with representatives of the Heineken European report and we look forward to hearing your views Works Council. The policy will be implemented and suggestions. in 2011. • More work through customers, distributors Sean O’Neill and suppliers Chief Corporate Relations Officer −− Developed and launched our new Supplier Code −− Rolled out more environmentally efficient fridges. • Dialogue with consumers −− Interviews in markets by using the Heineken® Brand Dashboard. This is a Heineken® Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 5 Overview Milestones 2010 January February March April An additional EUR10 million Brewing a Better Brewing a Better Future External launch of donated to the Heineken Future presented presented at Heineken Brewing a Better Future via Africa Foundation to Supervisory Board Global Leadership Forum Sustainability Symposium Haiti disaster: Global Heineken USA signs Publication Heineken N.V. employee fund-raising agreement with Taxi Sustainability Report 2009 and partnership with Magic to revolutionise the Habitat for Humanity call for a Safe Ride Home Heineken USA hosts a ‘Heineken with a Heart’ event in aid of Legal Information for Families Today (LIFT) MAKE IT A NIGHT OF GREAT CHOICES August September October Know the Signs campaign Heineken receives the Alpherium container launched in Slovakia 2010 World Business terminal in the Netherlands and Development Award opened; takes thousands Heineken Africa Foundation for its groundbreaking of vehicles journeys off provides funds for new sustainable supply the road and reduces clinic in Nigeria chain initiative in CO2 emissions Sierra Leone Heineken Spain obtains Jean-François van Boxmeer the certification of familyis key panelist and speaker friendly company from at ‘Beer Serves Europe’ Fundación Másfamilia event in Brussels Heineken France launches Forum Citoyen, addressing the vital role of local bars in the bonding of communities 6 May June July Johan Cruyff sports Heineken awarded three Promoting Responsible workshop for adult commendations for Consumption in Russia at learning held in healthcare programmes the Kvass and Beer Festival South Africa in Africa by the Global in St Petersburg Business Coalition Mobile healthcare clinic Management Team of in South Africa launched Heineken Africa Foundation Heineken UK visit to provides funds for understand more about Heineken Spain brewery Well Woman Clinic alcohol issues in Jaén wins a safety award in Sierra Leone from Mutua de Accidentes Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma de Trabajo y Enfermedades in Mexico leads distribution Profesionales (FREMAP) of drinking water after hurricane New Supplier Code launched November December Heineken Africa Foundation Heineken participates provides funding for three in the launch of European projects with the Nigerian initiative of carriers Sickle Cell Foundation and shippers . Poland’s Grupa Zywiec wins Toy Run organised at Safety Award “Employer Heineken Head Office – the Organiser of Safe Labour” Heineken® sign powered by solar panels placed at Heineken attends the Schiphol Airport first Clean Cargo Working Group meeting Symposium with Michael Braungart, founder and director of the Environmental Protection and Encouragement Agency (EPEA), in Zoeterwoude, the Netherlands Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 7 Overview What we said and what we’ve done What we said we will do by 20121 What we’ve done in 2010 Green Brewer • Average greenhouse gas emissions < 8.5 kg • Actual CO2 emission improved to 9.3 kg CO2 CO2 eq/hl for breweries in scope eq/hl, from 9.8 kg CO2 eq/hl in 2009 • Specific energy consumption < 155 MJ/hl • Actual specific energy consumption in 2010 improved to 166 MJ/hl from 170 MJ/hl in 2009 • Specific water consumption < 4.3 hl/hl • Actual specific water consumption improved from 4.8 hl/hl in 2009 to 4.5 hl/hl in 2010 • Inventorise the environmental performance for • Engaged with International Sustainability Alliance offices, warehouses and brewery building offices, on methodology to track energy consumption including studies for improving energy and of buildings and warehouses water efficiency • Energy efficient brewery designed • Design currently being validated (Göss brewery in Austria) • Water footprint studies performed • Conducted two water footprint studies (Egypt and Slovakia) • First water neutrality pilot conducted • Conducted water stress survey to serve as input for the water neutrality pilots Green Commerce • Develop and execute a baseline carbon • Models tested in the UK, France, the Netherlands footprint model and Italy • Design and adopt a new packaging policy • Draft policy developed; it will be agreed with agreed targets for carbon reduction and introduced in 2011 • Evaluation criteria for new product innovations • Eco design procedure and criteria in development introduced in all regions • Starting 2010, all new purchased fridges to • 80 per cent of newly-bought fridges use be based on green technology green technology • 15 per cent energy reduction of fridges • Estimated average energy saving of all fridges sourced in cooling against index2 in 2010 is 16 per cent, resulting in an estimated saving of 3 per cent on our total installed base. In line with our 2012 ambitions • Continuous roll-out of guidelines on Life Cycle • Draft test protocol developed to assess carbon Analysis and carbon footprint for cooling footprint and energy consumption of fridges equipment to suppliers by suppliers, to be implemented in 2011 • Carbon reduction opportunities in distribution • Calculation model for carbon emissions developed. identified through footprint reviews for top Already applied to the latest distribution footprint 20 markets review in France • Distribution efficiency standards defined • CO2 emissions included as criteria in the selection for owned and outsourced operations process for road and ocean transport companies. We joined industry initiatives driving common standards for calculating and reducing carbon emissions in distribution Engaging Employees • Accident frequency target for supply chain • Performance improved from 1.8 (2009) < 1.2 accidents/100 FTEs to 1.6 accidents/100 FTEs • Safety targets set for non-production related activities • We began measuring non-production related activities • Training modules for employees in high and • Blueprint for training modules for forklift driving medium safety risk functions rolled out created and collateral development begun • Integrity included in employee surveys • Integrity related questions included in our 2010 and followed up Climate Survey. Overall results are positive. Where necessary suitable interventions will be put in place • Employees’ & Human Rights Policy adopted, • Draft policy developed. Will be implemented implemented and audited in Q1 of 2011. Auditing starts 2011 • Day of Giving programme and volunteering scheme • Programme piloted in Head Office, based implemented in 10 Operating Companies on best practice in Heineken USA 8 What we said we will do by 20121 What we’ve done in 2010 Heineken Cares • In 2010: double the funding for the • Funding doubled to EUR20 million Heineken Africa Foundation to EUR20 million • Evaluate all local sourcing activities and set • Local sourcing activities initiated in Brazil, regional targets by 2015 Ireland and Mexico • Evaluate reporting and monitoring system • We developed and tested the metrics and for agriculture; define an action plan to questionnaires underpinning MASSA (Malting improve compliance Assessment System for Sustainable Agriculture). This monitoring system will help us to acquire data relating to the sustainability indicators for the apple to cider, barley to beer and hops to beer chains • Standards for sustainable agriculture are aligned • Pilot tests of our MASSA system conducted with with and verified by stakeholders selected apple and barley suppliers • Inventory of possible partnerships with NGOs in • Preparation of better registration of current the area of Corporate Social Investment (CSI) activities by developing common definition of CSI • All operations that do not meet our defined • Standard defined and a gap analysis made for standard of healthcare to include improvement six companies plans 2012 • Perform 12 Economic Impact Assessments (EIA) • A further three EIAs were completed in Egypt, Croatia and The Bahamas. UK based EIA started Responsible • Develop ‘Enjoy Heineken® Responsibly’ (EHR) • EHR logo and link to EHR website on all Heineken® to include on trade execution; further extend primary and secondary packaging. Rules and Consumption the online programme; application of EHR in guidelines in development for application of EHR Heineken® communication materials and primary logo on communication materials and primary merchandise; migrate EHR website to consumer merchandise. We began integrating EHR into facing website Heineken.com Heineken.com • Horeca Server Programme and Retail Programme • Horeca Best Practices gathered as input developed and tested • Develop a specific alcohol and work plan • Planned for 2011 for contractors • Develop and deliver a workshop to 100 per cent of • Plan of approach for inclusion in online Heineken commerce/marketing employees that support our Academy to be defined in 2011 rules on Responsible Commercial Communication Partnerships • At least 50 Heineken markets have a partnership • Currently 34 markets have a partnership with a third party to address alcohol abuse for Progress • Criteria for successful partnerships developed • Draft criteria developed. Markets to assess in 2011 and existing partnerships reviewed • Global Actions on Harmful Drinking projects have • In selected markets (Nigeria, Rwanda, Russia and been implemented in key markets Vietnam) actions were taken in the areas of selfregulation, drink driving and non-commercial alcohol • Industry/government partnership projects in • In 2011, Ireland will evaluate and revisit its fiveIreland and UK implemented and evaluated year partnership to reduce alcohol-related harm 1 Unless stated differently. 2 Index calculated with an average lifetime of a fridge of five years, new installed fridges are equal to replacement. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 9 Overview Brewing a Better Future In April 2010, we proudly unveiled Brewing a Better Future, our comprehensive and integrated sustainability strategy for the next decade. It increases the scope and scale of our work on sustainability and gives substance to our long-term ambition to be the world’s greenest brewer. It also allows us to balance our need for financial sustainability with the role we play in society. Our journey is Brewing summarised by a Better Future To be the Our long-term World’s Greenest Brewer ambition Improve Empower Impact Three strategic Continuously improve Empower our people Positively impact imperatives the environmental and the the role of beer impact of our brands communities in society and business in which we operate 23 programmes grouped into six key initiatives Green Green Engaging Heineken Responsible Partnerships Brewer Commerce Employees Cares Consumption for Progress Five Governance, Senior management incentives, enablers Reporting & transparency, Supplier Code, Communication & engagement 10 Brewing a Better Future is an exciting journey On a day-to-day basis, Brewing a Better Future that has only just begun. To realise our vision of is governed by a team of representatives from a more sustainable world, we will make positive the Supply Chain, Commerce, HR, Control & and long-term investments in the environment, Accounting and Corporate Relations functions. communities, people and partnerships. To make The team is chaired by the Manager Global sure we reach our destination, we have focused Sustainable Development. Each individual our actions and energy around three programme is led by a workstream leader strategic imperatives: from one of our global functions. • Continuously Improve the environmental Progress and issues in relation to Brewing a Better impact of our brands and business Future are regularly on the Executive Committee • Empower our people and the communities agenda, and the subject is on the agenda of every in which we operate Management Team in our operating businesses. • Positively Impact the role of beer in society. We realise that in order to be successful, we From these, we have grouped 23 programmes need to embed our Brewing a Better Future of work into six inter-related initiatives that approach into our business processes. will enable us to realise our Brewing a Better In other words: it needs to become part of Future goals. our DNA. That is why as a first step in 2010 we established a sustainability committee in each Governance structure market. Each market has developed its own Brewing a Better Future is governed by three-year plan for achieving Brewing a Better a Steering Committee that meets each quarter. Future goals, which will be rolled out in 2011. The committee comprises: • Chief Corporate Relations Officer (chair) • Regional President Africa and Middle East • Chief Supply Chain Officer • Chief Commercial Officer • Chief Human Resources Officer. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 11 Brewing a Better Future Improve Green Brewer To ensure a viable environment for future generations, businesses and communities are embracing more sustainable ways of producing and consuming. Heineken is committed to playing its part and is working hard to increase the energy and water efficiency of its breweries, warehouses and offices.3 “In the last eight years, our ‘Aware of Energy’ programme has reduced energy consumption across our business  by 17 per cent.” Marc Gross Chief Supply Chain Officer 12 Poland Several of our 140 breweries already meet our 2020 targets and we are sharing these best practices with those breweries that are not yet Responsible and profitable there. Ultimately, we want our operations to have the smallest possible emissions footprint. To this waste management end, we are exploring ways to build breweries that are C02 neutral and breweries that use zero fossil In order to improve its fuels. We are also investigating how to replace performance in relation fossil fuels with energy from renewable sources to waste. management, like sun, wind, biomass and biogas. Currently, Grupa Zywiec in measures are being taken at our Göss brewery Poland implemented a sophisticated in Austria and our El Gouna brewery in Egypt waste management to establish and test a model for a ‘C02 programme across its neutral’ brewery. four breweries. As a result of better processes, training, on site equipment and close Water is crucial to both our brewing process and co-operation with external partners, the breweries now recover to the communities in which we operate. Our and process 99 per cent of their waste. commitment is to decrease the amount of water we use in the brewing process, ensure the water The breweries produce four kinds of residual material: spent we return to the eco-system is clean and that we grains, packaging waste (such as glass and metal), equipment do not prevent local users from gaining access waste (such as engine oil), and mixed household waste. to clean, fresh water for their own use. That’s why . In 2004, Grupa Zywiec developed a different approach to waste we have committed to doing everything we can management. “Today, waste is segregated in special containers, in the coming decade to apply the principle waste streams are clearly monitored, and waste collection and of water neutrality in those regions designated transport has been outsourced to qualified companies. Waste is as water scarce. now recovered or neutralised depending on what is technically and financially feasible,” says Roman Korzeniowski, director of Finally, we are taking a critical look at our the Elbla˛g brewery. warehouses and offices. In 2011 we plan to map their energy consumption, so that we can start The new approach also entails clear ISO-certified procedures, working towards specific reductions and reducing improvements made using the Total Productive Management further the negative impact on the environment. System (TPM) approach and training. Employees, for example, have been taught where and how to collect waste and subScope of the numbers in this report: breweries, soft drink plants, 3 contractors have been trained to collect hazardous waste such cider plants and water plants are taken into account. as chemicals and lubricants. The new approach has dramatically reduced the environmental impact and the cost of waste. At the Elbla˛g brewery, for example, the amount of non-segregated waste was reduced from 793 tons in 2006 to 55 tons in 2010. “Waste . management has even become profitable for us. In 2010, Grupa Zywiec sold its waste at a profit of EUR3 million. This is a great example of how going green can also be good business”, says Roman. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 13 Brewing a Better Future | Green Brewer Energy and water efficient production Some of the main contributors to the energy In 2010, we surveyed our breweries for best saving trend are improved performances from our practices, and shared these through our breweries in Central and Eastern Europe. Thanks knowledge management system for use in to a large increase in production volume, coupled future designs and renovations. A dedicated with the implementation of an energy plan, the team continued the task of designing an energy Rechitsa (Belarus) brewery significantly improved and water efficient brewery and a zero fossil its specific thermal energy consumption and fuel brewery. We also appointed energy and electrical consumption. Thermal energy savings water efficiency co-ordinators at all were also achieved at two of our Romanian Operating Companies. production units in Ciuc and Craiova by deploying TPM energy loss reduction teams. Finally, our Actual Reduction production unit in Nizhny Novgorod (Russia) 2008 2020 saved a significant amount of thermal energy Greenhouse gas emissions via the installation of a more energy-efficient [kg CO2-eq/hl] 10.4 40% boiler house. Water [hl/hl] 5.1 25% The electricity saving efforts of the breweries above were complemented by our production unit Thermal and electrical energy in production4 in Lahti (Finland) which also lowered its specific The combined amount of thermal and electrical electricity consumption thanks largely to increased energy (calculated as primary energy) needed to production volume. Our brewery in St. Petersburg produce one hectolitre of beer, soft drinks, cider (Russia) saved a large amount of electricity or water decreased from 170 Mega Joules in 2009 by decommissioning an energy-inefficient to 166 Mega Joules in 2010. Specific thermal energy gas turbine. consumption improved by 1.6 per cent from 89.0 to 87.6 MJ/hl and electricity consumption As a result, we exceeded the promised energy by 3.6 per cent from 9.0 to 8.7 kWh/hl. consumption of 15 per cent compared with 2002 and achieved 17 per cent savings of total 4 Total energy consumption equals the sum of the thermal energy primary energy. consumption (MJ/hl) and the electricity consumption (kWh/hl). The total energy consumption is calculated as: thermal energy consumption (MJ/hl) plus nine times the electricity consumption (kWh/hl) and is expressed in MJ/hl. The total energy consumption can be considered as the equivalent use of primary fuels to produce the different kinds of energy. 14 Total specific energy consumption Heineken uses a variety of instruments to reduce Aware of Energy programme and manage the CO2 emission risks. The preferred MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water option is to make use of less carbon-intensive 210 technologies (58 production units) or to switch to less carbon intensive fuels (26 production units). Twenty production units in Europe participate in 200 0% the emission trading scheme. We are also active in carbon sequestration (two production units), Commitment 190 Aware of Energy Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and Joint 15% improvement Implementation (one production unit each).5 2002-2010 180 Specific greenhouse gas emissions, actual performance and targets 170 15% kg CO2-eq/hl beer + soft drinks + cider + water 17% 11 160 21% 10 Commitment Brewing a Better Future 150 Restated 40% improvement 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2008-2020 9 • Actual Heineken Group • Actual Heineken Group 2002 8 Greenhouse gases in production 7 The performance in greenhouse gas emissions (the amount of direct and indirect CO2 emissions and refrigerant losses expressed as CO2 equivalents 6 per hectolitre of beer, soft drinks, cider or water produced) improved from 9.8 kg CO2-eq/hl in 2009 5 to 9.3 kg CO2-eq/hl in 2010 primarily as a result of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 the energy saving activities of our breweries. • Actual Heineken Group In 2010, as a result of the newly acquired • Actual reported 2008 production units and volume increase, our total absolute greenhouse gas emissions increased Natural gas and LPG are the most dominant fuel from 1,327 ktonnes in 2009 to 1,612 ktonnes in relation to our direct energy consumption, CO2-eq in 2010 for our beverage plants, of which accounting for 61 per cent of heat generation. 409 ktonnes is attributable to new acquisitions. Fuel oil and diesel account for 38 per cent and The performance of our 2008 base of companies nearly 1 per cent of total energy is derived from (i.e. excluding recent acquisitions) improved. renewable fuels (biomass and biogas). We do not use coal. Our approach to renewable energy sources is explained later in this chapter. 5 Joint Implementation (JI) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) are the two project-based mechanisms, additional to the Emission Trading Scheme as key tools for reducing emissions worldwide. JI enables industrialized countries to carry out joint implementation projects with other developed countries, while the CDM involves investment in sustainable development projects that reduce emissions in developing countries. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 15 Brewing a Better Future | Green Brewer Types of fuels used The number of environmental and safety Calculation of MJ per type of fuel complaints related to environmental or industrial safety accidents with off-site effects has decreased from 75 in 2009 to 30 in 2010. This is mainly the result of the implementation of preventative measures based on lessons learned and due to the temporary shutdown of the biomass plant in Manchester (the UK). Half of the complaints in 2010 relate to nuisance by noise. More sustainable buildings Our energy and water successes have prompted • Gaseous fuels (LPG, natural gas, propane) us to review the environmental performance of • Liquid fuels (diesel, fuel oil, gasoil, kerosine) offices and warehouses. An April 2010 seminar • Biomass on BREEAM (Building Research Establishment • Biogas Environmental Assessment Method) and LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) Environmental compliance standards taught us more about energy-efficient In 2010, we recorded 67 accidents with the buildings. We have also made a commitment that potential to cause harm to human life, property in 2011, we will start to measure and set targets or the ecosystem and/or which can cause nuisance in relation to the environmental performance to a third party. About half of the accidents are of our buildings. To help us, we have joined the related to the quality of effluent, which exceeded International Sustainability Alliance (ISA), a group the legal limits. Five production units had to pay of companies dedicated to achieving a more fines because of one or more environmental sustainable environment through better breaches, amounting to a total of EUR190,000 measurements and understanding of the (in 2009 the comparable figure was: EUR357,000). sustainable performance of buildings. Environmental and safety complaints number 2010 26 4 2009 75 2008 65 • Group 2009 2.6 • New reporters 2010 16 Netherlands Strong financial considerations ultimately helped convince the Management Team. “Though LEDs are LED there be light more expensive, they last longer and use 70 per cent less energy. In the first year alone, we reduced our Vrumona is Heineken’s manufacturer, marketer and energy consumption by an amazing 2.5 per cent. LEDs distributor of soft drinks in the Netherlands. When save money, they are safer and they allow us to fulfil the 1,750 fluorescent lamps in one of the major our promise of being more sustainable.” distribution halls had to be replaced, the company considered switching to LED lights. One doubt remains. LEDs shine less brightly over time, so the question was whether they would be able to LEDs last longer, contain no dangerous chemicals and fulfil their promise of a long lifespan. “We negotiated use electronics to generate visible light only, meaning some tough guarantees from the supplier, but we’re they are more efficient. In addition, and of great still taking a risk. We are willing to do that, because importance in a manufacturing environment, they we believe in the benefit of LEDs.” do not make it seem as though some moving parts are stationary when in fact they are not. This enthusiasm carries over into 2011. Vrumona will consider LEDs for its outdoor lighting and for its And yet, there was some scepticism. “LEDs were production hall. For the time being, the first success more expensive to buy, we wondered whether they is fact. As Pier says, “Every time I enter the hall and produced the right quality of light and we didn’t know look at the LEDs I think: we did it!” whether they were rugged enough,” says Pier Snieder, Safety, Health and Environment Manager at Vrumona. A test facility with two types of LEDs was set up in the hall. “One type couldn’t handle the vibrations, but people were enthusiastic about the other. Forklift drivers enjoyed the light, saying it allowed them to better read their instruments and the small print on crates.” Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 17 Brewing a Better Future | Green Brewer Greater focus on renewable energy Using less water in production For years, we have used biogas from our In 2010, our specific water consumption decreased wastewater treatment plants to generate a small from 4.8 hl to 4.5 hl per hectolitre of beer, cider, percentage of our energy. In 2010, we carried out soft drinks and water. Some of our breweries made a wide-ranging study into other, alternative forms notable progress: in Lagos (Nigeria) specific water of energy. We considered everything from wind consumption decreased significantly due to the and solar energy, to biomass, geothermal and use of recovered water for cleaning purposes, hydropower. We did so because we believe that condensate recovery and the implementation this is the future of our energy supply and because of a loss identification system. The optimisation in order to reach our 2020 emissions targets, of the bottle washer in the packaging department alternative energy will have to account for of our production unit in Ama (Nigeria) resulted approximately 25 per cent of the improvements. in additional water savings. Our production unit in Rechitsa (Belarus) significantly improved its We have embarked on projects that can contribute specific water consumption due to a large increase to our Brewing a Better Future goals, such as: in production volume, coupled with an additional improvement in efficiency as a result of the • Commitment to buy electricity from a wind implementation of best practices. energy farm in Mexico that will ultimately supply up to 85 per cent of the power needs of the Water consumption, actual Mexican operations performance and targets • Large-scale biogas feasibility study in the hl water/hl beer + soft drinks + cider + water Netherlands. We are investigating how biogas 5.5 produced by a number of farmers near our Zoeterwoude brewery could be used by the Commitment 5 Brewing a Better Future brewery. In due course biogas could replace 25% improvement approximately 30 per cent of the natural 2008-2020 gas used today 4.5 • Solar Photovoltaic at Alken Maes brewery in Belgium. In 2010, we completed a 4 feasibility study. It has been decided to install approximately 1.5 MWe Solar Photovoltaic 3.5 panels. It is expected that these panels will produce 1.2 – 1.5 GWh per year • We carried out a feasibility study for Solar 3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Thermal Heat application in five European locations. We have chosen three production • Actual Heineken Group units in Europe where solar heat will be used. • Actual reported 2008 An emerging ‘total water’ strategy Heineken uses water for brewing, packaging and cleaning – often in water-scarce areas – so water availability and quality are crucial. In 2009, we signed up to the CEO Water Mandate, which lays down six principles of world-class water stewardship. In 2010, we accelerated our work in relation to all aspects of water. We became a member of the Water Footprint Network (WFN) and B.I.E.R. (Beverage Industry Environment Round Table). In addition, we also carried out two water footprint studies (see case study on page 20). 18 Europe Uncovering the potential of solar thermal energy Five studies conducted by Heineken in 2010 have shown the potential for using solar heat in three of the Company’s production units (two breweries and one maltery). By retrofitting existing equipment and investing in new technology, Heineken could make additional significant steps to reduce its carbon footprint. The study was conducted by Heineken in co-operation with AEE INTEC, an Austrian institute for sustainable technologies. They looked at the potential of solar heat, the process by which sunlight warms water via solar panels. The study covered five production units located in two different climate zones in Europe. The results showed that three of the production units received sufficient, usable sunlight: the Göss brewery in Austria would be able to heat the mash tuns used during the brewing process, the Valencia brewery could use heat to pasteurise beer and the Lisbon malting facility could use heat to dry the malt. Solar heat would require the installation of special solar panels and the retrofit of existing equipment and processes. “In Göss, solar heat will account for an estimated 18 per cent of the mash tuns’ energy use. In Valencia, this is 24 per cent for two pasteurisers, while in Lisbon it is 18 per cent for the malt drying process,” says Herman van de Bergh, Manager Global Energy and Water Programme. The next step is for Heineken to apply for joint funding of the expensive pilot projects with the European Commission for Energy. These pilots will test whether solar heat is feasible and economic in relation to the day-to-day operations of the three production units. A decision by the European Commission is expected in September 2011, and if successful, the project should be completed in April 2014. Beyond that, Heineken has a vision of making large-scale use of solar heat where possible. “We could retrofit existing production units, but our ideal is to design process equipment to use solar heat from the outset. Southern Europe, Northern Africa and countries like Mexico have the perfect climate for solar heat,” says Herman. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 19 Brewing a Better Future | Green Brewer Slovakia and Egypt Depending on the ingredients and the recipe, the total water footprint of beers produced in Egypt varies Water footprint studies show from 282 l/l to 418 l/l. The water footprint of beers produced in Slovakia ranges from 283 l/l to 290 l/l. the way forward These figures include the grey water component. Ron says the findings raise interesting questions, In 2010, Heineken conducted two water footprint such as how to involve suppliers in water reduction studies. The water footprint is an indicator of strategies and how to balance local sourcing with the freshwater use that looks not only at water usage impact of crops on local water sources. Finding the in breweries, but also takes into account the water answers to these questions and implementing them use by all the products, processes and services that is now the next challenge. are required to produce beer. “The studies have taught us a lot and now we can The study compared the water footprint of beers begin to formulate a new water reduction strategy. produced in two contrasting areas: wet Slovakia We will be able to make informed decisions to and dry Egypt. The study was carried out by DHV mitigate the impact of our operations and improve consultancy in co-operation with Professor Arjen our environmental sustainability,” says Ron. In 2011, Y. Hoekstra of the University of Twente in the Heineken will conduct additional water footprint Netherlands and Scientific Director of the Water studies, for example into growing barley and brewing Footprint Network. beer in other types of market environment. “It turns out that more than 90 per cent of the water footprint is related to the cultivation of crops. In Slovakia this is ‘green’ water, or rainwater, while in Egypt it is predominantly ‘blue’ water, or surface and ground water,” says Ron Bohlmeijer, a water specialist at Heineken’s Supply Chain team in the Netherlands. The ‘grey’ water component is also highly relevant. Grey water is the volume of water required to dilute pollutants to such an extent that the quality of the water remains at or above agreed water quality standards. About half of our water comes from our own Seven sites successfully reduced their water groundwater wells, and municipal water accounts consumption to less than 7hl/hl in the last year. for one third of our water supply: However, four previously compliant sites namely Newcastle (UK), Opwijk (Belgium), le Lamentin Ground water (own wells) 54% of total volume (Martinique) and Mbandaka (DR Congo) increased Surface water (river/lake) 12% of total volume their water usage to above the 7hl/hl limit. Municipal water supply 34% of total volume The Aware of Water programme has now been incorporated into the Brewing a Better In 2010, 82 per cent of our breweries were Future programme. compliant with the 7hl of water per hectolitre of beer standard as defined in the Aware of Water Wastewater performance improving programme. This was a slight improvement on In 2000, Heineken had 20 production units in the 2009 figure of 80 per cent. Africa and the Middle East and the commitment was to install wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) Production units with water consumption at each location. Since 2000 seven of the sites higher than 7 hectolitres of water per have either been divested or are no longer hectolitres beer, cider, water and soft drink majority holdings. Due to acquisitions and newly Number of production units built plants, Heineken currently has 31 production units in the region, of which 19 have wastewater 2010 30 20 3 treatment facilities or use municipal treatment. 2009 19 7 There are 12 sites with no treatment facilities. 2008 16 2 65 At three of these sites the WWTP is under • Group 2.6 construction: Democratic Republic of Congo • Recent acquisitions (Bukavu, Boma and Kisangani). Nine treatment facilities are planned to be completed by 2014. 20 Wastewater treatment plants Resources per person (Food and Agriculture Africa & Middle East Region Organisation, FAO), the Annual Renewable Water Supply per person (World Resources Institute, 2010 7 3 19 2 WRI), the Water Stress Index (University of New 2000 20 Hampshire, UNH) and Environmental, Physical • WWTP planned and Economic Water Scarcity (International Water • Under construction Management Institute, IWMI). The water intensity • Present of the breweries is calculated to track the water • Not yet planned usage of breweries in water scarce areas. These results reflect our increased focus on this critical In 2010 the effluent organic load discharged to area and are a first step to identify breweries that surface water was 17.4 ktonnes, a slight increase should operate in a water neutral way. compared to 2009 when it was 17.3 ktonnes. This is mainly caused due to increased production in Raising awareness of water risks our sites as Karlovac (Croatia), Gisenyi (Rwanda), The results of a survey addressing the Aba (Nigeria) and Ijebu Ode (Nigeria). Since these performance of Operating Companies on watersites do not have proper wastewater treatment related risks in the beer supply chain demonstrate facilities, the increase in production has a direct that the majority of Operating Companies impact on the discharges to surface water. systematically track and monitor water availability However, several sites were able to greatly at local operations level. In the majority of our decrease their organic load discharge. The brewery facilities, a local Source Water Protection Plan in Vialonga, Portugal, improved its performance is in place. Operating Companies are also alert with a newly updated wastewater treatment to potential changes in price structure and facility, while the brewery in Lagos, Nigeria, regulatory changes. improved the efficiency of its wastewater treatment facility. There is clearly room to improve the way we monitor and mitigate conflicts between users Measuring water stress exposure relating to water resources, although we Heineken Supply Chain has measured the exposure are already actively collaborating with key of brewery sites to water stress in order to be able stakeholders in the river basins in which we to respond to water-related risks. Using the Global operate. We can also improve the awareness Water Tool of the World Business Council for of water-related risks of our suppliers as well as Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the brewery the level and type of collaboration with suppliers sites are ranked on water stress exposure. This to help address this. In the coming year tool uses several indicators that analyse water we will improve in these areas. scarcity. These are the Total Renewable Water Operating Companies Performance indicator6 actively engaged Tracking and monitoring water quantity and quality 64% Managing risks related to changes in regulations and pricing structure 60% Monitoring and mitigating stakeholder conflicts on water resources 57% Awareness of suppliers’ exposure to water-related risks 28% Collaboration with suppliers in the field of water risk management 19% 6 Results are only from Operating Companies with breweries. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 21 Brewing a Better Future Improve Specifically, we are continuously improving and reducing the weight of our materials, as well as Green Commerce stimulating recycling. We are also among the first brewers to commit to the global introduction of eco-friendly fridges, which consume up to 50 per cent less energy. And we are assessing our distribution, so that we can more effectively We are a consumer-driven company. We are passionate transport our goods while reducing our about offering the finest quality beers, ciders and soft carbon footprint. drinks to our consumers and providing them with a unique In our new approach, we are actively involving experience whenever they drink one of our brands. our suppliers, so we can join forces on more sustainable products and processes. And we are We are equally passionate about doing this in a way that measuring our global and local carbon footprint, ensures we are contributing to a better environment. so we can optimise our emission reductions Consumers also consider sustainability as increasingly throughout the value chain. important and will take this into account in the new As an estimated two-thirds of our carbon propositions we offer. In addition, we are embedding footprint occurs outside the brewing process, sustainability in our existing products, propositions, we have made a clear decision to increase renovations and innovations. our efforts throughout the total value chain. We focus on three key areas: packaging, cooling and distribution. Packaging that’s lighter and more recyclable Our ambition is to significantly reduce our carbon “We are focused on footprint per hl by 2020. We can only do this if improving our we work closely with our suppliers. We developed environmental footprint a new packaging policy and eco-design procedures for packaging development in 2010. throughout the total  These focus on weight and material reduction, value chain from crop  improving recycled content, design for improved to consumer.” recycling and improvement projects at supplier plant level to reduce the carbon footprint. The Alexis Nasard requirements for the new policy will be installed Chief Commercial Officer across the business in 2011 and formally introduced as part of our way of working in 2012. 22 Netherlands Greener, more reliable transport Beer from Heineken’s Zoeterwoude brewery in the Netherlands is shipped worldwide from the ports of Rotterdam and Antwerp. The roads to the port, however, are notoriously congested and Heineken sought an alternative that was more secure and environmentally friendly. Fred Holvast, Director Customer Service and Logistics at Heineken Netherlands, says the solution was to add inland shipping to the supply chain mix. The result is Alpherium, a container shipping terminal a short drive away from the brewery. “We came up with the idea 15 years ago. We worked with government and the private sector to realise it and the terminal became operational in October 2010. It is now the largest inland container shipping terminal in the Netherlands,” says Fred. The terminal is owned and operated by logistics service provider Van Uden. Other companies, mainly large retailers, will use the terminal as well, but as the launching customer, Heineken’s volumes guaranteed the terminal would be commercially viable before it was even built. From the terminal, barges sail down quiet canals to the ports of Rotterdam and Antwerp, without encountering any traffic jams. The barges will return carrying containers full of Chinese consumer goods, which are imported by the terminal’s other users. The containers, when emptied, are driven to the brewery for a new shipment. The terminal shows that doing good and doing business go hand in hand. On an annual basis, Heineken has approximately 74,000 fewer truck transports to Rotterdam and Antwerp, which amounts to almost 5.5 million kilometres. This not only eases road congestion, but also reduces CO2 emissions by 1,775 tons, or an incredible 35 per cent, on the route from the brewery to the ports. In addition, deliveries to the ports have become a lot more reliable and cost effective. “We worked with Van Uden to streamline our operations with theirs. We also invested in special IT systems, so we now have a dedicated acceptance environment at our disposal,” Fred explains. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 23 Brewing a Better Future | Green Commerce In 2010, we involved key partners in our Brewing When these three elements are combined, we a Better Future programme. We shared our vision expect an energy reduction of at least 35 per cent and ambitions in order to reach a common as well as lower maintenance costs and a longer understanding and obtain their commitment lifespan for the fridges. to work on improvement projects. Together, we will focus on increasing the recycled content In 2010, we began implementing this new in our packaging, weight optimisation, and energy approach and 80 per cent of our new fridges met consumption during the packaging production. at least one of the above standards. At the same time we have been working with suppliers to meet To monitor our progress, we have defined KPIs, our specifications globally. We will continuously which will be measured based on the best available look for new technologies that enable us to achieve data from suppliers and partners. The data will our ambition of a 50 per cent reduction in carbon be collected on Operating Company level. footprint on our installed fridge base by 2020. To monitor our progress we are developing a test Cooling that’s greener protocol to determine the energy consumption To serve our beer at the optimum temperature, of our baseline fridges and new green fridges. we aim to use equipment with a low carbon footprint and energy consumption. Our policy is But what about draught beer in pubs, bars, that wherever it is technically and legally possible, restaurants and cafés? The review of draught every new fridge we buy will include: beer coolers we undertook in 2010 told us that there is not yet a beer cooler that meets our • The safe and more environmental friendly strict specifications. Therefore, in 2010, Heineken hydrocarbon refrigerant initiated the development of ‘green’ draught beer • LED illumination coolers. In 2011, we will pilot these new coolers • A thermostat with an energy management and we expect to begin the roll out in 2012. system for large fridges (above 300 litres). Re-engineering of our David Draught® beer installations is estimated to result in energy savings of more than 35 per cent and even higher carbon footprint reduction. Global other significant energy reduction measures to reach our ambition of energy reduction of 50 per cent on Partners in green fridges our cooling equipment and further reduction of the carbon footprint.” We are also working closely with In 2010 we sourced approximately 130,000 fridges. suppliers like Frigoglass to roll out the new These provide consumers with a chilled beverage at environmentally friendly fridges. “We need the point of sale, but also contribute to Heineken’s to push each other to continuously improve. carbon footprint. In 2010, Heineken was amongst Working in partnership with our customers the first brewers to globally commit to the latest is important to us and we look forward to generation of environmentally friendly fridges. working closely with Heineken so we can support each other in our sustainability These fridges use energy-saving technologies, ambitions,” says Tom Aas, ICM Chief including LED lighting, a smart energy management Operating Officer at Frigoglass. system and environmentally friendly hydrocarbon refrigerants meaning that they consume between 35 Klimasan, another supplier of fridges, and 50 per cent less energy, have a longer lifetime says that Heineken is the first brewer to and require less maintenance. use natural refrigerants on a global scale and that others will eventually follow suit. Kirsten Barnhoorn, Sustainability Manager at “Heineken is a leader in the industry and Heineken, says Heineken is fully committed to other brewers will now feel the need to investing in eco-fridges that contribute to a greener adopt these new technologies. Energy world. “We aim to serve our consumers a quality consumption is becoming a big deal beer, using best in class equipment with the lowest in the eyes of consumers,” says Erim Şenocak, environmental impact. Therefore, we decided not AGM Sales and Marketing at Klimasan. only to implement hydrocarbon, but also to include 24 Hungary Distribution that’s miles better In distribution, reducing our carbon footprint means driving fewer kilometres, using more Yes, we can: promoting recycling efficient equipment and working with partners that share our sustainability ambition. In 2010, the Association of Hungarian Brewers introduced During 2010, we designed a carbon footprint a recycling scheme for aluminium cans. Three of the country’s model for distribution operations that will help largest brewers, including Heineken, bought and installed 24 return logistics managers around the world to measure, vending machines and located them in supermarkets. In 2010 some report and identify CO2 improvement opportunities. 1.7 million cans were returned, which is approximately 0.3 per cent of cans produced by the three brewers. Rollout of the model to our businesses will start in 2011. “This is a good result considering the machines have been operational for less than a year,” says Éva Kiss, Corporate Affairs At the same time, we realised that we can only & Communications Manager at Heineken Hungary. Some achieve large sustainability improvements if machines received 2,500 cans a day and others as many as we engage the right partners. Therefore, we 10,000. At a rate of 2,500 cans a day, the machines pay for are incorporating sustainability criteria in the themselves in as little as nine days. procurement process for transportation services. We are also working with other companies to The scheme has a number of built-in incentives. Consumers improve the environmental performance of the who return the cans receive a small amount of cash and the three transport industry across different modalities. brewers saved EUR100,000 in taxes in 2010. The cans are collected and delivered to the country’s recycling company Öko-Pannon, of which Heineken was a founding partner. With regard to ocean freight, following meetings in 2010, we have now joined the Clean Cargo Working Buying the machines and getting people to use them was relatively Group, which brings together shipping companies easy. The hard part was getting all brewers aligned and convincing and shippers in a joint effort to reduce the retailers to participate. The work was well worth it. “The project environmental impact of container transport. shows the government that the beer industry is serious about the environment,” says Éva. As for road freight, we have been supporting the development of the SmartWay concept in Europe. The scheme is small for now, but the mere fact that it is working As part of this initiative, transport companies is a success. Environmental consciousness in Hungary is still in its and shippers will monitor and report the carbon infancy, and up until now only 15 per cent of cans were returned to recycling points. “People have started to collect cans for the footprint of road transport. Shippers, like machines, instead of simply throwing them out,” says Éva. Heineken, will use this information to procure transportation services, while transportation The scheme will continue in 2011, when the three partners aim companies will benefit from carbon efficiency to collect 18 millions cans, or 3.6 per cent of next year’s projected scoring and sharing of best practices. output. This ensures a cleaner and more sustainable environment and would also save the three partners around EUR1 million Taking steps to reduce our footprint in taxes. Improvements begin with information. That is why in 2010, we analysed the global carbon footprint of some of our products. This showed that packaging, cooling and distribution account for approximately 70 per cent of the Company’s total carbon footprint. In 2010, we also further developed the methodology for calculating our baseline carbon footprint. This will enable our Operating Companies to monitor performance on a consistent basis and to demonstrate clearly the reductions we make. The tool has been tested in the UK, France, Italy and the Netherlands and will be rolled out to our European Operating Companies in 2011. We will continuously update this model with available information from our suppliers and other partners in the value chain. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 25 Brewing a Better Future Empower Safety is an obvious priority. Each year, our colleagues suffer fatalities and injuries in our Engaging Employees breweries, on the road and in the office. We are working hard to reduce these incidents through training, communication and better procedures. This will be a constant and clear focus for all our management. Brewing a Better Future has to be part of the way we think It is also important that our people work in an and act in our business. This means that we need the environment in which their rights are respected wholehearted support of our employees because they and their talents and contributions recognised, developed and rewarded. Our new Employees’ are the ones who will ultimately deliver our commitments & Human Rights Policy, will be introduced in 2011 and goals. This requires Heineken to provide a fair, safe and will help us to formalise such an environment and empowering environment in which all of our people within the organisation. can succeed. And in order to make sustainability an integral part of our day-to-day work, we are investing in communication and activities that empower all of our people. This way, they will support our ambitions with action that is both genuine and effective. Occupational health and safety – still work to do It is a matter of deep regret that in 2010, there “We are committed to were 14 fatal accidents in our business. In total, delivering a safer working six Heineken employees, six contractors and environment with clear two other external parties lost their lives. These accidents occurred in Mexico, Democratic and embedded standards Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Spain, Nigeria and in relation to integrity and Egypt. To a large degree, the unacceptably high employee and  level reflects the security situation that exists in human rights.” Mexico (four fatalities were related to robberies). This is something on which we are working with Michael O’Hare our Mexican business and with the relevant local Chief Human Resources Officer authorities and law enforcement organisations. Of the other fatalities, two were the result of 26 Egypt Emad is particularly positive about the fact that ‘Safety Heroes’ gives attention to people who have a brilliant Celebrating Heineken’s safety idea and those who contribute to a safer environment. “Each month, we choose Safety Heroes Safety Heroes in our plants and warehouses. They receive Heineken® merchandise, we put their picture on a Hall of Fame at the brewery entrance and we engrave their name In 2009, Heineken recognised that safety awareness in on a cup. They feel proud and acknowledged.” Africa and the Middle East was high within production teams, but not high enough in sales and warehousing. The programme also includes enforcement measures, So, Heineken developed ‘Safety Heroes’, a programme such as improved reporting on potentially risky aimed at changing employees’ attitudes and situations. Overall, the programme has made a behaviours with regard to safety. tangible difference. “People find the manuals easy to understand. It is also the first time that we have The programme has four steps: communicating included people from sales. They really appreciated safety norms, training (through self study) and learning more about safety.” examination, rewarding positive behaviour and enforcing rules. “The programme complements The numbers underscore existing safety measures and is designed to be the success. On-site simple, thorough and positive in its approach,” says accidents went down from Marijke van der Vliet, Project Manager Health Affairs. seven in 2009 to four in 2010. Emad’s conclusion The programme was first rolled out in Egypt’s is a positive one: “Truck Al-Ahram breweries, which has 2,500 staff. Emad drivers have begun to wear Awad, the local project manager responsible for safety belts all the time, implementation, describes the process. “We created while others have begun to three simple and practical safety manuals that were assume a healthier posture heavy on visuals and light on text. We trained every while sitting. Our culture is single employee, until each reached a 100 per cent changing,” says Emad. score on our test.” Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 27 Brewing a Better Future | Engaging Employees production accidents, one from drowning, one fall, in Europe caused a significant number of one fatality caused by a falling banner, and four accidents at our production unit in Zoeterwoude traffic/vehicle accidents. (The Netherlands), slips and trips in the packaging hall was the major type of accidents at our In 2010, as we committed, we also began to production unit in Manchester (the UK). expand our reporting on occupational health and safety from our breweries and Supply Chain to Accident severity decreased from 54 lost calendar all our employees, regardless of working situation days per 100 FTEs in 2009 to 46 lost days in 2010. or location. By the end of 2010, 75 per cent of The reason for this downward trend is mainly our companies recorded the relevant health and due to the impact of the newly acquired units safety data in our central reporting system. Their in Mexico and Brazil. quality and scope, however, do not yet meet our standards and we are taking action to improve them. Accident severity in production lost calendar days/100 FTE for all sites We also developed an enhanced global Occupational 2012 39 54 Health and Safety Policy, which will be implemented 2010 46 in 2011. The policy introduces a global standard 2009 54 on health and safety, which is expected to help 2008 51 management and employees to minimise health and safety risks and will reduce the number of • Target • Actual incidents, accidents and fatalities. Total Productive Management (TPM) Safety performance in production TPM is Heineken’s mandatory strategic In 2010, our accident frequency for production improvement programme for our production employees decreased from 1.8 accidents per units. A critical aspect of this is a ‘safety pillar’ 100 FTEs in 2009 to 1.6 accidents per 100 FTEs. designed to work alongside all other pillars and In 2010, the newly acquired production units create a safer working environment. In total, of FEMSA Cerveza made a positive contribution six breweries received a Heineken bronze award to the safety performance with results that were for their efforts in implementing TPM . including better than the Heineken average. The production safety (‘s-Hertogenbosch, Valencia, Zywiec, .Elblag, units at Cuiaba, Feira De Santana, Manaus, Ponta Lezajsk and Athens). ‘s-Hertogenbosch and Zywiec Grossa (Brazil) and Grajales Malting (Mexico) were obtained an external certificate for their TPM able to close the year with zero accidents. achievements. Overall, 68 per cent of our breweries now have the TPM safety pillar Accident frequency in production in place and in all regions the average cases/100 FTE for all sites score on the pillar audits improved. 2012 1.2 1.9 In total, 25 units now have an OHSAS (Occupational 2010 1.6 Health & Safety Management System) certificate, 2009 1.8 eight of which are units newly acquired as part 2008 2.0 of the acquisition of the beer operations of FEMSA. • Target • Actual In 2010, a global accident survey was conducted, The expansion of our production unit in Panama revealing that approximately 60 per cent of led to a negative contribution to the overall safety accidents occur in the packaging department. performance. This overall performance decline The majority of these accidents are cuts due was also due to the lack of safety management to broken glass bottles. One of the very simple at our production unit in Rouiba (Algeria) and an remedial practices was the introduction of a unsafe packaging line which caused a high number cut-proof glove. Several other new safety of accidents at our production unit in Gisenyi procedures have been introduced, like contractor (Rwanda). Our production unit in Grombalia safety management, safe handling of caustic (Tunisia) recorded a high number of accident in materials and more frequent accident analysis. the packaging department due to more complete Together with these procedures, training and accident reporting. Also, severe winter conditions TPM, we are making progress towards an accident-free environment. 28 Integrity: Code of Business Conduct Clarity and transparency via new In 2010, we further developed and re-shaped Employees’ & Human Rights Policy our integrity function. We partly revised the Code In 2010, we drafted a global Employees’ & Human of Business Conduct, introduced an e-learning tool Rights Policy, based on close consultation with for the Code to support training requirements, and our European Works Council and incorporating launched an improved case management system. feedback from an external human rights expert. Each Operating Company has its own Trusted We also established the current status of Representative, 33 per cent of whom have now employees’ rights in our businesses by carrying received face-to-face training; the remainder will out a gap analysis. The policy will be introduced be trained in 2011. Additionally, the 2010 Climate in 2011. Survey contained two questions about the employee perception of the integrity of local management. Engaging and educating colleagues We intend to repeat this every two years, in order We supported the 2010 launch of Brewing to suggest improvements and track progress. a Better Future with a branding toolkit for all our markets and functions. The programme In 2010 we received 194 reports under the was also promoted extensively in our internal and Whistleblowing Procedure either centrally or external communication, through videos, articles on a local level. Of these 16 per cent concerned and dedicated events. In addition, we gave the fraud, 5 per cent conflict of interest and Brewing a Better Future community its own 79 per cent breaches of internal company communication platform and laid the groundwork policy. Around 79 per cent of all cases for the introduction of a comprehensive Brewing investigated were substantiated. a Better Future curriculum in 2011. We also began work on an online Sustainability Academy. Safety data on production units Heineken Group Parameters (absolute values) Unit 2008 2009 2010* 2012 Fatalities of company personnel Cases 0 2 2 Fatalities of contractor personnel Cases 1 3 1 Permanent disabilities of company personnel Cases 2 4 3 Fatalities of company personnel in commuting Cases 0 2 2 Parameters (absolute values) Accidents of company personnel Cases 446 389 431 Accidents of contractor personnel Cases 112 105 87 Lost days of company personnel Days 11,336 11,727 12,469 Production workforce (FTE) FTEs 22,058 21,639 27,361 Targets/ Performance indicators (average values) Achieved Guides 2012 Accident frequency** Cases / 100 FTE 2.0 1.8 1.6 Accident frequency*** Cases / 100 FTE 2.0 1.5 Targets accident frequency Cases / 100 FTE 1.2 Accident severity** Days / 100 FTE 51 54 46 Accident severity*** Days / 100 FTE 51 53 Guide values accident severity Days / 100 FTE 39 * The number of fatalities in this table reflects fatal accidents involving production personnel. ** Data including new comers. *** Data as presented in 2009 report excluding new comers. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 29 Brewing a Better Future Empower Nothing exemplifies this better than our agriculture programmes. We have been involved with Heineken Cares sustainable agriculture for more than a decade. Our aim is to put in place the conditions that will allow us to secure a steady supply of barley, hops and apples from sustainable sources. This way, we can continue to make quality products from natural ingredients without depleting the soil on We view it as both an obligation and a privilege to care which they are grown and in doing so, empower for our people and the communities that host us. the local farmers that grow the crops. We are ‘Heineken Cares’ is how we have chosen to represent working together with our agricultural partners to develop a tool that allows us to better monitor our approach to doing that. Caring is part of our the sustainable performance of our suppliers heritage, our culture and the way we have always run and ourselves. our business. Rather than providing temporary relief, we aim to enable permanent, positive change. Caring also means local sourcing of raw materials when ecologically and economically feasible. This not only financially empowers the communities in which we operate, but also reduces our transport costs and carbon footprint. In 2010 we estimated that we supported ten thousands of farmers and their families. In Africa, our aim is to source an average of 60 per cent of our raw materials locally. The health of our employees is also of great importance. Traditionally, our breweries in African “As an integral part of the and other markets where governments do not community, we care for provide sufficient healthcare have had their own our employees and their clinics to bridge the gap. Our aim is that by 2020, 100 per cent of our employees, no matter where families and we empower they work, have access to basic pre-defined levels local stakeholders of healthcare. who often depend on our presence for their To better track the impact that our operations livelihood.” have in a market, we conduct Economic Impact Assessments, which allow us to measure our Tom de Man contribution to developing countries and pinpoint Regional President ways to increase it. Africa and the Middle East 30 Democratic Republic of Congo schools that together teach approximately 2,700 students and performed essential maintenance on six Committed to the other schools. rebirth of DRC In addition, the Heineken Africa Foundation has been financing a healthcare project aimed at sickle-cell disease (SCA), a genetic, life-long blood disorder. After 15 years of conflict, the Democratic Republic The programme is carried out at the Monkole Hospital of Congo (DRC) is rebuilding itself. Heineken-owned Centre in Mont Ngafula. Bralima, the country’s leading beer brewer, runs six breweries in DRC. True to its belief that doing good This has resulted in a more effective approach to and doing business go hand in hand, the company the disease. The hospital has bought new diagnostic has been contributing to the country’s recovery. equipment and set up a blood bank unit, which reduces risks related to blood transfusions. The hospital has Working closely with the Schokland Fund and Eucord, also educated around 215 health workers about SCA. Bralima began a local rice project to increase local farmers’ income, encourage local entrepreneurship A key part of the programme is early screening of and shorten Bralima’s supply chain. infants. In 2010, doctors tested and vaccinated many children. In addition, a follow-up programme has been “When we began sourcing locally in 2006, we bought delivered to newly detected SCA patients. Ultimately, 2,000 tons of rice. In 2010, we managed to buy the project aims to screen some 5,000 newborns 11,120 tons, 3,620 tons more than we needed. This and infants. makes a huge difference in the lives of thousands of farmers and their families,” says Chantal Mabunda, Vice President of the Bralima Foundation, which the brewer established. Relatives of Heineken employees in the country have also set up “En Classe”. This foundation renovates school buildings in Kinshasa, distributes food and provides educational material to students. In 2010, En Classe spent some $160,000. They renovated three Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 31 Brewing a Better Future | Heineken Cares Sustainable Agriculture requirement. In Ireland, we agreed with local We are working with suppliers to gradually increase suppliers that 100 per cent of the required 11,000 the quantity of sustainable raw materials such tons of barley will be locally sourced in 2011. as barley, hops and cider apples. We follow international agricultural standards, develop and In April 2010, we organised a workshop in the implement indicators for sustainable agriculture Netherlands to present our Brewing a Better to measure the compliance of suppliers against Future programme to local buyers. The workshop our standards. generated buy-in and new ideas on how to promote local sourcing. In 2010, we developed the methodology and questionnaires that underpin MASSA (Malting Healthcare – establishing standards Assessment System for Sustainable Agriculture). In 2010, we took steps to further improve the This monitoring system will help us acquire data quality of healthcare we provide. We started the relating to the sustainability indicators for the apple inventory of the level of healthcare provided by to cider, barley to beer and hops to beer chains. our Operating Companies by conducting a gap analysis in six companies. We investigated the We also became a member of the Sustainable health insurance conditions of a number of Agriculture Initiative (SAI). This platform of companies and finalised a Heineken Healthcare international food producers identifies best Standard that will apply to all Operating Companies practices, organises conferences and conducts participating in Brewing a Better Future. research in the area of sustainable agriculture. Heineken participates in several of SAI’s working Economic Impact Assessment – better groups dealing with barley, hops and apples. understanding our contribution Over the years we have conducted several In the UK, where we own more than half a million Economic Impact Assessments in various countries apple trees, we have done two things to improve like Sierra Leone, Rwanda and Burundi. In 2010, our sustainability. First, having already piloted our we made Economic Impact Assessments for Egypt, indicator and measurement work with local apple Croatia and the Bahamas. By looking at cash flows growers, in 2010 we helped to establish a network and direct and indirect employment, these studies of local cider apple growers to develop more showed the far-reaching impact that we have sustainable practices on farms. During the last on the economy and society of these countries. year we began a number of three-year trials with this network designed to reduce dependence In Croatia, 8,800 jobs are in some way related to on agro-chemical inputs. Heineken. In Egypt, we estimate that local sourcing of barley has resulted in up to 6,000 jobs. Second, we began a long-term research project Furthermore, barley production for malt was with the University of Reading, one of the country’s shown to use 30 per cent less land compared leading agricultural universities. Our first step is to to other barley grown in Egypt, thus increasing conduct an extensive literature review, to ensure farmers’ incomes. The report for the UK was we do not repeat existing research and to see started but not finished by year-end 2010. whether research that was previously dismissed may perhaps be valuable after all. Heineken Africa Foundation – direct funding for healthcare Local Sourcing – a win/win In 2007, Heineken committed EUR10 million to Local sourcing can be beneficial to the environment, establish the Heineken Africa Foundation (HAF). local communities and Heineken itself. That is why In 2009, the Company committed to doubling that in 2010 we increased the amount of crops sourced investment, resulting in an additional EUR10 million locally. In Mexico, for example, we set up a joint transferred in 2010. This additional commitment venture that allows us to locally source 50,000 now allows HAF to donate EUR1 million a year tons of corn-starch from the 136,000 tons to community healthcare projects in sub-Saharan required annually. The corn was previously Africa. In addition to the four projects already imported from outside Mexico. In Brazil, new mentioned in the chapter on the Millennium agreements with local Brazilian malt suppliers are Development Goals (page 47), HAF supported under discussion in order to increase the amount many other initiatives in 2010: of malt sourced locally to 43 per cent of our annual 32 Portugal Nuno and other jury members chose Farmácia Nova as the 2010 winner. This local chemist refurbished Contributing to the its premises in 2010, which allowed it to increase the breadth and quality of services to the local Luso community community. “Farmácia Nova has a close and personal relationship with the Luso population. They are constantly concerned with people’s health and In Portugal, Heineken’s Sociedade Central de Cervejas well-being.” e Bebidas owns Sociedade da Água de Luso (SAL), the country’s leader in bottled water. SAL’s proud 150-year Since the refurbishment, the chemist also offers history is closely intertwined with that of the town of urine and blood sample collection, nutrition Luso, and as the town’s largest employer, SAL feels it appointments, podology, and osteoporosis diagnosis has a responsibility to positively impact the region’s and dermocosmetics. Farmácia Nova also invested social and economic development. in the transport of medication, cholesterol and glycaemic index testing, and making house calls. It does so through the Fundação Luso, a non-profit organisation that focuses on the areas of health, As Nuno concludes, “The region of Luso has become the environment and the community. In 2010, the highly dependant on SAL’s position as a major industry foundation organised around 20 local activities, and employer in this area. This prize encourages including planting trees, helping to preserve the community to realise that there are many more important cultural heritage sites and promoting the sources of local activities and innovation.” benefits of water to health professionals, children, seniors, and students. It also organised, for the second time, the Entrepreneurial Prize. “This prize rewards an innovative project that has a positive impact on the economy surrounding Luso,” says Nuno Pinto de Magalhães, the foundation’s director. Projects in the areas of agriculture, trading, services and tourism could apply for the EUR10,000 prize. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 33 Brewing a Better Future | Heineken Cares Mexico in 43 other workplaces outside Monterrey and is slowly embracing telemedicine for remote diagnoses. Free, award-winning One reason employees value the clinic is that it’s healthcare totally free. “Our patients don’t pay for medication, consultations or surgeries. They only pay their regular social security fee,” says Héctor. The clinic operates What do employees value most: money, prestige, fun? under a quota scheme reversal with Mexico’s In Mexico, it’s healthcare. The Clínica Cuauhtémoc social security. y Famosa in Monterrey provides healthcare to around 6,600 current and retired employees of the The clinic is good for employees’ motivation and Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma, as well as some 11,000 of quality of life. “People see it as a crucial service as their dependants, including parents. it’s better than the government’s social security and other alternatives. Employee surveys show that Dr. Héctor Moreno, the clinic’s Manager of Medical employees value the clinic more than any other Services, describes an impressive set-up: close to 30 company benefit. It’s an important reason for them beds and a staff of 234 that include doctors, nurses not to leave Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma,” says Héctor. and lab technicians. “Some 40 per cent of medical staff teach at the best universities in Monterrey and we have won three national and local quality awards in recent years,” a proud Héctor says. His staff provides most types of medical treatment and surgery, as well as family medicine and paediatrics, dentistry, physiotherapy and preventive health. “We vaccinate children, try to prevent cancer and help people fight hypertension, diabetes and obesity.” The clinic also offers occupational health 34 Corporate Social Investment • A community mobile clinic in Midvaal in South per region Africa to replace an old and low-quality mobile unit. The new clinic is expected to be used by 24% around 1,250 patients per month. The Sedibeng Brewery will be responsible for its maintenance. • In collaboration with the Burundi Ministry of 49% the Interior (who provided the plot of land), the Ministry of Health (who will supply the 21% trained staff), and representatives of the local community, HAF approved financial support for 0.01% 6% the construction of a Community Health Centre in Burundi, close to one of the breweries. • In Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, HAF • Africa and the Middle East supported a project aimed at early diagnosis of • Americas children at risk of sickle cell anaemia. For more • Asia Pacific* information, see page 31. • Central and Eastern Europe • Western Europe Corporate Social Investment In many markets we invest in local communities. *In relation to our Asia Pacific region, community investment and involvement is delivered predominantly by Asia Pacific Breweries In total we invested approximately EUR15 million (APB), Heineken’s joint venture with Fraser and Neave APB is not in cash and over EUR8 million in product value. in scope of this report. These amounts exclude the hours spent by our employees during work time. As of 2011 we will introduce a standardised way of capturing all our investments and will use this to give us a better insight into the impact and value of our activities and to better focus our future efforts. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 35 Brewing a Better Future Impact However, no single player has responsibility for, nor can, deliver the solution. Success requires Responsible working in partnership and each player in the ‘chain’ to accept their responsibility and act. Our belief is that as Heineken and the industry we have Consumption a responsibility and a crucial role to play. Because we take this responsibility very seriously, Brewing a Better Future includes a comprehensive strategy to continuously encourage responsible consumption. When consumed in moderation, beer can be part of a This approach has been completely integrated healthy, balanced lifestyle. It is though an unfortunate fact into the way we market and sell our brands. that a minority of people abuse alcohol and consequently The approach runs from advertising to product development; from packaging to online harm themselves or others. This is a serious, complex information; from information on labels to problem and we have long been committed to playing our information on beer cups; from developing the part in the solution. This includes communication to raise low and non-alcohol beer categories to, in one awareness, self-regulation and working with governments case, withdrawing a product found to be at and partners to suggest appropriate and effective legislative higher risk of abuse by consumers. measures which – when rigorously enforced – will support In addition, we work closely with on-trade and a real improvement in levels of abuse. off-trade customers, which sell our beers to consumers. We support them with training, serving and promotional guidelines. We also ensure our own employees understand the importance “Responsibility is at the of responsible consumption. Our Cool@Work heart of our Alcohol Policy. initiative gives our employees the understanding We continue to step up  of their responsibilities in relation to the beers they brew, market and sell and helps managers deal our activities with the with staff with potential drinking problems. Heineken® brand and  work with others to win  Over the next few years, we will expand all the battle against abuse.” our responsible consumption programming to increase coverage and action across both Alexis Nasard markets and brands. By 2015 all our brands Chief Commercial Officer will display a culturally relevant responsible consumption message. Along the way, we will encourage others to follow suit and 36 Korea alcohol abuse to the newly licensed drivers, and offered them the opportunity to sign a pledge that Responsible consumption they won’t drink and drive. Those who did received a small gift. Periodic and heavy alcohol consumption and peer The campaign’s kick off was widely covered by TV and pressure drinking are a fact in some parts of Korean newspapers, which printed pictures of people signing society. Particularly in December, when offices hold the pledge. Eventually, 2,025 people, mainly first-time their end-of-year parties, there are many cases of drivers, signed the pledge and an estimated 3.5 drunk driving. In an attempt to change that, Heineken million people watched it on TV or read about it Korea launched an attention-grabbing campaign in the newspaper. in Seoul. According to Marketing Manager Heri Kim, “It’s Consumers could apply online for a luxury limousine important to educate people about the dangers of service – complete with bodyguard – that would take alcohol abuse. It’s part of our culture and we want them and nine friends to and from a party of their to change that. It might take ten years, but it will own choosing. The idea particularly appealed to change.” Heineken Korea is now trying to get other young adults. alcohol companies to get involved in joint campaigns and is lobbying the government to do more about Some 221 people applied online for one of 24 drunk driving. limousine rides. While applying, they all had to sign a pledge not to drink and drive. The limousine service, which Heineken piloted in 2008, was widely covered by the media, which exposed even more people to the simple, yet vital message. In addition, Heineken worked with the Kangnam District police station, the capital’s biggest issuer of drivers’ licenses. During the month of December, Heineken handed out flyers about the dangers of Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 37 Brewing a Better Future | Responsible Consumption USA Heineken began sponsoring the App in March 2010 as part of its commitment to prevent drunk driving Taxi Magic: it’s cool to and to promote responsible alcohol use. To encourage downloads and usage, Heineken has closely integrated be responsible Taxi Magic into its branding and event promotions. In December, for example, Heineken put 600,000 How do you make Taxi Magic themed coasters into the market place. responsible choices easy An on-site promotion during a Chicago music event, and cool? In the USA, meanwhile, resulted in 600 new downloads and where people spend more 1,700 additional taxi rides. and more time online and on their phones, the Heineken is also engaging its stakeholders to promote answer just might be Taxi Taxi Magic. “We are working closely with our 600 plus MAKE IT A NIGHT OF GREAT CHOICES Magic. This mobile App distributors to encourage people to use the App. is perfect for tech-savvy One distributor has even offered to pay the cab beer consumers looking for a safe ride home. fare for its employees when they use the App.” An employee referral programme has further Suzanne McGovern, Corporate Responsibility and increased the number of users. Alcohol Policy Manager at Heineken USA, says the App allows people to quickly book a taxi anywhere, Heineken’s involvement has significantly boosted the anytime. “Taxi Magic is seamlessly integrated into App’s popularity. “Since our involvement downloads taxi dispatch systems, which let users know the cab have increased by 170,000 in nine months and number, driver name and time of arrival.” monthly rides have more than doubled to more than 98,000. It’s an important extra choice for consumers Consumers can use Taxi Magic from any mobile phone wanting to be responsible,” says Suzanne. or computer, or via SMS and the Taxi Magic website. The App, which is free, even enables mobile payments and keeps receipts, which makes it very appealing to get a taxi at the end of a great night out. 38 we will continue to invest in industry-wide Responsible consumption other brands programmes such as the Global Actions on In 2010, a further nine leading brands, in key Harmful Drinking in order to reduce abuse. markets, integrated responsible consumption messaging into their primary and/or secondary Enjoy Heineken® Responsibly packaging. . These are Cruzcampo®, Star®, For many decades, the Heineken Company Primus®, Zywiec®, Sagres®, Gulder®, Moretti®, and the Heineken® brand have been committed Zipfer®, and Foster’s®. to promoting responsible consumption. As the world’s most international beer, the Heineken® On premise activation brand plays a role in encouraging people to enjoy In the US, we delivered an alcohol server training our beer responsibly, as part of a positive lifestyle. programme to employees, in order to teach In 2010, we developed several initiatives to endorse them how to serve and sell alcohol responsibly. our responsible consumption programme Enjoy Employees learned how to identify levels Heineken® Responsibly (EHR): of intoxication, handle difficult situations and understand the unique challenges associated with • Design rules and guidelines to have the EHR alcohol. Additionally, we encouraged on-premise logo on all our primary and secondary Heineken outlets to offer training to servers. packaging and link to the EHR website. This has been applied to packagings in all our markets Rules on responsible commercial • We began updating the EHR website with the communication intention to integrate it with the Heineken.com Throughout 2010, approximately 900 employees brand website to ensure visitors to the site have in marketing and sales used an online learning tool greater opportunity to see it designed to help them understand and implement • All Heineken UEFA Champions League (UCL) Heineken’s rules on responsible commercial broadcast sponsorships around UCL matches communication. In 2011, we will trial a specifically had an EHR logo where legally allowed designed responsible communication workshop • 33 per cent of our boarding during all UCL for all of our businesses and agency partners games in season 2009–2010 carried the with a view to rolling this out in 2012. Enjoy Heineken® Responsibly message, except for France, Spain and Russia where this is not Cool@Work legally possible In 2010, we acquired the beer operations of FEMSA • We introduced EHR advertising boardings in Mexico and Brazil. Throughout the year we at Heineken Cup rugby matches supported our new colleagues in these markets • In those markets where alcohol advertising using Cool@Work. Both the Mexican and Brazilian is not allowed we broadcast Heineken match corporate responsibility teams have been briefed bumpers around UCL matches with only the on the programme and have created their own Enjoy Heineken® Responsibly message implementation plans. • We developed guidelines on how to embed EHR messaging and endorse responsible consumption in our Heineken sponsored music events. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 39 Brewing a Better Future Impact Heineken’s commitment is clear: we are investing time, money and the expertise of our people Partnerships for in what we call Partnerships for Progress. Our goal is to have a partnership focused on combating alcohol abuse in every market in which we have Progress a meaningful presence. We work together with other leaders in the industry to develop and implement programmes to reduce alcohol-related harm. We do this in close co-operation with the International Centre Alcohol abuse damages lives and undermines the very for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) in 17 countries and business we want to grow. Drink driving, binge drinking the Caribbean. and illegal alcohol, however, are complex social and We are also making sure that our stakeholders cultural problems. For this reason, there is a strong including governments and NGOs worldwide are need for alcohol producers, governments, healthcare aware of our commitments and programmes organisations, law enforcement agencies, parents and and that they are given the opportunity to express educators to work together. their honest views. This will allow Heineken to remain a legitimate contributor to the policy debate and to put efforts in solutions, something recognised by the WHO as useful in developing effective strategies to reduce alcohol related harm. Global Actions on Harmful Drinking Heineken is a member of Global Actions “Heineken’s goal is to have on Harmful Drinking, a consortium of major active and effective international beverage alcohol producers. partnerships aimed at Together, these organisations have made a collective commitment to address harmful reducing alcohol-related  drinking through a combination of global and harm in every market local actions, with an emphasis on low and in which we have a middle-income countries. For the 2010–2012 meaningful presence.” period the work focuses on three programmes: Sean O’Neill • Self-regulation Chief Corporate Relations Officer • Drink Driving • Non-commercial alcohol. 40 Global In Nigeria, a new advertising code came into effect that includes provisions for responsible marketing Partners for responsible communications about alcoholic beverages. The code was developed in 2009 by ICAP, local brewers consumption including Heineken and the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON). Heineken is one of the driving forces behind the In 2010, ICAP agreed with APCON on a programme for Global Actions on Harmful Drinking. This industry the 2011–2012 period that builds on the new code. platform tackles harmful drinking through “We are going to set up a compliance monitoring a combination of global and local actions in process, so all advertising will be examined for 17 countries and the Caribbean. The work is being responsible communication. We also intend to set implemented by the International Centre for up a number of training programmes,” says Brett. Alcohol Policies (ICAP). Drink driving, a leading contributor to road fatalities, According to ICAP Vice President Brett Bivans, is the third area of focus. In Russia, ICAP met with ICAP combines policy development and research industry sponsors and the Ministry of Interior, and with designing and implementing programmes in assessed that the Horeca environment would strongly partnership with local authorities. For the 2010–2012 support a drink driving programme. In Vietnam, ICAP period the work focuses on non-commercial alcohol, assessed the drink driving situation and organised self-regulation, and drink driving. a launch event in Hanoi with the National Traffic Safety Committee. Non-commercial alcohol refers to traditional drinks produced for home consumption or local trade, In Nigeria, ICAP reached an agreement with the unregistered and counterfeit products, and ‘surrogate’ Federal Road Safety Commission to work together alcohol. These evade taxation and formal quality against drink driving. ICAP also commissioned checks, and may pose a public health hazard. an assessment report that indicates which parts of Nigeria are best for setting up a two-year road The self-regulation work aims to ensure that alcohol safety programme. marketing is responsible and does not encourage excessive or irresponsible drinking, particularly Brett explains that this report allows us to make the among young adults. In 2010 in Rwanda, ICAP was best possible use of our resources. Local governments asked to review the draft Beer Code and met with will organise the programme and we will provide Heineken-owned Bralirwa and the Ministry of Health. seed funding for the planning and evaluation of the In Vietnam, guidelines for the Vietnam Beer Industry projects. Uniquely, this approach provides training on Responsible Commercial Communications were to establish a professional road safety culture and launched in May. enables that knowledge to be put into practice. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 41 Brewing a Better Future | Partnerships for Progress UK the Metropolitan Police, the healthcare profession and the Fire and Rescue Service. UK Management Team witness “It was a very valuable, at times challenging, but misuse at first hand certainly great learning experience. It busted some myths and created much higher awareness among Heineken UK’s Management Team, and commitment In July, the entire Heineken UK Management Team to integrating responsible consumption into the participated in an activity to understand more about way we do things,” says Stefan Orlowski, Managing alcohol misuse. Based on this, it decided to more Director, Heineken UK. quickly delist a higher strength cider and amend its three-year responsible consumption programme. As a direct result of the visit, Heineken UK brought forward a decision to delist Strongbow Black cider, The activity was organised by Business in the a higher strength cider with an increased risk of Community, based on The Prince’s Trust “Seeing irresponsible use. In addition, insights from the visit is Believing” programme. For 20 years, Seeing is were embedded into Heineken UK’s three-year plans Believing has engaged senior business leaders for the responsible consumption programmes of on responsible leadership. Each visit aims to show Brewing a Better Future. participants what actions they can take within their companies to improve their impact on society. In 2011, Heineken UK and Business in the Community are planning a Seeing is Believing visit entitled The team first visited Graham House, a hostel that Responsible Drinking and Vulnerable Customers. provides temporary shelter and food in a warm, safe Heineken UK will be encouraging major customers environment for people sleeping rough. Here they and industry peers to participate. met clients with alcohol dependencies. The team was also hosted by one of Heineken UK’s community partners, Addaction (see page 43), at their Brent project, which works with young people and adults with drug and alcohol dependency. Here, team members learnt more about the health and anti-social behavioural impacts of alcohol misuse from current and past clients, as well as 42 UK The case study on page 41 outlines this important international initiative. Helping ex-offenders European Forum on Alcohol and Health Heineken is a founding member of the European avoid alcohol abuse Forum on Alcohol and Health, in which European organisations debate, compare approaches and In the UK, Heineken has been building strategic community act to tackle alcohol-related harm. In 2010, we partnerships that pilot innovative ways to encourage responsible submitted two additional commitments to the alcohol consumption and reduce harm caused by alcohol misuse. forum. The first was our experience with the Know One such partnership is with Addaction, the UK’s largest drug and alcohol treatment charity. the Signs campaign we launched in partnership with authorities in the Dutch city of Noordwijk. In 2010, Heineken and Addaction launched a three-year project This actively engaged drinkers in dialogue relating to support people with alcohol issues who are leaving prison. to consumption patterns and behaviours via the “There was no dedicated support available for ex-offenders use of a card game. The second commitment was to address their problematic drinking, avoid relapse and maintain our work with Addaction in the UK. You can read their recovery,” says Cath Templeton, Corporate Responsibility about this in the case study on this page. Manager at Heineken UK. Beer Promoters The service enables up to 35 clients a month to do one-to-one Heineken is a founding member of the Beer Selling work with a specialist alcohol worker, who will provide release Industry Cambodia (BSIC) in Cambodia. The BSIC prevention, outreach and anger management. In addition, group work will allow clients to share experiences with and was established to improve the welfare and draw support from their peers. working conditions of beer promoters via an industry code of conduct for both promoters and Heineken is the first alcohol company to achieve CommunityMark, external parties such as their employers and bar the UK’s only national standard for excellence in community owners. Constant evaluation of the code is now in investment. “The contribution of Heineken shows that the industry place via a quarterly survey. In 2010, the latest of can be a valuable partner in tackling alcohol misuse,” says Cath. these revealed that the working conditions of beer promoters that belong to the BSIC (approximately Heineken has been working with Addaction since 2005 on a range 25 per cent of all promoters) have improved over of projects including a service supporting people over 50 years of the past two years, across almost all monitoring age with alcohol issues in West Glasgow. Participants are taught to indicators. The biggest improvements were in the use the Self Management and Recovery Training (SMART) model, which is a form of cognitive behaviour therapy. This three-year reduced incidence of reported sexual harassment project aims to help at least 240 people. and the percentage of beer promoters who admit to drinking with consumers while at work. Other projects have included funding research into the feasibility However, this percentage (53 per cent; it was of establishing a direct access information and advice service 73 per cent in 2009) remains too high and BSIC for young adults in Glasgow city centre and funding for a Young members will re-inforce the communication on Addaction Policy and Practice Officer. the rules with the promoters and their employers in order to support continued improvement. In the interests of full disclosure, this quarterly study is funded by the BSIC members and conducted by an independent third party agency – Indochina Research. The results are made publicly available on the BSIC website. We remain active in trying to persuade other international and local beer companies to join the group. We believe this is the most effective way to improve the working conditions for the 75 per cent of beer promoters in Cambodia that do not belong to the BSIC. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 43 Brewing a Better Future Enablers A first step is to ensure that our approach to sustainability is well organised. This means that all business disciplines are involved and that there are dedicated sustainability teams on a local and global level. We also believe that people at the top Brewing a Better Future is a comprehensive, should lead by example, so we have established integrated strategy for creating a more sustainable the principle of sustainability-based incentives company and future. Considering that Heineken across our top management. has more than 250 brands and 140 breweries in Communication and reporting are also crucial. 70 countries, our task is huge. That’s why we are We will continue to engage our stakeholders making sure that our culture and organisation in a frank dialogue on issues that affect us all. can support our ambitions. And throughout the year, we will tell a clear and balanced story about our work in sustainability. Currently, 21 of our key Operating Companies publish sustainability reports, but by 2015 we expect all our majority owned companies to publish their own reports. And we are guiding our suppliers on Brewing a Better Future. Our new Supplier Code, which is being rolled out in 2011, tells them what we expect in the areas of integrity, human rights and the “Brewing a Better Future environment. This is an exciting development: will only succeed if the  when our suppliers start to influence their preconditions for success  suppliers, we have a far greater chance of increasing the positive impact on society. are defined and in place.” Incentivising management Michael O’Hare When we launched Brewing a Better Future Chief Human Resources Officer we promised that in 2010 we would introduce incentives for all senior managers on sustainability targets. We have realised, however, that this is not easy for all functions. In 2010, 62 per cent of our senior management community had objectives on 44 Global Contribution and compliance: the new Supplier Code In 2010, Heineken made several substantial changes to its Supplier Code. The new code now reflects the ambitions and values of Green Brewer and Green Commerce in Brewing a Better Future and makes a demand of suppliers to contribute. The previous code already outlined clear expectations in the areas of integrity, business conduct, and human rights. The new code updates that part by requiring compliance with the International Labour Organisation standards. In addition, the new code includes sections on the environment, communication and compliance. For example, suppliers are now asked to minimise their own impact on the environment and to develop environmentally friendly technologies. Crucially, they also need to ensure that their own suppliers live by key elements of the code. This significantly increases the influence of Brewing a Better Future on communities worldwide. “The code shows suppliers that we continue to enforce integrity. It clearly states our principles and the commitments that we made to ourselves,” says Edwin Zuidema, Global Category Director Raw Materials. Some 450 of Heineken’s key strategic suppliers, who account for the majority of the Company’s purchase spend, confirmed compliance with the new code in 2010. Heineken expects to complete the roll out of the new Supplier Code among its total supplier base in 2011. Heineken has also listened to feedback from NGOs who said that the Company was not doing enough to enforce compliance. “Suppliers who are not compliant are expected to work with Heineken to make improvements. If that does not yield sufficient results, Heineken can terminate the contract with the supplier.” Heineken is working on a compliance monitoring procedure and a risk matrix that will help to identify suppliers, materials and countries at risk of non-compliance. Heineken is also selecting a self-assessment tool for low and medium risk suppliers, materials and countries. “Those suppliers can assess their own compliance, although we have the option of performing audits,” says Edwin. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 45 Brewing a Better Future | Enablers sustainability. We have reviewed the process for Governance objective setting to ensure we have full coverage The right level of governance is critical for any in 2011. business initiative. For something as wide ranging and integral to the future as sustainability, getting A plan and committee for each market governance right is a non-negotiable precondition As promised, each of the 50 consolidated for success. This is why we promised to have an operations that are in scope of Brewing a Better executive-level governance model in place at the Future developed a three-year sustainability plan launch of Brewing a Better Future in April 2010. that supports our sustainability agenda. Each plan defines deliverables, targets, budget and roles To deliver on this, we defined an integrated and responsibilities. In addition, each company governance framework for both the operating has established a sustainability committee that companies and Heineken Group. Sustainability is responsible for the development and the roll-out overall is governed by the Steering Committee of the local sustainability agenda. Each committee comprising five of the Company’s most senior has members from at least the Supply Chain, executives and the Manager Global Sustainable Commerce, Human Resources and Corporate Development. A programme team consisting of Relations functions, in order to ensure a multirepresentatives from Commerce, Supply Chain, disciplinary approach to the challenges. Human Resources, Corporate Relations and Control & Accounting reports to the Steering Local sustainability reports Committee. The programme team co-ordinates We made a commitment to publish 20 local the work of the 23 programmes that make up the sustainability reports in 2010. In addition to Brewing a Better Future approach. Each of these Heineken’s global Sustainability Report, 21 of programmes is led by a workstream leader from our key Operating Companies actually did so, a global function. focused on themes most relevant to the local market. We believe this investment increases our transparency and helps our stakeholders contribute more to our Brewing a Better Future journey. The reports can be downloaded from www.heinekeninternational.com. Supplier Code As we had committed, in 2010 we took a further step to encourage ethical and environmental principles in the value chain through the review and expansion of our Supplier Code. You can read about the new Code in the case study on the previous page. In the last quarter of 2010, we began to implement the new Supplier Code with local suppliers throughout Europe and Africa. The implementation programme in the Americas was delayed until 2011 due to the 2010 acquisition of the beer operations of FEMSA. 46 Millennium Development Goals The Millennium Development Goals are Achieve universal primary education eight aspirational human development goals As a beer company, it is more difficult for Heineken that all United Nations member states have to become directly involved in this goal. However, agreed to try to achieve by 2015. The goals through our volunteering programmes and (listed below) mark a major commitment through our partner networks (e.g. En Classe), to improve women’s and children’s health employees are encouraged to support primary and unite 192 countries in the fight against education in the communities where we operate. poverty, hunger and disease. In spirit and in practice, Heineken contributes Promote gender equality and to these goals. empower women We are committed to equal rights regardless of The Millennium Development Goals gender, race, physical ability, religion or ethnicity. 1. Eradicate extreme hunger and poverty During 2010, we have codified and formalised our 2. Achieve universal primary education approach in a new Employees’ & Human Rights 3. Promote gender equality and empower women Policy that will be introduced in 2011. You can 4. Reduce child mortality rate read more about this on page 29. 5. Improve maternal health 6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Reduce child mortality rate/Improve 7. Ensure environmental sustainability maternal health 8. Develop a global partnership for development. In the area of healthcare, on which three of the development goals focus, Heineken’s actions Eradicate extreme hunger and poverty are helping to achieve a greater level of provision Our local sourcing and sustainable supply chain of healthcare to those in poverty. The Heineken initiatives in Africa play a key role in empowering Africa Foundation (HAF) uses our EUR20 million communities and improving the income of endowment to fund healthcare initiatives across thousands of local farmers in Africa. Local sourcing the continent. In November 2010, for example, creates a local supply chain, generates jobs and HAF pledged support for three projects with increases wages, which in turn alleviates poverty the Nigerian Sickle Cell Foundation. These and hunger. We also support farmers in order to will provide genetic counselling to sufferers, enhance productivity. In 2010, Heineken continued specialist equipment to help assess the risk to expand its local sourcing projects in sub-Saharan of strokes in children and a fully equipped Africa, including a sorghum project in Nigeria and haemoglobin laboratory. a rice project in the Democratic Republic of Congo, maize in Rwanda, sorghum in Burundi and barley in In relation to maternal healthcare, the fifth South Africa. We now have projects covering eight development goal, a HAF grant, in conjunction with countries and involving ten thousands of farmers. Nigerian Breweries, has been used to construct Our work on a local sorghum supply chain in Sierra a new facility to treat women with vesicovaginal Leone (see case study on page 48) was recognised fistula. The condition, caused by damage to by the United Nations with the 2010 World Business internal tissue during childbirth or abortion, and Development Award at the Millennium can lead to women being abandoned by their Development Goals Summit hosted by the UN husbands and ostracised by their communities. in September 2010. See also our section in this The building, in Northern Nigeria, was officially report on Heineken Cares. opened in July 2010. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 47 Brewing a Better Future | Millennium Development Goals Sierra Leone HAF also contributed to the Well Woman Clinic in Freetown, Sierra Leone. This was opened in May 2010 with support from our local Sierra Leone Creating a local sorghum Brewery and The Melvine Edith Patricia Stuart Trust, a local charity. The clinic provides free supply chain in Sierra Leone screening to pregnant women, which enables the early detection of complications. Because barley doesn’t grow in tropical climates, the Sierra Leone Breweries Limited (SLBL) used to import the crop from Europe. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases This was expensive, generated additional carbon emissions, For the past ten years, Heineken has provided provided no incremental benefit in terms of employment or employees and their families with HIV/AIDS income for the local population and exposed the brewery to undesirable exchange rate fluctuations and logistical complications. prevention and care programmes that include free education, counselling, testing and treatment. In 2005, SLBL joined together with several partners to create a In 2010, we began assisting small and medium truly sustainable solution. The partners were the Common Fund enterprises (SMEs) in our supply chain to set up for Commodities, a European co-funding partner, the European their own HIV/AIDS programme, similar to our own; Cooperative for Rural Development, which provided agricultural where it concerns preventive activities, access to expertise, and Vancil Enterprises, a local implementation office. treatment is organised through the public sector. Now we reach for instance truck drivers, security “First, a Nigerian sorghum cultivar was optimised for Sierra guards and contract workers. Leonean conditions. Then, we showed farmers how to grow, harvest, package and transport sorghum in a profitable way. An innovative partnership between Guinness We also supported them with seeds, fertilizer and micro-credits,” explains Cor Honkoop, the brewer’s General Manager. Nigeria, Nigerian Breweries and Unilever Nigeria has advanced a model for supply chain SLBL made another crucial contribution that is at the heart of our engagement that could be deployed across innovative approach. “We guaranteed farmers we would buy a Africa. In Nigeria, together with Diageo and set amount of sorghum and pay a fixed price cash on delivery,” Unilever and support from the German says Cor. Volumes were low the first three years because farmers Gesellschaft für Technischen Zusammenarbeit had to gain trust in those promises. Once they saw the brewery (GTZ) and The Nigerian Business coalition on consistently kept its word, volumes went up from 20 tons in the HIV AIDS (NIBUCAA), our own HIV workplace first year to a projected 500 tons in 2011. programme has been expanded to nine SMEs (three from each partner). This allows us to reach The project is a resounding success: the supply chain is stable, an additional 14,000 employees in the supply chain effective and financially beneficial to farmers and the brewery. “The brewery gets a quality crop at a lower price and with lower of these companies, of which over 8,000 are in emissions. In turn, we provide a stable income for 1,600 farm companies working with Nigerian Breweries. In the families, which has helped them to improve their quality of life,” Democratic Republic of Congo, we are working says Cor. with GTZ to help 19 of our supply chain SMEs reach out to an additional 2,500 employees. The value chain will exist indefinitely and the brewery will take over the tasks of the other project partners over the next three In June 2010, three of Heineken’s Africa years. “This is what sustainability should be like: we have set up programmes were commended by the Global something that is valuable and structural. Similar projects are Business Coalition, an NGO fighting against being planned in Burundi and Rwanda,” says Cor. HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The first programme involves our investment in mosquito nets impregnated with insecticides to reduce malaria in Rwanda. This initiative was funded by HAF. The second programme related to the previously mentioned extension of the HIV/AIDS services to the supply chain in Nigeria. Finally, we were commended for our HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria workplace programmes. More examples of the important work done by HAF can be found in the Heineken Cares section of this report. 48 Ensure environmental sustainability Develop a global partnership Through our Green Brewer and Green Commerce for development initiatives we are contributing to the seventh The last Millennium Development Goal refers goal: ensure environmental sustainability. This goal to global partnerships. These encourage public focuses on environmental protection, the provision and private sector parties to share knowledge of basic sanitation and access to water. Our and technology in order to help developing breweries continue to set ambitious energy and countries progress. water reduction targets and the concept of the carbon neutral brewery continues to be developed. Locally, our operating companies partner Our policy is to discharge wastewater after it has with NGOs, charities, industry initiatives and been treated. We have a programme in place to government projects. In the Democratic Republic equip the breweries in Africa with a wastewater of Congo, for example, we partner with GTZ, which purification installation when none is yet present. specialises in technical cooperation for sustainable The brewery waste is minimised by reuse of development. HAF partners with several brewery by-products. We are also improving organisations in sub-Saharan Africa. our water stewardship following the signing of the CEO UN Water Mandate in 2009. On page 20 On a global level, Heineken is on the private sector you can read about two water footprint studies constituency of the Coordinating Board for The we conducted in Slovakia and Egypt. Global Fund against AIDS, TB and Malaria. We are also a member of the Stop TB Partnership, a World Health Organisation initiative. Our Global Health Affairs department also has a partnership with Pharm Access, a Dutch not-for-profit organisation supporting quality basic healthcare including HIV/ AIDS treatment and care in Africa. Through our Industry Partnership with the World Economic Forum we have an interest in the New Vision for Agriculture, the Future Water Needs project and the Working towards Wellness group. See also our section in this report on ‘Healthcare’ pages 32 – 35. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 49 Appendices Appendix 1: Reporting basis Scope Targets The safety and environmental data presented The Brewing a Better Future programme has in this report relate to the years 2008, 2009 and set long term targets for energy, carbon dioxide 2010 for the production units of the Heineken emission, water and accident frequency. The base Operating Companies. The term ‘production unit’ year or year of comparison will be 2008 (2009 for means breweries, maltings, cider plants, soft drink safety) and targets will be derived proportionally plants and combinations of these, at which malt, with the years to 2020. beer, cider, soft drinks and water are produced. Packaging material plants are also in the scope Safety reporting of production units covering the manufacture of The safety reporting system is used by the bottles and cans. The data cover the production production units to record accidents at their units of fully consolidated companies, which are locations and report on the consequences for included in the financial statements. The figures both their own staff and contractor personnel. neither include distribution departments and ‘Own staff’ includes both permanent, temporary head offices nor joint ventures. staff and agency personnel. Overtime is included in the production workforce calculation. Heineken The volume figures presented in the environmental Human Resources has defined seven parameters, section of this report, based on production, which must as a minimum be reported at local may differ slightly from the figures presented in level, to serve as the basis for measuring the Heineken’s financial report, which are based on results achieved by our breweries, maltings and sales. This difference is accounted for by exports soft drink plants. These results are expressed and a number of recently acquired production in two performance indicators. units that have not yet submitted data. Newly acquired production units are required to start Environmental reporting reporting directly after the first calendar year The purpose of environmental reporting is to after the date of acquisition. An exception is the clarify the environmental effects of producing acquired beer operation of FEMSA, which have malt, beer, cider, soft drinks and water at our been included in the year they were acquired. production locations as well as the packaging material plants. These effects include depletion The data presented in the sections on Green of resources, emissions and nuisance. To measure Commerce, Engaging Employees, Heineken Cares, the results achieved in these areas, Heineken Responsible Consumption and Partnerships for Supply Chain has defined seven key parameters Progress are derived from databases that are for our breweries, maltings, cider plants and soft available on a Global level. drink plants. Performance is measured for four parameters in terms of production, expressed in Reporting systems hectolitres of beer, cider and soft drinks or tonnes The maltings, breweries and soft drink plants of malt, to facilitate comparison of the results. gather the data in accordance with guidelines and definitions formulated by Heineken Supply Chain The greenhouse effect covers CO2 and refrigerant based on the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines emissions. The ozone layer depletion covers (G3 2006). Their reports are submitted annually refrigerant losses (e.g. HCFCs), acidification to this Group, where they are checked for covers NOx, SOx, and NH3 emissions, nutrification completeness, likeliness of data and accuracy. covers COD, nitrogen and phosphorus in A training course is also provided at the request wastewater after treatment, where discharged of the production units to instruct their employees into surface water. Waste management deals in the accurate acquisition, verification and filing of with the destination of our by-products and data. Visits have been paid to selected production hazardous waste. units in conjunction with the Global Audit to check the quality of the information they provide by comparing it with invoices, measurements, calculations, etc. 50 Safety parameters and indicators Parameters Fatal accidents Fatalities, own staff and contractor personnel Accidents resulting in Permanent disabilities, own staff permanent disability Accidents resulting in absence Accidents, own staff and from work contractor personnel Days absent Absence, own staff in calendar days Workforce Expressed in Full Time Equivalents (FTE) Number of complaints External complaints related to nuisance Number of external safety Incidents related to safety and related incidents environment which had an impact outside the production unit Performance Accident frequency Own staff, number of accidents resulting in absence from work per 100 FTE indicators Accident severity Own staff, days absence from work per 100 FTE Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 51 Appendices | Appendix 1: Reporting basis Environmental parameters and indicators Parameters Thermal energy consumption Consumption of thermal energy in MJ (the corresponding CO2 emission is derived from this figure using the WBCSD Protocol) Electricity consumption Consumption of electrical energy in kWh Water consumption Water consumption in m3 Solid waste disposal Non-recycled waste in kg such as hazardous waste, wastewater treatment sludge and industrial waste COD load of effluent The Chemical Oxygen Demand of the treated or untreated wastewater leaving the production unit and discharged to surface water in kg Wastewater treated The number of units discharging wastewater untreated in the environment (status of the Wastewater Treatment Plant programme) Specific thermal energy consumption Thermal energy consumption per unit produced in MJ/hl beer, cider, soft drinks and water Performance Specific electricity consumption Electricity consumption per unit produced in kWh/hl beer, cider, indicators soft drinks and water Specific CO2 emission Fossil CO2 emission (direct and indirect) resp. derived from the thermal energy and electricity consumption plus refrigerant losses expressed in CO2 equivalents per unit produced in kg/hl beer, cider, soft drinks and water Specific water consumption Water consumption per unit produced in hl/hl beer, cider, soft drinks and water 52 Qualified reliability of safety and in which it can occur in both a liquid and gaseous environmental data state. Refrigerant losses are determined on the The reliability of the data is subject to certain basis of the quantities used to replenish systems. qualifications, despite the fact that the safety and At a number of production units, waste is removed environmental experts at our production units from the site in containers of a given volume, and have reported to the best of their knowledge, inaccuracies can arise in translating volume to in good faith and in accordance with agreed weight. In the absence of local legislation in some procedures and Heineken Supply Chain has countries outside Europe, the definition of validated their figures. Heineken is continuing hazardous waste is not always clear. In some cases, to work on formulating and applying uniform hazardous waste is safely recycled and is no definitions and instructions for reporting purposes, longer designated as hazardous. The scope and in order to improve the accuracy and comparability workforce size related to the accident frequency of the data. Standard calculation protocols for can give rise to inaccuracies in some locations due atmospheric emissions in breweries, soft drink to the misinterpretation of overtime and number plants, cider plants and maltings are in place, for of temporary personnel. example, to minimise the error in these figures. Standard calculation tools are also present for Comparability refrigerant losses and waste discharge. Each parameter to be reported has accurately been defined in the Safety Standards & Procedures Definitions and Environmental Standards & Procedures. The Differences in the interpretation of definitions comparability of the data depends on the extent have occurred in some cases. On the basis of our to which estimates have been used in determining internal validation findings, we do not expect these the performance indicators. Where estimates have differences to be material at the aggregated level. been used in interpreting trends, it is stated in the text of this report. The comparison of data has Completeness been carried out over a three-year period so as Reporting was not forthcoming or incomplete to limit the influence of incidental fluctuations. in some cases. Often newly acquired production Since no material changes have been made to units need to improve their reporting system, definitions, calculations or estimating procedures, especially on complaint and external accident there is comparability from year to year, except registration, accident severity and COD when indicated in the text of this report. measurement. In order to provide a realistic representation of Heineken’s total environmental impact, the missing data has been estimated in accordance with our internal procedures for incomplete reports. Our Operating Companies have estimated some data. Accuracy The accuracy of the data depends on the method of measurement, the calculation procedure and whether estimates have been used. For some parameters, the sampling method and frequency, as for Chemical Oxygen Demand, can also affect the accuracy. The quantity of refrigerant is difficult to establish because it is used in dynamic systems Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 53 Appendices Appendix 2: Overview of environmental performance Absolute figures Heineken Group Total All Units Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Total Beverage production Mhl 143.6 135.8 173.6 Beer production Mhl 127.9 119.6 154.7 Cider production Mhl 3.8 3.6 4.2 Soft drink production Mhl 12.0 12.6 10.9 Water production Mhl – – 3.7 Malt production ktons 600 586 721 Thermal energy PJ 14.4 13.6 19.7 Electricity GWh 1,340 1,310 1,818 CO2 emissions (direct) ktons 904 848 1,201 CO2 emissions (indirect) ktons – – 790 NOx emissions* tons 1,610 1,480 2,208 SOx emissions* tons 1,980 2,040 3,100 NH3 in use tons 782 862 1,298 NH3 losses tons 71 76 130 HC based refrigerants in use tons 33 36 40 HC based refrigerants lost tons 14 15 12 kg R11 1,739 1,138 514 equivalents ktons CO2 34.7 35.2 27.4 equivalents Halons in use tons 0.24 0.27 0.29 Water Mm3 71.6 68.2 83.0 Wastewater Mm3 51.7 48.7 58.3 Organic load before treatment ktons COD 141 129 153 Effluent organic load** ktons COD 15.9 17.3 18.3 Effluent total nitrogen** tons N 736 597 786 Effluent total phosphorous** tons P 483 393 461 Effluent suspended solids** ktons d.m. 4.39 4.89 5.44 Total co-products, packaging & industrial waste ktons 2,580 2,340 2,898 Non-recycled industrial waste ktons 127 125 132 Total wastewater sludge ktons d.m. 10.60 12.14 13.36 Non-recycled wastewater sludge ktons d.m. 1.42 3.28 3.28 Total hazardous waste ktons 1.70 1.81 2.35 Non-recycled hazardous waste ktons 0.69 0.81 0.65 Environmental and safety complaints number 65 75 30 Environmental and safety accidents with off-site effects number – 64 67 * please note the values were incorrectly stated in 2009, they have been corrected in this report **discharged to surface water, please note the values were incorrectly stated in 2009, they have been corrected in this report 54 Breweries, Cider, Soft drink and Water plants Malting Sites Packaging Sites Other misc*** 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2010 2010 143.6 135.8 173.6 – – – – – 127.9 119.6 154.7 – – – – – 3.8 3.6 4.2 – – – – – 12.0 12.6 10.9 – – – – – – – 3.7 – – – – – – – – 600 586 721 – – 12.9 12.2 15.2 1 1 1.6 2.7 0.1 1,370 1,270 1,500 70 80 92 199 27 832 778 943 72 71 94 156 7 – – 644 – – 45 86 15 1,540 1,510 1,840 70 70 83 261 24 1,960 1,930 2,530 20 40 569 0 1 – – 1,242 – – 16 0 40 – – 129 – – 1 0 1 – – 33 – – 6 1 0 – – 10 – – 2 0 0 – – 487 – – 16 11 0 – – 24.0 – – 3.0 0.4 0.0 – – 0.27 – – 0.02 0.00 0.00 69.0 65.7 78.2 2.5 2.4 2.9 1.1 0.8 – – 56.1 – – 1.1 0.9 0.2 138 126 147 2.74 2.98 4 1 0 – – 17.4 – – 0.8 0.1 0.0 – – 750 – – 36 – – – – 445 – – 16 – – – – 5.32 – – 0.11 – – – – 2,800 – – 38 60 0 – – 130 – – 1 1 0 – – 12.86 – – 0.43 0.07 0.00 – – 3.20 – – 0.00 0.07 0.00 – – 1.86 – – 0.03 0.43 0.02 – – 0.36 – – 0.02 0.26 0.01 – – 30 – – 0 0 0 – – 67 – – 0 0 0 ***includes the sand plant and ice factory Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 55 Appendices Appendix 3: Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table This table gives an overview of all GRI parameters and a reference to where the relevant information can be found. GRI content index Indicator Description Reference 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about • SR 2010, Foreword the relevance of sustainability to the organisations and its strategy • AR 2010, Chief Executive’s statement • www.heinekeninternational.com/sustainability 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities • SR 2010, Foreword • AR 2010, Risk Management and Control Systems • www.heinekeninternational.com/sustainability 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation • AR 2010, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, note 1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services • AR 2010, Countries and Brands 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, • AR 2010, Notes to the Consolidated Financial operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Statements, note 36 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters • AR 2010, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, note 1 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of • AR 2010, Notes to the Consolidated Financial countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant Statements, note 36 to the sustainability issues covered in the report • AR 2010, Countries and Brands • SR 2010, Appendix 1, Reporting Basis 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form • AR 2010, Shareholder Information 2.7 Markets served • AR 2010, Regional Review 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation • AR 2010, Regional Review 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, • AR 2010, Regional Review structure, or ownership including • AR 2010, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, note 6 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period • SR 2010, Foreword 56 GRI content index Indicator Description Reference 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided • AR 2010, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, note 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report • SR 2 April 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, bi-annual, etc.) • Both our Annual and our Sustainability Report are published on an annual basis 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents • SR 2010, About this Report • www.heinekeninternational.com/contacts 3.5 Process for defining report content • SR 2010, About this Report • SR 2010, Appendix 1, Reporting Basis 3.6 Boundary of the report • SR 2010, Appendix 4, List of Operating Companies 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report • SR 2010, Appendix 4, List of Operating Companies 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, • SR 2010, Appendix 1, Reporting Basis outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including • SR 2010, Appendix 1, Reporting Basis assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided • SR 2010, Appendix 1, Reporting Basis in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, • SR 2010, Foreword boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report • SR 2010, About this Report • SR 2010, Appendix 1, Reporting Basis 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report • SR 2010, Appendix 3, Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance • SR 2010, About this Report for the report • SR 2010, Appendix 5, Independent Assurance Report from KPMG 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under • AR 2010, Executive Committee the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting • AR 2010, Corporate Governance Statement strategy or organisational oversight • SR 2010, Brewing a Better Future • www.heinekeninternational.com/ corporategovernance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an • Heineken has a two tier system where the Chairman executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organisation’s of the Executive board is also the Chief Executive management and the reasons for this arrangement) Officer. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is non-executive and independent 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number • Not applicable. Heineken has a two tier system of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 57 Appendices | Appendix 3: Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table GRI content index Indicator Description Reference 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations • Article 13 sub 9 of the Articles of Association or direction to the highest governance body • Whistleblower Procedure • Employee representation through European Works Council 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance • SR 2010, Enablers body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), • AR 2010, Remuneration Report and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts • Regulations for the Supervisory Board, article 2.3 sub h. of interest are avoided • www.heinekeninternational.com/regulations_ supervisoryboard.aspx • www.heinekeninternational.com/policies.aspx (integrity and whistleblowing) 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members • Article 3 regulations for the Supervisory Board of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy • www.heinekeninternational.com/regulations_ on economic, environmental, and social topics supervisoryboard.aspx 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, • www.heinekeninternational.com/sustainability_ and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social introduction.aspx performance and the status of their implementation • www.heinekeninternational.com/values.aspx • www.heinekeninternational.com/Business_ ethics.aspx 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s • SR 2010, Brewing a Better Future identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, • Regulations for the Supervisory Board of particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Heineken N.V., article 2.3 • www.heinekeninternational.com/regulations_ supervisoryboard.aspx 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle • AR 2010, Risk Management and Control Systems is addressed by the organisation • www.heinekeninternational.com/ mainriskandresponses_riskmanagement.aspx 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, • Sustainable Data Sheet principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or • Sustainability Data Sheet national/international advocacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation • SR 2010, About this Report 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage • SR 2010, About this Report 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement • SR 2010, About this Report by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder • SR 2010, About this Report engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 58 GRI content index Indicator Description Reference Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, • AR 2010 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisations • Sustainability Data Sheet activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefit plan obligations • AR 2010, Risk Management and Control Systems EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government • Information not available Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum • Sustainability Data Sheet wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers • SR 2010, Heineken Cares at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired • Sustainability Data Sheet from the local community at locations of significant operation Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and service • SR 2010, Heineken Cares (Corporate provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind Social Investment) of pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, • SR 2010, Heineken Cares (Economic including the extent of impacts Impact Assessments) Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume • Information not available EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials • Sustainability Data Sheet Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview of environmental performance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview of environmental performance EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements • SR 2010, Green Brewer (Energy and water efficient production) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products • SR 2010, Green Brewer (Energy and water and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of efficient production) these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved • SR 2010, Green Brewer (Energy and water efficient production) Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 59 Appendices | Appendix 3: Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table GRI content index Indicator Description Reference Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source • SR 2010, Green Brewer (Using less water in production) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water • Information not available EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused • Information not available Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent • Information not available to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services • Information not available on biodiversity in protected areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored • Information not available EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts • Information not available on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species • Information not available with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview of environmental performance EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview of environmental performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved • SR 2010, Green Brewer (Greenhouse gasses in production) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview of environmental performance EN20 NO, SO and other significant air emissions by type and weight • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview of environmental performance EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination • The largest part of the wastewater is treated either in own plant else in a municipal plant. The treated and untreated wastewater are discharged into the surface water (see SR 2010, Appendix 2 for total water discharge) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method • SR 2010, Appendix 2, Overview environmental performance EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills • SR 2010, Green Brewer (Environmental Compliance) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed • Information not available hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported wasted shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity of water bodies and related • Information not available habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff 60 GRI content index Indicator Description Reference Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, • SR 2010, Green Brewer and extent of impact mitigation • SR 2010, Green Commerce EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are • Information not available reclaimed by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary • SR 2010, Green Brewer sanction for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and • SR 2010, Green Commerce other goods and materials used for the organisations operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type • Information not available Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region • AR 2010, Key figures LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender • Sustainability Data Sheet and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary • Sustainability Data Sheet or part-time employees, by major operations Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements • Sustainability Data Sheet LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes, including whether • Sustainability Data Sheet it is specified in collective agreements Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management • Sustainability Data Sheet worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, • SR 2010, Engaging Employees and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs • SR 2010, Heineken Cares in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions • Sustainability Data Sheet Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 61 Appendices | Appendix 3: Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table GRI content index Indicator Description Reference Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category • Sustainability Data Sheet LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the • Information not available continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career • Sustainability Data Sheet development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per • Sustainability Data Sheet category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category • Sustainability Data Sheet Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that • Information not available include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone • Information not available screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning • Sustainability Data Sheet aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations including the percentage employees trained Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken • Information not available Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association • Sustainability Data Sheet and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, • Sustainability Data Sheet and measure to contribute to the elimination of child labour Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced • Sustainability Data Sheet or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour 62 GRI content index Indicator Description Reference Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisations policies • Sustainability Data Sheet or procedures concerning aspects of humans rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous • Information not available people and actions taken Community SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess • SR 2010, Heineken Cares (Economic Impact and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, Assessments) operating and exiting Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related • Sustainability Data Sheet to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisations anti-corruption policies • Sustainability Data Sheet and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption • Information not available Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development • We are an active member of industry associations, and lobbying like the Brewers of Europe. Through these associations we are in discussion with governments on the role of beer in society, and on regulations. See also Sustainability Data Sheet 4.13 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contribution to political parties, • Information not available politicians, and related institutions by country Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, • Information not available and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary • Information not available sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 63 Appendices | Appendix 3: Global Reporting Initiative Reference Table GRI content index Indicator Description Reference Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and • Information not available services are assessed for improvement and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary • Information not available codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, • Information not available and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary • Information not available codes concerning products and service information and labeling by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including result of surveys • Sustainable Data Sheet measuring customer satisfaction Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related • Sustainability Data Sheet to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary • Information not available codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship of type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer • Information not available privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and • Information not available regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 64 Appendix 4: List of Operating Companies and Business Units List of Operating Companies and Business Units in scope for this report Region Country OpCo/Business Unit Africa Middle East Algeria Tango Burundi Brarudi Democratic Republic of Congo Bralima Egypt Al Ahram Beverages Company La Réunion Brasseries de Bourbon Lebanon Almaza Nigeria Consolidated Breweries Nigeria Nigerian Breweries Rwanda Bralirwa Sierra Leone Sierra Leone Brewery Tunisia Nouvelle de Brasserie ‘Sonobra’ The Americas Bahamas Commonwealth Brewery Brazil Heineken Brasil Martinique Brasserie Lorraine Mexico Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma Panama Cervecerias Barú-Panama St. Lucia Windward & Leeward Brewery Surinam Surinaamse Brouwerij USA Heineken USA Export Other export markets Asia Pacific Hong Kong Heineken Hong Kong Japan Heineken Japan Korea Heineken Korea Singapore Heineken Far East Taiwan Heineken Taiwan Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 65 Appendices | Appendix 4: List of Operating Companies and Business Units List of Operating Companies and Business Units in scope for this report Region Country OpCo/Business Unit Central and Eastern Europe Austria Brau Union International Austria Brau Union Österreich Austria Pago International Belarus Heineken Breweries Croatia Karlovačka Pivovara Czech Republic Heineken Ceská Republika Greece Athenian Brewery Hungary Heineken Hungaria Poland Grupa Zywiec Romania Heineken Romania Russia Heineken Breweries Serbia United Serbian Breweries Slovakia Heineken Slovensko Western Europe Belgium Alken-Maes Finland Hartwall France Heineken France Ireland Heineken Ireland Italy Heineken Italia Netherlands Heineken Nederland (including Vrumona) Portugal Sociedade Central de Cervejas e Bebidas Spain Heineken España Switzerland Fayrouz International Switzerland Heineken Switzerland UK Heineken UK Global Various Head Office, Regional Offices including export 66 Appendix 5: Independent Assurance Report from KPMG To the readers of the Heineken N.V. What did we do to reach our conclusions? Sustainability Report 2010 We undertook the following procedures: We were engaged by the Executive Board of Heineken N.V. (‘Heineken’) to provide limited • performed a media analysis and internet search assurance on the Heineken Sustainability Report on environmental, safety and social issues 2010 (further referred to as ‘The Report’). The relating to Heineken, to obtain information Report, including the identification of material on relevant sustainability issues in the issues, is the responsibility of the company’s reporting period; management. Our responsibility is to issue • reviewed the follow up of the stakeholder an assurance report on The Report. dialogue in The Report; • reviewed the systems and processes for What was included in the scope of our information management, internal control and assurance engagement? processing of the qualitative and quantitative Our engagement was designed to provide the information in The Report, at corporate level; readers of The Report with limited assurance • reviewed the systems used for generating, on whether the information in The Report is in validating and aggregating the environmental all material respects fairly stated in accordance and safety data at corporate level; with the reporting criteria described below. • visited two sites in Brazil to assess the quality of the local data management systems and the Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of reliability of the reported data; assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility • reviewed the results of 12 local data of information and are less extensive than those management audits performed by Heineken for a reasonable level of assurance. Global Audit; • reviewed Heineken Global Audit activities to Which reporting criteria did Heineken use? determine the plausibility of the information Heineken applies its own sustainability in The Report; performance reporting criteria, derived from • collected and reviewed internal and external the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the documentation to determine whether the Global Reporting Initiative (G3), as detailed in the qualitative information is supported by ‘Reporting basis’ on pages 50 – 53. It is important sufficient evidence; to view the performance data in the context of this • assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions explanatory information. We believe that these underlying the forward-looking statements set criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our out in The Report; assurance engagement. • evaluated whether the information presented in The Report is in line with our overall Which assurance standard did we use? knowledge of, and experience with, We conducted our engagement in accordance with sustainability at Heineken. Standard 3410N ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’ of the Royal Netherlands During the assurance process we discussed Institute of Registeraccountants. This Standard changes to the various drafts of The Report with requires, amongst others, that the assurance Heineken, and reviewed the final version of The team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and Report to ensure that it reflected our findings. professional competencies needed to understand and review the information in The Report, and that they comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements. Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 67 Appendices | Appendix 5: Independent Assurance Report from KPMG What are our conclusions? Based on the procedures, as described above, the information in The Report does not, in all material respects appear to be unfairly presented in accordance with the criteria described in ‘Reporting basis’ on pages 50 – 53. What else did we observe? Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we would like to draw readers’ attention to the following: In 2010, Heineken has launched the new strategy, including a governance structure to deliver on commitments. In light of this new ambition the internal reporting systems and related control framework can be further enhanced. To enable comprehensive internal and external performance reporting, we recommend that Heineken further attunes the reporting systems and internal controls to the set ambition level, by – for example – further integrating its reporting systems and broadening the scope of the internal review procedures. Amsterdam, 31 March 2011 KPMG Sustainability W.J. Bartels RA 68 www.enjoyheinekenresponsibly.com
