GRI / UNGCP Index In addition to all GRI reporting elements this online index also includes details relevant to communicating our continued support and progress towards the UN Global Compact Principles. If there is no available information for individual indicators, a short explanation of the reasons is provided. GC Strategy and analysis Principles 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Letter from the Covered organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the Chairman organisation and its strategy. Statement should present the overall vision and strategy for the Letter from the short, medium and long term, particularly with regard to CEO managing key challenges associated with economic, environmental and social performance. Statement should include: Continued support for the  Strategic priorities and key topics for the short/medium UNGC Principles term with regard to sustainability, including respect for internationally agreed standards and how they relate to long-term organisational strategy and success.  Broader trends affecting the organisation and influencing sustainability priorities.  Key events, achievements and failures during the reporting period.  Views on performance with respect to targets.  Outlook on the organisations main challenges and targets for the next year and goals for the coming 3-5 years; and  Other items pertaining to the organisation’s strategic approach. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Grow more from Covered Organisation should provide two concise narrative sections on less key impacts, risks and opportunities. Section 1 should focus on organisations key impacts on Human Rights sustainability and effects on stakeholders, including rights as defined by national laws and relevant internationally agreed standards. This should take into account the range of reasonable Strengthening expectations and interests of the organisation’s stakeholders. rural Should include: communities  Description of significant impacts the organisation has Stewardship on sustainability and associated challenges and opportunities. Includes effect on stakeholders’ rights as Health, Safety & defined by national laws and the expectations in Environment internationally-agreed standards and norms.  Explanation of the approach to prioritizing these Our people challenges and opportunities.  Key conclusions about progress in addressing these Managing CR topics and related performance in the reporting period. Including an assessment of reasons for underperformance or over performance; and What Syngenta  Description of the main processes in place to address thinks about performance and/or relevant changes. Section 2 should focus on impact of sustainability trends, risks and opportunities on long term prospects and financial performance of the organisation. Should concentrate specifically on information relevant to financial stakeholders or that could become so in the future. Should include:  A description of the most important risks and opportunities for the organisation arising from sustainability trends.  Prioritisation on key sustainability topics as risks and opportunities according to their relevance for long-term organisational strategy, competitive position, qualitative and quantitative financial value drivers; Tables summarising:  Targets, performance against targets, and lessonslearned for the current reporting period; and  Targets for the next reporting period and mid-term objectives and goals related to the key risks and opportunities.  Concise description of governance mechanisms in place to specifically manage these risks and opportunities, and identification of other related risks and opportunities. Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organisation. Articles of Covered Incorporation 2.2 Primary brands, products and or services. Products & Covered Innovation 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation including main divisions, Corporate Covered operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Governance Report 2010, p. 2 Managing CR Global Presence This is Syngenta 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Articles of Covered Incorporation Key Facts 2.5 Number of countries where organisation operates, and names of Our people Covered countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Global Presence 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Articles of Covered Incorporation Key Facts 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served Business and Covered and types of customers/beneficiaries). markets 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation including: Our people Covered  Number of employees People  Net sales  Total capitalisation broken down in terms or debt and Key Facts equity; and  Quantity of products or services provided Annual Review 2010 Financial Report 2010 Products & Innovation 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Our offer Covered structure or ownership, including: Financial Report  Location of, or changes in operations, including facility 2010, p. 6-7 operations, closings, and expansions; and  Changes in the share capital structure and other capital Corporate formation, maintenance, and alteration operations. Governance Report 2010, p. 2 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. External Covered recognition People Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Annual Review Covered 2010/CR Summary Assurance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Publications Covered 3.3 Reporting cycle Publications Covered 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Contact us Covered Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Focus areas Covered  Determining materiality. Stakeholder  Prioritising topics within the report; and engagement  Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. Annual Review Covered 2010/CR Summary 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Annual Review Covered report. 2010/CR Summary 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Annual Review Covered facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 2010/CR significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or Summary between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Annual Review Covered including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 2010/CR applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information Summary in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Annual Review Covered provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re2010/CR statement. Summary 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Annual Review Covered boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 2010/CR Summary GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard disclosures in the GRI / UNGCP Covered report. Index Identify the page number or web links where the following can be found: Strategy and analysis Organisational profile Report parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Disclosure of Management approach per category Core performance indicators Any GRI additional indicators that were included; and Any GRI Sector Supplement indicators included in the report GRI Index Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Assurance Covered assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees Articles of Covered under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, Incorporation such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. Corporate Governance Report 2010 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Corporate Covered an executive officer (and if so, their function within the Governance organisation’s management and the reasons for this Report 2010 arrangement). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the Corporate Covered number of members of the highest governance body that are Governance independent and/or non-executive members. Report 2010 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide Contact us Covered recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Include reference to processes regarding: Engagement  Use of shareholder resolutions or other mechanisms for Corporate enabling minority shareholders to express opinions to Governance the highest governance body; and Report 2010  Informing and consulting employees about the working relationships with formal representation bodies such as Managing CR ‘work councils’ and representation of employees in the highest governance body. Identify topics related to economic, environmental and social performance raised through these mechanisms during the reporting period. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Corporate Covered governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Governance departure arrangements) and the organisation’s performance Report 2010 (including social & environmental performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Articles of Covered conflicts of interest are avoided. Incorporation Code of Conduct 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Corporate Covered members of the highest governance body for guiding the Governance organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental and social Report 2010 topics. Articles of Incorporation 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of CR Policy & Covered 1-10 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and Commitments social performance, and the status of their implementation. Explain the degree to which these: Code of Conduct  Are applied across the organisation in different regions and departments/units; and  Relate to internationally agreed standards. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Corporate Covered 1-10 organisation’s identification and management of economic, Governance environmental and social performance, including relevant risks Report 2010 and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and Managing CR principles. Include frequency with which the highest governance body assesses sustainability performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Corporate Partially 1-10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, Governance covered environmental, and social performance. Report 2010 Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Safety in Covered 7 principle is addressed by the organisation. research and Address the organisations approach to risk management in development operational planning or the development and introduction of new products. Global Compact Member What Syngenta Thinks About 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Code of Conduct Covered 1-10 charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. Human rights Include date of adoption, countries/operations where applied and the range of stakeholders involved in the development. Differentiate between non-binding, voluntary initiatives and those with which the organisation has an obligation to comply. 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy Stakeholder Covered organisations in which the organisation: engagement  Has positions in governance bodies  Participates in projects or committees  Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or  Views membership as strategic Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Stakeholder Covered E.g. communities, civil society, customers, shareholders and engagement providers op capital, suppliers and employees, other workers and Our People > their trade unions. Engagement Managing our supply chain Secure storage 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Stakeholder Partially to engage. engagement covered Includes process for defining stakeholder groups and for determining the groups with which to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Stakeholder Covered engagement by type and by stakeholder group. engagement E.g. surveys, focus groups, community panels, corporate Our People > advisory panels, written communication, management/union Engagement structures and other vehicles. Say whether any engagement was Annual Review undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 2010/CR summary 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through What Syngenta Covered stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has thinks about responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its Focus areas reporting. Performance: Economic Disclosure on Management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the Management Approach items outlined below with reference to the following economic aspects; economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impacts Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Core Direct economic value generated and distributed, Annual Review 2010/CR Covered including revenues, operating costs, employee Summary compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to Financial Report 2010, p. capital providers and governments. 46-47, note 2 EC2 Core Financial implications and other risks and Grow more from less Covered 7, 8, 9 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. A global challenge EC3 Core Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit Financial Report 2010, p. Covered plan obligations. 65-69, note 22 EC4 Core Significant financial assistance received F20 Form, p. 2 Partially from government. covered Financial Report 2010, p. 46-47, note 2 Corporate Governance Report 2010, p. 3 Aspect: Market presence EC5 Additional Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Not 1, 6 compared to local minimum wage at significant reported locations of operation. EC6 Core Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Not locally based suppliers at significant locations of reported operation. EC7 Core Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Diversity Covered 6 management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts EC8 Core Development and impact of infrastructure Economic value shared Covered investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or proSyngenta Foundation bono engagement. Safe use EC9 Additional Understanding and describing significant indirect Better solutions for the Covered economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. farmer of the future Strengthening rural economies Syngenta Foundation Safe use Agricultural production, p. 18 Performance: Environmental Disclosure on Management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the following environmental aspects: materials, energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, effluents and waste, products and services, compliance, transport and overall Aspect: Materials EN1 Core Materials used by weight or volume. Input material volumes Not 7, 8, are tracked on local material 9 levels; Due to the complexity of the different local reporting standards and the variety of input materials used, a global summary is not possible at the current stage but we are constantly improving the reporting processes. EN2 Core Percentage of materials used that are recycled Input material volumes Not 7, 8, input materials. are tracked on local material 9 levels; Due to the complexity of the different local reporting standards and the variety of input materials used, a global summary is not possible at the current stage but we are constantly improving the reporting processes. Aspect: Energy EN3 Core Direct energy consumption by primary energy Improving energy Covered 8, 9 source. efficiency EN4 Core Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Improving energy Partially 8, 9 efficiency covered EN5 Additional Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Improving energy Covered 8, 9 improvements. efficiency EN6 Additional Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Improving energy Covered 7, 8, energy based products and services, and efficiency 9 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Additional Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Improving energy Covered 7, 8, and reductions achieved. efficiency 9 Climate change & carbon footprint Aspect: Water EN8 Core Total water withdrawal by source. Water Covered 8 EN9 Additional Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Our water intense Not 8 of water. production sites (mainly material located in Switzerland) are obligated to cover water usage by water permits signed by public authorities. EN10 Additional Percentage and total water volume of water Water Covered 8, 9 recycled and reused. Waste Water Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Core Location and size of land owned, leased, All chemical production & Not 8 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and packaging and material areas of high biodiversity outside protected areas. formulations sites, as well as field trial sites undergo biodiversity risk assessments prior to construction/opening. EN12 Core Description of significant impacts of activities, Conserving biodiversity Covered 8 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Additional Habitats protected or restored. Plight of the honey bee Covered 8 Conserving biodiversity EN14 Additional Strategies, current actions and future plans for Resource efficient Covered 8 managing impacts on biodiversity. programs Conserving biodiversity EN15 Additional Strategies, current actions and future plans for Not 8 managing impacts on biodiversity. reported Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Core Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas Covered 8 emissions by weight. emissions Climate change & carbon footprint EN17 Core Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas Covered 8 by weight. emissions Other emissions to air EN18 Additional Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas Covered 7, 8, and reductions achieved. emissions 9 Climate change & carbon footprint EN19 Core Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Greenhouse gas Covered 8 weight. emissions Other emissions to air EN20 Core NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Other emissions to air Covered 8 type and weight. EN21 Core Total water discharged by quality and destination. Waste Water Covered 8 EN22 Core Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste Covered 8 method. EN23 Core Total number and volume of significant spills. Environmental Covered 8 Compliance EN24 Additional Weight of transported, imported, exported or Not 8 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms reported of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Additional Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity Our water intense Not value of water bodies and related habitats production sites (mainly material significantly affected but the reporting located in Switzerland) organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. are obligated to cover water usage by water permits signed by public authorities. Aspect: Products and services EN26 Core Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of The high stakes for water Covered 7, 8, products and services, and extent of impact 9 mitigation. Resource efficient programs Increasing resource efficiency EN27 Core Percentage of products sold and their packaging Stewardship Partially 8, 9 materials that are reclaimed by category. covered Aspect: Compliance EN28 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total Financial Report 2010, p. Covered 8 number of non-monetary sanctions for non31-47, p. 73-76, note 2, compliance with environmental laws and note 25 regulations. Aspect: Transport EN29 Additional Significant environmental impacts of transporting Climate change & carbon Covered 8 products and other goods and materials used for footprint the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Greenhouse gas emissions Aspect: Overall EN30 Additional Total environmental protection expenditures and Financial Report 2010, p. Partly 7, 8, investments by type. 31-47, p. 73-76, note 2, covered 9 note 25 Performance: Labour Practices and Decent work Disclosure on management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the following labour aspects; employment, labour/management relations, occupational health and safety, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity. The ILO Tripartite Declaration Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises should be primary reference points Aspect: Employment LA1 Core Total workforce by employment type, employment People retention Covered contract and region. LA2 Core Total number and rate of employee turnover by People retention Partially 6 age group, gender and region. covered LA3 Additional Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Not 6 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, reported by major operations. Aspect: Labour/management relations LA4 Core Percentage of employees covered by collective Data privacy regulations Not 1, 3 bargaining agreements. in some countries material prevents the disclosure of this number. LA5 Core Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Information in this regard Not 3 changes, including whether it is specified in is internally reported collective agreements. communicated in the global labor policy but not publicly available. Aspect: Occupational health and safety LA6 Additional Percentage of total workforce represented in HSE policy & standards Covered 1 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Core Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Health & safety Covered 1 absenteeism, and number of work related performance fatalities by region. LA8 Core Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Health & safety Covered 1 risk-control programmes in place to assist performance workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Additional Health and safety topics covered in formal HSE policy & standards Covered 1, 3 agreements with trade unions. Code of Conduct Aspect: Training and education LA10 Core Average hours of training per year per employee Employee development Partly 1 by employee category. covered LA11 Additional Programmes for skills management and lifelong Learning and Covered 1 learning that support the continued employability development of employees and assist them in managing their careers. Syngenta Awards Employee development LA12 Additional Percentage of employees receiving regular Employee development Covered performance and career development reviews. Learning and development Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Core Composition of governance bodies and Corporate Governance Partially 1, 6 breakdown of employees per category according covered to gender, age group, minority group membership Diversity and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Core Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Code of Conduct Covered 1, 6 employee category. The code of conduct clearly stipulates that Syngenta is an equal opportunity company. Performance: Human rights Disclosure on management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the following human rights; investment and procurement practices, non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, abolition of child labour, prevention of forced and compulsory labour, complaints and grievance practices, security practices and indigenous rights. The ILO Tripartite Declaration Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises should be primary reference points Aspect: Investment and procurement activities HR1 Core Percentage and total number of significant Supply chain Partially 1, 2, investment agreements that include human rights covered 3, 4, clauses or that have undergone human rights 5, 6 Supplier assessments screening. HR2 Core Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Supplier assessments Partially 1, 2, that have undergone screening on human rights covered 3, 4, and actions taken. 5, 6 Human rights HR3 Additional Total hours of employee training on policies and Corporate conduct Partially 1, 2, procedures concerning aspects of human rights covered 3, 4, that are relevant to operations, including the Stewardship 5, 6 percentage of employees that are trained. Employee development Aspect: Nondiscrimination HR4 Core Total number of incidents of discrimination and Corporate conduct Partially 1, 2, 6 actions taken. covered Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective bargaining HR5 Core Operations identified in which the right to exercise Supplier assessments Covered 1, 2, 3 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child Labour HR6 Core Operations identified as having a significant risk Supplier assessments Covered 1, 2, 5 for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. Aspect: Forces and compulsory labour HR7 Core Operations identified as having significant risk for Supplier assessments Covered 1, 2, 4 incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. Aspect: Security practices HR8 Additional Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not 1, 2 organisation’s policies or procedures concerning reported aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous rights HR9 Additional Total number of incidents of violations involving Not 1, 2 rights of indigenous people and actions taken. reported Performance: Society Disclosure on management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the following society aspects; community, corruption, public policy, anticompetitive behaviour and compliance Aspect: Community SO1 Core Nature, scope and effectiveness of any Economic Value Shared Covered programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on Strengthening rural communities, including entering, operating and economies exiting. Aspect: Corruption SO2 Core Percentage and total number of business units Code of Conduct Partially 10 analysed for risks related to corruption. Our Code of Conduct covered principle 1-4 clearly communicates our commitment to uphold the law and fight corruption in all our dealings. SO3 Core Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Code of Conduct Partially 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures. covered SO4 Core Actions taken in response to incidents of Compliance Helpline Partially 10 corruption. covered Aspect: Public policy SO5 Core Public policy positions and participation in public Industry engagement Covered 1-10 policy development and lobbying. Multi-stakeholder engagement Conserving biodiversity SO6 Additional Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Open secrets Covered 10 political parties, politicians and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Additional Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive If there are risks from Covered behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and litigation and claims, their outcomes. these are published in the Financial Report, p.73, note 25. Aspect: Compliance SO8 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total Compliance Covered number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. If there are risks from litigation and claims, these are published in the Financial Report, p.73, note 25. Performance: Product responsibility Disclosure on management approach Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the following society aspects; customer health and safety, product and service labelling, marketing communications, customer privacy and compliance Aspect: Customer Health and safety PR1 Core Lifecycle stages in which health and safety Safety in research and Covered 1, 7 impacts of products and services are assessed for development improvement, and percentage of significant Safe use products and services categories subject to such Secure storage procedures. Supply chain Code of Conduct PR2 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with If there are risks from Covered 1 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health litigation and claims, and safety impacts of products and service during these are published in the their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Financial Report, p.73, note 25. Aspect: Product and service labelling PR3 Core Type of product and service information required Safe use Partially 8 by procedures, and percentage of significant covered products and service subject to such information Code of Conduct requirements. (Principle 6) PR4 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Code of Conduct Covered 8 regulations and voluntary codes concerning (Principle 6) product and service information and labelling, by If there are risks from type of outcomes. litigation and claims, these are published in the Financial Report, p.73, note 25. PR5 Additional Practices related to customer satisfaction, Not including results of surveys measuring customer reported satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing communications PR6 Core Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and Code of Conduct Covered voluntary codes concerning marketing (Principle 6) communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR7 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with If there are risks from Covered regulations and voluntary codes of concerning litigation and claims, marketing communications, including advertising, these are published in the promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Financial Report, p.73, note 25. Aspect: Customer privacy PR8 Additional Total number of substantiated complaints If there are risks from Covered 1 regarding breaches of customer privacy and litigation and claims, losses of customer data. these are published in the Financial Report, p.73, note 25. Aspect: Compliance PR9 Core Monetary value of significant fines for nonIf there are risks from Covered compliance with laws and regulations concerning litigation and claims, the provision and use of products and services. these are published in the Financial Report, p.73, note 25.
