ONE STEP FOR TOMORROW HYUNDAI STEEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 About This Report ONE STEP FOR TOMORROW HYUNDAI STEEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Scan the QR code with your smartphone and you’ll be taken directly to our mobile website, where you can download a PDF version of our sustainability report. Chairman’s Message _ 02 Changes to this report Since the publication of our first sustainability report in 2008, Hyundai Steel has Sustainable Steel _ 04 achieved remarkable growth, year after year, as a fiscally sound company with a balHyundai Steel’s Story _ 06 anced triple bottom line. We are always looking for ways to become more efficient in managing and communicating our performance in terms of sustainability. For our fourth CEO Interview _ 12 sustainability report, we were determined to take our sense of corporate sustainability to Building Our Own Future _ 14 new highs. In order to improve our reporting of sustainability issues for the past year, we Standing at the Center of the World _ 20 have added five new features. • Themes Constructing a New World _ 28 In the past, our reports were divided into four sections: Sustainability Management, EconCreating Economic Value _ 30 omy, Environment, and Society. In order to make the report more reader-friendly and give it Reinforcing Global Competitiveness _ 33 greater emotional depth, we renamed the sections Sustainable Steel, Constructing a New World, Creating a Greener World and Instilling Hope. Creating a Greener World _ 42 • Q&A Section In Harmony with Nature _ 46 To more effectively address questions from stakeholders, we have included a Q&A section Addressing Climate Change _ 49 which puts the company’s activities and performance into perspective. • Steel in Life Instilling Hope _ 56 Although steel is a commonly used resource, stakeholders may find it difficult to understand Increasing Employee Competencies _ 58 the mechanisms and processes involved in its creation. As a result, we have earmarked a Growing with Our Stakeholders _ 65 separate section called Steel in Life (Pages 8-11) to show show the extent to which steel has been incorporated into people’s daily lives. In Harmony with Communities _ 72 • Communication with Stakeholders Appendix For this year’s report, we strengthened our stakeholder survey mechanism to more closely Third Party Assurance Report _ 80 reflect the opinions of our stakeholders. In the beginning of each section, we have earmarked Stakeholder Communication pages which include the results of surveys containing stakeGRI Guidelines _ 82 holder feedback on our performance in each area. • A More Reader-friendly Report In response to stakeholder opinion regarding the reporting structure of our reports, we have improved the reader-friendliness of this publication by using more illustrations and an improved design layout. | Reporting Standards | GRI G3 Guidelines, BEST Guidelines, UNGC principles | Report Structure | Sustainability Management, Economy, Environment, Society | Reporting Period & Cycle | January to December 2010, annual publication (Information on activities and achievements of significance to stakeholders or having an impact on our business is included up to the end of May 2010.) | Reporting Scope | Headquarters, Incheon Works, Pohang Works, Dangjin Works | Third Party Assurance | Independent assurance carried out by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) | Contact Information | Tel: +82.2.3464.6187/Fax: +82.2.3464.6210 CSR Team, Strategy & Planning Office, Hyundai Steel 231, Yangjae-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 137-938, Korea As we continue to discover the sustainable value of steel, we will never stop caring about the sustainable growth of humanity. Hyundai Steel takes pride in growing along with its HYUNDAI STEEL SUPPORTS THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT. stakeholders, while striving for a better future for HUMAN RIGHTS humanity. Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainable Constructing Creating Instilling Steel a New World a Greener World Hope Steel has brought about innovations in culture and safety around the world. An objective assessment of the sustainability of a company begins with monitoring Aiming for a greener low-carbon economy has become the norm in the global Companies have a responsibility to the societies in which they operate. Its convenience and sustainable utility have also allowed people to live better lives. to ensure that it remains faithful to its innate values. community, and nations around the world have risen to this challenge. When profits are shared with stakeholders, corporate value can grow even more. The sustainable Over the past half century, Hyundai Steel has contributed to the nation’s economic growth. Based on the strength of its diversified product line-up and advanced technologies, In line with this new green economy, Hyundai Steel is always seeking new future of a company relies on its stakeholders. As we greet a new era of advanced technology, steel has, once again, drawn attention due to Hyundai Steel is competing with the world’s leading steelmakers. opportunities to reduce greenhouse gases, while also building upon our carbon Thus, Hyundai Steel’s employees, stakeholders and communities constitute our underlying assets. Publisher : Hyundai Steel its sustainability in terms of the environment and the future of society. Our latest success is our newly completed integrated steel mill that has boosted the credit schemes and renewable energy businesses. When every stakeholder makes a concerted effort under a shared goal, powerful synergies can be Publishing Team : CSR Team, Strategy & Planning Office, Hyundai Steel At Hyundai Steel, sustainability enables us to reinforce our global competencies and range and size of the company’s business portfolio. Protecting the environment remains at the top of our list of priorities in all of our generated. Adress : 231, Yangjae-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 137-938, Korea realize mutual growth with our stakeholders. As we move forward, we will focus on high value-added steel products to ensure business activities, which is part of the reason we have recently completed work on Through win-win partnerships with stakeholders, career development programs for employees, mutual growth with our global stakeholders, while enhancing Hyundai Steel’s our eco-friendly steel mills. and various engagement programs with communities, Hyundai Steel is committed to building a Tel : +82.2.3464.6187 name as a leading global steelmaker. With state-of-the-art environmental technologies and facilities, Hyundai Steel will better society for everyone. Assurance Provider : Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) continue to lead the way in Korea’s low-carbon green growth initiatives. PROCESS | ACTIVITY | IMPACT RAW MATERIALS Hyundai Steel uses steel scrap, a recycled eco-friendly resource, to fuel its electric arc furnaces, and iron ore and coal in its blast furnaces to produce new steel products. (Unit: 10,000 tons) Classification Amount Major Imports Iron ore 796 Australia, Brazil RECYCLED RESOURCES Coal 375 Australia, Canada Steel Scrap 926 Domestic 530 imported 396 Japan, U.S.A. ※ as of the end of 2010 PRODUCTION Hyundai Steel operates 15 electric arc furnaces and two blast furnaces at our steelworks in Incheon, Pohang, and Dangjin, Korea. (Unit: 10,000 tons) Plant Steelmaking Rolling Remarks Incheon 452 440 Seven electric arc furnaces Pohang 321 321 Five electric arc furnaces Dangjin 744 756 Three electric arc furnaces and two blast furnaces Total 1,517 1,517 C R E AT I N G ※ as of the end of 2010 A CLEANER ENVIRONMENT PRODUCTS Hyundai Steel manufactures durable, high-quality products that are used in the automobiles, construction and shipbuilding industries. DEVELOPING Product Production (Unit: 10,000 tons) Sales E C O F R I E N D LY Long steel 672 646 PRODUCTS HRC/Heavy plates 460 443 Stainless Steel/Heavy machinery 64 116 Total 1,196 1,205 ※ as of the end of 2010 APPLICATION PROVIDING CUSTOMIZED PRODUCTS Hyundai Steel manufactures durable, high-quality products that are used in the automotive, construction and shipbuilding industries. (KRW 100 million) Product Usage Sales Long steel Construction , railways, shipbuilding 50,403 HRC Industrial use, Heavy plates 39,782 interior & exterior materials Stainless Steel Forged steel Shipbuilding and industrial use 6,819 Heavy industries Purchased miscellaneous 4,978 Total 101,982 ※ as of the end of 2010 RECYCLING After serving their purpose in a wide variety of industrial applications, our products are collected and processed as recycled steel scrap. We reuse 94.3% of the byproducts from our steelmaking processes, while Incheon Works reprocesses the effluence from its wastewater plants for reuse. Classification Unit Achievements Byproduct volume 1,000 tons 3,741 Byproduct recycling % 94.3 Recycled water 1,000 tons 3,807 ※ as of the end of 2010 MINIMIZING O U R E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T Hyundai Steel is walking towards bringing about a more sustainable future for everyone. Success is just one of the goals we pursue. Our goal remains more than simply being competitive. A sustainable future lies in increasing the well-being of society, the company, and the nation. A sustainable future also means being a reliable corporate citizen. That is how we earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders as a sustainable business. Leading the global economy with cutting-edge products and advanced technologies, we will harness the potential of steel as a sustainable resource. We will continue to grow as a leader in the global steel industry, while creating value for our stakeholders. HYUNDAI STEEL 02. 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 CHAIRMAN’S In partnership with our stakeholders, we will MESSAGE continue to grow as a sustainable company. The Hyundai Motor Group has set a new mid-term goal for the upcoming 10 years, Even in such trying circumstances, Hyundai Steel performed well, successfully “Vision 2020: Together for a stabilizing and operating two new blast furnaces which increased our annual probetter future.” As we continue to grow, we are improving our duction capacity by eight million tons within one year. Such a notable achievement sustainability management and over such a short period of time was unprecedented in the history of the global steel increasing stakeholder value industry. by adopting and developing the At the same time, Hyundai Steel continued to reinforce its competitiveness through concept of triple bottom line further development of its human resources, improvements in workplace safety, reporting. strengthened win-win partnerships with business partners, and upgrades to the quality control system for customer satisfaction. Since its pledge to uphold sustainability management and the UN Global Compact in 2008, we have worked hard to create a balance between our economic and social values and expectations as a responsible corporate citizen. In 2010, Hyundai Steel remained faithful to our social responsibilities. For instance, we took an active role in addressing climate change in collaboration with major global steelmakers. Under Hyundai Steel’s new vision of “Leading the new era of steel” we have identified five core values that will enable us to achieve this goal: Challenge (unwavering passion and ingenious thinking), People (respect for talent), Customers (a customer-driven corporate culture), Collaboration (mutual communication and cooperation), and Globality (a global corporate citizen). Under Hyundai Motor Group’s new vision, “Vision 2020: Together for a better future,” Hyundai Steel will take further steps forward to become a globally competiDistinguished Stakeholders, tive steelmaker, while adhering to the highest standards in environmental stewardship. At this time, I would like to ask for your continued encouragement and support I am pleased to report on our activities and achievements in sustainability for Hyundai Steel as we continue our sustainable growth well into the future. management over the past year in our fourth sustainability report. These reports have become a significant channel for continued and close communication with our stakeholders. Thank you. In 2010, the business world faced numerous challenges due to such adversity as the continuing economic recession in the U.S. and a growing financial crisis in EuChairman rope. Uncertainties abounded in the global economy, creating unfavorable condiHyundai Motor Group tions in business environments, which directly affected the global steel industry. Mong-koo Chung SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Sustainable Steel Steel has brought about innovations in culture and safety around the world. Its convenience and sustainable utility have also allowed people to live better lives. Over the past half century, Hyundai Steel has contributed to the nation’s economic growth. As we greet a new era of advanced technology, steel has, once again, drawn attention due to its sustainability in terms of the environment and the future of society. At Hyundai Steel, sustainability enables us to reinforce our global competencies and realize mutual growth with our stakeholders. 04 -1. 05 Stakeholder Communication Sustainability Management Highlights April 2011 < Communication Channels by Stakeholder > Redefining Our Management Philosophy and Core Values (Pages 16-17) Hyundai Steel believes that trust-based communication with stakeholders is essential to its sustainable growth. We define our stakeholders – shareholders, We have redefined our management philosophy, emphasizing the five investors, customers, suppliers, employees, and communities – according to core values of the Hyundai Motor Group. With this, we intend to establish their impact on our business activities. For each of these stakeholder groups, a corporate culture that meets the highest global standards. we maintain dedicated communication channels to reflect their opinions and In our steelmaking operations, Hyundai Steel adheres to the highest stanfeedback in our management activities. dards in environmental regulations and recycling, while offering customers the best products and services in the industry. In reinforcing our global Shareholders & Investors Investment Planning System, NDR & Conferences competencies, we will strive to realize the Group’s “Vision 2020: Together Customer service portal, for a better future.” Customers customer satisfaction surveys, meetings Integrated procurement system, steel scrap procurement Partners system, seminars & training in technologies | Hyundai Motor Group Vision | SMART Board, GWP, Together for a better future Employees conferences with employee representatives Green Guardians, Home Repairs for Hope, Communities Industrial-Academic Collaboration, Social Contribution activities | Hyundai Steel Vision | Leading the new era of steel | Core Values | < 2011 Stakeholder Surveys > Hyundai Steel surveyed a total of 1,124 stakeholders from March 2-11, 2011, and has reflected that feedback in this sustainability report. < 2011 Stakeholder Survey Results > Hyundai Steel maintains transparent corporate governance. September 2010 Employees 77.6 Defining the Seven Ideals of Sustainability Management (Page 18) Investors 70.8 Hyundai Steel has defined Seven Ideals to give direction to its mediumand Customers 67.5 longterm SR management strategies. Partners 73.5 Communities 65.0 | The Seven Ideals | A company that grows alongside Hyundai Steel upholds fair competition. stakeholders An eco-friendly value chain Employees 73.3 A leader in addressing Investors 72.9 climate change A reliable Customers 77.5 partner Partners 72.3 A company Communities 70.0 A transparent people want to work for company A trustworthy company HYUNDAI STEEL 06. 07 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Company Overview #01 Hyundai Steel’s Story Name Establishment Business type Hyundai Steel June 10, 1953 (Korea’s first steelmaker, under the name of Korea Heavy Industry Corporation) Steel manufacturing Established in 1953, Hyundai Steel was Korea’s first steel manufacturer. Through a half-century of Products Reinforcing bars, H-beams and other long steel, hot-rolled coils, heavy plates and stainless steel and other flat steel, forged steel and heavy machinery changes and challenges, we have built a success story that has become legendary in the industry. CEO Vice Chairman Seung-ha Park, President Yu-cheol Woo As we prepare for a new century of even greater success, we will pursue goals for the mutual benefit of the company and our stakeholders, while successfully leading the steelmaking industry Sales KRW 10,198.2 billion (as of 2010) and contributing to a more prosperous future. We will strive to create a better tomorrow for all Sales breakdown Domestic 73%, Exports 27% (as of 2010) stakeholders by achieving sustainable growth. End-use industries Construction, shipbuilding, automobiles ● Domestic Work Sites • Incheon: H-beams, reinforcing bars, stainless • Pohang: H-beams, reinforcing bars, heavy machinery, • Dangjin: reinforcing bars, hot-rolled coils, heavy plates steel, steel casting products, ingots rails, rolls ● Overseas Branch Offices Frankfurt Beijing LA Tokyo Dubai Hanoi Shanghai Hong Kong New Delhi Singapore Brisbane HYUNDAI STEEL 08. 09 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Steel in Life R a i l w a y r a i l s Making a Better World R A I L W A Y R A I L S Hyundai steel was the first Korean company to manufacture Railway Rail using its own technology in 1979. Since then, we have been the only rail manufacturer in Korea and have continued to develop technologies in step with new advances in high-speed rail and weight factors. One result of such efforts has been our production and supply of UIC60 rails for the KTX, Korea’s high-speed railway, since 1998. In 2008, we became the second company to develop rails for magnetic levitation trains. Sailing into the Deep Blue Ocean S T E E L P L A T E Steel Plate consist of sheets of thick flat steel of more than 6mm in thickness. Such plates are mainly used on outside decks, as double-flooring, and bulkheads for hulls. These heavy plates must be strong enough to withstand changes in loads, and rolling and pitching in rough seas. Recently, shipbuilding standards have changed in terms of how S t e e l P l a t e plates are joined, from rivets to welding, as market demand for larger size vessels has grown. As such, regulations and standards governing the production of heavy plates have become more stringent, requiring certification by the Korean Register of Shipping. As a result, Hyundai Steel obtained certifications for various classifications of steel plates from 10 major international registers of shipping in March and April of 2010 in preparation for the manufacture of heavy plates. The Strongest of the Strong W I D E F L A N G E B E A M S & R E I N F O R C I N G B A R S Hyundai Steel’s H-beams, H-bearing piles, and checkered H-beams have earned an excellent reputation with our W i d e F l a n g e B e a m s & R e i n f o r c i n g B a r s domestic and global customers due to their high quality. Hyundai Steel produces several products using advanced technologies under strict quality control, including slim beam-HR asymmetric H-beams, the first Korean company and second in the world to do so, ultra-thick large H-beams (458X417, 900X300 series), of which we are the only supplier in Korea, high-strength H-beams, paint-free weather-proof H-beams, and hot-rolled H-beams for building structures. Due to the lower standard deviation for each of these type of beams, all are highly competitive in the global market. In addition, we produce reinforced bars, from D10mm to D57mm, which are suitable for a variety of applications, including reinforced concrete structures, nuclear power plant construction, and construction projects. Developed in 2001, our super bar has a yield strength that is 25% stronger than standard bars, which allows for better use of space, is stronger in the construction of high-rise buildings, and reduces construction costs. HYUNDAI STEEL 10. 11 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Shining like Diamonds C O L D R O L L E D S T A I N L E S S S T E E L S H E E T S C o l d R o l l e d S t a i n l e s s S t e e l S h e e t s In general, steel products consist of iron (Fe) that has 0.02-2% carbon, also known as carbon steel. Steelmakers then add alloys to create special types of steel, which are named according to their different usages. The most well-known and popular type of steel is rust-free stainless steel. Created by adding chrome (Cr) and nickel th (Ni) to normal carbon steel, stainless steel was first invented in the early 20 century. Stainless steel was a breakthrough for the steel industry, as it significantly improved the diversity and choice of products depending on usage, resulting in a significant growth in sales. Most notably, durable and rust-free stainless steel tableware brought about a revolution in the kitchen, replacing expensive silverware or heavy brassware that rusted easily. Due to its heatresistant properties, stainless steel is also excellent for use in the exhaust systems of automobiles. Hyundai Steel has manufactured stainless steel products since 1990. An Eco-Friendly Material A T M O S P H E R I C C O R R O S I O N R E S I S T A N T S T E E L P L A T E A t m o s p h e r i c C o r r o s i o n R e s i s t a n t S t e e l P l a t e Under normal conditions, iron oxidizes or corrodes easily when it comes in contact with dioxides (O2) or water (H2O). The red oxidized substance (Fe2O3) that results is called rust. The conventional means of preventing corrosion was to paint the surface of the steel, but this was only a temporary stop-gap measure. Painting buildings and construction materials was costly and the use of paint polluted the environment. Atmospheric Corrosion Resistant Steel Plate, however, are resistant to corrosion even without painting the surface. When used in buildings, it decreases maintenance costs and reduces the impact on the environment. The resistance to corrosion is reinforced by adding such alloys as copper (Cu), chrome (Cr) and nickel (Ni). These layers of alloy help to stabilize rust from corrosion, insulating the surface of the steel from the effects of water and oxygen. A Solid Bridge H I G H P E R F O R M A N C E S T E E L F O R B R I D G E S Heavy plates are universally used in the construction of steel bridges. In close proximity to rivers or the sea, moisH i g h P e r f o r m a n c e S t e e l f o r B r i d g e s ture and salt make steel bridges vulnerable to rust. As a result, bridge materials must be able to withstand extreme weather conditions such as heat between 20-30°C and cold winter temperatures of below -30°C. Our HSB products, with significantly improved strength, tenacity, and weldability, include HSB500 and HSB600 steel plates, each boasting tensile strengths of 500MPa and 600MPa. Hyundai Steel initiated the manufacturing of HSB500 and HSB600 in April 2010 at its heavy plate mills. In less than a year, we made our mark in the HSB market, gaining a 30% market share to emerge as a new and important player in the HSB market. HYUNDAI STEEL 12. 13 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 CEO Q. How does Hyundai Steel contribute to the competitiveness of its customers? We initiated the Hyundai Steel R&D Center in 2007 in order to develop our own technologies in integrated steel mills as well as nextINTERVIEW generation source technologies. At the R&D center, a total of 400 competent researchers from affiliates of the Hyundai Motor Group collaborate on developing products tailored to customer needs. We strongly believe that we can contribute to our customers’ competiUnder the new vision of tiveness by developing technologies for high value-added products and the world’s best steel products. To that end, we work in close collaboration with our client companies to improve product quality and develop new products suited to their needs. “Leading the new era of steel,” Hyundai Steel will build a Q. Your management philosophy states a respect for humanity. What steps did you take to implement such a principle in 2010? better world in cooperation As one of the pillars of our management philosophy, respect for humanity implies our dedication to sustainable growth based on mutuwith its stakeholders by al trust and understanding between our company and our employees. We aim to create a great workplace (GWP) through various family events and activities. In 2010, we established a SMART Board to facilitate open communication with employees. At the same time, offering advanced eco-friendly safety is our top priority in our workplaces, and to this end we installed safety booths at each of our steelworks to provide safety trainproducts and services and the ing for employees. Furthermore, Hyundai Steel encourages suppliers to pledge their support of the company’s Win-Win Cooperation recycling of resources. Agreement and Mutual Growth Agreement to strengthen relationships based on trust. We also assist our suppliers in offering various training programs on information security and safety in the workplace, helping them to reinforce the competencies of their employees. Q. Hyundai Steel has three steelworks. With community engagement playing an important role in business management, what are your community engagement programs? Hyundai Steel was selected as one of the 100 best performers in job creation for 2010 by the Ministry of Labor. We are well aware that a company can only thrive when it is supported by local communities. As such, we remain vigilant to the needs of our communities and offer support in various forms. As part of an initiative for industrial-academic cooperation, Hyundai Steel offers scholarships and donates educational materials and equipment to schools in the vicinity of our workplaces. We also recruit graduates from these communities, contributing to job creation at a local level. Committed to economic growth, locally and nationally, we take part in campaigns to revive local traditional markets and have signed agreements of support to this end. Furthermore, we sponsor a number of artistic and cultural activities in local communities. We also remain involved in the Home Repair for Hope project and operate the Green Guardians, a project that is offered to one thousand elementary school students every year to help them understand the dangers of climate change and global warming and encourage them to conserve energy. Our employees also volunteer to keep local communities clean. Going forward, we will continue to develop close relationships with local communities through on-going communication. Q. Hyundai Steel aspires to be the world’s leading eco-friendly steelmaker. What plans do you have in place to realize this vision? With Hyundai Steel’s completion of an integrated steel mill, the Hyundai Motor Group has also put in place a resource recycling value chain, the first time this has been done in the steelmaking industry. At the beginning of the value chain, Hyundai Steel and Hyundai Hysco manufacture steel sheets for automobiles using natural resources such as iron ore. The steel sheets then move along the value chain to car makers such as Hyundai Motor and Kia Motor. At the end of the product lifecycle, steel scrap is returned to Hyundai Steel, which we recycle and then reuse in the production of long steel. This is then used in the construction of buildings. This unprecedented ecofriendly value chain for the recycling of resources was a key idea of management at the Hyundai Motor Group. Dedicated to creating a Q. What do you think of the company’s performance in terms of sustainability management in 2010? cleaner and better environment, Hyundai Steel will continue to strive for a more sustainable society. I believe that Hyundai Steel remained steadfast to its commitment to sustainability management despite an unfaQ. Today, companies are obliged to consider future generations in their business decisions. Hyundai Steel achieved vorable business environment in the aftermath of the global economic crisis. In 2010, we stayed connected to our remarkable results in 2010, but what are your plans for improvements in the future? five core values and pushed forward with sustainability management practices. Under the vision of “Leading the new era of steel,” Hyundai Steel is seeking to become an eco-friendly, resource recycling steelmaker, Q. Could you share with us Hyundai Steel’s most remarkable economic achievement in 2010? while striving to provide the best quality products and services in the industry. That is how we are working to build a better world for our stakeholders. In addressing the worldwide environmental issue of global warming, Hyundai Steel aims to play a part in reducing Hyundai Steel successfully commenced operations of two blast furnaces in 2010. As the new driver of growth greenhouse gas emissions. As such, we have already implemented an environmental energy management system and completed a for the company, the combined annual output of these two units will be eight million tons. The addition of these greenhouse gas inventory, while cooperating with domestic and international climate change initiatives for reducing greenhouse gas furnaces has also laid the groundwork for Hyundai Steel to become a steelmaker with an annual capacity of 20 emissions. In the future, we will proactively deal with climate change issues through various cooperative networks on policies and techmillion tons of steel, including an annual output of 12 million tons by the company’s electric arc furnaces. With nologies. the new integrated steel mills, flat steel has been added to our traditional long-steel product portfolio. Most importantly, we successfully brought the blast furnaces on-stream, in line with our normal processes, and this led to the generation of profits in the first quarter of 2010, contributing to overall sales of KRW 10 trillion and an operating profit of KRW 1 trillion. Hyundai Steel Vice-chairman & CEO Seung-ha Park HYUNDAI STEEL 14. 15 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Corporate Philosophy #02 Building Our Own Future Paradigm Shift Over the past 10 years, the global steel industry has achieved steady growth amid the ups and downs of the global economy. However, a completely different landscape is forecast for the next decade due to Hyundai Steel operates eco-friendly steelworks that use advanced steel technologies to bring about a diversified changes in the competition model and paradigm shifts in the industry. Based on an in-depth analysis and product portfolio. Through creative thinking and constantly overcoming challenges, we are a leader in the preemptive countermeasures, Hyundai Steel will take advantage of opportunities arising from such risks, paradigm shift taking place in the global steel industry, contributing to a higher quality of life for everyone. With the laying the foundation for sustainable growth. aim of taking the lead in the new era of steel, Hyundai Steel has set three grand strategies: to maximize customer value; to strengthen its networks; and to develop new growth engines. We have also developed nine detailed Future • Supplying customer value action plans to support these three grand strategies. • Close cooperation with internal and external stakeholders • High-technology products Past • Production expansion • Eco-friendly steelworks • Product portfolio improvement The Process of Developing a New Vision Throughout history, companies that have survived have had one thing in common: they all remained steadfast in their commitment to company philosophies and core values. In light of this, the Hyundai Motor Group has redefined its management philosophy to ensure a continuation of the factors that have propelled us to success in the past and to take great strides forward to achieve sustainable and sizeable growth. Interviews with 1st survey 2nd survey Interviews with top 606 employees 305 employees employees management (1st: executives and team (the organization’s (levels of preference and effectiveness and readiness internalization of core managers, 2nd: staff ) to embrace change) values) Based on the management philosophy of the Group, Hyundai Steel has developed a new vision and accompanying strategies with the aim of setting a framework for proactively responding to the changing business environment and for creating mutual growth in conjunction with stakeholders. HYUNDAI STEEL 16. 17 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Management Philosophy Vision Hyundai Steel strives to mobilize the innate values that have been behind our continued success to date to take the lead in a new paradigm, while seeking opportunities arising from adversity to take the lead in a Realize the dream of mankind by creating a new future through ingenious new era of steel. thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers. | Hyundai Motor Group: | Together for a better future | Hyundai Steel: | Unlimited Sense of Realization of Respect for Responsibility Possibilities Mankind Leading the new era of steel As an eco-friendly, resource-circulation company, we will lead a new era in the steel industry by Exploring new opportunities Commitment and social in business through Providing the highest providing high value-added products and services and realizing world’s best competitiveness responsibilities customer value entrepreneurship based on cooperative relations with our stakeholders. Core Values PEOPLE | 3 Strategic Directions | We promote a customer-driven corporate We believe the future of our organization lies culture by providing the best quality in the hearts and capabilities of individual and impeccable service with all values members, and will help them develop their centered on our customers. potential by creating a corporate culture Maximize Expand global New growth that respects talent. customer value network strategies OUTSIDE We refuse to be complacent, INSIDE embrace every opportunity for greater challenge, and are confident in • Comprehensive product • Develop optimal sourcing • Develop and commercialize achieving our goals with portfolio strategies future technologies unwavering passion and ingenious thinking. • High value-added services • Increase horizontal alliance • Pursue new green businesses • Strong marketing strategies • Build long-term partnerships • Promote resource circulation with customers business structure We respect the diversity of cultures and We create synergy through a sense of customs, aspire to be the world’s best at “togetherness” that is fostered by mutual what we do, and strive to become a respected communication and cooperation within the global corporate citizen. company and with our business partners. ORGANIZATION HYUNDAI STEEL 18. 19 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sustainability Management CSR Committee Sustainability Management Awards At Hyundai Steel, sustainability management has its roots in the mutual trust and prosperity of our stakeHyundai Steel is implementing sustainability management practices in all of our business activities. Since holders. Since April 2008, when we adopted our Resolution for Implementing Corporate Social Respon2008, we have published annual sustainability reports on our Sustainability Management activities and sibility, Hyundai Steel has implemented a management framework based on CSR principles, organized achievements, and have consistently gained positive feedback from stakeholders on our Sustainability a CSR Committee that is chaired by the CEO, and joined the UN Global Compact. The Committee devises Management performances. In September 2010, Hyundai Steel was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability midto long-term CSR strategies in three areas, including trust-based management, environmental manIndex (DJSI) Asia. Scoring above the industry average in all 17 criteria, we earned 70 points, 10 higher than agement, and social contributions. the 60 points of 2009. We were also awarded a Best Practice Prize at the 2010 Korea Sustainability Management Awards, which was held by the Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute. Hyundai Steel has developed Seven Ideals as guidelines for implementing CSR strategies. We were the first steel company in the world to adopt an enclosed raw material processing system at our new integrated steel mill at Dangjin Works, reducing at the source the amount of fugitive dust. In recognition of this achievement in dealing with a chronic environmental problem faced by the steel industry and for our efforts at setting a new vision and installing a new system for the processing of raw materials for steel, the Jeongjinki Media & Culture Foundation awarded Hyundai Steel the Grand Prize in the Science Trust-based Environmental Social & Technology category. The sponsors of the Jeongjinki Media & Culture Awards select individuals and Management Management Contributions organizations whose original and creative scientific and technological achievements contribute to the development of the Korea’s economy and industry. We were also named one of the 100 best performers in job creation by the Ministry of Labor for creating more than 4,000 new jobs through large investments in the integrated steel mill and other facilities over a four-year period, from 2006 to 2010. | DJSI Average Scores (Hyundai Steel vs. Industry Average) | A company that Total ● Hyundai Steel ● Industry Average | The Seven Ideals | grows alongside stakeholders 60 70 2009 2010 45 44 An eco-friendly Economy value chain A leader in 63 70 addressing climate 2009 2010 change 56 52 A reliable Environment partner 67 63 2009 2010 39 39 A transparent company A trustworthy Society A company company people want to 54 73 work for 2009 2010 44 44 HYUNDAI STEEL 20. 21 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Materiality Test #03 Standing Materiality Test Process at the Center of the World Hyundai Steel has identified 25 issues of the highest importance through a three-step materiality test. This sustainability report was structured to effectively report on the company’s performance and plans regarding those issues. In the future, we will continue to monitor our progress on these issues. Adhering to principles is the first step towards establishing fair competition practices. At Hyundai Steel, we work to establish sound and transparent corporate governance and make management information available to stakeholders through various avenues of communication. We have also implemented a system for risk management, business ethics practices, and fair trade as we seek to build trust in our relationships with Publication Identification Finalization stakeholders. Today, Hyundai Steel is working tirelessly to ensure a sustainable corporate culture. Prioritization (25 issues of highest of (74 issues of importance) sustainability concern) reports • Management policies, KPI • Stakeholder concerns • Internal reviews • Launch of the TFT • Stakeholder surveys • Issues of global • External expert reviews for publishing • Benchmarking competitors sustainability reports • Media coverage • Business strategies Materiality Test Results Sustainability Society Management Shareholders & Investors Employees Customers Suppliers Local Communities • Safety & Health • Donations & • Fair competition • Risk management • Employment Volunteerism • Legal compliance/Anti• Stable supply • Fair and transparent • Financial results • Human Resource • Cultural, artistic, and corruption • Product quality selection of partners • Transparent Development sports sponsorships • Corporate governance • Pricing policy • Mutual growth Key Issues disclosure • Evaluation & • Stimulating local Compensation economies Strategic • Evaluation & • Strengthening • Consistent HRD • Stable supply of • Strengthening • Increasing social direction Compensation financial soundness programs products win-win partnerships contribution programs • CSR Team Teams in • CSR Team • HRM Team • Scrap Purchase Strategy Team • IR Team • HRD Team • CSR Team charge • Policy Support Team • Personnel Team • Sales Division • Purchase Planning Team • General Affairs Team • Treasury Team • Cooperative • IR Team Management Team • Environment & Energy Management Team • Management Planning Division • Environment & Safety Team • R&D Center • Environment & Energy Center • Minimizing our • Creating economic value environmental impact • Addressing climate change • Reducing energy use • New technology & Product development • Managing pollution • Exploring new markets emissions • Securing raw materials Environment • Environmental Economy management system HYUNDAI STEEL 22. 23 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What does Hyundai Steel do to ensure transparency in its corporate governance and adherence to responsible management practices? Powerful Defying concerns over the success of the plan, Hyundai Steel successfully completed and commenced BOD Meetings, Agenda & Activities leadership is decisive operation of an integrated steel mill ahead of schedule in 2010. Backing this success was a confident and In 2010, the board of directors held a total of ten meetings, including four regular and six extraordinary in implementing new insightful management which remained firm in its resolve to bring the project to completion by steadily meetings, to discuss and approve such matters as the issuance of corporate bonds and the selection business plans. investing more than KRW 6 trillion, even in 2008, when global steelmakers halted investment in facilities of a new CEO. The board also reviewed management’s performance in terms of sustainability based on in the aftermath of the global economic crisis. Hyundai Steel’s management remained positive enough reports on the current status of the internal accounting control and compliance program. The attendance about the future of the project to conclude long-term contracts with suppliers of raw materials in Brazil rate of outside directors at all meetings was 84%. Passing a resolution requires the presence of more than and Australia. Management also regularly visited the construction site of the blast furnaces to check on the half of the BOD members, with a majority of those present voting in favor. Any member of the BOD facing progress being made and to encourage workers. We are building sound corporate governance practices. a conflict of interest on a particular issue is not allowed to cast a vote on the issue. While a cap on annual We are building compensation for the nine directors was set at KRW 10 billion, the total remuneration actually paid out to Hyundai Steel has an established system for outside directors to ensure their independence from the sound corporate directors for fiscal 2010 stood at KRW 6.7 billion. Board of Directors (BOD) and to manage potential conflicts of interest. In 2010, Hyundai Steel’s Board of governance practices. Directors held 10 meetings. We provide Major IR Activities Shareholder Composition transparent management Category Description Remarks As of the end of 2010, Hyundai Steel’s total outstanding shares amounted to 85,314,475 shares, as listed on information. Quarterly announcements 4 times the Korea Stock Exchange (KRX). The largest shareholder of the company is Kia Motors, which holds 21.29%. NDR, conferences 16 times (domestic: 13, overseas:3) Hong Kong (Feb.), Asia (Mar.) North America (May) The percentage of shares held by Kia and its related parties stood at 33.86% overall. Shareholders holding One-on-one meetings 327 times more than 5% of the company’s shares include the National Pension Fund, which owns 6.06% of the company. Plant tours 7 times Others 2 conference calls following the earnings release Board of Directors Hyundai Steel’s Board of Directors consists of four inside and five outside directors. Under the BOD are the subHyundai Steel holds annual meetings to strengthen its communication with analysts. In 2010, we concommittees chaired by or with the active participation of outside directors. Comprised exclusively of outside ducted two surveys of analyst opinions regarding our IR activities. The survey results showed that directors, the Ethics Committee and Audit Committee meet regularly to fulfill duties independent of the BOD. analysts scored the company highly on our IR activities. In particular, they gave high scores in terms of reliability and integrity as well as plant tours. Analysts also requested that we increase the number of Board of Directors overseas non-deal road shows. ( Survey ) of 40 steel industry analysts, domestic and overseas via e-mail and fax Audit Committee Ethics Committee Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee The Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee reviews the qualifications of candidates for outside directors and recommends the final candidates to the general shareholders’ meeting, which then chooses candidates as outside directors. Topped IR Best Practices In a survey based on the MK-CSRI (a socially responsible investment index by a Korean economic newspaper, the Maekyung Economy), Hyundai Steel scored the highest in terms of reliability out of three criteria: reliability, positiveness and fairness. In addition, the compaOutside Director Candidate ny’s sales forecast for the first and second halves of 2009 achieved a 98% accuracy (a percentage of the variance between the outlook Directors Name Position & Career Audit Committee Ethics Committee Recommendation Committee and actual sales records; the higher the score, the more accurate the outlook). Mong-koo Chung Chairman, Hyundai Motor Group Seung-ha Park Vice chairman & CEO (chairman of the BOD) ◎ Inside Yu-cheol Woo President & CEO 2009 Annual Report: Platinum Award at the LACP Vision Awards Hak-seo Kang Vice President & CFO ○ Hyundai Steel’s 2009 annual report, titled a “Second Leap Forward,” won a platinum award in the material industry category at the 2009 Vision Awards, sponsored by the League of American Communications Professionals (LACP). The book scored 97 points on a Dong-joon Min Professor, Engineering College, Yonsei University ○ ○ ○ scale of 100, earning a perfect score in six out of the eight criteria, including creativity, clarity of message, and accessibility of informaSang-dae Kim Professor, Engineering College, Korea University ○ ◎ ○ tion. Outside Hyong-soo Chon Advisor to Kim & Jang law firm ◎ ○ Jeong-seok Oh Professor, College of Business Administration, Seoul National University ○ Seung-do Kim Professor, Department of Environmental and Bio Engineering, Hallym University ○ ○ ◎ Chairman ○Member HYUNDAI STEEL 24. 25 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What are you doing to incorporate business ethics practices into your What do you do to systematically manage risk? corporate culture? We have established Hyundai Steel has established a comprehensive framework for pre-emptive and follow-up measures, as well We promote A company can achieve sustainable growth only when it practices business ethics, as this is the only a systematic as a system for responding swiftly to risks from the outset. The risk management process consists of prevenbusiness ethics through way it can earn the unwavering trust of stakeholders. Today, Hyundai Steel continues to offer education management structure tion, management, and monitoring of risk factors. education programs programs and run campaigns to raise employee awareness about business ethics. In addition, we have for financial and nonand a wide variety of established and share business ethics principles company-wide to ensure mutual growth alongside our financial risks. | Definition and Management of Risks | campaigns. stakeholders. Financial risks Risk management system At many other companies, procurement-related departments can be prone to corruption or other unethiForeign exchange, interest rates Developing a hedging strategy cal behavior. As a result, Hyundai Steel operates a specific business ethics system for employees who Raw material prices Daily monitoring Production/Sales work in these departments to increase their understanding and practice of business ethics. Furthermore, Risks Risk Management we have developed an integrated purchasing system and a separate ethics committee for the purchasing Non-financial risks division to promote fair and transparent purchasing practices. Unethical behavior Audit Monitoring System Environmental pollution Self-checking Business Ethics Guidebook Issue occurrence TFT organization Hyundai Steel declared its full commitment to business ethics in 2002. Since then, we have instituted an Ethics Charter and Code of Ethical Conduct based on three management policies: trust-based manageFinancial Risks ment, field-oriented management and transparent management. We have also adopted our own CompliHyundai Steel established a risk management system based on risk management processes in 2006 to ance Program (CP). As part of our business ethics practices, we published the Hyundai Steel Business detect potential risk factors and to minimize the impact of risks. By classifying the company-wide work Ethics Guidebook in 2008, and it now serves to guide employees while offering them solutions to ethical processes into production, sales, purchasing, and finance, the risk management system was used to issues they might face in the course of carrying out their day-to-day responsibilities. develop risk indicators for each category that could be evaluated and managed according to category. In Education & Campaigns step with changing business environments and in consideration of feedback from each department, the risk indicators are updated and managed on a regular basis. Further to that, Hyundai Steel established a Hyundai Steel operates online business ethics courses for our entire workforce. We also give new employRisk Monitoring Task Force Team in 2009, and also holds regular meetings where executives and workingees an ethics training session during orientation. In 2010, we provided two mandatory ethics training seslevel managers in production, sales, purchasing, and finance are briefed on operations, enabling more sions to all our employees on anti-corruption and anti-bribery, information security, prohibition on illegal poefficient decision-making in response to changing circumstances. In the meetings, executives and managlitical contributions, tax compliance, compliance with fair trade, and trade secret protection. In addition, we ers are updated on economic and steel industry trends and briefed on the company’s daily monitoring of provided outsourced security personnel with nine sessions of ethics and human rights education in 2010. various internal and external factors, including raw materials, production, and sales. Cyber Auditor Non-financial Risks Hyundai Steel operates a Cyber Auditor page on its website. Employees, customers, suppliers and stakeHyundai Steel’s audit monitoring system eliminates risk factors at source and strengthens follow-up holders can report any unethical employee behavior by phone, Internet, e-mail or fax. An informant’s idenmeasures to prevent the recurrence of similar risks. In 2010, we conducted a diagnosis of management practices to improve the working processes and applied stricter measures to combat unethical behavior tity is always protected, with every reported case being given an exhaustive investigation in accordance through administrative means such as directives and corrective actions, or impediments to promotion such with internal regulations and processes. Any and all appropriate measures are then carried out. as sanctions or warnings. We also improved the purchasing system and inspection processes to prevent the occurrence of unethical behavior. For departments with close and frequent contact with stakeholders, 2008 we also developed checklists for the monitoring of ethical behavior, while encouraging staff to monitor 2004 their own behavior in the daily fulfillment of duties. 2003 2002 Publication of Risk Responsiveness PR TFT the Hyundai Steel Business Ethics Hyundai Steel launched the Risk Responsiveness PR TFT in 2010. Consisting of 28 experts from the production, sales and PR departImplementation Guidebook ments, the TFT team previews potential problems and develops response manuals for the facilitation of swift responses in the event of Announcement of Purchasing an incident of concern, minimizing any tangible and intangible impact on the business. of Ethics Charter Ethics Code and Code of Ethical Declaration of Conduct business ethics FX Risk Management Hyundai Steel’s basic risk hedging policy on foreign exchange (FX) is to remove or minimize FX risk factors by mobilizing internal management mechanisms before resorting to the use of derivatives such as currency forwarding, currency swaps or options. The FX risks are monitored on a regular basis and reported on to top management, whenever necessary, for effective internal control. HYUNDAI STEEL 26. 27 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 We voluntarily Fair trade underpins an ethical corporate culture. As such, Hyundai Steel adopted a Compliance Program As a result of our consistent internal monitoring and commitment to voluntary compliance with fair trade, comply with fair trade (CP) in 2002. We also host the Growth Potential (GP) Council, a CP sub-organization for each sector that Hyundai Steel was found to have no violations in our transactions with subcontractors in a written survey principles. promotes voluntary compliance with fair trade throughout the value chain. conducted by Korea’s Fair Trade Commission. Adoption of the Compliance Program We also printed our Compliance Code of Conduct on the inside cover of the official Hyundai Steel Employee Handbook, which is distributed to everyone at the company. Furthermore, we published the CompliUnder the stewardship of the CEO, Hyundai Steel’s CP program has been committed to voluntarily complyance Program Guidebook, a collection of compliance program case studies, and distributed it to all of the ing with fair trade principles since 2002. Hyundai Steel received an A rating for our compliance practices company’s departments. in CP ratings reviews by Korea’s Fair Trade Commission in 2008 and 2010. In April 2010, we were awarded a In 2011, we plan on hosting GP Council meetings by sector and inviting external experts for a CP workshop. Fair Trade Commissioner’s Commendation for exemplary achievements in CP practices. We will also be increasing incentives for CP best practices, revising CP stipulations, creating a CP Day, and running an online test on CP training to effectively promote voluntary compliance with fair trade through| Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Organization | out the company. CEO Information Security Chief Compliance Officer (executive) Hyundai Steel has established an information security framework which operates at the highest global standards and protects tangible and intangible intellectual properties and technologies, as well as manCompliance Management Team agement information related to the company. In addition, Hyundai Steel is subject to an ISO 27001 review on a biannual basis by an external agency called BSI Korea. We have also developed and put in place a Business Planning Business Management Purchasing Raw Materials Sourcing Sales Incheon Works Pohang Works Dangjin Works checklist for quarterly information security practices, which encourages employees to voluntarily participate in information security management. CP Performance Goal Protecting the company’s tangible and intangible technology, intellectual property, and management information Hyundai Steel employees are subject to four sessions of in-class training courses every year on fair trade principles and the company’s compliance program. Employees working in the sales and purchasing deEstablishing an information security management framework to operate at the highest global standards partments, as well as other departments vulnerable to unfair trading, are subject to separate educational Direction programs, which include online courses, lectures by external agencies, and fair trade experts. Upgrading the information Reinforcing the practical security Raising awareness on security security management scheme management management system (Policy-UP) (Audit-UP) (Mind-UP) 2008 2009 2010 No. of sessions No. of trainees Hours No. of sessions No. of trainees Hours No. of sessions No. of trainees Hours Preemptive Cooperative Principles Economy Practical Management Management Management In-class training 6 366 8 12 620 12 9 414 9 e-Learning 1 202 17 External training 6 10 48 3 6 48 5 7 27 Total 12 376 56 15 626 60 15 623 53 Policy Management Operational Management Security System Management • Developing practical security policy/ • Reinforcing the effectiveness of the • Operating an integrated strategies inspection process information security system Activities Internal Monitoring • Strengthening education & PR on • Remaining committed to • Strengthening the information information security international standard security leakage monitoring system • Increasing Group-wide cooperation certification (ISO 27001) guidelines • Strengthening the mobile security Hyundai Steel conducts regular and ad hoc internal monitoring on the teams whose job duties are vulner(security department) • Establishing a national core system technology management framework able to unfair common practices and other unfair trade practices. The teams are also provided with education on fair trade issues accompanying the regular fulfillment of their duties. When employees begin a job vulnerable to unfair trade practices, the Legal Affairs Team monitors their legal compliance practices. In Hyundai Steel runs various information security training programs and campaigns to raise employee addition, these teams closely collaborate with the CP Team to prevent any unintentional violation of the awareness on information security. Team managers in the information security department receive reguFair Trade Act. lar training and are encouraged to share pertinent information with their colleagues to help point out how important information security is throughout the entire company. We also give separate training sessions 2008 2009 2010 about information security to new employees, employees working for overseas subsidiaries, and employNo. of teams subject to internal monitoring 39 teams 36 teams 102 teams ees working for our suppliers. In addition, Hyundai Steel publishes a monthly newsletter called Information Security News in an effort to share case studies related to information leaks. Screensavers have also been installed that reiterate the importance of information protection with the aim of ensuring the company’s entire workforce remains vigilant about information security. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Constructing a New World An objective assessment of the sustainability of a company begins with monitoring to ensure that it remains faithful to its innate values. Based on the strength of its diversified product line-up and advanced technologies, Hyundai Steel is competing with the world’s leading steelmakers. Our latest success is our newly completed integrated steel mill that has boosted the range and size of the company’s business portfolio. As we move forward, we will focus on high value-added steel products to ensure mutual growth with our global stakeholders, while enhancing Hyundai Steel’s name as a leading global steelmaker. 28-1. 29 Stakeholder Communication Sustainable Growth Highlights < Sales Volume > January 2010 12,045 14,000 10,449 Full operation of Dangjin Integrated Steel Mill (Pages 39-41) 9,926 12,000 10,000 8,383 8,692 With the blow-in of its first blast furnace on January 5, 2010, Dangjin Inte8,000 7,250 grated Steel Mill commenced full operation, with the plant’s second blast 3,353(28%) furnace blowing just 10 months later, in November. The successful opera2,676(27%) 2,066(20%) 6,000 tion of the two blast furnaces led to profits for the integrated steel mill at 4,000 Dangjin Works in their first year of full operation. With an annual output of 3 Domestic four million tons of steel each, the two blast furnaces, each one 5,250m in 2,000 Exports (%) capacity, 17m in diameter and 110m in height, added a total of eight million (Unit: 1,000 tons) Overall tons to Hyundai Steel’s annual production. 2008 2009 2010 < 2011 Stakeholder Survey Results > Hyundai Steel is a financially sound company. Employees 79.6 Investors 73.1 Customers 83.8 Partners 83.0 Ultra-Strength H-beams and Reinforcing Bars (Page 34) Communities 80.0 Hyundai Steel successfully developed three ultra-strength steel products, hot rolled H-beams with enhanced earthquake-resistance for building structures (SHN520 and 570) and ultra-strength reinforcing bars, after Hyundai Steel is a profitable investment. five years of meticulous R&D. The new products can withstand wind speeds of over 250km/h and earthquakes. They are also flame-resistant Employees 83.4 for at least four hours in the event of a fire and have a lifespan of more than 50 years. Investors 95.8 1 With a yield strength of 800MPa, the new reinforcing bars are perfect for Customers 85.0 ultra-high skyscrapers and enormous bridges. Partners 83.7 Communities 83.3 1 Yield strength: the marginal point required to recover from deformation when exposed to stress Hyundai Steel is a technological leader. 2010 71.4 2011 76.2 ※ Period : March 2, ~ March 11, 2011 Respondents: 1,124 persons HYUNDAI STEEL 30. 31 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Does Hyundai Steel create and distribute economic value? #01 Sales grew by In 2010, Hyundai Steel realized KRW 10,198.2 billion in sales, KRW 1,037.6 billion in operating profit, and Creating Economic Value 28% and operating profit grew by 79% from 2009. KRW 1,014.1 billion in net income, the second-highest performance in its history after the KRW 10,503.0 billion in sales and KRW 1,321.4 billion in operating profit we posted in 2008. This achievement can be attributed to the early normalization of the two blast furnaces at Dangjin Works, continued technology development and KPI management, and the resultant enhancement in cost competitiveness throughout the year. In 2010, Hyundai Steel posted KRW 10,198.2 billion in sales and KRW 1,037.6 billion in operating profit, the second-highest figures in the company’s history. Economic value at Hyundai Steel is always fairly In 2011, we have set the goal of achieving a 34% growth in sales, to reach KRW 13,739.3 billion, and a distributed back to stakeholders and reinvested into the company for its continued success in the future. 32% growth in sales volume, to reach 15.94 million tons, based on the prediction that there will be sharp As a result of its stable operations, Hyundai Steel has earned excellent ratings from overseas credit growth in flat steel sales brought about by the full-scale operation of our two new blast furnaces. To that rating agencies. end, Hyundai Steel will continue to increase its technological competitiveness through R&D on highprofit products, such as steel sheets for automobiles and Steel Plate. ● Key Financial Performance Indicators 2008 2009 2010 Sales (KRW bil.) 10,503 7,966 10,198 Operating profit (KRW bil.) 1,321 578 1,038 Net income (KRW bil.) 823 1,152 1,014 Operating profit margin (%) 12.6 7.3 10.2 ROE(%) 17.0 17.4 13.1 EBITDA (KRW bil.) 1,587 840 1,436 Debt-to-equity ratio (%) 143.1 135.8 135.1 ※ as of the end of each year ● Share prices Year 2008 2009 2010 Share price (KRW) 37,600 86,500 124,500 Market Cap. (KRW tril.) 3.2 7.3 10.6 ※ as of the end of each year Credit Rating Moody’s S&P Fitch KR KIS NICE Baa3 BBBNR AA AA AA ※ KR – Korea Ratings, KIS – Korea Investors Service, NICE – NICE Rating In November and then again in December of 2010, Hyundai Steel obtained an investment-grade rating from S&P and Moody’s. This rating is not only a reflection of the company’s successful operation of its integrated steel mill but is expected to enhance Hyundai Steel’s overall credibility and stature as a global steelmaker, while also improving its cost of funds. HYUNDAI STEEL 32. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Value Creation and Distribution to Stakeholders In 2010, Hyundai Steel purchased raw materials from domestic and international suppliers worth KRW 6,825.8 billion. At every step of the way we collaborated with our major stakeholders – shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers, employees, and partners – in our economic value creation activities. The value created from this contributed not just to improving the corporate value of Hyundai Steel #02 Reinforcing Global Competitiveness but also in enhancing value for each of our stakeholders. For example, shareholders and investors receive profits through dividends and the interest we pay them, while employees are supported through self-realization and the financial stability brought about by the job itself. We also contribute to the growth of our partners through fair trading and win-win cooperation programs, with the high-quality products we provide our customers contributing to the enhancement of their productivity and competitiveness. Furthermore, as a corporate citizen, Hyundai Steel makes donations and contributions to the communities it operates in and faithfully complies with all its With the completion of the integrated steel mill at Dangjin Works, Hyundai Steel has opened a new tax obligations. chapter in the Korean steel industry. A diversified product portfolio and aggressive export strategies will lead the company’s market expansion strategies, with a stable and long-term raw materials supply line contributing to our cost competitiveness in the global market. Hyundai Steel will not relent in its pursuit to become the world leader in all its business areas. Shareholders & Investors Return on investments Dividends & Interest expenses Employees Government Employment to secure a fruitful life KRW 216.9 billion Tax liability Wage & Welfare expenses Taxes KRW 816.4 billion KRW 140.6 billion Subcontractors Communities Growth in sales Investment for Growth Sharing with Society Payment to business partners Net income Social contribution expenses and KRW 1,014.1 billon donations KRW 194.6 billion KRW 9.5 billion Customers Suppliers Quality products Revenue from sales Sales Raw materials and other supply purchase 10,198.2 billion expenses KRW KRW 6,825.8 billion HYUNDAI STEEL 34. 35 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What are you doing to enhance your competitiveness? We are developing Hyundai Steel contributes to social development through a number of innovative technologies and prodR&D Center is at The Hyundai Steel’s R&D Center mobilizes our advanced source technology, component processing technew products and uct development activities. Through the use of our proprietary technologies, we became only the second the forefront of all our nologies, and auto body design technologies to develop new steel products for automobiles. At the heart technologies that company in the world to develop magnetic levitation train rails. Our steel used for megastructures has R&D endeavors. of an R&D network connecting subsidiaries of the Hyundai Motor Group, which includes Hyundai Hysco, reflect market needs. heightened the vertical limit of buildings and made them safer than ever before. Hyundai Steel also posHyundai Motor and Kia Motors, the R&D Center allows clients to be involved from the early stages of product sesses the technology necessary to customize sheet pile product size to an individual customer’s needs. development through a process stage-based research and development system that maximizes synergies in technology R&D. Consisting of a research building, a rolling laboratory, and a steelmaking laboratory, Magnetic Levitation Train Rails the Hyundai Steel R&D Center is equipped with everything needed for the stable operation of an integrated Korea’s railroad rail market requires 50,000 tons of steel per year for both new construction and replacesteel mill. In early 2011, our Total Solutions Center will be completed, providing support to application techment work, and Hyundai Steel is the country’s sole producer of this type of rail. In 2008, we employed innologies that will be tailored to individual customer needs. house technology to become only the second company in the world to develop the rails for a national | Milestones | project aimed at commercializing unmanned automatic urban maglev trains. A 53km railroad for urban maglev trains is now under construction in Yeongjongdo, near Incheon International Airport. Hyundai Steel is providing all 35,000 tons of the rail required for the construction. At the same time, we are aggressively pursuing new markets in the Middle East and Southeast Asia. 2007~2009 2010 2011~ Ultra-Strength H-Beam and Reinforcing Bars Realized early Developed HRC for Developed new products normalization Hyundai Steel joined the government-led Megastructure Steel Development project in 2004 and has since automobiles and and mass production with and provided Steel Plate technical support to pushed forward with related R&D activities. After five years of constant R&D, we successfully developed improved product quality customized application hot rolled H-beams that have enhanced earthquake resistance for building structures (SHN520 and 570) technologies and ultra-strength reinforcing bars (SD800: yield strength 800MPa). Megastructure steel products are made from high-quality steel and feature special properties meant for skyscrapers and very large floating structures (VLFSs). Boasting at least 650MPa of tensile strength, structures made from this steel are able to withstand wind speeds of over 250km/h and earthquakes. Since the opening of the Hyundai Steel R&D Center, it has increased the number of patents it files every They are also fire resistant for at least 240 minutes in the event of fire and have a lifespan of more than 50 year. In 2010, it filed 1,061 patents, with the total number of patents filed up until April 2011 standing at years. Officially unveiled in April 2011, the warranty guarantee on this earthquake-resistant steel product 3,516. speaks volumes of how confident we are in our products. In the future, Hyundai Steel will step up its R&D efforts and develop even safer steel products, ones that can endure a range of natural disasters such as | No. of Filings for Patents | the devastating earthquake that struck Japan in 2005 and Hurricane Katrina in 2005. 2007 351 2008 555 2009 888 2010 1,061 HPC System Since introducing a high-performance computing (HPC) system, Hyundai Steel has been able to have supercomputers and computer clusters solve advanced computation problems. The HPC system has increased the speed at which we can respond to demands by departments at customer contact points as well as help in the development of advanced analysis technologies, thereby enhancing productivity and product quality. As a result, Hyundai Steel has the ability to provide competitive and optimized products to customers, and this has led to increased customer satisfaction levels. HYUNDAI STEEL 36. 37 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 We are To overcome adverse business environments brought about by sagging sales of long steel and which are Diversified The full operation of our two new blast furnaces has further enhanced Hyundai Steel’s product portfolio implementing affected by a sluggish construction economy and the global oversupply of steel products, we continuexport markets have competitiveness. We are penetrating more new markets based on the company’s differentiated producvarious cost ously strive for early normalization and cost reduction in blast furnace operations. While streamlining the led to an increase in tion line-up, which focuses on highly profitable products such as Steel Plate and offshore structures. reduction initiatives process through the production of low-quality pig iron, increased recovery rate, and energy conservation, exports. company-wide. we are improving our wide array of production systems by implementing cost-cutting measures in all business sectors. Monthly cost reduction meetings provide a venue for the company-wide review of costIncreased Export Volume cutting activities and achievements. Furthermore, workshops, campaigns, and slogan contests are also Hyundai Steel exported a total of 3.35 million tons of steel products in 2010. In a bid to offset sagging carried out throughout the company to further this end. sales of long steel to the sluggish domestic construction and shipbuilding industries, we have aggressively engaged in entering new export markets. As a result of these and other efforts, exports have grown 25.2% since 2009 and 62.2% since 2008. Energy-Efficient Water-Cooled Panels Developed at Pohang Works (Unit: 1,000 tons) Hyundai Steel has developed energy-efficient water-cooled panels which are used to prevent the inside of an electric arc furnace from melting in extreme heat. By widening and reforming the shape of conventional water-cooled panel pipelines, we can now agglutinate 2008 2009 2010 more slag. In addition, the new panels have reduced the heating surface area part of the furnace that is exposed to the arc or hot metal heat by 17%. An automatic temperature controller is attached to control the flow of cooling water, which has considerably reduced enDomestic 8,383 7,250 8,692 ergy losses and extended durability from the previous six months to 12 months. Exports (percentage) 2,066(20%) 2,676(27%) 3,353(28%) Slag is adhered to the surface of the water-cooled panel to protect it, with temperatures reaching high enough to melt steel scrap. ConTotal 10,449 9,926 12,045 ventional water-cooled panels use vertically shaped pipelines that make it difficult to attach slag, which easily falls off from the pipelines due to the narrow space. Also, the long pipeline has increased the heating surface area, resulting in a greater loss of energy. Export Volume Ratio by Region (Unit: %) Copper Mold Developed at Incheon Works Hyundai Steel collaborated with a subcontractor to develop copper molds, which were previously imported, using in-house technoloRegion 2008 2009 2010 gies. Furthermore, they adjusted the lower part of the dummy bar head and improved the spray filter, extending the use of copper molds Southeast Asia 21.5 39.4 35.6 10 fold and halving annual purchase expenses. In addition, the new molds address procurement issues arising from high import prices and lengthy transportation times. Middle East/Southwest Asia 24.3 14.8 24.9 China 8.6 18.4 20.2 ※ Copper molds are components that cool down hot metal used to manufacture semi-finished products such as slab, bloom, and billet. Molds account for 90% of their quality and directly affect the surface of semi-finished goods. US/Europe 38.8 17.5 14.0 Others 6.8 9.9 5.3 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 First Rollout and Export of Steel Plate Hyundai Steel has an annual capacity of 1.5 million tons. In April 2010, we commenced work on the production of heavy plates for Hyundai Heavy Industries, and have since entered into an MOU with Vinashin, Vietnam’s state-run shipbuilding conglomerate, in order to supply 100,000 tons of Steel Plate on an annual basis. In the future, Hyundai Steel will strive to expand its share of the heavy plate market, while completing work on a differentiated production line-up whose focus will be on highly profitable TMCPs and HRC for shipbuilders. Exporting Heavy Plates for Offshore Structures Development of Energy-Efficient Water-Cooled Panels Development of Copper Molds Hyundai Steel signed an MOU with Malaysia’s EEW Group to supply 200,000 tons of heavy plates annually for offshore structures. Since completing our integrated steel mill, we have supplied heavy plates to domestic manufacturers of petronas (thick pipes). Recently, Hyundai Steel has utilized its advance R&D marketing capabilities to develop heavy plates for offshore structures. HYUNDAI STEEL 38. 39 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 We have secured The price of steel products depends on market supply and the prices of major raw materials such as iron a stable and longterm raw materials supply channel. ore, coal, and steel scrap. The price of steel scrap, the main raw material for steelmaking in electric arc furnaces, is affected by its supply and the global construction economy. In a bid to hedge exchange risks arising from imported steel scrap, Hyundai Steel has secured domestic suppliers of quality steel scrap for its Dangjin Integrated Steel Mill long-term supply line and worked hard to enhance domestic self-sufficiency and reduce mediator margins in order to stabilize procurement. With iron ore and coal being the main raw materials of blast furnace steelmaking, Hyundai Steel has se“It was insightful and farsighted leadership cured stable long-term supply channels through several supply MOUs, including one with Australia’s BHP by Chairman Chung to continue investments Billiton. Hyundai Steel will continue to seek new supply lines in order to secure the reserves required for and make the impossible possible, the stable operation of our integrated steel mills. even when others were staggering amid the global financial crisis.” Quote from congratulatory speech by President Lee, Myung-bak | Countries Supplying Raw Materials to Hyundai Steel | Rewriting the history of Korea’s steel industry Creating 80,000 new jobs with an import substitution effect of US$ 8.0 billion, and contributing to the Korean economy Russia Canada Hyundai Steel began construction of an integrated steel mill at its Dangjin Works in 2006 to deal with a chronic shortage US China Japan in the upstream process of the Korean steelmaking industry, as well as to reinforce profitability through expanded proBrazil duction and improve sales of highly profitable products such as automotive sheets. Following its completion in January 2010, Dangjin’s integrated steel mill commenced commercial production on April 1, 2010. On April 8, 2010, Hyundai Steel celebrated the completion of the integrated steel mill, Korea’s first blast furnace built Australia using private funds and the world’s first eco-friendly system to encompass the entire process, from raw materials to Republic of South Africa finished products. Fifty-seven years after our foundation as Korea’s first steelmaker in 1953, Hyundai Steel has rewritten the history of Korea’s steelmaking industry. With the completion of the integrated steel mill, the Hyundai Motor Group completed the world’s first entire value chain in car manufacturing, from hot metal to automobiles. The operation of a second blast furnace in November 2010 added to our steelmaking capacity, and has since reached 20 million tons of steel per annum (12 million tons from electric arc | Percentage of Raw Material Purchases by Country | furnaces and 8 million tons from blast furnaces). Our product portfolio has also become more balanced, with high-end 5% 2% 7% 6% 6% steel sheets such as HRC for automobiles and Steel Plate being added to the product line-up. Furthermore, completion 6% 7% of the integrated steel mill is expected to help improve market supply in the domestic steelmaking industry, which imports more than 20 million tons of steel per year. This, in turn, will reinforce Korea’s competitiveness in major end-user 10 % 14% industries such as car manufacturing, shipbuilding, machinery, and home appliances. According to a resolution passed by the Board of Directors on March 18, 2011, Hyundai Steel announced construction plans for a third blast furnace, with a projected total investment of KRW 3,255 billion. iron ore 12% coal steel scrap 35% 54% 16% 57% 63% Australia Brazil Republic of South Africa Canada US China Russia others Domestic Japan The world’s best eco-friendly steel mill Facts & Figures on the Integrated Steel Mills KRW 1,700 billion 8 million tons 486,000 pieces of construction KRW 1,100 billion 93,000 jobs annual import in contribution to substitution effect of annual sales of SME steel suppliers direct production directly/indirectly equipment mobilized inducement from created in Korea’s steelwork construction industry annual import involved in the substitution effect 4-year construction created from the of the steel mills operation of the steel indirect production mills invested in inducement in Korea’s construction projects construction industry 7million people USD 8 billion 78,000 jobs KRW 6,230 billion KRW 1,300 billion ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Creating a Greener World Aiming for a greener low-carbon economy has become the norm in the global community, and nations around the world have risen to this challenge. In line with this new green economy, Hyundai Steel is always seeking new opportunities to reduce greenhouse gases, while also building upon our carbon credit schemes and renewable energy businesses. Protecting the environment remains at the top of our list of priorities in all of our business activities, which is part of the reason we have recently completed work on our eco-friendly steel mills. With state-of-the-art environmental technologies and facilities, Hyundai Steel will continue to lead the way in Korea’s low-carbon green growth initiatives. 42-1. 43 Stakeholder Communication Environmental Performance Highlights October 2010 < Hyundai Steel’s Environmental Protection Endeavors > Acquisition of Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Hyundai Steel does its utmost to protect the environment. Certification (Page 48) Reducing CO2 Emissions As the newly operated Dangjin Integrated Steel Mills were assessed and found to meet the requirements of ISO 14001 standard and scope, • Bicycle promotion (Two-Wheels campaign) Hyundai Steel acquired the integrated ISO 14001 certification with three • No-driving Day once a week campaign existing sites, approved by Korea Standards Association and the British • Commuter buses Standards Institution (BSI). The ISO 14001 is an international standard ensuring environmental management systems improve environmental Reducing Paper Use performance throughout the entire value chain of business activities. • Encouraging the use of personal mug • Encouraging the use of recycled papers June 2010 Energy Management System Pilot Project (Page 50) Reducing Energy Use In June 2010, Hyundai Steel participated in the Energy Management Sys• Using eco-friendly bags tem pilot project, a comprehensive management system covering every• Adopting a system that automatically turns off office lights when not in use thing from energy use connected to target goals and reduction efforts to monitoring and evaluation. Based on the findings from its consultations with the Korea Foundation for Quality (KFQ), Hyundai Steel’s energy use management system was verified in accordance with all relevant government guidelines. < 2011 Stakeholder Survey Results > July 2010 Hyundai Steel has a clear vision and policies Carbon Footprint Management (Page 50) regarding environmental management. In line with Korea’s Low-Carbon Green Growth initiative, Hyundai Steel remains committed to reducing its own carbon footprint as well as that of 2011 75.9 its suppliers. In July 2010, we hosted a ceremony to present performance results from the company’s first year of working with the Carbon Footprint Management (CFM) project and also conferred Low-Carbon Green Growth Partner certificates to suppliers who fulfilled all necessary requirements. ※ Carbon Footprint : A company’s carbon footprint is defined as the total amount of Hyundai Steel is effective in its efforts to minimize CO2 equivalent in terms of both direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the the company’s environmental impact. entire value chain, from raw material procurement to recycling product waste. 2011 75.7 Hyundai Steel is proactive in developing eco-friendly technologies. 2011 73.4 November 2010 ※ Period : March 2, ~ March 11, 2011 Respondents : 1,124 persons Recipient of Environment Minister’s Prize at Greenstart Network Contest Hyundai Steel was awarded from Minister of Environment at the Green Start Network’s Green Lifestyle contest. The Green Start Network is a nationwide movement encouraging the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the non-industrial sector. Reducing CO2 Emissions Reducing Paper Use Reducing Energy Use Hyundai Steel Resource Recycling Flowchart ECO TIP Commuting by subway generates only 1/100 the CO2 emissions as One ton of paper requires 17 30-year-old trees. Saving paper, One ton of plastic bags requires 11 barrels of crude oil. Use ecodriving to work. saving trees! friendly bags, save energy! Dedicated to minimizing our environmental impact, Hyundai Steel strives to reduce CO2 emissions and energy use in proactive response to climate change. • Using more bicycles to get • Using personal mugs and • Distributing eco-friendly around work sites not paper cups in offices bags • No Driving One Day of the • Publishing the weekly Hyundai • Adopting an automated light Week campaign Steel Newsletter using recycled system to save energy at • Commuter buses paper lunch and at night Energy Steelmaking 3 Blast Furnace Continuous Casting Water supply : 25,043,000 m Products Rolling Power Plants Electricity : 1,669,452 TOE Cokes Sinter Byproduct gas : 9,709,428 Gcal H-Beam HRC • In-house use : 5,580,739 Gcal • External use : 4,128,469 Gcal O U T PU T LNG, Brent crude oil : 326,648TOE Reinforcing Bar Heavy Plate INPU T Raw Materials Sheet Pile Sheet Water recycling: 3,807,000 tons Incheon Works recycles all effluents from the Gajwa Wastewater TreatProduction : 11.96 million tons Steel scrap : 9.26 million tons ment Plant as process water. Sales : 12.05 million tons Electric Arc Furnace Others 9.1% sludge 1.8% Iron ore : 7.96 million tons Rolling Refinery refractory waste 1.6% EAF dust 4.5% Energy Usage slag 83% GHG Emissions 2nd Refinery 94.3% of the 3,741,000 tons of byproducts are recycled Continuous Casting 10,135 1,800,000 12,000 • Steel slag is recycled as construction aggregates 1,669,452 Coal : 3.75 million tons 1,500,000 • Technology to recycle EAF dust and sludge has been developed 10,000 1,452,166 1,200,000 8,000 1,321,696 3,827 900,000 6,000 4,626 4,220 302,365 279,061 326,648 Total 600,000 4,000 Indirect emissions 3,148 2,869 300,000 direct emissions 2,000 Primary Energy Source (LNG, Brent crude oil) (Unit: TOE) (Unit: 1,000 tons) 1,478 1,351 6,308 Secondary Energy Source (purchased electricity) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 HYUNDAI STEEL 46. 47 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What are Hyundai Steel’s environmental management principles? #01 Hyundai Steel The steel industry is one which consumes a high amount of energy. Hyundai Steel is well aware of the enviIn Harmony with Nature considers its ronmental impact of the steel industry and strives to minimize its own environmental impact. By taking an environmental environmental approach to the entire production process, from raw material management to the rollout impact throughout all of finished products, Hyundai Steel aims to fulfill its responsibility as an eco-friendly company. Since our business processes. acquisition in 2003 of the ISO 14001 certificate, a highly respected international environmental manageHyundai Steel is well aware of the environmental impact of the steel industry, and has committed ment certificate, Hyundai Steel has phased in an environmental management platform. Under the goal itself to minimizing the company’s environmental impact, while also establishing an environmental of becoming an internationally renowned eco-friendly steelmaker, we have instituted the following strict management infrastructure. We will continue our investments and R&D efforts into developing environmental management policies. environmental facilities, which will reduce the total volume of pollutants and recycling byproducts. | Environmental Management Policy | ▶ Establish an environmental management system • Constructing an environmental management system • Stabilizing the CFM project • Adopting an environmental performance evaluation system ▶ Minimize the generation ▶ Construct a resource of any pollutants recycling system • Complying with emission standards • Increasing the recycling of • Complying with internal environmental resources management standards • Increasing the recycling of • Investing in improved environmental water facilities ▶ Engage local communities regarding environmental ▶ Address climate change activities • Constructing a GHG inventory • Developing community in each sector environmental activity programs • Constructing an energy • Reinforcing communication management system channels with local communities | Phase-by-Phase Action Plan | Reinforcement Establishment Complement • Adopting an environmental Construction accounting system • Adopting an environmental • Conducting life cycle product management information evaluations • Encouraging the participation system of top management • Adopting an environmental • Strengthening the environmental • Organizing an environmental performance program management organization committee • Creating a bio industrial • Constructing an environmental • Holding environmental complex management education system management council meetings • Constructing an eco-friendly • Implementing environmental supply chain system R&D activities HYUNDAI STEEL 48. 49 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | Environmental Management Organization | #02 Addressing Hyundai Steel operates dedicated Environment and Energy Management teams at all major operation sites, including the headquarters in Seoul, steelwork plants in Incheon, Pohang and Dangjin, and the company’s R&D Center. These teams develop environmental management strategies, manage environClimate Change mental facilities, oversee all legal compliances at a company-wide level, and oversee environmental techHyundai Steel has adopted an Greenhouse Gas(GHG) energy management system and completed nology development. a GHG inventory. While keeping up with relentless R&D efforts to develop GHG reduction technologies, we are also being proactive with industrial initiatives to mitigate climate change through technological collaborations with leading global steelmakers. CEO • Environmental Management Council • Environment & Energy Workshop • Task force team at each division level Seoul Incheon Pohang Dangjin R&D Center Environmental Management Certification With the full operation of the new integrated steel mill, Hyundai Steel has renewed its ISO 14001 environmental management certificate with the Korea Standards Association and the British Standards Institution for the new mill and three other steelwork plants. The environmental management system is an internationally recognized standard for the environmental management of businesses, and meant to improve environmental performance throughout the entire value chain of business activities. The certification provides Hyundai Steel with a platform for an integrated environmental approach, as well as giving us the ability to review and improve all business activities, products and services that have the potential to impact the environment. HYUNDAI STEEL 50. 51 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What does Hyundai Steel do to mitigate climate change? We have established Facility improvements, technological development, systems formulation, and keeping up with the global Industry Climate Change Response Task Force a climate change trend of stricter regulations to deal with climate change can pose risks to business activities; it can also Hyundai Steel is a member of the Industry Climate Change Response Task Force, which was initiated by response system. present opportunities for eco-friendly businesses. Thus, Hyundai Steel has introduced an energy use tarthe Business Institute for Sustainable Development. We also actively cooperate with other companies in get management program to achieve low-carbon green growth by saving energy. Hyundai Steel has also the industry regarding climate change policies, and have taken the lead in certain industrial initiatives to implemented a target management system on GHG emissions and energy use. In addition, we have commitigate climate change, two of which were the adoption of an industry-wide GHG energy target managepiled a GHG inventory and a computerized system to control GHG emissions, participate in a target manment system and an emissions trading scheme. agement pilot project, and have developed technology to reduce GHG emissions in proactive response to climate change. Under the Carbon Footprint Management (CFM) project, Hyundai Steel is sharing its Global Steel Industry Climate Change Response Task Force knowledge and experience of mitigating climate change with suppliers. Furthermore, we have put in place Hyundai Steel is an active member of the Environmental Policy Committee and the Environmental Technola midto long-term plan to develop technologies for the accurate analysis and effective reduction of GHG ogy Committee under the World Steel Association (WSA) and participates in the committee’s Better Air Qualemissions which are applicable to our production processes. ity project, which is designed to produce policy and technological countermeasures to deal with climate change. In addition, we participate in the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Climate Change (APP), a collaborative Internal Preparedness System initiative of governments and eight industries, including steel, power generation and cement, whose purThe precise measuring of GHG emissions is critical to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is why Hyunpose is to establish a worldwide cooperative network for developing policies and technologies to mitigate dai Steel commissioned outside experts to compile its GHG inventory in March 2010, listing all GHG emissions climate change. volume by source five months later. Based on these results, we have completed an IT system for comprehen※ Asia-Pacific Partnership on Climate Change (APP): Originally proposed by the US government in 2005, the APP is an initiative by Asiasive data management and target management of energy use and GHG emissions at all our work sites. Pacific countries to counter EU-oriented climate change conventions. The governments and industries from the seven members (Australia, Canada, China, India, Japan, Korea, and the US) gather to discuss voluntary initiatives to enhance energy efficiency and effectively reduce greenhouse gases. Energy Use Target Management Pilot Project Committed to a preemptive response to the GHG energy target management system, Hyundai Steel has Energy Usage become involved in an energy target management pilot project spearheaded by the Ministry of Knowledge (Unit : TOE) Economy. Conducted jointly by Motiva, a leading Finnish-based energy and material efficiency company, 2008 2009 2010 and the Korea Management Association Consulting organization in August 2010, the technology exchange Incheon 652,029 621,399 632,385 program involved inspections of Hyundai Steel’s energy management system and the energy use at our Pohang 496,591 459,837 494,482 Dangjin 605,911 519,521 899,233 production facilities. This opportunity provided us with opportunities to acquire skills in operating a globally Total 1,772,531 1,600,757 2,026,100 recognized energy management system. Following this, Hyundai Steel ran a verification test in November of 2010 which only improved the company’s preparedness for introducing the GHG energy target manage※ Hyundai Steel employees measure and minimize GHG emissions and energy use in the course of normal business activities. In 2010, the total amount of GHG emissions from Hyundai Steel’s Seoul office and sales offices around the country amounted to 728 tons, while energy use stood at 14TJ. ment system. In the pilot project, we set a target of reducing energy use by 0.7% and prepared legal forms that included specification forms and an implementation plan, all in accordance with target management guidelines, upon which they were verified by the Korean government. These procedures offered an excellent GHG Emissions (Unit : tons) opportunity for Hyundai Steel to prepare for the introduction of a GHG energy target management system. 2008 2009 2010 Participation in Energy Management System Pilot Project Incheon 1,736,164 1,625,248 1,632,348 Pohang 1,343,770 1,244,837 1,332,611 In response to energy issues stemming from surging oil prices and climate change, Hyundai Steel particiDangjin 1,546,370 1,349,995 7,169,684 pated in an energy management system pilot project in order to establish a system that would encompass Total 4,626,304 4,220,080 10,134,643 all aspects of our business, from setting energy use targets to monitoring and performance evaluations. As a result of this experience, Hyundai Steel is now aiming to acquire certification for its energy management practices by December 2011. Byproduct gases generated from the steelmaking process include blast furnace gas, coke oven gas, and basic oxygen furnace gas. To efficiently make use of these energy sources, Hyundai Steel has developed Carbon Footprint Management System the technologies to mix these three byproduct gases for the purpose of internal recycling, thereby enHyundai Steel signed an agreement with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and suppliers in October 2009 to establish a carbon foothancing energy efficiency and reducing the imported volume of energy sources. As part of our efforts to print management system meant to reduce GHG emissions. A joint project between large corporations and the government, the Carbon Footprint Management System project’s mandate is to assist SMEs in their efforts to build competencies in GHG reduction initiatives. enhance energy efficiency, we are also developing high-temperature air combustion technology which During the primary stage of the project, which ended in June 2010, Hyundai Steel prepared a GHG inventory, an energy management system, and carbon emissions statistics for each of our products. We also looked into energy consumption patterns and developed reuses exhaust heat to heat up combustion air for use in the steelmaking process, which considerably recountermeasures to improve related practices. We then provided all this information to 20 suppliers as a platform for their own climate duces energy usage. change preparation activities. The average energy use reduction rate for suppliers participating in the first stage was 5.7%. During the second stage, slated to end in June 2011, Hyundai Steel will provide the platform to another 20 suppliers, while continuing to provide assistance to participants from the project’s first stage. HYUNDAI STEEL 52. 53 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Environmental Management Activities Hyundai Steel is dedicated to investing in environmental initiatives designed to reduce environmental 2008 2009 2010 pollution. Environmental pollution reduction expenses include electricity bills, chemical and labor costs, Tap Water 1,925 1,571 2,329 and waste treatment expenses at environmental facilities. The expenses are comprised of construction Water Usage Industrial Water 6,414 5,490 18,907 (1,000 tons) Recycled Water 4,746 4,306 3,807 and repair, and maintenance costs at environmental prevention facilities, but exclude construction costs Total 13,085 11,367 25,043 for the new integrated steel mills. In 2010, Hyundai Steel spent KRW 153,741 million, up 170.4% from 3 Water Use for Crude Steel Production (m /ton) 1.33 1.35 1.90 the previous year, on reducing environmental pollution. This surge can be attributed to the operation of 3 Wastewater Treatment Effluent (1,000 m ) 762 555 6,233 Dangjin’s integrated steel mills, which began operating in 2010, and which caused an increase in overall expenses to reduce wastewater, air pollutants, and waste. Alternatively, environmental investment exTap water : water for public use that is supplied by local water purifying plants Industrial water : lower quality water used for production activities at factories and supplied by local water purifying plants penses declined 1.2% from the previous year, to KRW 19,839 million. only after primary treatment is carried out Recycled water : Incheon Works receives effluent from the Gajwa Wastewater Treatment Plant and reprocesses it at its reverse osmosis pressure facility for use in its own processes. Cost of Environmental Pollution Control (Unit : KRW million) 2008 2009 2010 The concentration of water pollutants generated at Hyundai Steel’s three steelwork plants is shown in the Incheon 23,234 19,944 21,970 table below. Pohang 13,014 14,355 16,830 (Unit : ㎎/) Dangjin 28,482 22,552 114,941 2008 2009 2010 Legal Limits Total 64,730 56,851 153,741 Incheon 29.6 34.0 46.0 120 SS Pohang 2.1 2.4 2.3 120 Dangjin 2.8 2.0 1.8 60 Environmental Investment Expenses Incheon 32.3 17.3 56.0 120 (Unit : KRW million) COD Pohang 6.6 6.3 4.8 130 2008 2009 2010 Dangjin 4.7 4.0 4.3 70 Incheon 11,411 6,549 8,154 Pohang 5,536 4,998 2,678 Dangjin 7,506 8,535 9,007 The average concentration of emissions from the integrated steel mill, which began full operation in 2010, Total 24,453 20,082 19,839 stood at SS 1.4mg/ℓ, COD 9.1mg/ℓ for 2010. The waste acid content from wastewater stemming from the stainless steel shop at Incheon Works goes through chemical and biological treatment before being discharged. We also replaced methanol with fruit sugar waste as a carbon source in 2010. Although the water Water Quality Control Activities quality control was temporarily disturbed by this trial in the course of finding the optimal operational conditions, the concentration has since been normalized. The resultant economic effect of reducing the use In an effort to apply stricter internal standards to wastewater treatment than legally required, Hyundai of chemical treatments and byproduct recycling amounted to KRW 130 million. Figures for Dangjin Works Steel operates advanced facilities involving chemical and biological processing and activated carbon prorepresent the concentration of emissions from the electric arc furnace. cessing, as well as integrated reprocessing at wastewater treatment areas. We also monitor for any impact on marine life and changes to toxic units in order to prevent any impact on local ecology. Committed to minimizing the concentration of pollutants discharged into water anywhere in the vicinity, Hyundai Steel built Air Pollutant Control Activities a pilot facility measuring 1/80,000 of biological processors as part of its continued R&D activities for optiHyundai Steel actively carries out R&D to improve the efficiency of dust collection and to develop activated carbon mized processing, while also maintaining the efficient operation of wastewater treatment plants. In 2010, in order to reduce the emissions of major air pollutants such as dust, sulfur oxides, and nitrogen oxides. Since 2009, we consumed a total of 25.04 million tons of water for cooling and cleaning at our three steelwork plants. we have been regularly monitoring air quality and applying diffusion modeling techniques by checking the content The integrated steel mill used approximately 14.01 million tons of water, accounting for 54.8% of the total of dust and odors in the vicinities of all work sites to minimize any impact on local communities. Hyundai Steel has water used. However, Incheon Works recycled treated sewage water with an annual substitute effect of also installed a filter dust collector on its sinters. This filter dust collector can remove pollutants from the exhaust gas 3.81 million tons. Despite a decrease in water use at the electric arc furnace in 2010, the water used in crude stemming from combustion in the sintering process without any other equipment. In addition, it can effectively treat steel production increased sharply due to the operation of the integrated steel mill. SOx and NOx, as well as high concentrations of dust from the sintering process’s exhaust gas. This device has not only enhanced the efficiency in the simultaneous treatment of pollutants but also maximized the efficiency and cost reduction in the installment and maintenance expenses of the treatment facilities. Conventional filters located at the sinter plants can be replaced with catalyst-embedded filters to the same effect. HYUNDAI STEEL 54. 55 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 In order to reduce fugitive dust, Hyundai Steel built walls and roofs at our coke yard and used vacuum clean vehicles In 2010, the total volume of byproducts, water pollutants, and air pollutants generated by all of Hyundai and high-pressure water trucks to keep roads on our work sites clean. We have also installed an electric dust collecSteel’s operations temporarily increased from 2009. However, we remain committed to developing and tor and filter dust collector in our sintering plant, maximizing dust removal. An activated carbon absorber was also implementing measures to reduce the total volume and intensity of emissions through ceaseless investadded in order to fully treat SOx, NOx, and dioxins in a bid to minimize the generation of air pollutants. ment, improvements to the emissions control system, and strengthened R&D. The emissions of dust, sulfur oxides, and nitrogen oxides, by plant, are shown in the table below. Byproduct Reuse (Unit : kg/t-s) The total volume of byproducts generated at Hyundai Steel’s three steelwork plants amounted to 3.74 2008 2009 2010 million tons in 2010, with slag accounting for 83% of the total, followed by dust (4.5%), refractory waste Incheon 0.08 0.06 0.05 (1.6%), and sludge (1.8%). Hyundai Steel reused 94.3% of these byproducts for cement, aggregates for Pohang 0.03 0.03 0.02 road construction, ascon aggregates, and for recovering valuable metals. We will continue to reduce and Dust Electric arc furnace 0.04 0.04 0.04 Dangjin reuse byproducts by adopting valuable metal recovery technologies for dust, while also improving the Blast furnace 0.09 Pohang 0.07 0.10 0.11 quality of steel scrap. SOx Electric arc furnace 0.02 0.03 0.02 Dangjin Hyundai Steel has developed technologies to reuse the slag generated during the steelmaking process as Blast furnace 0.75 construction aggregate. Furthermore, we have developed the technology to recycle dust and sludge conIncheon 0.09 0.08 0.07 Pohang 0.08 0.08 0.10 taining high concentrations of iron and carbon generated from the blast furnace in the electric arc furnace NOx Electric arc furnace 0.02 0.03 0.02 process. At the same time, dust and sludge containing low amounts of iron and carbon are recycled as Dangjin Blast furnace 0.61 eco-labeled products, which are then used for landfills and as exhaust gas treatment agents. In 2010, dioxin emissions from Incheon Works and Pohang Works fell by almost 50% compared to 2009, 2008 2009 2010 while remaining steady at Dangjin. In fact, the concentration of emissions at Dangjin Works remained Byproduct Volume (1,000 tons) 2,099 1,613 3,741 at an incredibly low 0.03 at its electric arc furnaces and 0.24 at its sintering plants. Incheon Works and Byproduct Recycling Rate (%) 88.4 92.8 94.3 Pohang Works thoroughly check product quality from the raw material stage and optimize the cooling of ■ Byproduct recycling rate: the percentage of byproducts recycled as cement component, aggregate substitute, and recycling exhaust gases from electric arc furnaces, which prevents the recomposition of dioxins and maintains a in the steelmaking process, excluding that which is treated through incinerations and landfills. moderate level of emissions. 3 (Unit : ng-TEQ/m ) Converting Steel Slag into Construction Aggregate 2008 2009 2010 Emissions Allowance Environmentally-friendly steel slag-based aggregate has a similar structure to that of conventional aggregate, but contains higher quality properties. This plays a significant role in the development of construction aggregates and various other recycling technologies. Incheon 0.05 0.10 0.05 In consideration of the physical and chemical properties of the slag created from its steelmaking process, Hyundai Steel ran a series of Pohang 0.04 0.15 0.06 Electric arc furnace: 0.7 tests to verify the eco-friendliness of the slag when recycled as construction aggregates such as concrete and ascon and obtained posiDioxin Electric arc furnace 0.03 0.03 0.03 Sintering plant: 0.5 tive results. Furthermore, we ensured its suitability for the construction field, achieving a higher quality than conventional aggregates Dangjin through a number of tests at construction sites. In the future, we will continue our technology R&D activities so we can use this slag for Sintering plant 0.24 special-purpose construction and offshore construction materials. Chemical Substance Reduction Activities Legal Compliance & Improvements The emissions of chemical substances from Hyundai Steel’s operations into the air and water amounted In response to concerns raised by local residents, Hyundai Steel invested a total of KRW 2.4 billion planting to 22,545kg in 2010. Under Korea’s Hazardous Chemical Substance Discharge Act, we measure the dust hoods at Dangjin Works to improve the facilities in 2010. Aside from this, we have not been in any othamount of chemical substances such as aluminum, copper and zinc that are discharged from each proer violation of environmental regulations. Following the completion of our integrated steel mill, Hyundai cess before disclosing all results. (Unit : kg) Steel is now obliged to conduct regular environmental impact assessments under Article 24 of the Environ2008 2009 2010 mental Impact Assessment Act and reveal these results to authorities by the end of January of the following Incheon 4,259 3,208 5,369 year. We measure the air quality, water quality, quality of marine life, underground water, soil, noise and Pohang 1,100 1,170 1,144 vibration, as well as the state of marine and inland ecology of neighboring areas every year. In addition, Electric arc furnace 3,097 3,502 3,520 Dangjin Hyundai Steel does not use or discharge any ozone-depleting substances or use any environmental pollutBlast furnace 12,512 Total 8,456 7,880 22,545 ants for packaging. SOCIAL VALUE Instilling Hope Companies have a responsibility to the societies in which they operate. When profits are shared with stakeholders, corporate value can grow even more. The sustainable future of a company relies on its stakeholders. Thus, Hyundai Steel’s employees, stakeholders and communities constitute our underlying assets. When every stakeholder makes a concerted effort under a shared goal, powerful synergies can be generated. Through win-win partnerships with stakeholders, career development programs for employees, and various engagement programs with communities, Hyundai Steel is committed to building a better society for everyone. 56-1. 57 Stakeholder Communication Social Performance Highlights May 2010 < Customer Satisfaction Surveys > 95.3% Team Seminars to Promote Communication (Page 61) 90.6% 100% 81.3% 100 336 400 319 323 78.3 Hyundai Steel holds team seminars to enhance employee performance 80% 80 70.9 75.1 300 and to mobilize the company’s resources. The seminars have four stages 60% 60 in place: team diagnosis questionnaires, team manager seminars, prelim200 inary meetings by team, and team seminars. Based on the findings at each 40% 40 stage, we identify any issue for improvement and develop subsequent 100 20% 20 action plans, while working on an infrastructure for communication and collaboration between team managers and team members. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Respondents Response rate Score November 2010 Win-Win Cooperation Agreement (Page 70) < 2011 Stakeholder Survey Results > In November 2010, we held the Hyundai Steel Win-Win Cooperation Agreement Declaration Ceremony. The agreement calls for expanding the scope Customers of financial aid, improving transactional conditions, promoting the develThe product purchase system is convenient and efficient. opment of quality and technology, reinforcing win-win cooperation with supplier subcontractors, increasing inter-company councils, and support2011 77.5 ing training and business activities. Hyundai Steel takes full responsibility for its products and services. 2011 73.8 Suppliers Hyundai Steel selects its suppliers in a fair and transparent manner. 2011 75.8 Hyundai Steel is committed to win-win partnership with suppliers. 2011 72.7 March 2011 House Repair for Hope and Energy Efficiency (Page 73) Employees Hyundai Steel makes every effort to prevent industrial accidents. Hyundai Steel signed an agreement with Korea’s Housing Welfare Association for House Repair for Hope and Energy Efficiency in March 2011. Under 2011 73.2 the agreement, we provided a total of KRW 385.91 million to the association in 2011, and for a period of 10 years, until 2020, Hyundai Steel is comHyundai Steel is committed to promoting a cooperative mitted to repairing and weatherizing 1,000 houses in Incheon, Pohang, labor-management relationship. and Dangjin. 2011 62.6 Communities Hyundai Steel is active with its volunteer activities and social contribution programs. 2011 75.9 Hyundai Steel contributes to the development of local economies. 2011 77.2 ※ Period : March 2, ~ March 11, 2011 Respondents : 1,124 persons HYUNDAI STEEL 58. 59 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Workforce As of the end of 2010, Hyundai Steel employed a total of 8,356 people, with technicians making up 69.7% of that number, followed by office workers/engineers (18.3%), then salespeople (3.0%), researchers (2.5%), and other employees (5.4%). That same year our job creation rate stood at 8% and the turnover rate at 2.2%. | Workforce | #01 Increasing (Unit : persons) Executives Office workers/Engineers Salespersons Researchers Technicians Others Total Personnel 88 1,532 247 212 5,824 453 8,356 Employee Competencies | Female Workforce | (Unit : persons) 2008 2009 2010 Total 204 210 243 (above senior-level) 15 15 17 People are the most valuable asset a company has, and the more competencies they have, the greater the workplace. As such, Hyundai Steel fosters future leaders of the steel industry through our | Job Creation Rate | (Unit : persons) performance-oriented next-generation human resource development system. At Hyundai Steel, we are 2008 2009 2010 dedicated to bringing about the best workplaces based on safe and healthy working conditions, and a No. of workers 6,756 7,757 8,356 communicative and cooperative corporate culture. Job creation rate 10% 15% 8% What programs do you run for reinforcing employee competencies? We systematically People constitute the true competitiveness of any company, which is why Hyundai Steel invests in the develop human potential of its employees. We offer equal opportunities to all employees so they can realize their full resources based on potential, offering fair and reasonable compensation for excellent performance results. The three aims of competence-building human resources development at Hyundai Steel are to internalize core values, foster future leaders, and training systems establish a performance-oriented human resource development system. and human resource development 3 HRD Directions planning. Fostering future leaders who are always willing to change and innovate CULTURE • Internalizing core values Realizing a • Promoting inter-departmental communication communicative and • Establishing a Great Workplace (GWP) cooperative corporate culture • Defining the roles and responsibilities of team PEOPLE managers Fostering performance• Promoting self-directed learning oriented future leaders • Fostering experts in their respective areas of the steel industry SYSTEM Establishing a • Creating an effective job training system framework for long• Reorganizing educational programs term human resource • Building an educational infrastructure development HYUNDAI STEEL 60. 61 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ● Education Internalizing Core Values Hyundai Steel operates diverse educational programs to foster globally competent and passionate emHyundai Steel gives training sessions to employees to internalize core values of the company as behavployees. Designed to address basic competencies, leadership, and expertise, the educational system ioral guidelines, which also helps reinforce solidarity among workers. The course is designed to help emdoes not discriminate based on job position or job duties. We foster future leaders of the steel industry ployees understand and practice the company’s core values in their jobs. through this educational system. Cultural Exchanges Hyundai Steel has run a cultural exchange program since 2006, providing employees with the opportunity 2008 2009 2010 to experience foreign cultures and cultivate a global mindset. A total of 74 people in 21 groups have had Total Training Hours 536,009 323,581 432,898 the chance to travel to Europe, the United States, and other countries. In 2010, there was little change to Total Training Expenses (KRW million) 4,957 2,340 5,699 the program. For example, participants are still required to accomplish goals during their trips. The goals are in line with the company’s five core values. The purpose of the trip is to learn the best practices of one Hyundai Steel has reopened its team motivation and cultural exchange programs. We have also launched of the five core values at a foreign country. Upon their return to Korea, employees are required to write new courses that include team seminars to promote communication, and they have increased the number an essay about their experiences overseas and then to post it online. This program turned out to be very of educational opportunities open to employees. effective in drawing attention to the company’s core values and in better understanding them. Hyundai Steel will continue to develop this program in the future through employee surveys. Leadership Program for Team Managers Team Seminars to Promote Communication Hyundai Steel provides leadership training to team managers. The two-day course includes extensive debates and special lectures on the roles and responsibilities of team managers. Held in March 2010, the Hyundai Steel holds team seminars to enhance employee performance and to mobilize company re2010 team manager leadership course had five aspects to it, including discussions on future corporate sources. The four-stage seminars aim at developing practical solutions and goals for each team through strategies, Great Workplace initiatives, talks on core values, and special lectures by celebrities. debates on the strengths and weaknesses of the team. The first stage begins with a diagnostic survey. For one week in May 2010, every member of participating teams, including team managers, answered questionnaires about the five criteria of trust, pride, interest, creativity, and accomplishment. In the second stage, team mangers reviewed the corporate culture and developed strategies based on the survey findings. The third stage is a preliminary meeting for teams where they discussed the results of the previous two stages and brainstormed on issues that required improvement. At the fourth stage, all teams got together to analyze the resolutions of the previous stages and set their own goals. This provides valuable opportunities for teams to collaborate and communicate, while clearly diagnosing their respective strengths and weaknesses. | Team Seminar Procedures | Leadership Program for Team Managers Team Seminars to Promote Communication Culture Exchange Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Diagnostic survey Team manager seminar Pre-meeting Team seminar Schedule 7 days prior to team manager seminar One-night two-days/7h 7 days prior to team seminar One-night two-days/7h Participants Team manager/ teammates Team manager Team manager/ teammates Team manager/ teammates Methodology Web-based questionnaires Camp training Team play (meeting rooms) Camp training • Attachment to team • Analysis of survey results • Sharing the seminar results • Analysis of current team issues /communication level /review of team atmosphere with teammates /brainstorming on solutions Description • Level of trust, pride, interest, • Developing a team’s • Discussion on the strengths • Games to build trust creativity, and accomplishment change of plans/strategies and weaknesses of the team among teammates • Survey results are not open /discussing issues for improvement • Making pledges to better to others outside the respective team facilitate communication among the team HYUNDAI STEEL 62. 63 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Performances Hyundai Steel reviews every employee’s performance through annual capability evaluations and three Safety Training Center are fairly evaluated quarterly performance evaluations on an annual basis. Based on these results, the company determines Hyundai Steel has safety training centers at its Incheon, Pohang and Dangjin Works to more effectively and compensated. the employee’s annual salary, ensuring fair compensation for their work. In addition, we keep the evaluaeducate employees on safety issues. Equipped with diverse safety devices and accident simulation protion criteria and judgment system up to date with the changing business environment. The latest update grams, the centers are accessible to both our employees and outside visitors. We continue to repair and was in 2001 when we adopted a new capability evaluation scheme. For the evaluation of lower-level upgrade the facilities for the efficient operation of training programs and to ensure accident-free workemployees, we have a multi-layered evaluation scheme, where team managers and teammates evaluate places. each other’s performance, helping ensure fair and objective evaluations. As with the team-based performance evaluations, we use Key Performance Indicators (KPI) as the prime indicator for teams to fine-tune their goals and strategies in line with corporate management policies and goals. Back to Basics: Safety Comes First The Facility Team at Incheon Works reached a monumental 4,000 days of accident-free work on June 17, 2010, an unprecedented event by any subsidiary of the Hyundai Motor Group. By November 8, 2011, the team will have surpassed the industry standard for accidentfree work hours 19 times over. This remarkable achievement can be attributed to the concerted efforts of all team members who share common goals through regular training and after-work rallies. The team also keeps all working conditions as clean as possible. With this accomplishment, the Facility Team has set the bar at new highs for other plants, improved work efficiency, and raised company-wide safety awareness. What do you do to ensure the safety and health of employees at workplaces? Safe Work Places Equal Happy Families Hyundai Steel’s Pohang Works holds a contest every May whereby family members of employees are asked to write letters asking to keep the workplace safe in an effort to instill safety awareness among employees. To date, we have chosen 32 winners, and when PoWe are dedicated Hyundai Steel puts safety and enjoyable workplaces at the top of our priority list with respect to employee hang Works published a compilation of winning letters from the 2009 contest, it brought yet more attention to employee safety. to industrial safety welfare policy. In line with this, we have in place safety and health guidelines which stipulate how the management and health and safety of employees are protected and looked after in the course of their daily job duties. Hyunoperate training dai Steel employees, as well as employees of suppliers and business partners, are obliged to abide by the programs and guidelines. We also offer regular seminars and campaigns on safety to raise employee awareness on the campaigns with issue. employees to increase Industrial Safety & Health Committee knowledge about safety awareness. Hyundai Steel operates an Industrial Safety & Health Committee consisting of 20 members, 10 from labor and 10 from management, at each of its steel plants. The committees hold quarterly meetings to deliberate annual safety and health plans, review and keep track of initiatives and safety and health facility management, and discuss safety education and accident prevention activities. Monthly Safety Meetings Incheon Works’ Facility Team’s accident-free Each steel plant holds monthly meetings to check on safety issues and track improvements that need Accident-free declaration ceremony records Compilation of letters to be made at each particular work site. Every plant also sets accident-free target periods and provides rewards to departments depending on their accomplishments. In addition, Hyundai Steel holds council meetings with partners to ensure collaboration on safety control at worksites by raising safety awareness Health Management among employees and employees of business partner companies. Hyundai Steel is committed to a safe and healthy workplace for all its employees. Each plant operates an Safety Rallies and Related Safety Campaigns infirmary and fitness room. In addition, the company subsidizes various health expenses, provides reguHyundai Steel holds regular meetings at each steel plant to share information and experiences and to lar health check-ups, and provides subsidies for medical expenses. develop ideas to prevent accidents. Safety rallies and various other safety campaigns remind employees about the safety mindset they need to remember every day they enter their work site. Furthermore, we provide regular training to safety and health managers and supervisors. Employees working at production lines are subject to quarterly safety training sessions to ensure safe and accident-free workplaces. HYUNDAI STEEL 64. 65 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Employee Communication Labor-Management Council #02 Growing Each plant runs a Labor-Management Council that consists of 20 people, 10 representatives from labor and 10 from management. The councils convene quarterly meetings to discuss ways for mutually beneficial cooperation. In 2010, councils at all three plants held four meetings to discuss improvements that needed to be made to working conditions. Labor Union As of the end of December 2010, the number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements with Our Stakeholders stood at 5,742, or 68.7% of Hyundai Steel’s 8,356 employees. As the business environment grows more complex, Hyundai Steel sees opportunities – and not GWP crises – in its partnership with stakeholders. From our raw material suppliers to customers and investors, the growth of our stakeholders provides the foundation for the profitable growth of Hyundai Steel initiated a Great Workplace (GWP) campaign in 2007 to build a corporate culture filled with Hyundai Steel. trust, pride and interest, which has since enhanced the company’s business performance. We operate Firmly dedicated to the development of the steel industry, we will continue to work tirelessly for GWP initiatives at each plant and award one GWP champion at each division, with one GWP agent repremutual growth with our stakeholders as we strive to create new growth engines. senting each team. In 2010, the three GWP goals were the same as in 2009: raising employee morale, improving the work process, and promoting a fun workplace. In consideration of the specific needs of each division, more action plans were added, such as encouraging self-development, improving work habits and processes, and promoting bottom-up communication. Mentors Make Great Teachers: Pohang Machinery Team Holds GWP Event The Machinery Team at Pohang Works held a GWP event in the run-up to Teacher’s Day. Under the belief that great mentors also make great teachers, lower-level employees delivered thank-you letters and small flowerpots to their more senior staff members. They also presented carnations to their superiors on Teacher’s Day in 2009. The Machinery Team was selected the best GWP team for the third consecutive year and spent their reward money on buying an LCD TV and then donating it to a local charity. The team successfully made full use of the company’s various GWP programs to improve their work process and efficiency. The team also won the top prize at a nationwide contest in 2009. | GWP procedures | 2007 Promoting communication 2008 Improving the work process GWP Roadmap 2009 Boosting employee morale 2010 Boosting employee morale SMART Board In 2010, Hyundai Steel launched a SMART Board program, which stands for Self-determining, Motivated, Active, Revolutionary and Together. The SMART Board is intended for the 42 people who represent lowerlevel employees, from clerks to managers, at Incheon, Pohang and Dangjin Works, as well as the Seoul office. These members work to develop innovative ideas and promote internal communication, developing and promoting future corporate plans at company-wide meetings and division level meetings. In the past they have suggested new ideas for enhancing customer satisfaction and win-win cooperation, both of which were reflected when Hyundai Steel developed its new 2020 Vision and Strategies. HYUNDAI STEEL 66. 67 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What plans does Hyundai Steel have in place for mutual growth with its stakeholders? We aim to achieve Hyundai Steel considers the growth of its stakeholders growth for itself. As such, we promote mutual Customer Conferences mutual growth. growth based on fair and transparent partnerships. In June 2006, we established a dedicated team for a We hold regular and on-demand meetings with major client companies (by product type) to ensure we company-wide integrated approach to win-win cooperation with suppliers. We invited stakeholders to reflect their needs and opinions in our production and sales operations. win-win cooperation forums with customers, pledged to carry out win-win cooperation with suppliers, and held regular meetings with suppliers to review related strategies and best practices. We also offer financial aid to our suppliers through such programs as the Green Bridge Loan and by paying steel scrap April • Conferences with 227 major client companies suppliers earlier than before. ● Customer Satisfaction May • Conferences with 65 international buyers from 25 countries Hyundai Steel trains its sales force on how to build customer satisfaction capabilities in order to provide specially tailored customer service. We have also expanded our technology sales network, developed September • Conferences with employees from 64 reinforcing bar and hot rolled product client companies customer-oriented steel products and enhanced the quality of our products in a bid to increase products suited to our specific customer needs. We will stay in close communication with our customers to create opportunities for mutual growth, while proactively supporting our value creation for them with our • Conferences with employees from 189 flat steel and long steel client companies October • Technical exchange forums with 16 international hot rolled product customers and shippers reinforced technology marketing. We will also collaborate with client companies as we advance into new from 14 countries markets in search of lucrative new business opportunities. November • Conferences with employees from 74 client companies of heavy plates and stainless steel Communication with Customers December • Win-win cooperation forums with 100 of our best customers from 2010 Communication Customer conferences Win-win cooperation forums with customers Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Hyundai Steel issues annual customer satisfaction surveys to get customer opinions on our product development and the work process. We carry out in-depth interviews with client companies by email or faceto-face on 11 criteria, including product quality, supply volume, response to orders, and claim processing. Technical Support Technology exchange The latest results from 2010 indicate that our technician services, prices, and claim processing continue fexchange forums to improve. Hyundai Steel earned its highest scores in our salespeople’s service, customer satisfaction, Presentations on steel response to orders and product quality. material use technologies Supporting technology books and manuals 2008 2009 2010 Respondents 336 319 323 Response rate 81.3% 90.6% 95.3% Scores 70.9 75.1 78.3 Hyundai Steel protects all customer information under its information security bylaws, and had no cases of claims of personal information leaks in 2010. We strive to provide accurate information to our customers and fully abide by the laws and regulations regarding marketing communications, such as advertisements, promotions and sponsorships, as well as the Supply of Goods and Services Act. We had no cases of violations or resultant monetary sanctions from these regulations during this reporting period. HYUNDAI STEEL 68. 69 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What are you doing to help business partners enhance their competitiveness? We offer financial, ● Enhancing the Competitiveness of Our Partners Win-Win Cooperation technical, and We operate a number of mutual growth programs to help our partners reinforce their financial stability • Subsidies with payment guarantee fees worth KRW 7.4 billion for customers of good standing to allow them to educational support and sustainable competitiveness. Hyundai Steel recently expanded the scope of financial aid and now secure a desired amount of products to our partners and provides technical R&D support to partners as well. • Regular conferences by product type and customer group meetings to listen to customer needs and opinions listen carefully to while sharing information about industry/market trends their suggestions and • 102 technology exchange forums and technical presentations on how to use steel products to help customers understand the complex technologies of our products opinions. Financial Aid • Technical support on the use of 82 Hyundai Steel products by providing design, engineering, and processing Hyundai Steel runs its Green Bridge Loan program in alliance with the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK). The manuals to promote the development and popularization of the use of steel products program offers loan guarantees up to 80% of raw material purchase prices to our suppliers of eco-friendly • 130 cases of product monitoring and listening to customer opinions to enhance customer satisfaction while making a preemptive response to claims facilities or those who lack guarantees. In 2010, we provided substantial loan support to partners through • Customer satisfaction surveys to improve and reflect in our work process and productivity the Green Bridge Loan and expanded the scope of beneficiaries from only facility suppliers to construction • Customer information security through customer portal system and information security system that provides and procurement subcontractors. The Green Bridge Loan program has earned an excellent reputation for real-time data on production plans, inventory, and other product information its contribution to Green Growth and win-win cooperation. Advanced R&D and Strict Quality Control • Green Bridge Loan: loan support worth KRW 11.7 billion in alliance with IBK to facility suppliers for raw material Hyundai Steel was able to make an operating profit from its first blast furnace a mere three months after the start of operations, an unpurchases and outsourcing expenses precedented accomplishment in the steel industry. Blast furnace products are all high-quality steel products that include things such • Financial aid worth KRW 9.0 billion to suppliers for land purchases and capital expenditures as steel sheets for automobiles and Steel Plate. As a result, customers tend to be very demanding about the quality of these products and will not buy them from an unverified blast furnace. The manufacturer should also have extensive experience and know-how about • Quality guarantee program ensured cost recovery and no-check warehousing, which shortens unloading times the optimal mixture of cokes and iron ores that come from different mines around the world, which is why it is very difficult to penetrate • Monitoring of steel scrap yards allowed preferred pricing for the volume of delivery after warehousing at the yard any market in the early stages of a blast furnace’s operations. Nevertheless, we were able to generate an operating profit from our first blast furnace through years of extensive preparation. In fact, since the start of construction on the first blast furnace in 2007, we dis• Plans to shorten term of payment bills from 85 days to 60 days, effective July 2011, to support stable purchases patched 150 employees to ThyssenKrupp, a leading global steelmaker, for a two-year course that included on-site training on the main and hedging financial risks for steel scrap suppliers (mutual growth agreement between steelmakers and steel processes of integrated steel mills. In 2008, we invited experienced engineers and technicians from Japan, Germany, Austria, and the scrap suppliers on November 4, 2010) US to provide technical advice to employees at our in-house training center. We also invited 700 supervisors from our facility suppliers for on-site support at each stage of the building of the blast furnace as well as during its operation. Due to all these efforts, our first blast • Agreement with eight commercial banks on loans dealing with accounts receivable for financial aid to suppliers furnace unit has become a stable source of income ahead of schedule. In addition, this success with our first blast furnace was the result (balance stood at KRW 1,050 billion as of the end of December 2010) of our advanced R&D efforts to swiftly respond to customer needs with respect to product quality. Hyundai Steel completed work on its Technology R&D Center in 2007. Since then, the center has been involved in advanced R&D with the integrated steel mill processes and acquired the essential factors to raise the quality of Steel Plate and steel sheets for automobiles. Hyundai Steel’s heavy plates acquired the necessary classification certification from the Korean Register of Shipping as soon as they rolled out from the blast furnace in April. The first heavy plates were supplied to the world’s top shipbuilder, Hyundai Heavy Industries, and to the Vietnamese state-run shipbuilder Vinashin. Technology R&D Support and Protection Whenever we introduce new technology, we hold technology exchange forums to share newfound knowledge with our partners. Also, seminars and on-site training sessions help them learn of these new technologies and save on R&D expenses. • Joint R&D : participating in industry-academic R&D projects (as of the end of 2010, two projects had been completed and 11 projects were under development) • Joint patent filings : as of the end of 2010, 23 joint filing patent cases with partners, with filing fees shared or assumed by Hyundai Steel • Technical guidance on the working conditions and heat process technologies for new product development, preliminary inspections, and guidance to make appropriate corrections prior to SQ inspections • Information sharing for response to rising demands for higher technology and regulatory revisions through technology exchange forums and presentations on how to use steel products properly • Technical support : technical and manual support for design, construction, and processing technology for the use of our products • Support of carbon footprint management (CFM) project : subsidizing energy management consulting for energy conservation and low-carbon management for partners, with subsidies provided by the Korea National Cleaner Production Center (KNCPC) and our own subsidies HYUNDAI STEEL 70. 71 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What are you doing to ensure fair transactions with business partners? Training & Educational Support We have completed Hyundai Steel organized the Hyundai Steel Supplier Association to evaluate the capacities of candidates an integrated purchase for stable supply, credit ratings, production capacity, and transparent management based on a criteria of We provide information on security and safety training to business partners at our work sites to raise their and evaluation system. management capacity, performance records, and candidate reliability when we select new suppliers. This awareness concerning information on security and safe workplaces. criteria includes business ethics practices to ensure transparency of supplier management practices. We select and reward suppliers of good standing once a year and support them with competence-building • Safety training : visits and on-site training at safety training centers through educational support programs. In 2010, we evaluated 223 procurement partners and 53 raw ma• Information security education : ensuring people know the importance of information security terials suppliers. Outsourcers are evaluated on a biannual basis for their management capacity, perfor• Technical training : new technologies and policy changes mance capability, and safety control practices, as well as their independent project performance. • Business support training : training to reinforce competitiveness through win-win management system | Outsourcing Evaluation Criteria | Communication Management Strategies Performance Capabilities Safety Control Hyundai Steel has declared its determination to win-win cooperation with partners with our win-win cooperation agreement and reinforced communication with partners to listen to their opinions and concerns. Improvements Accident rate (industrial) Stability We also hold regular conferences to listen to the thoughts of partners and to share information on raw (Work Process/ Environments) Safety control performance Transparency material prices and market developments. We take turns and move among different work sites, holding Accomplishments Accident prevention Efficiency (completion) performance conferences with steel scrap suppliers, facility suppliers, and construction subcontractors in turn. | Partner Opinions | Case Description Yard monitoring system Supporting the yard monitoring system at 54 workplaces with 34 partners We have also completed an online procurement system, allowing suppliers real-time access to our proQuality Guarantee program Quality Guarantee program for 17 partners (no-check warehousing) curement information. IT upgrading Video conferencing with partners • Integrated purchase system: eprocure.hyundai-steel.com 2011 Plan • Steel scrap purchase system : is.hyundai-steel.com In line with the government’s Large-SME Win-Win Cooperation initiative, which was announced in September 2010, Hyundai Steel held an agreement signing ceremony as a member of the Hyundai Motor Group, a first in the industry, on win-win cooperation and fair transactions in March 2011. In collaboration with our customers and partners, we will continue to strive for mutual growth with all stakeholders. • Supporting loans to partners through the new Hyundai Steel Win-Win Cooperation Fund • Expanding the scope of financial aid to include the support of partners’ capital expenditures • Compensation to partners’ not-in-use long-term inventory • Shortening bill payment terms to steel scrap suppliers: to 60 days by the end of 2011; to 30 days by the first half of 2012 Together We Can Do It! At 5pm every third Friday, the Raw Material Purchase Team at Incheon Works plays soccer with employees from steel scrap suppliers. Mutual Growth Agreement Ceremony Declaration of Mutual Growth and Fair Trade Agreement The two groups have maintained a close relationship through regular gatherings for a significant amount of time, while playing soccer together since 2008. Hyundai Steel agreed to the soccer games during work hours as we knew the positive influence this would have on closer ties and closer communication with business partners. Hyundai Steel builds mutual trust with partners under the shared notion that “Together we can do it!” HYUNDAI STEEL 72. 73 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What kind of social contribution activities does Hyundai Steel take part in? We run programs House Remodeling for Hope #03 In Harmony like Home Repair for Hope, Green Guards, and Happy Yes for local Since 2009, Hyundai Steel has run House Remodeling for Hope, which improves housing conditions for low-income people who live in the vicinity of our work sites. In 2009, we remodeled 32 farm houses in with Communities Dangjin. Then, in 2010, we remodeled 40 houses around Incheon and 80 houses in Pohang. We have also communities. signed agreements with city officials in Pohang and Incheon to establish a steering committee which will collaborate with local authorities on House Remodeling for Hope, even from the selection of beneficiaries. With the help of architects, Hyundai Steel employees volunteer their time alongside other volunteers It is our responsibility to our children to protect the environment. We also help invigorate local from universities and local communities to carry out this work. In 2011, we began expanding the project economies through our investments in business operations, which help create jobs. As a responsible and came up with Home Repair for Better Energy Efficiency, a way to reduce CO2 emissions through the corporate citizen, Hyundai Steel promotes a wide range of social contribution activities in the fields of enhancement of home energy efficiency. social welfare, arts and culture, education, and the environment. Green Guardians Under the motto “Children and the environment are our future,” Hyundai Steel operates several environmental protection programs, including camps, quiz contests and special classes for elementary students who go to school in communities around our work sites. We develop a full-year curriculum on the environment for children to learn from while also offering them the chance to take part in programs firsthand. In 2010, we launched our Green Guardians program at elementary schools located around our work sites with the belief that instilling “green habits” into the next generation will drive long-term initiatives concerning environmental protection. Happy Yes As part of our corporate social responsibility to local communities, we have set up a volunteer corps for university students called Happy Yes. This program encourages university students to help the underprivileged. In 2009, we recruited 100 university students from across the country to initiate the program as the first class. The second class was chosen in June 2010 and they participated in the House Remodeling for Hope program, as well as many other volunteer activities, during the summer and winter volunteer camps, not to mention the matching grant campaign carried out for eight months until February 2011. Green Guardians Happy Yes HYUNDAI STEEL 74. 75 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 What kind of social contribution activities does Hyundai Steel take part in? What does Hyundai Steel do to invigorate regional economies? Hyundai Steel Volunteer Activities We are actively Hyundai Steel is also involved in a campaign to revitalize traditional markets. We have signed food supply wants to establish involved in campaigns agreements and encourage employees to shop for groceries at traditional markets. In 2010, we purchased 2008 2009 2010 volunteerism and to revive traditional goods worth KRW 280 million at traditional markets to donate to local charities. In addition, many of our Participation rate 80% 86% 83% donation practices as markets. employees participate in a Traditional Market Day campaign twice a year to support shopping at nearby Time spent volunteering 83,886 hours 85,039 hours 99,496 hours part of our corporate traditional markets. culture. To ensure that social contribution activities are systematic and consistent, training a volunteer corps is as essential as collaborating with local communities. As a result, Hyundai Steel has trained team leaders for our volunteer corps on a yearly basis since 2006. One team leader is chosen from every department at Incheon Mar. 2009 Entered into food supply agreement with nearby Hyundai Traditional Market and purchased groceries worth KRW 300 million for the year. Purchased food items for New Year’s Hyundai Steel and they are responsible for their respective team’s volunteer activities. Although the parDay and Korean Thanksgiving Day to donate to local charities ticipation rate of employees who volunteered in 2010 dropped by 3% from 2009, the participants’ average 2010 Purchased rice from Hyundai Traditional Market and donated it to local residents volunteer hours for the year increased by three hours, from 33 hours per person in 2009 to 36 hours per person in 2010. Pohang Sep. 2009 Held a Traditional Market Day for Korean Thanksgiving Day at Jukdo Market 2010 200 employees participated in a Traditional Market Day campaign to buy groceries Employees’ Participation in Matching Grant Program Dangjin Sep. 2010 Signed an agreement with Dangjin County officials and the Agency for Traditional Market Administration on working together to revitalize traditional markets in Dangjin 2008 2009 2010 ※ The agreement calls for Hyundai Steel’s sponsoring of joint marketing and events to discover and develop new ideas for No. of participants 2,061 persons 2,590 persons 3,108 persons revitalizing traditional markets as well as purchasing food from traditional markets and signing a food supply agreement. Participation rate 31% 33% 37% Fund amount KRW 141,606,000 KRW 171,284,000 KRW 192,959,000 Hyundai Steel is proud of its matching grant program, which is different from other companies as we do not deduct anything from an employee’s paycheck. Instead, we encourage voluntary donations from employees. Since 2008, employees have been able to donate up to KRW 20,000 and be guaranteed that their donation will be matched by Hyundai Steel. The total amount raised is then spent on the company’s social contribution programs at the end of the year. In 2010, 787 employees agreed to make donations, raising a total of KRW 192,959,000, up KRW 21,675,000 from 2009. Matching Grant Fund Execution 2008 2009 2010 Selected programs Provision of throw-type fire extinguishers Home Repair for Hope Home Repair for Hope Traditional Market Day Agreement to help revitalize traditional markets Beneficiaries 184 welfare institutes for disabilities 32 low-income families in Dangjin 80 low-income families in Incheon and Pohang Funding size KRW219,216,000 KRW 283,212,000 KRW 342,568,000 (employee donation + company contribution) HYUNDAI STEEL 76. 77 SOCIAL VALUE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 We are involved Social Contribution Investment Amounts and Portion by Activity ● Social Welfare (Unit : KRW million) in various community engagement programs. Social contribution expenses Giving Gifts to the Underprivileged on Festive Days Portion Donations Public expenses Total Social Welfare 4,027,040 973,549 5,000,589 Portion Since 2007, Hyundai Steel has provided gifts on New Year’s Day and Korean Thanksgiving to low-income Culture, Art & Sports 848,200 2,493,366 3,341,566 35% bracket people in local communities. Our employees visit between 1,000 and 3,000 houses, as recomAcademic Research & Education 758,500 89,700 848,200 9% mended by local government bodies, to deliver the gifts and provide hope. In 2010, we delivered living Environmental Protection 187,600 62,769 250,369 3% necessities and food items to 1,900 low-income families and 20 charities. Total 5,821,340 3,619,384 9,440,724 100% Blood Donation Campaigns Hyundai Steel’s social contribution expenses grew by KRW 1.1 billion, or 13%, from 2009. Spending on academic research and education saw the greatest increase, followed by social welfare, environmental Since 2004, Hyundai Steel has run blood donation campaigns every March to contribute to the blood supprotection, and arts, culture and sports. ply shortage at local hospitals. The number of Hyundai Steel employees who take part in this campaign continues to grow every year, with 707 people participating in the 2010 blood drive. Sisterhood Ties with Farming Villages Year-End Volunteer Weeks Program Descriptions Remarks Hyundai Steel designates every December as Social Contribution Month, encouraging employees to Times 31 times volunteer and help the underprivileged in local communities. In 2010, some of our employees dressed Seeding and harvesting, Helping out at farms Volunteers 226 volunteers up as Santa Claus and visited local charities to deliver 1,630 gifts to needy children, elderly citizens, and restoration from typhoon damage Volunteer hours 1,830 hours multicultural families. We also delivered heating oil to 13 charities and visited local military troops, police Times 49 times stations, and fire stations to show them our support. Environmental clean-up activities Volunteers 525 volunteers Quarantine and cleaning Volunteer hours 3,422 hours ● Culture, Art and Sports Times 282 times Social gatherings for villages, general meetings, Hyundai Steel is committed to promoting cultural and artistic activities in local communities. We are Resident-friendly activities Volunteers 2,299 volunteers and supporting village censuses Volunteer hours 10,914 hours actively engaged in a number of local festivals and events where we work as volunteers and take part in Sponsoring parties and picnics Times 22 times Sponsoring spring and autumn picnics such events as the Incheon Korean Traditional Music Festival, the Pohang Hope Concert, and the Dangjin for elderly citizens Tug of War. Times 99 times Quarantine activities Volunteers 198 volunteers Community centers and public hygiene areas Sports Teams (Women’s Soccer & Men’s Archery) Volunteer hours 792 hours Subsidizing kerosene fuel for boilers at Hyundai Steel is proud to have formed the Red Angels, Korea’s first company-run women’s soccer club, in Oil expenses subsidies Volume 14,726 liters elderly community halls December 1993. Dedicated to the development of women’s soccer in Korea, Hyundai Steel owns a stadium which its women’s team uses to play in and train. Founded in February 1993, the Hyundai Steel Men’s Archery Team has been at the forefront of the development of archery in Korea. A highly competitive group of archers, the team has seen many remarkable performances in a number of domestic and international competitions. Children’s Soccer Academy Hyundai Steel runs a soccer academy for elementary school students in Incheon, using the same soccer stadium which the company’s women’s soccer team plays at. Hosted every summer since 2003, the Children’s Soccer Academy cultivates soccer skills, sportsmanship, and the proper mindset in the next generation of players. Sharing gifts with local residents Blood drive campaign Social Contribution Month SOCIAL VALUE ● Scholarship Programs: Fostering Future Leaders Appendix Scholarship Programs for Training On-site Researchers at Social Enterprises Since 2007, Hyundai Steel has operated scholarship programs in partnership with Sungkonghoe University’s Graduate School of Social Welfare for training on-site researchers at social enterprises. The program trains aspiring future leaders of philanthropic organizations to provide good jobs for those most underrepresented in the workforce. The training is done both in Korea and abroad, and involves a number of forums and other practical programs. Junior Engineering Academy Hyundai Steel has run its Junior Engineering Academy for elementary school students in Dangjin since 2005. Developed by the Korean National Academy of Engineering, the courses involve various scientific Third Party Assurance Report _ 80 experiments, such as working with magnetic levitation propulsion trains and making voltaic batteries. GRI Guidelines _ 82 The 50 trained volunteers, who are all Hyundai Steel employees, led a total of six classes in 2010. ● Environmental Conservation One Company-One River Activities For our One Company-One River Activities, Hyundai Steel takes part in regular cleanups of Incheon’s Gulpo River. In 2010, 50 volunteers picked up litter along the 2.4km riverbank and helped clean the bottom of the river. Underwater Cleanup Activities The scuba diving clubs at Dangjin Works and Pohang Works go scuba diving to clean the bottom of bodies of water eight times a year. Flea Markets Hyundai Steel holds flea markets in partnership with local communities in Incheon and Pohang. At these flea markets, employees and their families have a chance to sell their unused goods for reuse to local residents, donating all proceeds to social causes. In the future, we plan on establishing the event biannually in promotion of reusing resources in local communities. Hyundai Steel’s Women’s Soccer Team Junior Engineering Academy One Company-One River Protection Campaign HYUNDAI STEEL 80. 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Third Party Assurance Report Continuous use of stakeholder surveys, with an increasingly extended scope to be more inclusive of multiple stakeholders. Efforts to actively reflect stakeholder views in identifying priority issues for sustainability management. To the Stakeholders of the HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2011 1 AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) Efforts to reflect customer views on product development and quality improvement. Upon request of Hyundai Steel, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies as a “third party assurance provider” (hereinis a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its purGoing forward, the Assurance Provider suggests providing a fuller account of the process for managing customer viewafter referred to as the “Assurance Provider”) presents the following third party’s assurance report on the “HYUNDAI suit to promote overall organizational points at the level of the top management and other decision-making processes. STEEL Sustainability Report 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”)” performance and accountability by [Materiality]: Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Hyundai Steel stakeholders? Accountability and Objective improving the quality of social and Hyundai Steel is held accountable for all information and claims contained in the Report including sustainability ethical accounting. As a U. K. based It is the Assurance Provider’s view that the Report covers issues of material importance to the stakeholders of Hyundai management goal setting, performance management, data collection and report preparation. The objective of this asnot-for-profit organization focusing Steel. We verified that the Company has identified issues material to Hyundai Steel’s internal and external stakeholdon corporate social responsibility and ers through a refined process of materiality test, consistent with the Assurance Provider ’s recommendations regarding surance report is to check whether the Report is free of material misstatement or bias and whether the data collection business ethics, Accountability first last year’s Report on expanding the scope of its surveys. The following points were found to be particularly commendsystems used are robust, and to offer advice on improving the quality of the Report through identifying sustainable developed AA1000AS in 1999 and able. management issues and reviewing its reporting process. amended the standards in 2008 for The Report presents issues of material importance specific to different stakeholders; and application in 2010. Independence Presents performance outcomes centering on material issues in a question and answer reporting format. The Assurance Provider has no relations with Hyundai Steel regarding any of its for-profit operations and activities. In 2 BEST Guideline or BEST SustainGoing forward, the Assurance Provider suggests providing additional information on any emergent or newly identified addition, the Assurance Provider has carried out its assurance process with independence and autonomy as it was not ability Reporting Guideline is a issues, while comparing the relative materiality of the reported issues, and providing trend data tracking how the asinvolved in the preparation of the Report except for offering comments in the process. guideline for the preparation and sessed materiality of particular issues changed by reporting period. assurance of sustainability reportCriteria for Assurance ing and offers five levels of reporting [Responsiveness]: Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and areas of interest? The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following guidelines: quality assessment. It was jointly 1 developed by the Ministry of KnowlIt is the Assurance Provider’s view that Hyundai Steel has been working to be responsive to stakeholder demands. AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Recognizing the importance of effective communication with all stakeholders, the Company has employed various 2 edge Economy (MKE), the Institute BEST Guideline 3 for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), channels of communication to collect their views while also implementing various programs designed to respond to Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Korea Chamber of Commerce stakeholder requirements and high-interest issues. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. Type and Level of Assurance and Industry (KCCI) in the Business The Report provides information on the company’s organization that is in charge of responding to key issues; and Ethics Sustainability Management for Accounts for outcomes regarding issues of high-interest for stakeholders such as new product development, responding The Assurance Provider conducted assurance process for the Report in accordance with Type 1 and Moderate Level of Top Performers (BEST) forum in their to climate change, fairness and transparency in business partner selection etc. AA1000AS (2008). endeavor to promote sustainability The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in the Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly Going forward, the Assurance Provider suggests providing stronger coverage on actual stakeholder communication reporting among local companies. disclosed information, reporting system and performance management process based on the three core principles of AA1000AS results on key material issues as well as presenting how it has processed and responded to stakeholder requirements. (2008), namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. However, this assurance engagement does not provide the evalua3 GRI Sustainability Repor ting tion of the credibility of the offered data. Guidelines were jointly convened [GRI Application Levels] The Assurance Provider pursued moderate level of assurance where sufficient evidence has been obtained and limited sampling by the Coalition for Environmentally The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3 Reporting Framework at the level of A+. The GRI Applicahas been conducted at each performance sector to support its assurance report such that the risk of its conclusion being in error Responsible Economies (CERES) and Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Protion Level is assessed by the following table. is reduced but not reduced to very low or not zero. UNEP in 1997. GRI announced the vider G3 Guideline, the third edition of its Established in 1993, the Institute for [BEST Fulfillment Levels] Scope and Methodology sustainability reporting guidelines, in Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) has acThe Assurance Provider carried out the following activities in order to (1) review the extent to which The Report applies October 2006. The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 96.3% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level cumulated broad expertise in the arthe principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and (2) assess the Report’s application level of the GRI/ 5 Report (from among Level 1 ~ 5) eas of ethics management, corporate BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. social responsibility and sustainable Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and internal parties involved Recommendations management since 2002, and serves Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes Relative to the prior year, the Assurance Provider found “HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2011”, Hyundai Steel’s as a third party assurance provider for Ensuring the financial data in the Report and Hyundai Steel’s audited financial reports correspond fourth Report, commendable on the following counts. The Report 1) provides reinforced coverage centered around the sustainability reports published Reviewing the Hyundai Steel’s response system for material issues issues of material stakeholder concern using a question and answer format; 2) informs readers on various Hyundai by local companies. IPS has conductConducting interviews with managers and staffs responsible for dimension-specific performance Steel products utilized in day to day life as well as key process-specific data as a means to provide a fuller overview of ed the assurance engagement upon Completing on-site due diligence focusing on the Seoul office(May 24, 2011) the Company’s products and management activities; and 3) reflects efforts by the Company to better accommodate its request of Hyundai Steel, and assemEvaluating the Report as to its adherence to GRI/BEST Guidelines stakeholders by adopting a new Report design as well as new format for its table of contents. bled a team of five assurance providers who are professors at Korea’s top Limitations For future reports, the Assurance Provider suggests the following considerations. universities or professionals with acA review of the accuracy and reliability of data and interviews with persons in charge of data collection and performance-related creditation and extensive experience Present performance results against mid-to-long terms sustainability management targets. information at management levels in sustainability management after Provide stronger disclosure of performance results. Verifying the data and inquiries into each functional manager and information collection manager majoring in business management, On-site validation focused on the Seoul office Based on the findings of this assurance report as well as the recommendation letter that was submitted separately, the accounting or environmental science. Assurance engagement based on data and publicly available information only during the current reporting period Assurance Provider recommends that Hyundai Steel establish a more systematic system for sustainability manageEvaluation of the reliability of the performance data being excluded ment and reporting. Conclusions The Assurance Provider did not find the Report to contain any material misstatements or bias on the basis of the scope, methodology and criteria described above. All material findings of the Assurance Provider are provided herein, and detailed findings and follow-up recommendations have been submitted to the Hyundai Steel. [Inclusivity]: Is Hyundai Steel’s strategy-setting and engagement process for stakeholder participation adequate? The Assurance Provider noted the emphasis placed by the Company on stakeholder communications in the implementation of its sustainability management program. Hyundai Steel has put in place a regular channel of communication with its respective stakeholders i.e. shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers, management and staff, and the local commuJune 13, 2011 nity. It is the Assurance Provider’s view that Hyundai Steel has been using these channels to better identify issues requiring Jae-eun Kim a greater focused effort, while engaging stakeholders in the development and implementation of a strategic and responPresident, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies sible response to achieve sustainability management. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. HYUNDAI STEEL 82. 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 GRI Guidelines Reported ◐ Partially Reported Not Available Not Applicable Company Overview Economic Performance Profile GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index Performance Indicator GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index EC Disclosure on Management Approach 21 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2~3, 12~13 A_1 Strategy and Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15 A_2 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 32 EC1 2.1 Name of the organization Cover A_3 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for theorganization’s activities due to climate change 50 EC2 Economic Performance 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8~11 A_4 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report EC3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Supplementary information EC5 2.3 Annual report, 7 A_5 operating companies, subsidiaries, and jointventures EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to localminimum wage at significant locations of operation Annual Report EM4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Annual report A_7 Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-basedsuppliers at significant locations of operation Supplementary information EC4 Organizational Profile 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates andnames of countries with either major operations 7 A_7 EC7 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-basedsuppliers at significant locations of operation Supplementary information EC4 or that arespecifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments andservices provided primarily for 73, 74~76 EC6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 22 A_8 Indirect Economic Impacts public benefit throughcommercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectorsserved, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 37 A_9 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economicimpacts, including the extent of impacts ◐ 59 EC7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 31, 59 A_10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size,structure, or ownership Annual report, 40~41 B_8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 19 CO8 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for informationprovided 1 B_3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 1 B_8 Environmental Performance 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 B_6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 B_9 Performance Indicator GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index 3.5 Process for defining report content 21 B_4 EN Disclosure on Management Approach 21 3.6 Boundary of the report 1 B-1 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Special Page EV10 Materials Report Parameters 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 1 B-2 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 44~45 EV11 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leasedfacilities, outsourced operations, and A_6 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 44 EV7 other entities that cansignificantly affect comparability from period to period and/orbetween organizations EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 44 EV8 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 51, 53, 55 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ◐ 45, 51 EV5 Energy 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of informationprovided in earlier reports, 1 and the reasons for such re-statement EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy basedproducts and services, Supplementary information EV5 and reductions in energy requirementsas a result of these initiatives 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in thescope, boundary, B_5 or measurement methods applied in thereport EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 45 EV5EV25 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures inthe report Appendix B_10 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 52~53 EV9 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking externalassurance for the report Appendix B_7 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Supplementary information EV20 Governance structure of the organization, includingcommittees under the highest governance body EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 45, 53 EV18 4.1 22, 23 GR1 responsiblefor specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational over sight Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, oradjacent to, EN11 Supplementary information EV22 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body isalso an executive officer 22 GR1 GR3 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity valueoutside protected areas For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state thenumber of members of EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, andservices on biodiversity in protected areas Supplementary information EV22EV26 4.3 22 GR2 and areas of highbiodiversity value outside protected areas the highest governance body that areindependent and/or non-executive members Biodiversity Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to providerecommendations EN13 Habitats protected or restored Supplementary information EV27 4.4 4-1 GR12 or direction to the highest governance body EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managingimpacts on biodiversity Supplementary information 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highestgovernance body for ◐ 23 GR7 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation listspecies with habitats in areas affected by EN15 Supplementary information EV28 guiding the organization’s performance operations, by level ofextinction risk 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensureconflicts of interest are avoided 23 GR13 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight reductions achieved 45 EV12 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of themembers of the highest governance body Annual report, 22 GR4 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 45 EV13 for guiding theorganization’s strategy on economic, environmental, andsocial topics EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 50~51 EV4 Governance, 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes ofconduct, and principles relevant 18, Web site EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Supplementary information EV14 Commitments, to economic, environmental,and social performance and the status of their implementation and Engagement Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing theorganization’s identification and Emissions, EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 54 EV15 4.9 2010 Report, 18 GR5 management of economic,environmental and social performance, including relevant risksand opportunities Effluents, EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 53 EV17 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s ownperformance, ◐ 23 GR6 and Waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 55 EV16 particularly with respect to economic,environmental, and social performance EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Supplementary information EV21 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approachor principle is addressed by the organization 24 GR11 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemedhazardous under the terms of Supplementary information EV29 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and socialcharters, principles, the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III,and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shippedinternationally Web site, Appendix GR10 or other initiatives to which theorganization subscribes or endorses EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of waterbodies and Supplementary information EV19 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/internationaladvocacy organizations Web site, Appendix A_11 related habitats significantly affected by thereporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4-1 C_1 C_2 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products andservices, and extent of impact mitigation 11, 44~45 EV23 Products and Services 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders withwhom to engage 4-1 C_1 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials thatare reclaimed by category 44~45, 55 EV24 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequencyof engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4-1 C_2 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance EN28 Supplementary information, 55 EV31 environmental lawsand regulations C_3 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 ◐ 4-1, 28-1, 44-1, 56-1 and how the organization has respondedtothose key topics and concerns Significant environmental impacts of transporting products andother goods and materials used for Transport EN29 EV30 the organization’soperations, and transporting members of the workforce Total EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 52 EV1 HYUNDAI STEEL 84. 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Product Responsibility Performance Profile GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index Profile GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index LA Disclosure on Management Approach 21 PR Disclosure on Management Approach 21 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Annual Report, 59 EM1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of productsand services are assessed PR1 ◐ 44~45, 67 CS4 Customer Health for improvement, and percentage ofsignificant products and services categories subject to such procedures LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 59 EM5 Employment and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations andvoluntary codes concerning health and Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or PR2 67 CS11 LA3 60~61 EM20 safety impacts of productsand services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes part-time employees, by major operations Type of product and service information required byprocedures, 66~67 CS5 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 64 EM12 PR3 Labor/ and percentage of significant products and servicessubject to such information requirements Product and Management Relatioans LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, 2010 Report EM13 Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulationsand voluntary codes concerning product including whether it is specified in collective agreements PR4 67 CS12 and service informationand labeling, by type of outcomes Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and 62 EM14 LA6 PR5 surveys measuring customer satisfaction 66~68 CS9 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Marketing Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntarycodes related to marketing communications, 67 CS13 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region EM19 PR6 Occupational Health Communications includingadvertising, promotion, and sponsorship and Safety LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 62~63 EM18 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulationsand voluntary codes concerning marketing their families, or community members regarding serious diseases PR7 67 CS14 communications,including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type ofoutcomes LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 62 EM15 Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches ofcustomer privacy and losses of customer data 67 CS15 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 60 EM27 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with lawsand regulations concerning PR9 67 CS12 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of the provision and use of productsand services Training and Education LA11 employees and assist them in managing career endings Supplementary information EM28 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 62 EM29 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, [GRI Application Levels] LA13 59 EM2 Diversity and age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Opportunity The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3 Reporting Framework at the level of A+. The GRI Application Level is assessed by the folLA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Supplementary information EM3 lowing table. Rport C C+ B B+ A A+ Application Level Human Rights Performance Report on : Report on all criteria lested Same as requirement for 1.1 for level C plus : Level B OUTPUT Profile GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index G3 Profile 2.1-1.10 1.2 HR Disclosure on Management Approach Disclosures 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses HR1 or that have undergone human rights screening PN2 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Investment and Procurement Standard Disclosures HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 71 PN3 Practice HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Non-descrimination that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 25 EM30 Disclosures for each Disclosures for each OUTPUT G3 Management Indicator Category Indicator Category HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Supplementary information EM7 Approach Disclosures Freedom of Association Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and and Collective-Bargaining HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Supplementary information EM8 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Child Labor HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Supplementary information EM9 Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations that are likely to have forced labor and measures taken Supplementary information EM10 G3 Performance Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Report on each core G3 and Indicators & 10 perfomance Indicators, 20 perfomance Indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator OUTPUT HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or Security Practices 25 EM31 including at least one from at least one from each of with due regard to the Materiality procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Sector Supplement each of : Economic, Social Economic, Environmental , Principle by either : a) reporting * Assurance findings were conIndigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken CO2 Performance and Environmental Human rights, Lobor, Society on the INdicator or b) explaining verted uniformly into fulfillment Indicators Product Reponsibility. the reason for its omission. ratios as measured against Level 1 through 5 requirements. Society Performance Profile GRI Index Indicators Reporting Status Page BEST Index [BEST Fulfillment Levels] SO Disclosure on Management Approach The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 96.3% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 5 Report (from Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs andpractices that assess and Community SO1 21 CO2 among Level 1 ~ 5) manage the impacts of operations oncommunities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed forrisks related to corruption 26 CO5 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 25 CO5 Reporting Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 Public Policy SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 25 CO5 Publications 1st 2nd 3rd 4th SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policydevelopment and lobbying Supplementary information CO6 Level Level 4 Level 4 Level 4 Level 4 Anti-competitive Behavior SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to politicalparties, politicians, and related institutions by country Supplementary information CO7 Fulfillment 95.6% 95.6% 97.1% 96.3% Unfair Competition Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Supplementary information CS3 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Compliance SO8 Supplementary information CO9 non-compliance with laws and regulations HYUNDAI STEEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Additional Information on Hyundai Steel’s Performance EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government There was no government subsidy during the reporting period. Economic Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 at significant locations of operation Hyundai Steel has a policy of equal employment and procurement, Performance which considers performance or qualifications only. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 from the local community at significant locations of operation Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, Energy EN6 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Due to the nature of the business, it’s not applicable to Hyundai Steel. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water “The Incheon Works has a sewage treatment plant that re-treats the water discharged from the Gajwa Sewage Treatment Plant. The plant also supplies additional water from the Poongnap Waterworks when needed. The Pohang Works receives its water from Ahngye Dam and the Dangjin Works from Dae-Cheong Lake. Water Most of the cooling water is reused at the plants. Some waste water are physically, chemically, and biologically treated and then discharged legally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies EN25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Hyundai Steel does not own, lease or manage land in, or adjacent to, Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value. EN12 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity There has been no indication that Hyundai Steel’s activities have had a negative impact Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species on biodiversity in adjacent areas. Moving forward, Hyundai Steel continues to make EN15 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk a close investigation into the impacts on an ecosystem and manage them. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight There are no ozone-depleting substances emitted directly by Hyundai Steel. Effluentsand EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Waste Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous There was no case of significant spills and cross-border transactions of hazardous wastes. EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Compliance EN28 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations There was no violation of environmental law and regulations during the reporting period. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning We offer courses for retirees to help these employees plan for a better future. LA11 that support the continued employability of employees We held a program of ‘Planning for Post-retirement life’ in both Incheon and assist them in managing career endings and Pohang Works Labor Hyundai Steel provides equal opportunity and does not discriminate LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category against employees based on gender, age, nationality or racial background. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Hyundai Steel prohibits discrimination of all kinds and there was no incident of discrimination during the reporting period. Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Hyundai Steel guarantees freedom of association and does not discriminate against HR5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, members of labor unions for their legitimate activities. HumanRight and actions taken to support these rights There was no interruption in production due to strikes during the reporting period. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Following the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact as a signatory, and as a law abiding corporate citizen who complies with labor laws, we prohibit child and forced labor, and completely comply HR7 Operations that are likely to have forced labor and measures taken with laws on non-discrimination. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Hyundai Steel does not conduct participate in illegal lobbying and other political affairs, Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, including illegal financial contributions to political parties or politicians. SO6 and related institutions by country Society Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Regarding fair trade actions, non-compliance incident was identified, SO7 and monopoly practices and their outcomes during the reporting period. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions SO8 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Hyundai Steel was not subjected neither violation nor penalties during the reporting period.
