Sustainability Report 2011 Contents About this Report About Us 1 This is Pacific Hydro Pty Ltd’s third annual Sustainability Report, covering the period 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011. The document reports on Governance 9 sustainability topics and indicators for all of our majority-controlled assets Business Partners 11 and offices in Australia, Brazil and Chile, except where noted. Tinguiririca Energía (TE), our 50:50 joint venture in Chile, produces its own Sustainability Community 18 Report, which can be viewed at www.tinguiriricaenergia.cl Environment 23 We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines and the Electric Utilities Sector Supplement to a B Level. This has been checked by Workplace 30 the GRI. The report is not externally assured. Work towards obtaining external GRI and UNGC Index 37 assurance will commence in 2012 as part of our 5-year sustainability plan. All dollar amounts are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. • Front cover image: Codrington Wind Farm, During the reporting period, we divested our share of the Bakun Hydro Australia project in the Philippines to our joint venture partner AboitizPower. About Us Clean energy generated 1.7million megawatt hours (MWh) Employees Operating assets 314 17 Net sales $151.9million Company Profile Pacific Hydro is a leading renewable energy company, producing clean power from natural resources. For nearly 20 years, we have lived our vision – powering a cleaner world – by identifying, delivering and operating renewable energy projects and providing clean power and carbon abatement products and services to customers across the globe. With hydro, wind, solar and geothermal power projects at varying stages of development, construction and operation in Australia, Brazil and Chile, we continue to provide strong returns for the environment, local communities and investors. We have over 850 MW of operating hydro and wind assets and a further 2,000+ MW in our project development pipeline. Our operating assets abate an estimated 1.5 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions every year. We are also active in the carbon market, with proven success in the production and trading of carbon credits from our run-of-river hydro projects registered under the Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol. Sustainability Report 2011 1 A Message from our CEO Welcome to our 2011 Despite these challenges, we achieved The year ahead is looking promising for Pacific Hydro. Sustainability Report. a number of significant milestones. We are committed to building a In Australia, we celebrated the ten In Australia, changes to the policy sustainable future for Pacific Hydro year anniversary of the completion environment for the clean energy and our stakeholders. Over the past of theCodrington Wind Farm, the industry are set to create new financial year, we have continued to country’s first commercial wind farm. opportunities for us as we look live our vision – “powering a cleaner We were also selected to build to progress our wind, solar and world” – through the development, Australia’s largest solar photovoltaic geothermal development projects. delivery and operations of our project as part of the Moree Solar Farm Our Brazilian business unit will renewable energy projects, making consortium. This represents a milestone explore growth opportunities in the substantial progress towards in achieving our technology and unregulated clean energy market achieving our business objectives geography diversification objectives to attract large mining, industrial and long-term growth. in that market. and utility companies as potential customers for our projects. It was a year of great challenges Our wind farms in Brazil’s northeast and achievements for our business. achieved their second full year without Finally, a shortage of new projects in any lost time or medical treatment an energy-constrained Chilean economy More than 1.7 million megawatt injuries. Brazil became the world’s is very promising for our pipeline of hours of clean, renewable energy seventh biggest economy in 2010 development projects in the Cachapoal were generated by our assets, leading and is currently experiencing favourable Valley following the conclusion of the to the abatement of 1.3 million tonnes social and economic development, Chacayes project. of greenhouse gas emissions. creating many potential opportunities for Pacific Hydro in the clean energy sector. I hope you enjoy reading about our We remained committed to continuous continued sustainability journey. improvement in health, safety and the Following the successful inauguration development of our people. by the President of Chile in October 2010, our joint venture hydro power Our Total Recordable Injury plants La Higuera and La Confluencia Frequency Rate (TRIFR) reduced by commenced generation, making Rob Grant ten per cent from last year. During the Pacific Hydro one of the largest year we also achieved 100 per cent renewable energy companies in Chile. compliance with our lead health and As we closed the financial year, we were safety key performance indicators, on track to deliver our Chacayes hydro which will translate to further TRIFR project on time and to budget. improvements next year. Locally and globally, we take pride in We had a large number of internal our social development programs and placements company-wide, which the excellent relationships we maintain have created opportunities for our with our host communities. Our staff to take on new roles and further community programs in Australia, develop their careers. Brazil and Chile continue to provide We remained profitable despite our opportunities for innovation and social hydro assets in Chile experiencing cohesion, achieving positive, long-term the driest hydrological year in the community goals. past 50 years, transmission constraints, In July 2010, we were accepted into project commissioning delays and the United Nations Global Compact regulatory challenges. In addition, we and are committed to further integrating saw depressed energy and Renewable this initiative into our operations. Energy Certificates prices in Australia throughout the reporting period. 2 Sustainability Report 2011 Vision Our LEADing Values Powering a cleaner world. Leadership – Having the courage to lead and innovate. Mission To produce electricity profitably through Energy – Helping to meet the world’s the innovative commercialisation of clean energy needs while making a positive energy resources. and lasting difference to the environment. Action – Achieving our goals by working together, with integrity and an entrepreneurial spirit. Dedication – We are dedicated to ensuring a healthy and safe environment for our employees, the sustainability of our business and positive outcomes for our communities. Our Global Projects Hydro Wind Solar Geothermal Sustainability Report 2011 3 What Sustainability Means to Us Our Sustainability Framework Community Environment We are committed to ensuring the sustainability of our industry and We aim to develop mutual trust We aim to provide a net benefit company and this is embedded in the and respect with communities to our planet by producing clean way we work. As we develop, deliver through honest and open energy with minimal impact on and operate renewable assets in our communication. Our goal is to biodiversity, natural resources host communities, we take a long-term deliver community programs and and our climate. Environmental view of the environment in which we initiatives that provide clear benefits Management Systems are operate and the relationships we and meaningful outcomes that implemented at our sites and we develop with all our stakeholders. make a lasting difference to our set environmental objectives and This enables us to maintain a social host communities and which are targets. We are working to measure license to operate for the lifecycle aligned with the company’s and reduce our own carbon footprint. of the assets, identify and develop objectives. Actions are undertaken We engage with policy makers, business opportunities, manage risks, in line with our global Community communities and the public on advocate the best clean energy policies Charter which is a guiding renewable energy issues and and attract and retain the best staff. framework for consistent standards advocate climate change policies. Our Sustainability Framework is across our global operations. built on four pillars: community, environment, workplace and business partners. These pillars provide our Workplace Business Partners business with a clear focus and drive our sustainability practices. As an industry-leading employer We aim to deliver long-term value of choice, we aim to provide a to our shareholders and partners workplace that is safe from injury in a transparent, ethical and and harm for our staff and economically sustainable way. contractors. We support initiatives Best practice and continuous to improve employee health and improvement are sought in the wellbeing in the workplace. management of our development, Training and development construction and operation of sites opportunities are provided for and is governed by our internal employees at all levels and we Management Systems and Asset value diversity in our organisation. Management Framework. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we advocate for responsible business practices within our sphere of influence. • Right: Coya Intake, Cachapoal River, Chile 4 Sustainability Report 2011 Key Sustainability Issues Our Priority Areas Our business planning and risk processes and engagement with Community Environment stakeholders help us to identify our • Consultation and Engagement • Biodiversity key sustainability impacts, risks and • Community Development • Compliance, Reporting, opportunities. All of the economic, and Funding Accountability social and environmental issues are assessed, resulting in the identification Workplace Business Partners of priority areas for each of our Sustainability Pillars, summarised on • Health and Safety • Financial Returns the right. This process enables us to • Attracting, Rewarding • Renewable Energy Policy determine the topics to be included in and Retaining Staff and Advocacy the report and are taken into account when we set our business strategies and goals for 2011/16 (refer to p.8). Our Stakeholders Stakeholder group Methods of engagement Our stakeholders are those individuals Shareholders (Owner) Board and Committee meetings; investor and groups impacted by our activities updates; 5 year Business Planning process; or those who can impact on our future strategy reviews development. The group is diverse and we adapt our approach and engagement Banks and Financiers Formal and informal meetings; written activities as required to best address correspondence and phone calls; site visits; their areas of interest. The table on the health, safety, sustainability and operational right shows the stakeholder groups reporting as required who have been identified as the key Communities and Landholders Formal and informal community consultation audiences for this report. These groups sessions; community liaison officers; were consulted specifically to determine newsletters; community engagement and material issues for this report. investment activities Communication and engagement Employees Monthly e-news and CEO update; monthly with our stakeholders occurs in the lunchtime forums hosted by CEO, general following ways: managers or functional teams; 6 monthly performance reviews; regular social functions and events; annual Organisational Alignment Survey; intranet Contractors and Suppliers Expressions of Interest; quotations and tender processes; meetings; survey on sustainable functions of suppliers and contractors; contracts across the project lifecycle – development, delivery and operations Customers Regular meetings Government Authorities Regular meetings; written submissions; – Local, State and Federal formal participation and representation on industry and other bodies Sustainability Report 2011 5 Determining Materiality Community: consultation and External Commitments engagement (p.19); impact assessment In order to produce a meaningful (p.19); renewable energy advocacy (p.15); In early July 2010, we were accepted and relevant report, we have a number development (p.21); spending (p.19); into the United Nations Global Compact of internal and external processes education of the community (p.19–20); (UNGC), a voluntary framework which to help us identify the issues that are and local political dialogue and public helps businesses align their strategies most important to our business and debate (p.15). and operations with ten universally– our stakeholders. accepted principles on human rights, Environment: biodiversity (p.24); labour standards, environmental To determine material issues we bird strike (p.25); noise (p.29); protection and anti-corruption. analysed our past corporate reports, climate change and related public company policies and business policies (p.14, 26); compliance and During the year we have been working strategies, risk registers, stakeholder regulatory issues (p.29); water (p.28); on our diversity policies and initiatives, feedback and sustainability reports and environmental accountability and launched a Whistleblower Disclosure produced by peers and competitors. reporting (inside front cover). and Investigation Procedure and continued with the development of In addition to this, interviews were Workplace: health and safety (p.31); renewable energy projects while conducted to help us understand the diversity and equal employment advocating climate change policies issues stakeholders feel most strongly opportunity (p.34); training and and awareness. We also developed about and to provide feedback on last development (p.35); internal and trialled a sustainability supply year’s report. Independent consultants communication and coordination (p.36); chain survey and evaluation tool, spoke with 43 internal and external turnover reduction (p.35); improving which will help us to understand and stakeholders, resulting in a list of contractor safety (p.31); and transparency assess supply chain risks and impacts. material issues recommended for around job levels and remuneration (p.35). inclusion in the report. For each pillar We have included more information of our sustainability framework, issues Business Partners: improving financial regarding our progress against the are listed in order of decreasing priority. returns (p.12); economic development of UNGC principles throughout the All key issues identified through our communities (p.12); purchasing policies report. See the UNGC and GRI Index process of determining materiality have and local sourcing (p.20); development for more details (p.37). been addressed in this year’s report: and promotion of renewable energy (p.13–14); bribery and corruption (p.10); business case for sustainability (p.14); and government lobbying and public policy (p.15). • Above: Vale dos Ventos Wind Farm, Brazil 6 Sustainability Report 2011 Our Sustainability Performance and Goals Progress on Our Sustainability Goals for 2010/11  Achieved o In Progress ✕ Not Achieved Strategies Progress on Deliverables Stakeholders  Developed and commenced roll-out of Community Bring consistency to the way in which we manage a company-wide Community Charter interfaces with host communities, assist business units to maintain up-to-date information on stakeholder  Maintained and improved our stakeholder issues list priorities and build sustainable relationships and  Refined our procedures for materiality assessments communication channels with key stakeholder groups. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) o Currently identifying and analysing key Integrate UNGC principles into business strategy, areas that UNGC principles can be effectively operations, culture and decision-making processes. integrated into  Integrated reporting requirements of the UNGC into our sustainability reporting practices  Advocated the UNGC within our sphere of influence Partnerships ✕ We intend to identify partnership opportunities Engage in partnerships to advance broad development once we have completed the work above goals (such as the Millennium Development Goals). Carbon Management o Our carbon reduction strategies are still in Environment Reduce the company’s carbon footprint. development. We are in the process of agreeing on reduction targets within our business units  We continue to measure our carbon footprint and achieved a 37 per cent reduction since the previous year Health and Safety ✕ We achieved a Total Recordable Injury Frequency Workplace Continual improvement in health and safety Rate (TRIFR) of 7.2 which was a 10 per cent performance, culture and competency across all reduction. However we had set a TRIFR target business units and levels of the organisation. of 6.8 (15 per cent reduction) ✕ A health, safety and sustainability software system was not implemented as the roll-out of health and safety standards across the group became a higher priority Employees  Every employee participated in at least three initiatives Educate employees on the importance and relevance which promoted or educated employees about an of sustainability. aspect of health, safety and sustainability Strategy and Performance  Strategic marketing material for key stakeholders Business Partners Provide accurate and reliable information to external and to support investor activities was developed stakeholders regarding the company’s strategy and performance.  Quarterly briefing process for investors was introduced Sustainability Strategy o Consultations regarding the long-term sustainability Develop a sustainability framework and a long-term vision and strategy are ongoing sustainability vision and strategy.  Our materiality assessment process was used to help determine key issues for strategy development for the 2011/12 strategy Sustainability Report 2011 7 Sustainability Goals for 2011/16 Community Environment Workplace Business Partners Community Relations Environmental Health and Safety Economic Returns 2011/12 Management Engage openly with our Achieve a real year-onMaximise shareholder local communities and Maintain environmental year improvement for both returns maintain our community management systems lead and lag health and relations programs and meet compliance safety key performance Renewable Energy obligations indicators Policy and Advocacy Community Investment Carbon Management Benchmark construction Develop policy and Continue and enhance and operational assets regulatory positions for our community investment Develop a carbon strategy against relevant industry the company and pursue programs and value proposition benchmarks these positions via (e.g. Sustainable including corporate goals appropriate channels Communities Fund in and targets Develop and deliver Australia and Creciendo health and safety Sustainable Supply Juntos in Chile) Operational Excellence leadership training Chain Incorporate Employees Review and improve our sustainability metrics supply chain assessment (e.g. benchmarking Attract, recruit, develop processes against the International and retain employees to Hydropower Association ensure the achievement Sustainability Assessment of business goals Protocol) into annual operations performance Develop and implement reviews a global diversity strategy Further enhance Continue to reduce Continue to improve Continue to maximise 2012/16 community relations our carbon footprint health and safety shareholder returns and investment programs performance Improve data collection Develop a sustainable to enable full ecological Continue to measure, supply chain strategy footprint calculation maintain and improve employee satisfaction Develop a corporate and alignment environmental audit program 8 Sustainability Report 2011 Governance Our Owner “Corporate Governance Principles Board members are appointed by and Recommendations” (ASX IFM based on their qualifications Pacific Hydro is a wholly-owned subsidiary Standards) as the benchmark for and expertise in the relevant areas. of the Industry Funds Management (IFM) standards of good governance practice. Each member performs a periodic Australian Infrastructure Fund. IFM is an The Principles and Recommendations self-assessment to evaluate their investment management company lay solid foundations for management performance. They are paid Directors’ specialising in the management of and oversight, ensure the effectiveness fees at a level in line with the market. investment products across private equity, of the Board, promote ethical decisionTheir fees are not performance-based. infrastructure, debt and listed equity making, safeguard integrity and To avoid conflicts of interest, members portfolios and is wholly owned, through transparency, respect shareholder rights, are required to update a Declaration Industry Super Holdings Pty Ltd, by a recognise and manage risk, and ensure of Interest at every board meeting. large number of Australian superannuation fair remuneration practices. This is confirmed on an annual basis. funds. Please see www.ifm.net.au for more information about IFM. As at 30 June 2011, the board The Board has three permanent consisted of six non-executive members committees whose objectives are to Our Board and one alternate Director. These consider and give direction on specific Our Board of Directors is highly included three representatives from IFM areas on behalf of the Board. The committed to the principles of along with three independent Directors Board receives a monthly report from sustainability. The Board is responsible and one alternate independent Director. management on our economic, social for ensuring that the company maintains This structure ensures robust and environmental performance, while an appropriate corporate governance governance and continuous disclosure the Health, Safety, People and structure, which protects and further to our shareholder. The Board comes Sustainability Committee has specific enhances shareholder value by ensuring from diverse backgrounds, professions responsibilities in relation to sustainability the integrity of reporting and by and working environments. Thirty-three performance and issues and meets at maintaining appropriate internal controls. per cent (2) of Board members are least four times a year. between the ages of 30–50, and the Although unlisted, the Board of Directors More information about the Board remaining 67 per cent (4) are older than refers to the Australian Stock Exchange and our governance can be found at 50. Eighty-three per cent (5) are male Corporate Governance Council’s pacifichydro.com/investors/corporateand 17 per cent (1) are female. governance/ Pacific Hydro Board Members (As at 30 June 2011) Name Position Committee Membership Directors Garry Weaven Chairman and Owner’s Representative – IFM • Audit, Finance and Risk • Projects and Operations • Health, Safety, People and Sustainability * Brett Himbury Non-Executive Director • Audit, Finance and Risk and Owner’s Representative – IFM • Health, Safety, People and Sustainability Kyle Mangini Non-Executive Director • Audit, Finance and Risk and Owner’s Representative – IFM • Projects and Operations Kate Spargo Independent Non-Executive Director • Health, Safety, People and Sustainability Geoff Coffey Independent Non-Executive Director • Audit, Finance and Risk • Projects and Operations Roger Gill Independent Non-Executive Director • Projects and Operations Bernard Wheelahan * Alternate Director to Garry Weaven • Health, Safety, People and Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 9 Ethical Behaviour Risk Management and Compliance Awards Our Code of Conduct provides Sustainability is embedded in our guidance on ethical behaviour for Enterprise Wide Risk Management • Climate Alliance’s “Business our employees and Directors globally Framework (EWRMF) and is key to Leader of the Year” Award and outlines our approach and achieving the company’s vision and • Human Resources (HR) Leader responsibilities to customers, mission, delivering corporate objectives, Compass Award for: landholders, commercial partners, managing risk and providing greater – “Best Talent Management shareholders and the financial certainty and confidence to our owner. Strategy” (2nd place) and community. All new employees receive – “HR Champion (CEO)” training in and are required to sign We periodically undertake a rigorous (winner) our Code of Conduct which outlines risk assessment of all development • CIGRE 2010 ‘New Entrepreneur’ the company’s standards and position opportunities and operations. Our awarded to Tinguiririca Energía on bribery, anti-competitive behaviour enterprise-wide approach includes the by the Chilean Committee of the and discrimination and applies to all establishment of governance, controls International Council on Large employees and contractors. and compliance mechanisms to manage Electric Systems key risks in all of our business units. • “Best Project Developer – Asia All Managers and employees Internal and external assurance Pacific” in the Renewable Energy who regularly deal with overseas processes are adopted and any Finance category (Environmental counterparties receive periodic training anomalies trigger further investigation. Finance and Carbon Finance) on Foreign Corrupt Practices in The Audit, Finance and Risk by Platts Environmental Finance Australia, Brazil and Chile. The training Committee oversees and reviews the • “Best SME Report” for our 2009 explains the policies and procedures effectiveness of the framework while Sustainability Report – Corporate relevant to the jurisdictions in which the CEO and General Management Responsibility Reporting Awards we operate. team are responsible for implementing 2011. During the year we developed the appropriate risk-mitigation strategies a Whistleblower Disclosure and in accordance with the EWRMF. Investigation Procedure for investigating Management responsibility for reports from whistleblowers. It covers compliance is reinforced by a yearly allegations of improper or corrupt conduct, requirement for each General Manager breaches of company policy, the Code to provide an Annual Compliance Report of Conduct and any relevant laws. dealing with the state of compliance within the areas of their management While monetary donations to responsibility. political parties are prohibited under our Code of Conduct, we do There were no reported non-compliances occasionally participate in political with any laws or regulations during the fundraising activities to enhance our reporting period. communication with policy makers. There were no reported incidents of corruption, anti-competitive behaviour or discrimination during the period. 10 Sustainability Report 2011 Business Partners Development expenditure $10.7million Increase in sales revenue since 2009/10 Our installed capacity increased by 24% 5% 622.5 mw Construction capital expenditure $136.9million Our Approach As governments around the world embrace the need for significant cuts in carbon emissions, the opportunities for cleaner energy production have never been greater. In an increasingly competitive market place, our strong reputation, expertise and innovative culture set us apart. We have a clear strategy to achieve growth, increase shareholder value and returns, and provide clean energy to meet increasing demand. Our strategy for sustainable economic growth involves: • Optimising the operational efficiencies and earning from existing assets; • Developing a diversified portfolio of renewable energy assets through development or acquisitions that deliver growth and add economic value; • Reviewing and capturing appropriate emerging renewable developments and acquisitions; and • Developing vertical integration opportunities that complement the operation and development of new projects. Sustainability Report 2011 11 Our Economic Performance Indirect Economic Impact Installed Capacity (MW) Sales revenue was $151.9 million for In addition to directly distributing As at 30 June 2011 (includes only installed the reporting period (excluding equity economic value through investment capacity owned by Pacific Hydro) accounted investments), an increase returns, salaries and wages, taxes and of five per cent from the previous year. purchases of goods and services, we Australia – Total 303 This was driven by the increase in recognise that our business has indirect Hydro 43 contract price for the supply of power economic effects in the communities from the Ord Hydro, higher energy where we operate. Wind 260 prices in Chile and partially offset by Our developments assist in Brazil – Total 58 lower spot prices in South Australia and the unfavourable impact of the stimulating local economic and social Wind 58 weakening US dollar. development, such as providing local employment and business opportunities Chile – Total 261.5 Capital spend of $136.9 million and establishing new local business Hydro 232.5 was incurred in the 2010/11 financial and areas of expertise in our host year, primarily on the Chacayes project communities. Impacts are described Thermal backup 29 in Chile. in more detail on pages 16, 20 and 21. Total Installed Capacity 622.5 We have identified an opportunity to improve our methods of quantification Further information on our development of indirect economic impacts, including projects and operating assets can be job creation and indirect local found at pacifichydro.com/projects/ expenditure estimates. our-global-projects/ Direct Economic Impact FY 2010/11 FY 2009/10 FY 2008/09 Total Total Total $’000 $’000 $’000 Economic Value Generated Revenues 151,904 144,836 118,767 Economic Value Distributed Operating Costs (45,376) (38,192) (32,935) Employee Wages and Benefits (41,607) (34,930) (34,346) Payments to Providers of Finance (56,677) (39,470) (19,673) Payments of Income Tax (8,144) (3,224) (5,904) Community Fund Investments (450) # (604) (632) * Numbers in brackets represent a cost, loss or cash outflow. # Decreased due to exit of Pacific Hydro from the Philippines. 12 Sustainability Report 2011 Products and Services Target (RET). These companies Operational Excellence achieve this by procuring RECs. All Pacific Hydro produces renewable of Pacific Hydro’s Australian renewable With two new projects achieving first energy from a portfolio of wind farm energy projects commissioned generation during the reporting period, and hydro power assets in Australia, post-January 1997 are qualified we experienced a turning point, moving Brazil and Chile. We sell and trade to produce and sell RECs. from a construction to an operational electricity, electricity derivative products focus, making operational excellence and energy-related environmental a key priority. products, including Renewable Energy Certificates and EU Certified Emission Operational excellence is sought in Reduction Credits. Our customers the management of all our operational include energy retailers, mining • GreenPower: As part of the Australian sites and is governed by our internal companies and large consumers GreenPower Accredited Renewable management systems and Asset such as businesses and government. Energy Program, GreenPower can Management Framework. Our asset be purchased voluntarily by Australian evaluation and management systems Details of the energy-related electricity consumers in preference ensure that operational aspects are environmental products we sell to non-renewable electricity sources. considered in the design phase, resulting are provided below. This voluntary action adds to the in greater certainty of operating costs, Pacific Hydro. Supplier of demand for renewable electricity short and long-term availability and • Certified Emission Reductions reliability of our generation assets. created by the Australian RET. All (CERs): International carbon-based of Pacific Hydro’s Australian renewable instruments that can be utilised by A number of asset management energy projects commissioned countries that have committed to benchmarking exercises and operations post-January 1997 are qualified carbon emission reduction targets performance reviews were conducted to produce and sell GreenPower. through the Kyoto Protocol, or by during the reporting period. These companies required to reduce There were no incidents of noninitiatives evaluated the effectiveness emissions under mandated schemes compliance with regulations concerning of our systems and processes, our asset such as the European Emissions marketing communications, nor any performance relative to business Trading Scheme. complaints regarding breaches of expectations and general asset customer privacy during the reporting condition. These studies form the basis • Renewable Energy Certificates of our strategic decisions in relation to period. (RECs): In Australia, all electricity the use, maintenance and expectations retailers and some large consumers of the plant. of electricity, are required to purchase a minimum amount of electricity from In Australia, we continue to bring the renewable sources (20 per cent by operations and maintenance of our wind 2020) under the Renewable Energy farms in-house, and have experienced substantial cost savings and availability improvements as a result. • Below: Danny Halstead, Wind Farm Supervisor at Portland, Australia Globally, our installed capacity increased by 24 per cent to 622.5 MW, and our clean energy generation increased by 7 per cent to 1.7 million MWh (including joint ventures). We divested our 50 per cent stake in the Luzon Hydro Corporation, Philippines, in line with our strategy to focus on our core markets of Australia and South America. Sustainability Report 2011 13 Opening of La Higuera and La Confluencia Our Response to Climate Change Our commitment to powering a cleaner world reflects our dedication to addressing climate change. We are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions while meeting growing global energy needs. There are four key components to our response to climate change: 1 Developing more new renewable energy projects to help reduce the global reliance on fossil fuels; Tinguiririca Energía, our 50:50 joint 2 Helping our customers meet their climate change mitigation venture with Norwegian company SN Power obligations by providing more products and services; Invest, was created to develop clean energy projects in the Tinguiririca Valley in Chile. 3 Advocating for government action to reduce carbon Through this partnership, two large-scale emissions; and run-of-river hydro projects were developed – La Higuera and La Confluencia. Both 4 Minimising our own carbon footprint. hydros were officially opened by Chilean President, Sebastian Piñera, at an Our development pipeline of renewable energy projects includes inauguration ceremony in October 2010. run-of-river hydro facilities, wind farms, conventional geothermal projects and a large-scale solar farm. These projects are located Combined, the projects inject more in Australia, Brazil and Chile and are at various stages of than 300MW of new generation capacity development. into the Chilean energy market, equivalent to powering one million Chilean homes We are looking at ways to improve our products and services annually. They are the largest hydros to to meet the current and future needs of our customers. Perenia, be commissioned in Chile since 2000 one of our joint ventures, is a specialist firm established to and are our first development projects support companies looking to respond to the opportunities and to be delivered in Chile. Construction challenges associated with the impact of climate change (refer of the two projects cost over $800 million to p.17). and their completion saw Pacific Hydro ranked amongst the largest renewable Across our three key geographic markets, we advocate policy generators in Chile. Both projects produce and industry responses to climate change. This occurs in tradeable carbon credits and are registered a range of ways, from working with governments to address under the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean regulatory market issues impacting renewable energy Development Mechanism. generation, to lobbying for the introduction of a well-designed carbon price to support the transition to a low-carbon economy The construction of these projects had (refer to p.15). a significant impact on local economies, creating jobs for local residents and providing This year our carbon footprint reduced by 37 per cent, primarily opportunities for contractors and suppliers. due to a decrease in construction activities (refer to p.26). Infrastructure such as roads were built or improved and the influx of workers provided Climate change presents significant opportunity to our other business opportunities including cafes, business and also considerable risk. Changes to long term restaurants, accommodation and tourist rainfall and wind speed trends and the number of extreme attractions. weather events, have the potential to impact our revenue and operating costs. Regulatory changes related to climate change Tinguiririca Energía has a comprehensive in areas such as carbon, electricity and governance, pose Community Relations Plan, which aims to potential risks or opportunities. Our business model will allow strengthen ties between the company and us to act on opportunities to expand our geographic spread local communities. and diversify into other renewable technologies such as solar • Above: President Piñera with members of Pacific and geothermal. In addition, we are well placed to increase Hydro’s Board and General Management Team business and community awareness of climate change through our stakeholder relationships. 14 Sustainability Report 2011 Public Policy and Advocacy We play a leading role in advocacy for the renewable energy industry. Independently and as part of broader industry bodies, we promote the benefits of renewable energy and actively seek opportunities to provide accurate information and informed advice to a range of local, state and federal policy makers and regulatory bodies. In addition, we contribute to public policy development and debates by providing information and comment to our external stakeholders, including local communities, service providers, media, politicians and policy makers. The key strategic advocacy issues in Australia during the reporting period were as follows: • Above: Cape Nelson South Wind Farm, Australia ISSUE POSITION Carbon price policy package An explicit price on carbon is the most important foundation policy to assist Australia’s transition to a low carbon economy, driving jobs and investment towards cleaner energy and lower carbon industries. Long term investor certainty will also be achieved. International emissions trading International emissions trading provides economic efficiency and global environmental benefits. Provided sufficient safe-guards on quality and integrity are in place, international emissions trading enables the most cost-effective carbon abatement to be sourced, delivering economic efficiency and environmental outcomes. Additionally, internationally linked carbon trading supports other countries’ efforts to encourage global investment and interest towards lower carbon opportunities. Energy market reforms There is a clear role for a process of complementary energy market reform. We continue to advocate for reforms to transmission and interconnector investment frameworks, transmission project funding reforms, and emissions standards for new generation plants. The Australian Senate Inquiry into the Social While we do not believe there is a link in health complaints and and Economic Impact of Rural Wind Farms wind turbine operation, we are willing to participate in a properly conducted study which considers all health factors, including psychosomatic issues. The value of industry-lead best practice We are committed to maintaining our high standard of planning community engagement and community consultation internally and promoting standards across the industry. Sustainability Report 2011 15 Spotlight on Codrington – 10 Years Codrington Wind Farm Celebrates Days Electrical 10 Successful Years of Operation Family owned and run business, Located near Port Fairy in south-west Victoria, Days Electrical, were the main electrical the Codrington Wind Farm was our first wind contractor for Codrington. Days Electrical energy project, and Australia’s largest, when have since provided electrical services for it was officially opened in 2001. We celebrated some of our other wind farm projects, Codrington’s ten year milestone in June 2011 including the Yambuk, Cape Bridgewater with two separate events, both intended to and Cape Nelson South Wind Farms. thank the local community and the Moyne Shire Council for their strong, continued support Codrington Settlement and Gardens Bed of the project. and Breakfast Creating sustainable communities Geoff Tonks, along with his wife Yuan, operates the Codrington Settlement and Gardens Bed Since establishing the Codrington/Yambuk and Breakfast, welcoming thousands of visitors Sustainable Communities Fund, we have invested annually. Like other neighbouring residents, over $280,000 into 63 local community projects, Geoff is a strong supporter of the wind farm. supporting local projects and encouraging He has constructed a viewing platform on the community cohesion and sustainability. grounds of the property to take advantage of the panoramic wind farm views and to further Powering a cleaner world educate his guests on renewable energy. In its first ten years of operation the project Keppel Prince Engineering has already abated more than half a million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions and produced The Codrington wind farm towers were the first 437,895 MWh of electricity, the equivalent energy wind farm towers manufactured by Keppel Prince needs of around 10,000 Australia homes annually. Engineering in Portland, Victoria. Since then, Keppel Prince have become a well respected Renewable jobs wind tower manufacturer in Australia, providing jobs for around 150 local people. The project was the first private wind project to be developed in Australia, marking the beginning of the wind industry in Australia. Our presence in the area has provided opportunities to a number • Left: Community members attending the ten year celebrations at Codrington Wind Farm; of local businesses: Right: Steve Garner, General Manager of Keppel Prince Engineering, Portland 16 Sustainability Report 2011 Memberships consortium was identified as the successful bidder and was chosen to develop Australia’s first utility-scale solar PV project Strategic memberships with local, national and global under the Solar PV technology category. associations help drive the sustainable development of our industry. These associations include: Based in Moree, New South Wales, the project is set to be one of the world’s largest solar PV generation facilities and • ABEEolica (Brazilian Wind Energy Association) will operate for at least 25 years. • Australia Brazil Chamber of Commerce • Australia Chile Chamber of Commerce This ground-breaking utility scale solar power plant will • Australia Latin America Business Council be developed using multi-crystalline solar PV technology. • Australian Government’s Council on Australia The installation will provide a demonstration of the viability Latin America Relations of utility scale solar projects in Australia and will address • Australian Sustainable Energy Association a number of key research issues, including enhancing • Brazilian National Technical Rules Association understanding of the interaction of utility scale solar with (Health and Safety Committee) the Australian electricity grid. • Chilean Generator Association • Clean Energy Council The project will deliver multiple benefits to various stakeholders. • Committee for Portland These include: • Global Foundation • Creating many employment opportunities both • The Chilean Association of Renewable Energy in and around Moree; • The Climate Institute • The Committee for Economic Development of Australia • Delivering additional indirect economic opportunities; In addition, we hold positions within the following • Creating new educational and skills-based training organisations: Council on Australia Latin America Relations; opportunities; Renewable Energy Taskforce of the Asia Pacific Partnership • Delivering new clean electricity to meet Australia’s on Clean Development and Climate; Clean Energy Council increasing energy needs and providing enough solar of Australia; Chilean Generator Association; ABEEolica; power for approximately 45,000 homes; and a Coalition of Australian businesses supporting Australia’s transition to a low-carbon economy. • Reducing the town’s reliance on agriculture; Perenia • Creating opportunities for the Indigenous community; Our carbon consulting business, Perenia, is a joint venture • Furthering the development of the Australian solar PV with engineering consultants, Snowy Mountains Engineering industry; and Corporation (SMEC) and Japanese trading house, Mitsui & Co. Ltd. Perenia offers complete carbon solutions. This includes • Attracting additional tourists to Moree. partnering with private and public sector clients to audit and Sustainable Supply Chain assess their operations, develop strategies to manage greenhouse gas emissions and satisfy regulatory requirements, In 2010 we developed a sustainability supplier survey facilitate emission reduction projects and create and broker the and evaluation tool to help us better understand our supply transaction of carbon credits. Perenia has developed a diverse chain impacts on people, the environment and the economy, portfolio of emission reduction projects in both developing and and identify key sustainability risks and opportunities in our industrialised countries, operating throughout Australia and Asia. supply chain. The survey addressed governance, ethics, policies, risk management, systems, reporting and key areas including Moree Solar Farm Partnership safety, labour standards, community engagement and In 2009 the Australian Federal Government announced the environmental management. $1.5 billion Solar Flagships program, an initiative to support The questionnaire was trialled on two procurement the construction of up to four large-scale, grid-connected components of a wind energy development project in Western solar power stations in Australia, using thermal and photovoltaic Australia. This process helped us identify opportunities, (PV) technologies. The primary objective of the program is to including suppliers already active in local Indigenous programs, provide the foundation for large-scale, grid-connected, solar as well as areas we would need to work with suppliers such as power to make a significant contribution to Australia’s future improving capabilities in reporting greenhouse gas emissions. electricity supply. Our next step will be to refine and adapt the survey to support Together with consortium partners Fotowatio Renewable various parts of the business. Ventures (FRV) and BP Solar, Pacific Hydro applied for funding through the program. In June 2011 the Moree Solar Farm Sustainability Report 2011 17 Community Invested in Communities $450,000 Employees agree that we contribute Community funds positively to the wider community 93% 7 Developed Pacific Hydro’s first Community Charter 2010 in Our Approach Locally and globally, we aim to be socially responsible, maintaining good relations with our host communities. Our global strategy is to deliver positive outcomes to our host communities by being a responsible neighbour and community member. We aim to be involved in, and support, public events near our project sites so we can better understand and become part of our host communities. This may be in the form of sponsorship, consultation, participation in local events or financial contributions through our community investment programs. Local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs have been implemented at all of our operations. 18 Sustainability Report 2011 Community Consultation Our approach is not philanthropic, but strategic. Through our funds, we promote innovative solutions to local issues, Our community consultation process provides stakeholders encourage organisations to form partnerships to deliver with the opportunity to participate in the development of a community services and work towards positive, long-term proposed project. Consultation styles are adapted to best suit outcomes for broader community benefits. each community’s needs. Our methods of communication include formal and informal community consultation sessions, Applicants must meet certain criteria and we have community liaison officers, newsletters, surveys and via our a comprehensive process for determining successful community engagement and investment activities. applicants. This includes meeting with regional authorities and representatives from the local municipality to ensure We developed a Community Charter during the year funding is being allocated appropriately within the region. (pacifichydro.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/PacificHydro-Community-Charter.pdf) which is a guiding framework Australia on how we engage and work with communities in a consistent way across the globe. Implementation of the Charter will The benefits of our Sustainable Communities Funds reach continue over the coming year. In Brazil, we continue to much further than the immediate beneficiary groups or implement our Community Affairs Policy which is aligned with individuals. One of our fund recipients this year was the Men’s the Community Charter and provides guidance to employees on Shed in Port Fairy, Victoria. Men’s Shed plays a critical role in developing and sustaining relationships with local communities. regional communities, helping address mental and physical health issues and social isolation with the ultimate aim of Impacts improved health awareness. As well as providing a place for men to talk freely about issues, Men’s Shed participates in ongoing Community Investment Programs community-based projects. This allows older retired men to continue to use their skills, including woodwork and metalwork, In an effort to encourage social development and while mentoring younger men in the community. sustainability initiatives, local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs have been Brazil implemented at 100 per cent of our operations. Except for our Australian hydro projects, community investment funds Now in its second year, our Brazilian community fund was have also been established at all of our operations. broadly based on the company-wide framework. However, we are implementing a number of local changes to ensure A portion of profits made by each project are invested back into the fund is structured appropriately for the communities where the local community through grants in the areas of education, we are located. Our Community Liaison Officer is working with health and safety, sport, environment, culture and the arts. the local communities to develop an application method which can be utilised by all community members. In addition to working with individuals and community groups as part of the community fund, our Community Liaison Officer also works with local Community Investment Fund Spend authorities to focus efforts on sustainable development and other community concerns. $ 300,000 Chile Creciendo Juntos, the name of our Chilean fund, translates to Australia ‘growing together’. We have taken this approach literally, with 200,000 the scope of the fund growing as we aim to contribute to Chile including improving the quality of life for local communities. In addition to TE Joint Venture the fund, our community investment activities include supporting cultural, sporting and communal events and providing material 100,000 Chile contributions for local initiatives. This year, we have continued to grow our community investment program, establishing and Brazil leveraging a number of public-private partnerships. Involving 0 community members, local businesses and other stakeholders, 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 the partnerships provide opportunities for self-sufficiency and promote tourism and local development. Sustainability Report 2011 19 Tinguiririca Energía, our 50:50 joint venture in Chile, also Sourcing locally improves supply, supports the local has a community investment program, Tinguiririca Participa, economy, increases efficiency and helps us maintain or ‘Tinguiririca Participates’. As well as providing funding good community relations. opportunities for locals living in the Tinguiririca Valley, Tinguiririca Participa works with community and grassroots Visual Impact – Wind Farms leaders, providing training and assisting with preparing Construction of a wind farm inevitably creates a change to the social and community needs assessments. The program local landscape and leads to visual impact which, in some cases, also works with community groups and individuals to is not always welcomed by all members of the community. We identify additional public and private sources of funding. strive to be open and responsive to community concerns, Job Opportunities and Local Sourcing working with communities to find solutions to valid concerns. Hiring employees and contractors locally provides benefits Landscape and Visual Impact Assessments are included to both local communities and our business. While no formal in the environmental assessments undertaken when planning policy exists regarding local employment, we hire from local a wind farm. The purpose of these assessments is to identify communities where appropriate and we encourage our significant features of the landscape within the vicinity of a contractors to do the same. wind farm; assess the landscape and visual values of the site and area within the wind farm; and discuss any potential As part of our commitment to local employment, we have mitigation measures that can be used to avoid visual impacts committed to hiring a local Indigenous consultant to survey to surrounding neighbours. earthworks once construction commences at our Crowlands Wind Farm in Victoria, Australia. During the community consultation process, photomontages are produced as a way for communities to visualise the existing In Chile, all our major contracts require contractors to provide landscape from different vantage points before and after the job opportunities to local residents where possible. We also wind farm is constructed. provide training to local community members to gain the skills necessary for employment and to develop their own businesses At one of our development sites, located in Keyneton, as service providers on our projects. South Australia, ongoing community consultation revealed neighbours’ concerns about the proposed wind farm relating At our Chacayes Hydro project, we work closely with a local to the cluster of turbines closest to them. A number of issues Workforce Committee that assists unemployed men and women were raised, including visual amenity. Based on the concerns from nearby towns to gain employment. As construction comes raised, three turbines have been completely removed from the to an end, the number of employees and contractors required initial project design and a further two were relocated. on site diminishes. The Committee negotiated with our main contractor to ensure that the remaining workers on site are Noise and infrasound impacts can be found in the Environment predominantly from the local towns in order to prolong their section (refer to p.29). employment. In addition, the Committee has negotiated for a number of ongoing maintenance services to be provided by local workers after project completion. As part of our continuous commitment to improve community relations, we have provided the Committee with an office, computers and training on how to keep and analyse accurate statistical data. As well as hiring local employees, it is common practice to source from local or regional suppliers where products and services are competitive in quality, price and service. During the early stages of project development in Australia, road shows are held with local industry, providing information to local contractors and suppliers on business opportunities created by our project. We undertake detailed assessments of the health, safety, environmental and sustainability performance of contractors prior to any major contract being awarded. 20 Sustainability Report 2011 Creating Opportunities in Local Communities The temporary nature of some employment Representatives from Pacific Hydro meet with opportunities in the Alto Cachapoal Valley, local community members on a monthly basis near our Chacayes project in Chile, is a major to discuss any issues or opportunities arising issue faced by local residents. This means that from our construction project. Communities once employment ceases, some households identify areas of development interests, which lose their sole source of income. we then work towards achieving collaboratively. It is at these meetings that potential training In an effort to address this issue, improve courses are determined, evaluated against quality of life and promote sustainable criteria including social relevance, technical entrepreneurship in the Valley, we developed feasibility, social equity, sustainability, timing a capacity-building training program. and cost. By delivering specialised training programs to teach or strengthen existing skills and increase Through the training program, many small entrepreneurial capabilities, households could businesses have been established and existing be provided with additional means of income. businesses given the capacity to expand. Berta We partner with Organismo Técnico Intermedio Gema Contreras, a local resident, has participated de Capacitación and Corporación La Esperanza in a number of courses offered and runs a small to provide this training annually. Corporación fast food business in Coya. La Esperanza is a non-governmental organisation that promotes development for individuals, “I’ve been able to learn and utilise new families, groups and communities living either tools that have enabled me to become a in poverty, or in marginalised sections of micro entrepreneur, deliver a better service the community. and boost my business. The support I’ve received from Pacific Hydro during the course and even following its completion, has helped me to achieve my personal goals”, she said. • Below: Local employee at Chacayes tree nursery, Chile Sustainability Report 2011 21 Indigenous Rights Our recent supply chain work includes a sustainability assessment which contains criteria on human rights Indigenous heritage is protected under Federal and (refer to p.17). We are also active members of the State legislation as well as through our Health, Safety United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Working and Sustainability (HSS) Policy, which ensures that land Group for Business, both presenting and participating and resources under our care are managed with sensitivity in sessions intended to share learnings on human rights and that we have due care for cultural heritage, local challenges and opportunities for businesses. conditions and concerns. There were no incidents of grievances related to human In Australia, we acknowledge Aboriginal people as being the rights during the reporting period. Traditional Owners of the land where we operate and recognise their place as primary guardians of Aboriginal cultural heritage. As part of our environmental assessment and planning process, consultant archaeologists and anthropologists work with the Traditional Owners to undertake cultural heritage and ethnographic surveys of the site. This process allows us to identify and avoid impacting areas of cultural or ethnographic value. Prior to construction, Cultural Heritage Management Plans or similar agreements are developed with the Traditional Owners. These plans outline methods used to avoid, minimise and mitigate our impacts on areas of cultural heritage, archaeological value or Indigenous significance. In Chile, sites of cultural or archaeological heritage value are also protected. As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment for our Chacayes hydro project, a Cultural and Archaeological Property Management Plan was developed and continues to be implemented. The Plan ensures that sites of potential cultural or archaeological value are not impacted negatively by our presence. Archaeological clearing and inspection activities occur prior to and during excavation activities, and if any areas of potential significance are identified, construction activities cease until the relevant authorities are notified, and appropriate measures applied. According to studies conducted before construction of our wind farms, none of our projects in Brazil are located near indigenous or cultural heritage. Respecting Rights We respect the rights of our employees, contractors and the broader community. We comply with all relevant laws relating to human rights and our human rights commitments are covered by the following policies: • Equal Opportunities Policy • Code of Conduct • Top: Surveying at our Chacayes hydro project, Chile; Bottom: Local community members, Brazil • Whistleblowers Disclosure and Investigation Procedure • Health, Safety and Sustainability Policy • Community Charter 22 Sustainability Report 2011 Environment Clean energy generated 1.7million mwh C02 -equivalent (C0 2 -e) abated during the reporting period 1.3million tonnes CO2 -e abated since 1994 9.4million tonnes Employees agree that Pacific Hydro is environmentally responsible 98% Our Approach Producing energy from clean, renewable energy sources and abating harmful greenhouse gas emissions helps us to power a cleaner world. We apply a clear, strategic approach to managing our environmental footprint, implementing environmentally sound practices across our global operations. Land and resources under our care are managed with sensitivity, having due regard for cultural heritage, local conditions and the biodiversity of the region. Sustainability Report 2011 23 GreenPower program helping the Victorian State Government Biodiversity We recognise that our presence has an effect on biodiversity and we aim to minimise our impact on the natural environment wherever possible. Biodiversity is a major consideration when planning development projects and we are committed to preserving biodiversity in areas where we are present. Part of the annual maintenance at The Drop, one of our hydro power plants located in New South Wales (NSW), Australia, The Victorian Government is committed includes draining the pondage area. The pondage is home to a to delivering services sustainably and has a number of fish species, some of which are threatened. We work proven track record in managing greenhouse with Fisheries NSW to relocate the fish to a nearby river and to gas emissions. Aside from improving energy remove any exotic fish harmful to native species. This year, efficiency across government operations, almost 800,000 fish were relocated as part of this program. resulting in substantial emissions reductions and cost savings, the Government has also We are also conducting an ongoing cumulative effects study purchased significant amounts of in the Alto Cachapoal Valley in Chile. Currently in its first phase, GreenPower. In 2010 and 2011, all the study will help us predict and mitigate future effects, not departments, as well as 12 agencies, sourced only for specific projects, but also the impact of all future a minimum of 25 per cent of electricity from projects in the Valley. During this period, environmental and renewable sources through the purchase social impacts occurring as a result of our presence in the Valley of accredited GreenPower. are closely monitored. Once enough data has been captured to This purchasing effort was led by perform trend analysis, we will move to the second phase. This the Department of Sustainability will involve developing a tool to assist with future projects by and Environment (DSE) on behalf of the allowing us to better manage the significant environmental Government. The DSE leads the Victorian and social impacts of our current and future projects. Government’s efforts to sustainably manage water resources and catchments, climate Two of our wind farms are located near an area of permanent change, bushfires, parks and other public environmental protection close to the coast in northern Brazil. land, forests, biodiversity and ecosystem This area is home to a species of monkeys which had been the conservation. target of illegal hunters. Since the projects were completed, the The DSE ran a formal competitive tender presence of our wind farm operators and security personnel has process to select a GreenPower provider. prevented the hunters from returning, allowing the monkeys to The evaluation criteria included requirements return to their native habitat and preventing illegal tree-cutting of any large purchasing process, such as in the area. technical capability, past performance and value for money. In addition to these standard The table on tt identifies conservation-significant species with factors, applicants were assessed on quality habitats which may potentially be affected by our operations. systems, ethical purchasing policies, While none of these species are directly impacted by our environmental management systems operations, they are identified in our environmental management and corporate attitude and actions on plans and appropriate mitigation measures are also in place. sustainability. Based on our performance These include regular and seasonal monitoring activities, against the evaluation criteria, Pacific Hydro reclaiming disturbed areas as quickly as possible and promoting was chosen to become the GreenPower habitat diversity within reclaimed areas. supplier to the Victorian State Government. The Victorian State Government’s management of its own carbon emissions is a strong example of Government leadership and we are proud to have assisted the Government in achieving this target. • Above: Cape Bridgewater Wind Farm, Victoria, Australia 24 Sustainability Report 2011 Species – Common and Scientific Names Conservation Status AUSTRALIA Orange-bellied Parrot (Neophema chrysogaster) Critically Endangered 1 Critically Endangered, Marine and Migratory 2 Threatened 3 White-bellied Sea Eagle (Haliaeetus leucogaster) Least Concern 1 Marine and Migratory 2 Threatened 3 Southern Bent-wing Bat (Miniopterus schreibersii bassanii) Critically Endangered 2 Threatened 3 CHILE Small Catfish (Tricomycterus areolatus) Vulnerable 5 Torrent Duck/Pato Cortacorrientes (Merganetta armata) Least Concern 1 Tricahue Parrot/Loro Tricahue/Burrowing Parakeet Least Concern 1, Vulnerable 5 (Cyanoliseus patagonus) Puya Chagual (Puya berteroniana) Vulnerable 4 Cactus Rojo (Eriosyce curvispina) Vulnerable 5 Ciprés de la Cordillera (Austrocedrus chilensis) Vulnerable 1 Vulnerable 4 Bailahuén (Haplopappus taeda) Vulnerable 5 1 International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) ‘Red List’, 5 Regulations for the Classification of Wildlife Species (Supreme Decree 2 Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation (EPBC) Act 1999 75, 2004) of the General Secretariat of Government (Supreme Executive Decree 50, published on March 24, 2007) and (Supreme Executive 3 The Flora and Fauna Guarantee (FFG) Act 1988 Decree 51, published on June 30, 2008) 4 National Forestry Corporation of Chile (CONAF) Red Book (1989 & 2007 editions) Birds and Bats These recommendations can be incorporated into the project design, allowing our project engineers to avoid placing turbines Concerns relating to the potential impact of wind turbines on in areas with sensitive bird activity, including migratory flight bird life are occasionally raised by stakeholders. As part of the paths and nesting sites. planning and environmental assessment process, extensive surveys and site assessment studies are performed to identify Monitoring the activity of birds and bats for a number of years and quantify bird and other fauna in and around the site. The following wind farm construction is often a requirement of the studies allow us to predict the extent and magnitude of potential planning permit. While we have met our bird monitoring impacts. Consultant ecologists provide recommendations for obligations for our wind farms to date, we continue to monitor mitigation measures, such as avoiding certain habitat types bird activity in the Portland area to increase our understanding or inclusion of buffers around nesting and breeding sites. of their movements. We also provided support to one of our bird monitoring consultants, Emma Paulding, to present at an international conference during the reporting period on the effectiveness of using dogs to monitor bird and bat mortalities. Sustainability Report 2011 25 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions – Scope 1 and 2 This year Pacific Hydro assets generated more than 1.7 million megawatt hours of clean, renewable energy, Tonnes leading to the abatement of more than 1.3 million tonnes of CO2-e of greenhouse gas emissions. 8,000 During 2010/11, 4,744 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions1 7,000 were generated through project construction, on-going operations and office-based activities of our majority-owned 6,000 assets. The construction of the Chacayes run-of-river hydro project in Chile accounted for 83 per cent of the company’s 5,000 total greenhouse emissions during the reporting period. 4,000 Over 1.1 million litres of diesel fuel was consumed at Chacayes, primarily by construction vehicles. As the project neared 3,000 completion towards the end of the reporting period, diesel fuel consumption decreased. This resulted in a 42 per cent reduction 2,000 in project greenhouse emissions and a 37 per cent reduction in the company’s total greenhouse emissions from the 1,000 previous year. 0 In Australia, greenhouse emissions were more than 60 per cent 09/10 10/11 lower than the previous year, largely due to the construction of Australia 340.8 116.6 Clements Gap Wind Farm reaching completion during 2009/10. Brazil 76.2 146.2 Chile 7169.4 4480.8 In Brazil, the main source of greenhouse emissions was vehicle fuel consumption. Brazil is the first of the three geographic business units to commence tracking indirect (scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions such as air travel. Global Emissions by Source Emissions from our joint venture projects, La Higuera and La Confluencia, are detailed in the Tinguiririca Energía 3% 1% Sustainability Report, “Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2009–2010.” 18% Greenhouse Intensity of Operations (tonnes CO2 -e/MWh) Country Greenhouse Intensity 66% 9% Australia 0.00012 Brazil 0.00128 3% Chile 0.00134 Stationary Energy Transport Energy Diesel (scope 1) Diesel (scope 1) Stationary Energy Transport Energy 1 Includes scope 1 and 2 emissions only. Includes 100 per cent of LPG (scope 1) Petrol (scope 1) emissions from Chacayes Hydro project (73 per cent ownership). Excludes regional or national emissions factors for purchased Purchased Electricity Wastewater electricity in cases where electricity is sourced directly from local (scope 2) (scope 1) renewable energy sources. 26 Sustainability Report 2011 Children’s Books Developed in Chile Energy Use In Chile, we ran a campaign on efficient energy use, focusing on reducing our paper and electricity consumption. Our Santiago office replaced dichroic bulbs with LED luminaries to reduce energy consumption. The electricity consumed during construction of Chacayes came from Coya and Pangal, our operational hydro power plants, located nearby. Our Melbourne office purchases 100 per cent GreenPower Each year, we undertake initiatives and the majority of energy consumed at our wind farms sites to increase environmental awareness in in Australia is sourced from our own generation. the Alto Cachapoal Valley, located in the O’Higgins region in Chile. As a part of our In Brazil, we replaced regular windows with glass bricks to aid environmental and social obligations to insulation and have recorded savings of 120 kWh per month. financiers under the loan agreement for the Chacayes project, the initiatives provide us with an opportunity to strengthen ties with Total Direct Energy Consumption (Scope 1) our neighbours and local communities while by Primary Source producing net environmental benefits. Two years ago we developed the ‘Alto Energy Type Gigajoules Cachapoal Valley Atlas: Stories about its flora and fauna.’ The Atlas described the Stationary Energy – Diesel 11,490 glaciers, rivers, plants and other species that Stationary Energy – Petrol 2 live within the Valley. Collectable cards were published with the local newspaper and Stationary Energy – LPG 6,834 schoolchildren were encouraged to collect Transport Energy – Diesel 41,810 the series to create their own localised atlas. The success of the Atlas drove us to continue Transport Energy – Petrol 2,000 the initiatives and this year we commissioned Transport Energy – E-25 150 two children’s authors to write a series of short stories on the rich ecological and Total 62,286 cultural value of the Valley. The books were distributed to all schools in Machalí, the area closest to our sites and all public schools in Rancagua, the nearest regional centre. A play with an environmental theme was performed Total Indirect Energy Consumption (Scope 2) at the launch and copies of the books were by Primary Source also provided to national senators and deputies, local dignitaries and authorities. Electricity Type Gigajoules We also developed a map of the whole Electricity – Renewable 21,820 Valley, which contains interesting environmental facts, to be distributed to Electricity – Non-renewable 780 the visitors of the Cipreses River National Total 22,600 Reserve. These initiatives support our commitment to the environment and our desire to have a closer relationship with the communities neighbouring our projects. • Above: Alfredo Zañartu, Development Manager, presenting the books to local school children Sustainability Report 2011 27 Native Vegetation In Victoria, Australia, project developers Our wind farms require only minimal are required to offset the removal of water and water tanks have been We adhere to local and national native vegetation by preserving a similar installed for this purpose. In Australia regulations relating to all aspects type, quality and area of native vegetation we do not currently have systems in of native vegetation. Occasionally elsewhere. Under the Native Vegetation place to measure our water usage at our construction activities require Register, Native Vegetation Credits many sites as we have chosen to focus us to remove or interfere with native purchased by project developers ensure on reducing paper, energy consumption vegetation. Through systematic site that vegetation of a specific conservation and waste generation instead. In Brazil, vegetation surveys, we are able to value (similar to that lost) is protected we measure our water use and have set minimise the removal of vegetation. and secured in perpetuity. For example, a five per cent water reduction target. Following construction, we rehabilitate the losses incurred at our Cape Nelson the site to its natural condition as much South Wind Farm were offset by the Waste as possible. Contractors are also required purchase of credits through the Victorian Regular donations of electrical hardware to abide by this commitment. At our Government Department of Sustainability are made to local community groups, Chacayes construction project in Chile, and Environment’s Bushbroker scheme. providing them with equipment such a group of community members were These credits came from an area of as personal computers and printers. employed to restore native vegetation, native vegetation adjacent to the wind Our Information Technology team in providing an invaluable service to our farm site. Melbourne coordinated the third annual environmental performance on site. Water e-waste recycling program during the The workers were involved in the native reporting period. species nursery, forest planting and Although our rights are non-consumptive, other associated maintenance activities. Recycling occurs at all sites in Australia we rely on water to power our hydro projects. Water is diverted from a river except Ord Hydro in Western Australia. Our species relocation program at or pre-existing storage source through Although we are still developing a formal Chacayes has also been successful. our power stations and then returned to waste measurement system, a number After assessments revealed our the adjacent river system. This method of initiatives were implemented to reduce construction activities would have a ensures minimal flooding and has a low waste generation. Waste audits for all negative impact on Puya Chagual and environmental impact. sites were undertaken and a number Cactus Rojo, two native species of flora, of areas were identified as weaknesses. a number of relocation sites were In Chile, we monitor water levels to We are improving our systems and will identified and soil protection and ensure water flow is adequate to identify and implement three initiatives preparation works undertaken. The preserve aquatic life and river bankto reduce waste during the next species were rescued and relocated, dwelling species. Water quality is also reporting period. and to date, 95 per cent of relocated monitored for all new projects. Our water plants are now well established. In Santiago, our waste paper consumption fluctuates depending on Losses are being replaced tenfold. is managed by adoption charity the stage of our projects, with construction sites requiring water for Fundación San José. As well as production of concrete and in certain achieving the environmental benefits cases, dust suppression. of recycling, the charity receives cash in return for recycling paper. • Below: Revegetation works at Chacayes, Chile In April 2011, we conducted a major recall of hazardous waste stored at our main warehouse at Chacayes. A total of 12,960kg of soil, sawdust, cardboard and other fabrics were disposed of from minor spills and maintenance activities. Waste measurement systems have been established at some of our sites in Brazil and we will begin tracking waste at the remaining sites during the next reporting period. At our Vale dos Ventos and Millennium sites, we achieved a one per cent reduction in waste since the previous year. 28 Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental Compliance farm and may be masked considerably Infrasound by the background noise environment, We recognise our responsibility to especially from wind passing though There has been recent debate about protect and improve the environment trees and around buildings. Near to the infrasonic emissions from wind farms. and are committed to conducting our wind farm, it may be audible at times Infrasound can be generated by natural business in accordance with the spirit depending on the location and factors sources such as waves, waterfalls and and letter of all applicable environmental such as the number of turbines wind, or man-made sources including laws and regulations. In each of our operating, wind speed and wind direction vehicles, air-conditioning systems and countries of operation, all obligations and other atmospheric conditions like wind farms. In the interests of informing required by law or by our environmental temperature or humidity. Importantly, management system are kept in a the debate, in November 2010 we the noise levels at surrounding dwellings commissioned an acoustic consulting register. We did not record any significant are restricted according to government spills and did not receive any fines or firm, Sonus, to measure and compare regulations and/or planning conditions non-compliances for environmental infrasound levels from two of our wind protecting the amenity of the surrounds. incidents during the reporting period. farms with other common environmental In Australia, we communicate with infrasound sources, both natural and Country-level Health, Safety landholders, neighbours and man-made. Their report found that the and Environment Managers are communities about wind farm noise infrasound generated by wind turbines responsible for achieving compliance emissions generated by wind farms, is well below established guideline against this register. The environmental including our design approach and commitments within our Health Safety perception thresholds and also below compliance requirements, through our levels produced by other natural and and Sustainability Policy are community consultation program. During implemented through our Environmental man-made sources. The full Sonus the planning stage, independent acoustic Management System (EMS), which report can be found on our website: consultants prepare noise impact allows us to monitor and improve pacifichydro.com.au/files/2011/10/ assessments, including background environmental management practices noise monitoring, to demonstrate Sonus-Report.pdf on site. Our Australian and Brazilian compliance with the government operating sites are certified to the The recent Australian Senate Inquiry regulations and/or planning conditions. international environmental management on ‘The Social and Economic Impacts standard, ISO 14001. Two of our Chilean Once construction is complete, of Rural Wind Farms’ found that there operating assets, Coya and Pangal we conduct additional noise monitoring was no direct link between adverse Hydros, are not currently certified to to ensure compliance with the regulation health effects and wind turbines. ISO 14001. These projects are almost is achieved. We also have a formal In fact, no scientific peer-reviewed 100 years old and many of the permits complaints procedure which can be used literature suggests that infrasound required for certification did not exist at by members of the community if they produced by wind farms causes any the time these sites were built. We are health impacts. International and have concerns relating to Pacific Hydro, in the process of obtaining these permits national health bodies, government including issues relating to noise. to enable us to apply for certification departments and medical professionals under ISO 14001. reject a link between the two. Noise • Below: Codrington Wind Farm, Australia While modern wind turbines are designed to minimise noise levels, they still produce some noise. Wind turbine noise can be attributed to two main sources. Mechanical noise comes from components within the turbine itself, such as the generator or gearbox. Advanced engineering means that this is not a significant feature of the total noise emissions. The main source is aerodynamic noise originating from the wind passing over the blades, making a ‘swish’ sound, the levels of which depend on the wind speed. These noise levels diminish with distance from the wind Sustainability Report 2011 29 Workplace Employee training and development spend $920,000 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 7.2 Reduction in Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate since 2007 59% Employees placed through our internal recruitment policy 36 Our Approach Our people are paramount to our success and their health, safety and wellbeing is our priority. Developing and managing our employees and their talents allows us to improve as a business and we are committed to fostering a diverse, innovative and inclusive work environment. Training and development opportunities are provided to employees at all levels. 30 Sustainability Report 2011 Health, Safety and Wellbeing Health and Safety Performance Annual health checks are available We work closely with our contractors to all employees, and fresh fruit is to ensure we are prepared in the event We aim for continual improvement in supplied to all our offices. English of an emergency. Test exercises and our health and safety performance with lessons are offered in Chile and Brazil, emergency drills are periodically the ultimate goal of achieving zero and Spanish classes are provided performed at all sites and offices, incidents, injuries or illnesses. Significant to Australian employees. Our leave sometimes involving local emergency resources are dedicated to ensuring purchase policy allows employees services, to prepare employees and a workplace safe from injury or harm, to purchase additional leave in Australia contractors for situations including although responsibility for health and and Chile. In Australia, initiatives include site evacuation, fire, emergency rescue safety is also placed with each employee. a mothers’ feeding room as well as a and rescue from heights. return to work bonus from maternity Our Health, Safety and Sustainability ‘Be Responsible, Save Lives’ or paternity leave. In Australia and Chile, (HSS) Policy outlines our commitments Road Safety Campaign we provide training sessions on stress to ensuring a healthy and safe management and work life balance. environment for our employees. Our Chacayes construction Australian and Chilean employees also Aggressive targets are set annually project is located in the foothills of the have access to our Employee Assistance at a corporate and business unit level Andes Mountains, around 150 km Program, which provides a free to improve our workplace health and south-west of Santiago in Chile. Roads counselling service to employees safety performance. This approach and vehicle accidents are one of the and their immediate families. In Brazil has seen a 59 per cent reduction in greatest risks to our employees and and Chile, meal vouchers and health Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate contractors. We launched a road safety insurance are provided to all employees. (TRIFR) in the past five years. campaign in December 2010 as an In Brazil, we also have a dental plan for Preventative and corrective measures engaging and educational way to reduce staff. Our Chile business provides are applied through our risk identification this risk. The campaign promoted employees with access to childcare processes and incidents are investigated responsible behaviour for employees located within our Santiago office where appropriate to avoid recurrences. and contractors, at work and at home. building and an emergency loan service. Relevant health and safety training Members of Carabineros, the local Contractor Health and Safety is provided to site and office-based police, spoke to our employees and employees and contractors to ensure Contractors form a large part of contractors about the importance of our staff are equipped with the our workforce, especially during road safety and pamphlets with safety knowledge required to perform their job construction. Contractors accounted tips were distributed to all workers safely. This includes first aid education for 90 per cent of all hours worked entering the site. sessions, audiometric testing, heights during the reporting period. Therefore, medical testing, regular health checks, The ‘Chacayes Cup’ soccer the health, safety and wellbeing of our flu vaccinations, access to our Employee tournament was jointly launched by contractors is important to us. A wide Assistance Program and manual Pacific Hydro and Astaldi Fe Grande, range of contractors perform work on handling programs. our main Engineering, Procurement our behalf and are charged with and Construction contractor. Twelve responsibility for associated project risks. Health and Wellbeing Initiatives teams, representing different functions All contractors are required to meet our of the two organisations, participated Looking after the health and wellbeing standards, which include relevant internal in the tournament in an environment of our employees improves productivity policies and procedures, legislation, which fostered friendships and a sense and engagement with our business. international standards such as of responsibility for the safety of our Our health and wellbeing program has ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and industry colleagues and their families. a broad range of strategies, including best practice. Audits for contractor core initiatives which are implemented performance against these standards globally, in addition to a number of and our policies occur regularly to initiatives specific to each region. ensure work is being performed in a manner that meets our expectations. Sustainability Report 2011 31 Achieving Best Practice Health and Safety in Brazil 2006/2011 Overall Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 20 Actual 16 Target 12 8 4 Providing a healthy and safe environment 0 for our employees is our top priority. We set 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 challenging health and safety targets each year with the ultimate goal of achieving zero harm to our employees and contractors. 2007/2011 Our Brazilian business unit has risen to the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate by Business Unit challenge, completing 35 months without a Lost Time Injury or Medical Treatment Injury (as at 30 June 2011). This is an 25 Australia outstanding achievement and demonstrates 20 Chile the strong culture of health and safety 15 we have worked hard to establish. Brazil 10 Some of the risks our Brazilian employees 5 face each day on site include working 0 at heights, working with high voltage 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 electricity, contact with poisonous animals and using vehicles on unsealed roads. It is Total Number of Incidents Reported a testament to both our employees and our health and safety management system that these risks have been mitigated and 450 managed so effectively. 400 350 Our senior management team in Brazil, as in all our business units, has made a 300 strong commitment to health and safety. 250 Lost Time Injuries The team’s dedicated commitment provides 200 Medical Treatment a healthy and safe environment for our 150 Injuries workers, improves overall employee behaviour and guarantees the efficiency of 100 First Aid Treatment Injuries our health and safety management system. 50 0 Near Misses We aim for continuous improvement 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 and have started implementing an employee behaviour-based safety management Whilst the absolute number of incidents increased, the TRIFR program. Designed to support early decreased due to an increase in labour hours at our construction identification of risks and hazards, the project in Chile. program will increase the safety awareness and understanding of employees and We follow the US Occupational Health and Safety Assessment contribute to our overall performance Series (OHSAS 18001) when reporting workplace injuries. against health and safety targets. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate is calculated using the following formula: • Above (L-R): Wagner de Assis Quintino, Marci (Number of Lost Time Injuries + Number of Medical Andrade, Agildo Araújo and Leandro Ribeiro Alves Treatment Injuries) ÷ Number of Hours Worked x 1,000,000. da Silva, members of our Health and Safety and Operations teams in Brazil. ‘Lost Time’ refers to number of scheduled work days lost. 32 Sustainability Report 2011 Total Labour Hours Site 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Employees Contractors Employees Contractors Employees Contractors Australia Operations 7,520 30,785 19,014 59,341 23,028 48,982 Construction 9,849 107,105 1,921 3,762 270 124 Office 85,948 2,684 63,346 793 65,827 552 Brazil Operations 3,329 19,968 6,060 65,839 6,246 65,361 Construction 8,245 587,700 0 0 0 0 Office 39,786 5,201 50,111 26,322 53,292 7,742 Chile Operations 42,445 311,159 43,809 291,248 51,785 418,692 Construction 45,736 1,586,476 85,486 3,778,934 120,620 4,664,196 Office 127,636 0 145,798 8,276 157,888 7,249 Corporate Office 97,452 6,288 111,092 4,446 116,790 6,613 Health and Safety Objectives Objective Result Each year, corporate Health, Injury Rates Achieve a TRIFR no ✕ We achieved a TRIFR Safety and Sustainability (HSS) greater than 6.8 by of 7.2 which was a objectives are set with the aim of 30 June 2011 – a 15 per 10 per cent reduction. decreasing injury rates, improving cent reduction in TRIFR management systems and increasing compared to 2009/10. employee engagement. Performance against these objectives is directly Management System Close out 80 per cent  Total number of linked to each employee’s performance Improvements of all HSS-related corrective actions appraisal and bonus payment. The corrective actions raised closed out by table to the right summarises our from 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011 performance against these targets. 30 June 2011 by their was 91 per cent. due date. Employee Engagement Recommend and  Employees worked in implement three teams and achieved HSS-related initiatives this objective. within their business or functional unit by 30 June 2011. Sustainability Report 2011 33 Human Resources Diversity Employee Profile – Males to Females by Region We are proud of our inclusive and diverse culture. Equal opportunities are provided to all staff and we leverage 140 from and encourage diversity to enhance our competitive advantage. According to our recent employee engagement 120 survey, the Organisational Alignment Survey, 83 per cent of 100 employees agree that our culture and practices are equally fair to all people, irrespective of gender, race, country of origin 80 or religious persuasion. 60 Equal employment opportunity and anti-discrimination are 40 specifically addressed in the Code of Conduct. In addition, we 20 Females are in the process of developing a Diversity Strategy in line with our overall goal of attracting and retaining talented people. 0 Males Australia Brazil Chile Parental Support We foster a family-friendly environment in which our employees can manage family commitments with work Percentage of Males to Females by Employee Level responsibilities. Our Maternity and Paternity Policies in Australia go beyond statutory requirements with respect to maternity and % paternity leave rights. Chilean legislation allows for 18 weeks 100 of capped pay, the balance of which we meet where employees’ salaries are above the cap. In Chile, employees also receive a 80 childcare assistance allowance from the government for two years. In Brazil, employees receive 24 weeks of full pay. 60 Australian employees are eligible for four days paid maternity or paternity leave and the primary care giver receives a bonus 40 payment upon their return to work. We also offer flexible working arrangements to ensure a smooth transition for parents returning to work. Since the end of the reporting period, our 20 Females Maternity and Paternity Leave Policies have been significantly 0 Males improved for our Australian employees. Board General Executive Employees Managers Managers A total of eight female employees took maternity leave during the reporting period and all returned to work after their maternity leave period ended. Percentage of Males to Females by Employment Type % 100 80 60 40 20 Females 0 Males Full time Part time Contractor 34 Sustainability Report 2011 Turnover Each employee is allocated a generous training budget to ensure that our people receive the training and development Total turnover rate for the reporting period was 14 per cent, necessary to keep them motivated and challenged. During the a one per cent increase on the previous year. We recognise reporting year, the total amount spent on training was employee turnover will continue to be an issue this year as the $920,000, which equates to almost $3,000 per employee. market for employees becomes more competitive in each of our geographic regions. All employees receive annual performance appraisals. Performance targets are set in line with our five-year business We have implemented a succession planning framework, plan and performance reviews are held after six months to continued our global leadership program and initiated other assess progress against targets. Career paths and professional talent management activities. These initiatives are intended development opportunities are discussed during employee to facilitate the development of staff and ensure we are performance appraisals and employees are encouraged motivating and challenging our employees. to provide feedback to their managers during these reviews. Annual training is offered to all employees and managers 2010/11 Turnover by Gender and Region on effective performance appraisals. We have systems in place to ensure a smooth transition 35 Number of leavers for employees moving from working life to retirement or 30 redundancy. In Australia, career endings are managed through 2 25 our Redundancy Policy and statutory requirements in Chile and Brazil include similar provisions for employees in those regions. 20 Remuneration and Bonuses 15 27 Employees are remunerated in a way which is both market 10 5 competitive and consistent with best practice. Our Remuneration 5 3 Females Policy aims to attract, motivate and retain employees by aligning 6 0 2 Males team and individual rewards with business performance. It Australia Brazil Chile ensures global consistency of our remuneration structure and Turnover Turnover Turnover rewards both financial and non-financial performance. = 9% = 16% = 18% We did not employ any entry-level employees in Australia or Brazil during the reporting period, but our minimum wage levels across all our regions of operation are well above legal Training and General Development minimums. In Chile, the ratio of entry level wages was 2.0 People are our most valuable asset and we seek to develop compared with the statutory minimum wage. our staff in line with business needs and personal aspirations. All benefits provided to full time employees are also provided to part time employees on a pro-rata basis. • Above: Liz Zorondo, Jilly Adams and Kim Derriman, members of our Australian Development team Sustainability Report 2011 35 Internal Recruitment Policy Employee engagement Organisational Alignment Survey Employee satisfaction is measured and assessed yearly through an Organisational Alignment Survey. This allows us to benchmark our performance against other organisations, address key areas of concern and ensure that the aspirations of our organisation are aligned with our people. While our rankings have decreased slightly since last year, we still We recognise that having the right people consistently rank well above other global organisations using in the right jobs supports the success and this tool. Compared to all indices of the global database, we are longevity of our business. To this end, we substantially above average in both the ‘clarity of our vision, have developed an Internal Recruitment mission and values’ (76th percentile) and the ‘consistency of Policy, which allows us to capitalise on the our strategies, plans, projects, processes, actions and outcomes’ diversity within our workforce by developing (73rd percentile). and promoting existing employees where Whilst the organisation's support for employees possible. The policy, already being used was substantially above average (72nd percentile), our in Australia, was successfully rolled out overall commitment ranking declined from the 74th to the to our Chilean business unit during the 63rd percentile. The commitment ranking is influenced by reporting period. three key areas – employees understanding of their role, As a relatively small organisation, one of our organisational support for employees and employees’ support challenges is being able to offer employees for the organisation. Our goal for the next financial year is interesting and challenging career paths. to bring our overall commitment score back above the Encouraging and facilitating development and 75th percentile. cross-promotion of employees assists us with our retention rates and provides opportunities Respecting Rights at Work for employees to advance and develop to We comply with all applicable laws, regulations and other their full potential. legal requirements with respect to labour. 5.6 per cent of our Internal recruitment is strongly supported employees in Australia are covered by collective bargaining by our company culture. Employees are agreements. No employees in Chile are covered by collective encouraged to develop skills and bargaining agreements and in Brazil employees are covered competencies to open up opportunities under their relevant union agreements. We have not identified for career development within our business. any risks at any of our operations relating to our employees’ Through our annual review process, potential rights to freedom of association or collective bargaining. career goals are identified and employees and their managers are able to plan a career Grievance Practices path based on these goals. Staff are also Our Grievance Procedure, Whistleblower Disclosure and encouraged to make use of internal and Investigation Procedure, Equal Opportunity Policy and Code external facilities to gain the knowledge, skills of Conduct encourage employees to deal with any grievances and behaviours necessary to meet current through appropriate mechanisms. Where internal measures do and future organisational needs. not sufficiently address issues, employees are entitled to seek There were a total of 110 appointments during external support through our Employee Assistance Program the reporting period, 33 per cent of which and relevant external organisations. were internal appointments. Of our total number of internal appointments, 39 per cent were female and 61 per cent male. • Above: Brett Dutton, Executive Manager, Group Operations, placed through our Internal Recruitment scheme 36 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI and UNGC Index Report section GRI indicators UNGC Page Principle Reference About this Report 2.1, 2.8, 2.9, 3.1, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.11, 3.13 Inside cover About Us 1.1, 1.2, 2.2, 2.3, 3.5, 4.8, 4.12, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17, EUSS19 7 1–8 Governance 1.2, 2.6, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, LA DMA, LA13, 1–6, 10 9–10 HR3, HR4, SO DMA, SO3, SO4, SO6, SO7, SO8 Business Partners 2.5, 2.7, 4.13, 4.14, EC DMA, EC1, EC2, EC8, EC9, EN DMA, EN6, SO 11–17 DMA, SO5, PR7, PR8, EUSS DMA, EUSS1, EUSS6 Community EC DMA, EC6, EC7, EC9, HR DMA, HR11, SO DMA, EUSS19 1–10 18–22 Environment EN DMA, EN3, EN4, EN6, EN7, EN9, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15, EN16, 7–8 23–29 EN18, EN22, EN23, EN28, PR1 Workplace EC DMA, EC5, LA DMA, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10, LA11, LA12, 1–6, 10 30–36 LA15, HR5, EUSS DMA, EUSS16, EUSS17, EUSS21 The table above provides page references for the performance indicators reported against and includes the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. A complete GRI Index can be found on our website at pacifichydro.com.au/sustainability/sustainability-report/. The complete set of GRI G3.1 and Electric Utility Sector Supplement indicators are also available from www.globalreporting.org Acknowledgements The Sustainability team would like to thank all the people, too numerous to mention, who have assisted with and supported this project. It would not have been possible without your input. • Back cover image: Cachapoal Valley, Chile Sustainability Report 2011 37 Contact Us If you have any questions or comments, please contact us at sustainability@pacifichydro.com Australia Level 11, 474 Flinders Street Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia T +61 3 8621 6000 | F +61 3 8621 6111 Brazil Alameda Santos, 700–Cj. 62 – Condomínio Edifico Trianon Corporate Cerqueira César – São Paulo – SP CEP 01418-100 – Brazil T +55 11 3149 4646 | F +55 11 3149 4649 Chile Edificio Mapfre, Av. Isidora Goyenechea 3520, Piso 9, Las Condes Santiago, Chile T +56 2 519 4200 | F +56 2 519 4240 pacifichydro.com
