and sustainability 2 0 0 9 peopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeop pleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperityp eplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprospe planetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetpro lanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanet lanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeoplepla ritypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetpros pleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperit typeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetp 1 Our report ‘A’ level reporter – GRI checked We report on a regional and global basis, wherever possible presenting data over five years to make the information relevant, accessible and comparable. About this report This report sets out an overview of Sappi’s sustainability performance in the last financial year and covers the issues that are most material to Sappi’s sustainability at this time. We engage with those stakeholders who have the most impact on and interest in our business. The information presented has been determined on the basis of our ongoing engagement – formal and informal – with our stakeholders and has been assessed against the backdrop of current business operations, as well as prevailing trends in our industry and the global economy. In preparing this report we have tracked environmental findings and research; public opinion; employee views and attitudes; the activities of environmental and social groups; as well as the activities, profiles and attitudes of investors, suppliers and customers. A more detailed version of this report can be found at http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_sdr_2009/. In keeping with King III’s recommendation to integrate sustainability reporting, we have included a comprehensive Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index in the more detailed report which has links to relevant sections in the annual report, the annual report on form 20-F and previous sustainability reports.1 This assists the reader in referencing our sustainability performance and also avoids some repetition of information. Scope of this report We report in accordance with the GRI G3 indicators and this year In terms of joint ventures, as we only have a 34% stake in our joint have declared ourselves as a level A reporter. This report is aligned venture in Jiangxi Chenming Mill in the People’s Republic of China with our annual report and covers the period 01 October 2008 to 30 and so only have an indirect influence, this mill is not covered in September 2009. While the acquisition of M-real’s coated graphic our report. LignoTech South Africa, our 50:50 joint venture with business was only completed at the end of December 2008, the Borregard at Saiccor Mill is also excluded as we do not manage acquired mills have been included in our People and Planet data the operations.2 We report on a regional and global basis, wherever with effect from the beginning of October 2008 in accordance with possible presenting data over five years to make the information our financial year. relevant, accessible and comparable. Exchange rates are detailed on page 36. We investigated external assurance in the year under review, but this was put on hold in view of the constrained economic circumstances. 1 As Sappi’s primary listing is in South Africa, the King III Code on Corporate Governance (King III) applies. King III was released for comment in September 2009 and will apply from early in 2010. King III replaces King II, issued in 2002. 2 LignoTech SA produces lignosulphonate, which is based on the binding agent of wood, and a co-product of pulp production. Lignin-based products are used as dispersing agents in concrete, textile dyes, pesticides, ceramics and as binding agents in briquetting, animal feed and dust suppression. 1 2009 sustainability Index Our vision and mission Our vision: Overview Overview 01 To embed the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet into our everyday business Our report processes to add value to all stakeholders, and to help achieve the Sappi Limited Our vision and mission goal of being, on a sustainable basis, the most profitable company in paper, pulp Our business structure and chemical cellulose solutions. Our global reach Our sustainable business cycle CEO’s message Our mission statement fulfils this aspiration Our performance against Charter objectives 09 Delivering on sustainability by: Report-back on targets 15 Focusing on ethical performance in keeping with our Values of Excellence, Integrity and Respect Key material issues for Sappi in 2009 19 Sustainability governance 25 Generating Prosperity as our ability to remain a sustainable player is founded on generating Our benchmarks 27 profits in the shortand long-term Prosperity 29 Improving the lives of People through products and services that enrich their lives and by providing People 37 an environment in which they can develop their full potential Planet 49 Treading more lightly on the Planet Glosssary 61 by balancing our needs with our impact on the Earth Manufacturing operations on 4 continents Sales 100 in over countries 800,000 Annual chemical cellulose tons production 6.8 million 3.3 million 16,400 tons Annual paper production tons Annual paper pulp production Employees worldwide 2 A global business Operations that span the globe We are a leading producer of coated fine paper and the world’s largest producer of chemical cellulose. Founded and incorporated in South Africa in 1936, Sappi is today, a global paper and pulp group. We are a leading producer of coated fine paper widely used in books, brochures, magazines, catalogues and many other print applications. We are also the world’s largest producer of chemical cellulose, used primarily in the manufacture of viscose fibre, acetate tow and consumer pharmaceutical products. In addition, we produce newsprint, uncoated graphic and business papers, premium quality packaging papers, a range of coated speciality papers and a range of paper grade pulp. Our business structure 2009 Sales Employees US$5,369m 16,400 Sappi Fine Paper Sappi Forest Products Sappi Trading (84% of group’s sales in 2009) (16% of group’s sales in 2009) 2009 Sales US$4,508m 2009 Sales US$861m Sappi Trading operates a network Paper capacity 6.0m tons Paper capacity 0.8m tons for the international selling and distribution of our products outside Pulp capacity 2.3m tons Pulp capacity 1.9m tons our core operating regions of North America, Europe and Southern Africa. Sappi Fine Paper Kraft Sappi Trading also co-ordinates our Europe (Packaging paper and pulp) shipping and logistical functions for exports from these regions. 64% of fine paper sales in 2009 Saiccor (Chemical cellulose) Sappi Fine Paper Forests Jiangxi Chenming (China JV) North America Plantations (pulpwood and sawlogs) 29% of fine paper sales in 2009 34% ownership Sappi Fine Paper South Africa 7% of fine paper sales in 2009 3 2009 sustainability Finland Our global reach Overview North America Europe United Kingdom Russia The Netherlands Regional head office Regional head office – Brussels Poland 2 Fine Paper mills 10 Fine Paper mills Belgium Germany 1 Speciality mill 16 Fine Paper sales offices Ukraine France 4 Fine Paper sales offices 1 Sappi Trading sales offices Austria Hungary Switzerland 1 Sappi Trading sales office Italy Spain Greece Turkey United States of America Los Angeles Europe Peopleʼs Republic of Taiwan Central America China Mexico Singapore South America Africa Brazil Kenya Maine Minnesota Australia Boston New York South Africa Ohio Johannesburg Durban Cape Port Elizabeth Town Georgia Central America Southern Africa East Africa 1 Sappi Trading sales office Corporate head office 1 Sappi Trading sales office Regional head office Asia South America 3 Fine Paper mills 4 Sappi Trading sales offices 1 Sappi Trading sales office 5 Forest Product mills 1 Paper mill – joint venture 4 Fine Paper sales offices 4 Forest Product sales offices Australia 2 Sappi Trading sales offices 1 Sappi Trading sales office 4 Our sustainable business cycle A comprehensive overview This diagram brings together the inputs, outputs and impacts of our operations. Management systems Sustainably managed Water All current papermaking processes use forests mitigate climate large amounts of water – to hold, transport change by sequestering and distribute the fibre that becomes the carbon from the sheet of paper. Water is also an integral atmosphere and part of the steam systems used to storing it as biomass. generate energy. Because water is such a critical resource for our processes, we take great care, as responsible manufacturers, to filter it before it is used and to treat it before it exits the process. We use temperature controls, oxygen level controls and other metrics to ensure that we comply with all relevant environmental regulations. When biomass is harvested and used to generate energy, the carbon contained is Chemicals released as carbon dioxide (CO2) into the Wherever possible, chemicals are atmosphere – this process is considered recovered and re-used. ‘carbon neutral’ as the CO2 generated is the same amount that was bound from the atmosphere by the process of photosynthesis during the growth of Energy the trees. Pulp and paper operations are highly Forests only contribute to net carbon energy-intensive and in some regions emissions when biomass is harvested faster purchased power is our major energy than it grows back. A sustainably managed source. Equally, in certain regions, electricity forest is considered to be a net carbon generation is mainly coal-based, and this sequester despite the removal of biomass has obvious carbon implications. Globally, during harvesting. At Sappi, logging is 49.7% of the energy we use comes from balanced with re-growth and twigs and renewable sources (waste products from stumps are left behind, leading to our production processes, black liquor, bark ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 continuous enrichment of the soil. and sludges and also purchased biomass). ISO 14001 OSHA International, independently verified management systems underpin our approach to sustainable development. We use internationally recognised health and safety systems to ensure the safety of our people. The rights of indigenous peoples are protected by the forest management systems used by Sappi. Chemical cellulose, Saiccor Mill, South Africa 5 2009 sustainability Overview Papermaking process Effluent Total suspended solids (TSS) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) are good indicators of water quality. Globally, the TSS and Pulping and COD in the effluent we discharge shows a chemical recovery decline over five years. process In integrated pulp mills A percentage (mills which produce their CO2 of water and own pulp), the black liquor Our mills emit carbon dioxide (CO2), one chemicals created during the pulping of the main greenhouse gases (GHGs) is recycled. process is a primary source Pulping responsible for global warming. Globally, of renewable energy. CO2 emissions throughout our mills show Black liquor is burnt in the a declining trend from 2005. recovery boiler, producing steam and energy which is used in the mill. Waste to landfill We add value to waste products in a Papermaking number of different ways. • The ash created by burning bark, branches and other biomass from trees in our mill boilers, can be used as fertiliser and a soil additive • Lime mud, a by-product of the pulping process, is used by farmers to control Coating soil pH • Waste sludge can be used in applications such as the manufacture of bricks, cement or household products such as cat litter • At Enstra Mill, lime produced as a byproduct during the manufacturing process is sent to a wash plant on site. From here it is sold to the metallurgical industry and used to neutralise acid mine drainage in a process patented by the CSIR • At Alfeld Mill, coarse pigments from rePaper in the Cutting and pulping internal broke are recovered marketplace wrapping from paper machine effluent and reprocessed to substitute virgin Despite the rise of electronic media, material. In another process, coating the use of paper is increasing throughout colour is also recovered from effluent the world. Paper plays an important role in and reprocessed. promoting growth and development. Wood products and the wood fibre in paper store carbon throughout their lifetime and can be Methane emitted from landfill recycled or burnt for Methane, a GHG with a global warming renewable energy potential approximately 23 times more generation. potent than CO2, is emitted from landfills. Despatch Globally, the amount of solid waste to landfill shows a steady decline, in line To mitigate our carbon with our move away from coal-fired boilers footprint, we are increasingly to gasand biomass-fired boilers moving product by rail rather (Gratkorn and Tugela Mills). than road. Royal™ Roto Recycled Recycling process Triple Green™ We are driving the use of recovered fibre throughout our Typek Recycled™ operations. The majority of our products are recyclable. Opus® Web We offer many products that meet the needs of Tempo™ environmentally-conscious consumers including: Super calender, Gratkorn Mill, Austria 6 CEO’s message Ralph Boëttger We are embedding sustainability into our business processes. The 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet are global marketplace and were in line with our aim of substantially improving Sappi’s the fundamentals on which our commitment profitability and returns. We will be providing separation benefits for our salaried to sustainability is based. Meeting our Charter employees and are engaging with union representatives regarding the terms of hourly commitments is essential to our sustainability as employees’ separation benefits. an organisation, but so, too, is balancing those commitments. The issues that affect us and At Sappi, we believe that one injury or one fatality is one too many. Consequently, our stakeholders are constantly evolving and the fact that nine of our contractors lost their lives in South Africa in 2009 was deeply shifting in importance. Being sensitive to these disappointing. Fatalities are completely unacceptable – to us as an organisation, developments means balancing and adjusting and to the colleagues, family and friends of those deceased. I extend my heartfelt our energies and capital expenditure in terms condolences to all concerned. Disconcertingly, these fatalities took place in the of the commitments while maintaining our core context of a renewed focus on safety. I call on all our employees and contractors to values of Excellence, Integrity and Respect. In join us in making safety an entrenched value and a fundamental way of doing things. light of the downturn in the global economy and Given that most of the fatalities occurred in transport-related activities and felling reduced demand for our products, focusing on operations, we have instituted even more stringent measures in these areas which improved returns and our Charter commitment of we hope will help to remediate the situation. long-term, profitable growth continued to be our most immediate priority in the year under review. Our employees are the key to our success. To meet our employees’ needs and aspirations, we need to know what is important to them and understand their While we prioritised this Charter commitment, connection to our business. Against this backdrop, I am pleased to report that our our other 17 commitments remained an integral second employee engagement survey resulted in 65% improvement in participation, part of honing our competitive advantage and a significant increase over our 2007 survey, indicating improved levels of engagement. ensuring our viability as a business in the shortTraining and developing our people is integral to our success as an organisation and and the long-term. we continued to invest in this area. Focusing on long-term, profitable growth In the forest products industry, sustainability means striving to ensure that our meant that we had to take difficult decisions resources will be as plentiful and available to future generations as they are to us in all our regions. In North America, we closed today. Against this backdrop, I am pleased to report that our global environmental Muskegon Mill and substantially restructured the metrics have improved consistently, as detailed in the Planet Section on page 49 salaried organisation. In Europe, we reduced the of this report. One of the highlights in 2009 was our fifth position in the Carbon number of employees and in South Africa, we Disclosure Project (CDP) Leadership Index which recognises good disclosure. We also began consultations in August with trade were also included in the top 16 companies in terms of CDP performance scores unions regarding the reduction in workforce of which recognise climate mitigation and adaptation actions (no ranking was provided approximately 300 workers at our kraft and fine in this regard). While this is welcome recognition of our efforts, we won’t rest on our paper mills. While these were extremely difficult laurels. We are pushing forward with other initiatives, including the development of decisions to make, they were necessary to a credible carbon footprint methodology and efforts to respond to the challenge of ensure that we remain competitive in today’s responsible water utilisation. 7 2009 sustainability CEO’s message Earlier this year I signed the Copenhagen Comare already in a position where we comply with many of King III’s recommendations muniqué on Climate Change on behalf of Sappi. as regards sustainability. The Communiqué is a private sector call for “an ambitious, robust and equitable global deal Our performance against targets established by the regional sustainability councils on climate change that responds credibly to the is set out on pages 15-18 of this report. The targets not only help us to prioritise key scale and urgency of the crises facing the world issues and give us very specific goals to work towards, but they are also benchmarks today”. We look forward to working with our for assessing our sustainability performance. We have fully disclosed our performance peers and other stakeholders in delivering on – even where it has fallen short of expectation – in the interests of transparency and some of the challenges on the table at the Cothe understanding that analysing our performance will enable us to move forward. penhagen Summit in December. Indications are that the Summit will propose different strategies In these challenging times, focusing on sustainability only makes business sense if for the developed and developing world and as doing so adds value. As our Charter commitments help us extract strategic value, we our operations are situated in both regions, we view them as a business imperative. The grid on pages 9-14 sets out very clearly how expect business opportunities to arise from the we are adding value to Sappi today and how we plan to do so tomorrow. Summit, given our high use of renewable energy and the carbon sequestration potential of our In the current economic circumstances there is a temptation to think of sustainability plantation forests. as ‘nice-to-have’ or as an add-on. This is not the case at Sappi. We see sustainability as a way of adding value and honing our competitive advantage and I urge all our Sustainabilityis a priority agenda item for stakeholders to join us on our sustainability journey. Sappi and we strive to embed sustainability throughout the organisation and establish a strong sustainability governance structure. This structure was considerably strengthened in the Ralph Boëttger year under review with the establishment of a chief executive officer board committee, the Executive Sustainability Sappi Limited Committee which includes, amongst others, the regional CEOs and myself. We look forward to lively debate and positive interaction between this committee and the GSDC which deals with ‘onthe-ground’ sustainability issues. The revised King III Code on Corporate Governance places even greater emphasis on sustainability and responsible corporate citizenship than King II did. Our sustainability journey, while ongoing, is well under way and I am confident that we 8 Our performance against Charter objectives Performance and future targets Our Sustainability Charter, which sets out specific Prosperity, People and Planet commitments, is the roadmap for embedding sustainability practices into our business. Charter Focus on long-term Promote an ethical Drive customer satisfaction through technology and innovation Commitments profitable growth culture Return on Capital Employed Code of Ethics Investment in new products Margins and Technical Invest in (ROCE) market share in Innovation wood fibre Performance Governance the profitable Awards (TIA) genetics Operational efficiencies and fast growing development indicators digital print sector Creation of Global in Europe Procurement function Acuisition of M-real coated Post roll-out internal Europe Launch of Identicate™ Our market share Technology South Africa graphic paper mils communications through posters – security tracking paper using in the European Centre in participating Actual performance nanotechnology digital print sector South Africa in wood fibre Successful integration of Group and Regional Sustainability is not significant global winner molecular North America Launch of a range M-real mills and achievement Councils operating well yet. Sappi is of TIA awards genetics of digital papers and new Mokka €73 million in synergies pattern for casting release papers developing tailorin 2009 for programme Prosperity Formation of board/executive made solutions for development Savings achieved through sustainability committee South Africa New passport paper digital print of new group purchasing to enhanced specifications and passport launch of wet strength label paper paper for beverage bottles Net debt reduction of US$800 Conduct employee survey on Review current portfolio of brands Secure a leading Continue Continue million by 2012 Code of Ethics understanding and product selection position in to promote collaborating and compliance the emerging development in the Investigate ROCE assessment of Achieve synergies from M-real segments, while of disruptive enhancement Future targets research and development transaction of €120 million taking a profitable technology of wood fibre by 2011 Understand customer/end-user share in the already through TIA in South Africa needs and Sappi’s performance in developed digital awards More detail about financial targets satisfying these print segments is available in our Annual Report. Increase amount of revenue/profit New product from ‘new’ business solutions will be launched in Europe in early 2010 Increased shareholder value The basis of sound governance Technological developments have resulted in competition from alternative forms of Value and financial viability will and stakeholder confidence; media and alternative products like plastic, thus meeting customers’ needs through enhance Sappi’s overall also enhances reputation and innovation is crucial. add sustainability. licence to trade. 9 2009 sustainability Our performance Build on our competitive Create value for Maintain our licence to trade position in our core markets all stakeholders Promotion of the Sappi brand Compliance In South Africa, BroadParticipation and UN Global Copenhagen Value add, direct and with based Black Economic inclusion in external Compact Communiqué indirect, to parties SWOT analyses with respect to our regulatory Empowerment (BBBEE) indices on climate Sappi engages with main competitors frameworks scorecard rating change Continued reputational enhancement Effective legal In 2009, we achieved a Assessed as one of the top UN Global Committed Direct economic value through initiatives aimed at the design compliance score of 54 points and performers on the JSE SRI Compact to meet the added to businesses and print industries, eg ‘Ideas that programme an overall BBBEE status Index in 2008 and 2009 principles Copenhagen and communities and Matter’ and ‘Life with Print’ of a ‘level six contributor’ and improved performance reported Communiqué multiplier effect related (BB rating) status and a on the Dow Jones World goals to each mill/operation preferential procurement Sustainability Index in 2009 recognition level of 60%. Rated as top 20 GRI (Improvement from previous compliant company by score of 41 points and level SustainabilityServices in seven status.) evaluation of over 400 South African companies Explore further initiatives with designers Achieve a ‘level five Implement lessons learned Continue Report back Assess value add of and printers contributor’ (BBBEE rating) from external assessments reporting on on progress each mill status and preferential compliance in terms of Set and measure against targets of what procurement recognition Report on level of GRI with UN Copenhagen we must improve, reduce, eliminate, level of 80% in 2010 compliance and obtain Global climate change We cannot do create business in a failing assessment of sustainability Compact objectives Monitor developments such as society which Strategise BBBEE reporting by GRI principles Walmart’s sustainability index and ignores People and ownership options and Planet. Issues such Newsweek’s Green Rankings execute to enhance Continue making use as climate change Establish customers’ perception of ownership scorecard of external benchmarks have not just an Sappi’s sustainable performance to assess sustainability environmental, but performance a socio-economic impact. Lost market share is difficult to Being a responsible corporate citizen and matching our words with our actions, Sappi will become the regain, our strong sustainability organisation of choice to partner with. platform will enhance the value of our brands. 10 Our performance against Charter objectives Performance and future targets Our Sustainability Charter, which sets out specific Prosperity, People and Planet commitments, is the roadmap for embedding sustainability practices into our business. Charter Cultivate an inclusive, Provide training and development Be a great place to work Commitments diverse workplace opportunities Promotion of gender and race Global engagement survey Targets set on training hours and spend per Performance equality employee Regional recognition programmes Achievement of South Africa’s Sappi Leadership Academy Reward/remuneration based on merit indicators Employment Equity indicators Talent and succession planning review Absenteeism and labour turnover statistics Canvassed feedback from employees 65% improvement in participation in survey since previous Training hours increased in South Africa: 109 hours through employment engagement survey in 2007 per employee (target: 45); North America achieved survey 32 hours (target: 60) for employees and 15,683 for Results from survey show significant shift in employees’ Actual performance customers (target: 10,000); Europe achieved 21 hours In South Africa, 4,766 employees commitment to Sappi (target: 40 per employee). participated in employment Absenteeism and turnover within industry averages equity training, 1,042 in diversity Training and development spend as a percentage of management and discrimination payroll was 1.3% in 2009. awareness programmes Further wave of Sappi managers successfully People Improvement on various criteria and completed Leadership Academy programme. review of BBBEE scorecard results Common and standardised talent management and succession planning progress embedded in the organisation. Monitor employee diversity profile Implementation of action plans flowing from results of global Classify and report on training in global categories. survey Review targets Report on employee wellbeing programmes and outcomes Report on talent pipeline. Future targets Overall absenteeism of <5% and voluntary turnover of <10% Enhances Sappi’s reputation Valuing our employees through recognition; granting freedom Stimulates productivity and retention. Value internally and externally. with responsibility; allowing people to stretch and reach their add full potential; safety at work and living the Sappi values. A fulfilled workforce is a committed and productive one. 11 2009 sustainability Our performance Prosperity Engage with stakeholders openly Partner with Prioritise wellbeing, safety and health and constructively communities Measurement, monitoring and management of safety indicators in terms of Regular contact with shareholders and customers. Corporate Social employees and contractors with the aim of achieving zero harm Responsibility (CSR) Internal and external communications spend on literacy, skills Mills safety milestones Participation in industry association initiatives development, education, Internationally recognised certification standards, such as OHSAS and OSHA job creation, health, Feedback from communities surrounding our operations environment, HIV/Aids In North America and South Africa, the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Roadshows, mill visits and one-on-one discussions with Total CSR spend of improved for employees and contractors, but declined in Europe as a result of inclusion shareholders and analysts US$2 million of the acquired mills. Their safety performance needed considerable attention and Increased contact of management with customers and change in behaviour. Following intervention, noticeable improvement in last quarter Majority of funding suppliers allocated to Southern Technology Centre, Pretoria achieved safety diamond status (36 months without lost-time Regular updates from CEO and management on Africa, with education, injuries), Cape Kraft and Enstra Mills achieved safety platinum status (24 months without lost-time policies, strategies and key developments to employees the environment and injuries); Tugela and Usutu Mills achieve safety gold status (12 months without lost-time injuries) Regional CEOs actively involved in industry associations heath and welfare Move from OSHA to OHSAS in North America receiving the most Mill committee meetings held with communities on Safety audits performed funding topics of mutual interest Employee wellbeing programmes focus on holistic health issues pertinent to each site In South Africa, participation in voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) for HIV/AIDS up from 28% in 2008 to just over 40% in 2009 Reduce LTIFR and fatalities to zero CEO and management to maintain high level of visibility Review areas of spend and accessibility to all stakeholders Focus on executing safety strategies which include further training, visible senior Report on impact of leadership and improved contractor vetting, management and safety performance Focus communication to target audience via all channels projects Improving the identification and reporting of all classifications of injuries to more fully identify the root causes and corrective actions Report more fully on occupational injuries Increase number of mills achieving safety ‘diamond’ status Measure, monitor and report on occupational health risks Identify the risks that influence the HIV prevalence within Sappi employees Has a positive impact on morale, productivity and reputation. Understanding what our stakeholders perceive as Facilitates the resoluresponsible behaviour, meeting these expectations tion of issues, enhancand achieving recognition will deliver obvious value. es our licence to trade and brand reputation. 12 Our performance against Charter objectives Performance and future targets Our Sustainability Charter, which sets out specific Prosperity, People and Planet commitments, is the roadmap for embedding sustainability practices into our business. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Safeguard biodiversity by Continue our commitment to applying Charter and increase our use of renewable promoting sustainable forestry independent, environmental, wood Commitments energy and fibre management systems Energy consumption Tree improvement programme to increase Use of FSC, PEFC and SFI® certification performance indicators yields per hectare systems CO2 emissions Pest and disease resistance Percentage of renewable energy Biocontrol Percentage of self-generated power Management of riparian zones Involvement of communities in conservation/ tourism initiatives Globally over five years, achieved a drop of 11% Strong involvement in fibre research Percentage of certified fibre used: Actual performance in specific* purchased energy per ton of pulp and Commercialisation of certain hybrids to reduce risk Europe 61.6% PEFC and FSC 11.7%, specific CO2 emissions dropped by 2% of pests etc North America 51% (SFI®) Planet South Africa 70% (FSC) In 2009, in North America more than 83% of all Carried out extensive research on effect of cossid energy used was derived from renewable resources, moth on eucalyptus nitens in South Africa 41%, and in Europe 30% with our global figure at 50% Corporate Social Responsibility spend on ecotourism Explore cogeneration and biofuel opportunities Continue funding support and technical expertise Increase percentage of certified fibre in pulp Future targets to facilitate breakthrough in fibre molecular and paper Monitor regulatory developments following the research programme Copenhagen Climate Change Summit Investigate the use of offset programmes Report on carbon footprint methodology Given the global focus on climate change, Entrenches our competitive advantage by Supports our position on environmental there are significant opportunities to leverage reassuring stakeholders on issues such concerns. Value add Sappi’s high levels of renewable energy and low as deforestation and provides ecotourism carbon footprint compared to other products, opportunities in SA. such as plastics. Reducing energy use also has economic benefits. *Data is given in specific form. This means that the actual quantity consumed, whether energy, water, emissions or solid waste is expressed in terms of a production parameter. 13 For Sappi as with other pulp and paper industries, this parameter is air dry tons (ADT). Our performance Prosperity Reduce solid waste and improve Promote the recovery and use of Conform with best environmental water quality recycled fibre practice and legislation Recycling of materials for re-use Environmental impact of cleaning and handling Transfer of best practice within the group recovered fibres Solid waste to landfill Benchmarks established by industry associations Use of post-consumer and post-industrial waste Combustible solid waste Local legislation Use of EFC and TCF bleaching processes Measurement of total suspended solids and chemical oxygen demand Globally, decrease in solid waste to landfill of 21% over Increased product offering with Royal Roto™ Recycled Training relating to North American Lacey Act five years and Triple Green™ Embossed Globally, over five years, specific water use per ton of pulp dropped by 10% Globally in 2009, total suspended solids and chemical oxygen demand in effluent decreased by 18% and 4% respectively Increase use of solid waste Continue to meet customer needs for products Leverage opportunities created by changes in carbon containing post-consumer and post-industrial waste legislation Decrease waste to landfill Focus on decreasing total specific water use Participate in industry groups to influence legislative Improve the quality of effluent changes Re-using and minimising waste has economic and Makes economic sense in view of global demand Underpins our licence to trade and enhances environmental advantages. Improving water quality for recovered fibre and adds to our product offering. our reputation. is important from an environmental point of view, especially with global pressure on water resources and in light of consumer concerns about bleaching processes. 14 Report-back on targets Prosperity People Planet In 2008, we established targets to enhance transparency and benchmark ourselves. Due to the differing nature of mill processes in each region, as well as the different business contexts, the targets are regional, rather than global. Our progress toward these targets follows. Unless otherwise indicated, these are five-year targets. 2009 2009 2009 Highlights Highlights Highlights North America Europe South Africa 41 € 73 4.6 % Million % Of revenue from Synergies acrued Fine paper turnover products and services through M-Real from products less than 5 years old. acquisition. launched in last 3 years. 15,683 Hours of customer M-real acquisition successfully 54 BBBEE Score Procurement recognition improved training integrated: from a level 7 to a level 6 contributor. Existing business maintained. 24% 24% 2.5 Product carouselling % implemented. Reduction Reduction in Decrease in in water usage. greenhouse gas organic content Sappi team built. emissions. of solid waste. 51 % Key: Report back on targets grid Of third party fibre is certified. B Achieved C Exceeded D Not Achieved 15 2009 sustainability Report-back on targets Report-back 2009 2009 2010 Status Comment Five-year targets Performance Target North 41% C 25% Generate 25% of revenue from New products and services will conproducts and services that are less tinue to be a priority for sales, marketAmerica* than five years old ing and R&D C The successful integration of Existing business maintained Our integration plans in this region are Maximise benefits of M-real’s graphic paper assets ahead of schedule, some of savings enlarged portfolio Product carouselling implemented achieved as a result of being able to Match capacity and Sappi team built detach from M-real supported functions demand Integration of IT systems in Europe progress Achievement of synergies to September 2009 was €73 million (annualised rate of €97 million), which exceeded our nine month target of €60 million Prosperity -1.3% D 0.65% Contribution from by-products to The decline was due to lower primary be improved by 10% of operating production, which meant less byincome within five years and 25% product was produced. We are curwithin ten years rently assessing ways to improve this parameter 4.6% B 8% 20% of turnover must come from products that have been launched Fine Paper in the last three years within five years 1.6% D 2.5% South Africa Kraft Instabilities at Ngodwana Mill’s coal fired 89.8 % D 90% 95% uptime on pulp mills boilers prevented us from reaching the target Eco-efficiency on paper machines for 75.2% D 79.7% 85% eco-efficiency on paper 2009 was affected by the increased machines number of start-ups and shut-downs for commercial downtime. Paper machine production was affected by negative product mix and deckle loss. The key factor was a 9.6% drop on PM1 at Ngodwana as a result of the decision to delay the drive replacement *North America revised their goals in 2009 to reflect the impact of the closure of the Muskegon operations. In addition, the goal for certified fibre was revised to be more consistent with competitors’ tracking metrics and to offer more clarity to customers reviewing performance. Specifically, the goal was modified from using a credit system which applied fibre to paper production only, to one that reflects the overall input of certified fibre into the mills. In all cases, the goals are more aggressive. Return on capital invested is not reported on, as it was felt that this should be done at a group, rather than a regional level. 16 Report-back on targets 2009 2009 2010 Status Comment Five-year targets Performance Target Provide training and education to all employees at a minimum of 60 31 D Rigorous cost containment during the economic downturn impacted training initiatives in North 40 hours/year per employee hours America hours Implement 10,000 hours of training and education in 2008 15,683 C Proactive training from our printer technical services group, mill visits and company specialists 12,500 to customers through Sappi hours continues to be well accepted by our customers hours North America Education, Training and Consulting (ETC®) our customer-focused training initiative and increase customer training by 10% per year to reach 15,000 hours by 2012 Increase our community support through education and training 1% D The downturn in the economy made it difficult to achieve this target 10% initiatives in both contributions and volunteer hours by 10% year on year. Benchmark is 2007 People Europe and 40 hours of training per employee per annum 21 D Not all training (eg on the job training) in Europe has been tracked, a new reporting system is 2012 hours currently being implemented that will help us to target Sappi Trading improve the reporting Increase training to 45 hours per employee 109 C Training was high due to project training related to the Amakhulu expansion project at Saiccor Mill. 45 hours We also utilised commercial downtime to increase hours training at all operations Minimum of 1% net D Build on the process, established This was not implemented as a result of the severe in 2008. of determining the socioeconomic downturn profit after tax South Africa economic impact of our corporate social responsibility initiatives in order to leverage these initiatives further Meet targets in terms of Broad-based Black Economic 54 C Sappi’s BBBEE progress is assessed by independent economic empowerment rating 60 Empowerment (BBBEE), achieve agency Empowerdex. In 2009, we improved our score of 62 by 2012 score in terms of procurement recognition from a level 7 to a level 6 contributor (50% and 60% procurement recognition respectively) 17 2009 sustainability Report-back on targets Report-back 2009 2009 2010 Status Comment Five-year targets Performance Target 24% C 24% Reduce greenhouse gas Increased levels of renewable energy and the emissions by 40% across all sites closure of Muskegon Mill contributed significantly by 2012 to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions for 2009 North America * 24% C 24% Decrease organic content of solid Ongoing work at the Cloquet Mill and closure waste by 50% across all sites of the Muskegon facility helped us to achieve this by 2012 goal 51% C 53% Increase level of third party While the national level of certification has levelled certified fibre to an average of out, we continue to drive toward higher levels of 60% across all sites certified fibre D 2012 Reduction of specific direct fossil Specific direct CO2 We will continue with our efforts to reduce the CO2 emissions (ie tons of CO2 per emission increased specific performance tons of saleable paper), including by 1.6% target purchased power emissions The base year for the new mills will be 2009 Europe ** (calculated at 400g/KWh by 1% Planet per year D 2012 Reduction of specific water Specific water use use (m3/ton) by 1% per annum increased by 9.0% (production and cooling water) target -1.66% D 6.8% Achieve: 15% reduction in specific The non-achievement of this target is related to purchased energy by 2015 (with the high number of start-ups and shut-downs for 2000 as a base year) commercial downtime 1.65% D 10% Reduction of 10% in purchased As above electricity by 2010 in line with South Africa Government’s goals 2.5% B 3% Reduction of 10% in specific water This was achieved due to improvements in specific used by 2015 by all mills water usage at Enstra and Saiccor Mills -20.3% D 5% Increase of 5% in recycled paper The target was reduced from the previous target of in Sappi product (Previous target: 20% because of reduced Kraft paper making capacity by 76,000t at Tugela Mill (temporary closure of PM1) as increase of 20% in fibre recycling well as reducing paper making output at Ngodwana by 2010 ) Mill as a result of the closure of fibre line number one. This all happened in the second half of calendar 2009 in response to the global economic crisis *These goals were revised in 2009 to reflect the closure of the Muskegon operations. **Benchmark is 2009 for Biberist, Kangas, Kirkniemi and Stockstadt Mills and 2008 for all other mills. 18 Key material issues for Sappi in 2009 Our response to sustainability challenges The issues set out below are sustainability-related challenges that we believe may have a material impact on our viability as a business either by directly impacting our ability to operate or by affecting our reputation and the trust stakeholders have in Sappi. The challenge Our response The carbon regulatory environment In each region where we operate, there The fact that globally, the renewable energy is constantly evolving and the impact are different legislative and regulatory we use as a percentage of total usage of future carbon legislation is unclear requirements related to energy and stands at 50%, is expected to cushion us in the build up to the Copenhagen emission reductions. As far as an integrated from the adverse impacts of carbon taxes Climate Change Summit in December global strategy to mitigate the impact of and legislation. This could also present 2009 and new standards under the climate change is concerned, we expect significant opportunities for us in the Kyoto Protocol in 2012. a clearer picture to emerge following the form of tax incentives and carbon trading Copenhagen Summit. credits and allow us to capitalise further on cogeneration and energy initiatives. Our CEO has signalled Sappi’s willingness to become involved in the transition to a low-carbon economy by signing the Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate Change. Climate change The challenge Our response Climate change holds physical risks in Climate change can stress forests through the form of the abnormally high spread higher mean annual temperatures, altered of disease and pestilence into our precipitation patterns and more frequent plantations and fibre sources. and extreme weather conditions. Current scientific belief is that Southern At Sappi, we continuously monitor and Africa will become dryer, not wetter, review forest best practices in the light of with climate change but this is still a very changing practices and environmental imprecise forecast. In global terms this factors, including climate change. In the region’s water resources are extremely light of this, the potential for future rainfall limited and climate change is expected changes, pathogen and pest infestations, to reduce water availability, leading to alien invasive control, emergency responses increased risk of drought and fire. and fire protection among others, are all being monitored. Other avenues of risk mitigation include tree cloning and alternative fibre sources more resistant to pests and diseases. Gratkorn Mill, Austria 19 2009 sustainability Key issues Key material issues The challenge Our response Fibre shortages caused by alternate Fibre shortage Lack of certified fibre uses of wood and the lack of certified In North America and Europe, we secure fibre supply In North America, Sappi is working with multiple fibre due to cost of certification. through a combination of approaches which include stakeholder groups to ensure that local small foresters both shortand long-term wood supply agreements, can certify their output without the cost of certification shareholdings in wood sourcing co-operatives and making their business uncompetitive. various other types of agreements to ensure access to an acceptable fibre supply. In South Africa, where our own plantations are 100% Fibre supply FSC-certified, FSC certification for small growers is still In the Southern African region our mills are supplied by a challenge. A group scheme developed by the FSC our own plantations (371,000ha) and other indirectly was tested by ourselves and other members of the managed plantations (156,000ha). Security of supply is industry but proved to be unworkable. As part of the underpinned by the advantageous growth rates which process to develop a South African FSC standard are up to three times faster than in the northern currently underway, a separate small low intensity hemisphere, as well as our world-leading fibre gain managed forests (SLIMF) initiative is being developed, programmes which have led to improved fibre yields as but it is unclear when it will be ready to roll out. high as 65% (pine) and 30% (eucalypts). To secure our supply still further, subsequent to year-end we agreed to acquire 14,000 hectares of developed softwood plantations close to Ngodwana Mill. In addition, trial plantings of Eucalyptus at our feasibility project in Mozambique were successful and the project is making progress. The challenge Our response With modern development and There are three key issues: industrialisation, the amount of water required and used per person is Amount of water used Recycling increasing and with the current rapid Globally, over five years, our specific use of water has All mills have closed loop water systems which recycle increase in world population the dropped by 10%. water continuously throughout the production process. availability of water for development Water At Enstra and Adamas Mills, we use 50% and 70% is rapidly running out. It is estimated recycled sewage water respectively. that in the next 15 years the world Water usage is particularly relevant for Sappi in Southern population will increase to 8 billion Africa, where water resources are extremely limited. people who, under current water use While forestry in this region is often accused of being a Quality patterns, will require 40% more water. major water user, commercial forestry in fact accounts The quality of the effluent we discharge is constantly for a little less than 3% of total use plantations bind improving, as indicated by the fact that globally, over soil, reducing runoff into rivers and streams. five years, total suspended solids (TSS) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) have decreased by 18.5% and 3.8% respectively in the effluent we discharge. 20 Key material issues The challenge Our response Lightweight paper is becoming In the last quarter of financial 2008, we acquired the Somerset® and Flo® are other brands that offer an more important in the print and coated graphic paper business of M-real, including the outstanding opacity and bulk to weight ratio, based on direct mail markets because it can well-known Galerie stable of brands. Galerie Lite Sappi’s ongoing commitment to technological reduce mailing and transport costs provides reliable, high quality printability and runnability differentiation. (Sappi invented the hot soft calendaring and also results in lower carbon at light basis weights which facilitate substantial paper process that enables us to produce a paper with footprint. In addition, on-demand and postage cost efficiencies. Galerie Lite is designed Somerset’s® unique properties.) book printers are increasingly for catalogues and magazines requiring economy moving to lightweight papers as combined with high-quality image reproduction and has they can achieve more pages per been specifically engineered to provide minimal showinch, so books with increased page through at lower basis weights. counts are not as thick and require Paper as a communication medium less storage space. The challenge Our response Technology has changed the printing We have launched a range of digital papers in North We work constantly with original equipment landscape by turning mass–produced America which allow our customers to produce mailings manufacturers (OEMs) to ensure that our paper is communications into more targeted, on demand, while facilitating personalised mailings and compatible with the newest digital presses, so ensuring personalised ones. publications. A range of digital papers will be launched that our paper remains the first choice for quality and in Europe in 2010. ease of print for digital presses. The challenge Our response There is a risk of consumers perceiving We are focusing on offering customers a valuepaper as a commodity. differentiated product which addresses their particular needs, whether it’s fast turnaround (Tempo™), security paper (Identicate™) and passport papers), extreme runnability at a reasonable price or the best value money can buy (Magno and Somerset® ). Checking print quality on coated fine paper 21 2009 sustainability Key issues Key material issues The challenge Our response Digital media have revolutionised Sappi views e-Media as a huge opportunity for some Life with Print book ‘Engaging New Generations in the advertising world, with digital ad of our businesses (cellulose acetate – made from the Media Mix’ which also contains audio, video and spend showing steady increases as dissolving cellulose is used to make cell phone display graphics files which can be downloaded for free via a QR newspaper and magazine ad spend screens), and a challenge for others. Digital media has code printed on the bookmark inside the book. Instant decline. been shown to be most effective when combined in a access is possible by simply taking a photograph of the marketing campaign with targeted direct mail and print code with a mobile phone. ads. This means that while in the short-term, the increase in digital advertising spend has impacted negatively on Purchase intention with printed material is shown to be magazines, we believe that balanced media campaigns three times better than television and six times better will improve the efficiency (as measured by sales) of than internet-based advertising. However, it is really marketing campaigns and that print on paper will remain when one combines media that one gets the best a key component of such advertising in the future. response from an audience which has seen the number Paper as a communication medium of ads they see jump from 2,000 thirty years ago to Sappi is working on developing paper applications that 5,000 today (Yankelovich Research). interact directly with e-Media. An example is the latest Cumulative effects of different media combinations (Aggregate of 10 studies) (Source Marketing evolution 2006) Brand Awareness Brand Familiarity Purchase Intention Television only 100 100 100 Television + Online 138 104 101 Television + Magazines 153 135 144 Television+ Magazines + Online 182 161 151 The challenge Our response In the book space e-Readers have The advent of e-Books has caused much concern for to five times, and their orders of printed material by up taken the world by storm More the future of books, however numbers to date suggest to three times. It appears that the advent of e-Readers e-Readers (Kindles) than i-Phones that e-Readers are the saviour not the nemesis of is promoting reading as a pastime, which is bringing were sold in the first year of release. books. Amazon reports that people who buy e-Books with it an increased usage of all forms of printed word, have increased the number of books they read by up whether hard copy or electronic. The challenge Our response Global drop in demand of 25%. Despite the global drop in demand, paper is still an to plastic bags and expect this initiative to be launched indispensable part of daily life and plays a key role in early in 2010. promoting literacy in the developing world. We believe paper will stay relevant because it is versatile and We are committed to ensuring that supply and demand effective and because its environmental credentials remain in balance, and have taken the painful steps continue to improve. In South Africa, for example, we of curtailing production where necessary, and even are engaging with major supermarket chains to offer shutting down inefficient capacity where we do not more environmentally benign paper bags as an alternative believe it can supply the market profitably. 22 Key material issues The challenge Our response Consumers who are striving to make As an organisation focused on upholding our core environmentally sound choices are values of Excellence, Integrity and Respect, we have a bombarded by ‘greenwashing’. responsibility not to make unsubstantiated claims. In the absence of a globally recognised reporting standard for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, we have delayed in reporting GHG emissions beyond our use of fuels or purchased power. We will continue to report direct emissions from combustion of fuels at our facilities as well as emissions associated with purchased power. We have identified a carbon footprint methodology which we think is suitable, and will now seek input from our stakeholders regarding this methodology. Marketing and reputation Rehabilitated Mvuya wetland, South Africa The challenge Our response Consumer misconceptions about the We have a key competitive advantage in that we do not What’s more, sustainably managed forestry offers one paper industry’s role in contributing to use wood fibre from endangered forests anywhere in of the few proven ways to sequester carbon, and is 60% the loss of tropical forests: the world and have achieved certification for much of more efficient at sequestering carbon than unmanaged our fibre by the three most internationally recognised forestry (BCC Climate Exchange). Between 1990 and 2005, it’s estiforest products certification programmes, those of the mated that the earth lost 3% of its Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), the Sustainable forest cover. Deforestation not only Forestry Initiative (SFI®) and the Programme for the removes these ‘carbon sinks’ but also Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). We also pumps out carbon dioxide (CO2) and work with our suppliers to obtain certification, where methane, greenhouse gases (GHGs) the cost of certification makes it prohibitive for them which play a major role in accelerating to pursue this route. Certification gives consumers the climate change and global warming. assurance that the products they are buying have been Deforestation, forest degradation and legally logged in accordance with sound environmental other changes in forests contribute practices. over 17% to GHG emissions, mostly in tropical developing countries. 23 2009 sustainability Key issues Key material issues The challenge Our response Increasing focus on sustainability isReporting annually on our sustainability performance in sues by consumers, customers and terms of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), is a useful retailers. Wal-Mart, for example, has internal and external benchmark. recently introduced a sustainability index of suppliers. So too, is reporting on our carbon emissions in terms of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), representing 475 institutional investors with assets of over US$55 trillion. In 2009, Sappi was listed in the Leadership Index of the South African CDP in terms of mitigation strategies and performance and was assessed as one of the top five companies in terms of disclosure. Marketing and reputation Sappi forests, South Africa The challenge Our response Paper’s environmental image is under Sappi’s pulp, paper and board are renewable, recyThere is also a concerted drive by the paper industry attack. One of our reputational chalclable products that are processed from wood using a to educate the public, as with the Two Sides campaign lenges is to communicate correctly the high percentage of bio-based energy. Once used, they in the UK (www.twosides.info) and ‘Why Print is Green’ environmental story of paper. can be recycled up to six times. We source our wood produced by the Print Council in North America. fibre from forests that are constantly replanted and sustainably managed without leaving an environmental legacy of pollution, indestructible litter, ocean pollution and high use of fossil fuel energy that characterise many of the alternatives. We have embarked on a groupwide initiative to educate our employees about our environmental impacts and mitigation measures in the context of a groupwide focus on sustainability. 24 Sustainability governance A focused, transparent framework throughout the group The executive sustainability committee determines the priorities for the group’s efforts. A strong communications campaign, underpinned by the roll-out of a re-launched Code of Ethics in 2008 ensures stakeholder support. Sappi Limited board Our governance structure Our sustainability communication Executive Sustainability Our Regional Sustainable Development counWe broadened our strategic approach from reporting and committee cils report to a Group Sustainable Developexternal benchmarks to educating every Sappi employee on ment Council (GSDC) chaired by Group Legal sustainability in 2009. Our focus was on ‘unpacking’ the term Group Sustainable Development ‘sustainability’ to understand what it means to Sappi as an orCounsel. The members of this Council include Council ganisation and what every employee can do to help make us Regional Sustainable Development and/or Ena more sustainable organisation. This was achieved through a vironmental Managers, Group Head Human global roll-out and the release of various internal communicaRegional SD councils Resources, Group Head Technology, Group tions such as: Head Corporate Affairs and Group Risk ManThe revised Sustainability Charter; North South ager. Ultimate responsibility for sustainability Europe A booklet entitled ‘Unpacking the 3Ps’ which America Africa rests with the Executive Sustainability Commitexamines the strategy behind each Charter tee. Chaired by an independent non-executive commitment; director, this committee determines the prioriA series of FAQ publications focused on educating ties for the group’s efforts. Sappi staff about issues such as climate change; Regular features in Sappi News; World Days of environmental and social significance Code of Ethics such as World Youth Day and World Biodiversity Day; http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_sdr_2009/ Our Code of Ethics, relaunched at the beginworld-days/ ning of 2008, underpins our governance strucA video on the Sappi and Sustainability journey to ture and our broader responsibility to society. date; http//sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_sdr_ The Code was rolled out to all employees and 2009/sappi-and-sustainability-journey/ suppliers across the group in 2008, and to MA power point presentation on the key components real employees in 2009. Employees and supof Sappi and Sustainability; http://sappi.investoreports. pliers were trained on all aspects of the Code, com/sappi_sdr_2009/downloads/sappi%202009%20 ranging from conflicts of interest to outside actpower%20point%2026%20March.ppt ivities and transparency and disclosure. For deThe creation of a Group Sustainability section in the tails of calls to our externally operated Hotlines Group Intranet; and follow up of tip-offs, please refer to page In North America, we piloted an internet-based 81 of our 2009 Annual Report. training module based on the Sustainability Charter and on ‘Unpacking the 3Ps’. We plan to roll this out to the rest of the group. 25 2009 sustainability Governance External accolades in 2009 5 TM th Place TempoTM named as the Innovation of South African Carbon Disclosure the Year by Pulp and Paper International. Project (CDP) Leadership Index Achieved fifth position on the South African Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Leadership Index on the basis of our disclosure and were also included in a further CEO 20 09 Sappi Fine Paper North America chief executive officer named Chief Executive OffiCDP Leadership Index on the basis of our adaptation and cer of the Year by the Paper Industry Manmitigation strategies. agement Association of North America. Cogeneration Top 20 GRI compliant a Amakhulu expansion project at Saiccor Mill awarded The Most company Innovative Cogeneration project by Africa Energy. Pollution prevention Rated as a top 20 GRI-compliant company by Cloquet Mill given an Honourable SustainabilityServices in an evaluation of over 400 Mention for the 2008-2009 South African companies. Governor’s Awards for Pollution Prevention. Top Performer Sappi Fine Paper North America chief executive officer named Chief Executive Officer of J the S RbyI Index S EYear Industry Management Association of North America. the Paper Recognised as one of the top performers on the JSE Limited Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index in 2008 and 2009. 26 Our benchmarks External benchmarks entrench sustainability governance In addition to internationally accredited, independently verified certification systems such as forest certification systems, OHSAS 18001 and OSHA health and safety standards, ISO 14001 environmental standard and ISO 9001 quality standards, we entrench sustainability governance further by using external indicators and benchmarks, set out below. In alphabetical order Benchmark Benchmark application Carbon Disclosure The CDP is a global climate change We have participated in the CDP since it reporting system which operates in most was first launched in South Africa in 2007. of the world’s major economies and acts In 2009, we achieved fifth position on the on behalf of 475 institutional investors, South African CDP Leadership Index on Project (CDP) holding US$55 trillion in assets under the basis of our disclosure and we were management across a broad spectrum also included in a further CDP Leadership of purchasing organisations. As our Index on the basis of our climate adaptation primary listing is in South Africa, we and mitigation strategies (no ranking was participate in the South African CDP. provided in this regard). Benchmark Benchmark application World Sustainability Index DJSI World tracks the financial perWe were invited to participate in this index points from the exercise and are using in 2008 and again in 2009. We were not some of these to drive our sustainability Dow Jones formance of the leading sustainability companies to provide asset managers successful in either year, although this must initiatives. with reliable, objective benchmarks to be seen in the context of the fact that of manage sustainability-related investthe 11 companies in our sector which Strategic Asset Management (SAM) ment portfolios. participated in the assessment, only one which conducts the assessment for the was included. We did however, marginally DJSI indices is currently reviewing the improve our score and our performance assessment criteria for inclusion and we are was assessed, once again, as slightly above participating in the process. average. We have considered key learning Benchmark Benchmark application GRI G3 Indicators The GRI guidelines are indicators that We began the process of formally reporting in sustainability reporting and we have followed are used internationally to assess terms of the G3 guidelines in 2007. In 2008, this approach in the GRI table included in the sustainability performance. It’s reported we aligned our environmental data capturing detailed version of the sustainability report. that as at January 2009, more than process more closely with the guidelines. We have declared our application level at ‘A’. 1,500 organisations from 60 countries The revised King III Code on Corporate Govuse the guidelines to produce their An interactive GRI index is available at ernance, due to come into effect in 2010, recsustainability reports. Launched in http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_ ommends moving from a ‘comply or explain’ 2006, the G3 guidelines are the sosdr_2009/measurement/reporting-elementsto an ‘apply or explain’ approach in terms of called ‘Third Generation’ of the GRI’s of-gr3-guidelines/ reporting guidelines. 27 2009 sustainability Our Benchmarks Our benchmarks Benchmark Benchmark application JSE SRI Index Launched in May 2004, the JSE’s We have been included in the index SRI (Sustainability Reporting Index) every year since inception. In 2008 Index was the first of its kind in a and 2009, we were recognised as one developing market. It has been a driver of the top performers on the Index. for increased attention to responsible investment into emerging markets like South Africa. Learning about the environment Benchmark Benchmark application UN Declaration of Human Rights The Universal Declaration of Human Our commitment to the principles of this declaration has always been inherent in all our policies Rights (UDHR) is a milestone document and practices, but in 2009 we formalised this commitment with the adoption of a policy on human in the history of human rights. Drafted rights. http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi-sdr-2009-downloads/sappi_human_rights_policy.pdf by representatives with different legal and cultural backgrounds from all Commitment to the Declaration has also been established in our supplier policy, which also makes regions of the world, the Declaration use of the following external reference points: was proclaimed by the United Nations International Labour Organisation Core Labour Standards General Assembly in Paris on 10 International Standards Organisation 9001 (ISO 9001) December 1948 as a common standard for all peoples and all nations. International Standards Organisation 14001 (ISO 14001) Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001 (OHSAS 18001) OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises United Nations Global Compact To see our supplier policy, go to http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi-sdr-2009-downloads/ sappi_group_supplier_policy.pdf. Benchmark Benchmark application UN Global Compact (UNGC) This is a CEO-led strategic policy We joined the UN Global Compact initiative which gives signatories in 2008 and reported in accordance and sustainability a platform for advancing their with the ten principles in Sappi and 2 0 0 9 commitment to sustainability and Sustainability 2008. Our report for corporate actions. The UNGC has 2009 can be found at http://sappi. two principal objectives: mainstream investoreports.com/sappi_sdr_2009/ prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetpros prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperi the ten principles which businesses prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeoplepla commit to and catalyse actions in downloads/sappi_sdr_2009.pdf. prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitype prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprospe support of broader UN goals, including prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetp the Millennium Development goals. prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeoplepla prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopl In 2009, we signed the Copenhagen prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplan Communiqué, a UNGC initiative. prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetp prosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopl 1 28 Generating Prosperity As our ability to remain a sustainable player is founded on generating profits in the short and long term Through continued strong economic performance and by supporting the needs and aspirations of the communities in which we live and work, we contribute to their shortand long-term economic, societal and environmental wellbeing and to the wellbeing of the customers and consumers we serve. Our Charter commitments This report covers three of our six Prosperity Charter commitments in detail and gives a brief overview of the other three. An expanded section of this report can be found on our website. Focusing on long-term profitable growth Driving customer satisfaction through technology and innovation Building on our competitive position in our core markets Maintaining our licence to trade Promoting an ethical culture Creating value for all stakeholders Key features TM Identicate Mokka TempoTM named as the Launch of Identicate™, intelligent Launch of new Mokka pattern for Innovation of the Year packaging paper casting release paper by Pulp and Paper International BBBEE Improved Broad-based Procurement Development of new Black Economic Empowerment Realignment of procurement initiatives passport paper for the South African performance in government South Africa 29 2009 sustainability Focusing on long-term profitable growth Prosperity Our goal is to be, on a sustainable basis, the most profitable company in paper, pulp and chemical cellulose solutions. Lean manufacturing, which focuses on more effective utilisation of assets, cost saving and improved efficiency, is core to achieving this goal. The principles of Lean manufacturing range from overall machine efficiency, re-examining the use of raw materials, eliminating waste and realigning procurement initiatives. Details of our financial performance in 2009, can be found in our annual report available at www.sappi.com. Our aim is to decrease the time between a customer order and shipment, and radically improve profitability, customer satisfaction, throughput time, and employee morale. Case study Procurement initiatives Winning awards Tempo™ We have focused on realigning our procurement initiatives by: Streamlined sourcing Subsequent to year end, Sappi was Printers can expect to print the awarded ‘Innovative Product of the reverse side of a Tempo™ sheet Better management of inventory Year’ for Tempo™ in the 2009 Pulp after 15 minutes and move most & Paper International (PPI) Awards. jobs to converting after 30 minutes Centralisation of vendor and material The PPI Awards are the only global without the need of a protective master records awards dedicated to recognising varnish. As soon as the first sheets achievements in this sector. come out of the press, results can Realising benefits from integrated and be checked immediately, without aligned business processes and IT Tempo™ is a revolutionary coated having to wait for ink to dry. solutions wood-free, sheetfed paper with unique fast ink setting and Tempo™ enables printers to reduce Aligning our business with some of the drying properties, superior ink the use of anti set-off powder by supply agreements already in place in scuff resistance and reduction 50% to 100%, resulting in fewer other parts of the world. of anti-offset powder usage. wash-ups and increased press Sappi developed Tempo™ after availability as waiting times and conducting a major 12 month study machine interruptions decrease. into printers’ needs, which revealed their top concerns were ink setting Winning this award highlights the and ink drying times. Following impact Tempo™ has had on the extensive trials, Tempo™ was paper industry. created to provide a super smooth silk surface that behaves like a gloss when it comes to ink setting and drying properties. 30 Driving customer satisfaction through technology and innovation Innovation is a fundamental driver of competitive advantage at Sappi We focus on extracting value from existing and new technology to develop new products, markets and processes; and generate greater returns in all aspects of our business. Research and development (R&D) takes place at technology centres in each region. Owing to the tough economic conditions in 2009, we narrowed our R&D efforts to concentrate on key technology differentiators, and sought to maintain capacity in areas of high value research to enable growth when the business climate improves. Expenditure was US$31 million, reduced from the average over the previous two years of US$34 million. We will broaden our R&D initiatives once we are back to profitability. North America In light of the dramatic changes in our markets in 2009, we retooled In response to growing demand for digital papers, we expanded our entire web line to insure that we met the changing needs of our our range of digital papers in this region from Opus® Digital to incustomers. clude Indigo, McCoy® Digital and Flo® Digital. Each paper is matched to its folio counterpart premium (McCoy®), performance We launched Opus® PS, a popular grade that is used for everything (Opus®) and economy (Flo®). from sales cards in the mail to magazine covers, book marks, and annual reports. We provided FSC certification on all our Opus® The range is available as Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Web products, including product that is stocked in our regional Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) Chain of Custody certified, distribution centres. This is a unique stocking position and has procontains 10% post-consumer waste content and is manufactured vided a competitive advantage based on our ability to service those with Green-e certified renewable energy. customers requesting FSC-certified web products. In addition, we increased the paper gloss on Flo® Web by ten points and added Our specialities Release Business launched new products and patthree new basis weights. We also increased the brightness of Somterns. The new Mokka pattern will produce a suede finish to the cast erset® lightweight to match the heavyweight grade. product and is expected to be a quality and commercial leader. Casting release paper is used to impart patterns on a wide variety of products 31 2009 sustainability Europe South Africa Prosperity We extended our research and development caIn South Africa, we continued our pacity by incorporating the Technology Centre at ongoing research into biofuels. In Kirkniemi Mill fully into our operations. In the proaddition, at our forest research cess of integrating of the new M-real mills, we centre in Tweedie, we intensified also completed the re-design of a number of our focus on understanding and grades which facilitated a seamless switch of breeding for pest resistance, grades between mills. New products in this reand continued our efforts to inCase study gion include: crease yield per hectare through Creating distinctive packaging sustainable tree breeding. Algro™ Nature A one-sided coated packaging In the last quarter of 2008, Lausanne-based paper which offers excellent printing and convertNew products launched in this skin-care cosmetics specialist, Institut Dr ing properties. The fact that this paper’s binding region included a new passScheller, chose Sappi’s high white Algro agents are completely vegetable in origin enhancport paper for the South African Design board for the boxes for its innovaes its appeal to the environmentally-conscious government, the re-engineering tive new Phyto Solutions premium range of consumer. of Platinum Aqua, a premium phyto cosmetics offering premium products, wet strength label to suit the for visible results and natural ingredients. Identicate™ Each year losses and damage to the end use application more world trade due to counterfeiting and piracy reach precisely and the launch of TriAccording to Astrid Kohler, Brand Director more than US$600 billion. Packaging is also faked ple Green™ Embossed to exSkin Care, at Dr Scheller Cosmetics, the Alon a large scale, making it difficult for consumers pand the popular Triple Green™ gro Design board’s whiteness and superior to tell the difference between a high quality prodrange. appearance to competitive packaging in the uct and its inexpensive imitation. Sappi’s response phyto market was its main attraction. “Algro to this problem was to launch Identicate™, a sysDesign’s fresh look and very smooth surface tem is based on a random distribution of invisible helps create highly distinctive packaging marker particles on the surface of Sappi’s packthat supports Phyto Solutions’ brand benaging materials, giving each item a unique, enefits – individual formulations for each age crypted fingerprint or identification code. group, measurable results, overall customer wellbeing, and natural ingredients.” Leine Nature An uncoated paper which is suitable for packaging applications such as high quality In 2000, we launched the “Before taking a final decision, however, our wrappers, sachets, inner liners and carrier bags. Sappi Technical Innovadesign agency created mock-ups to put on tion Awards (TIA), a platthe shelves and test with consumers. We Royal Roto™ Recycled Developed at Sappi’s Niform from which technical evaluated the boxes based on three criteria jmegen Mill, this paper feels and performs exactly advances and those who – their design, their whiteness, and how they like a virgin fibre paper but contains a minimum of create them, are acknowlcompared with competitive products. All 50% post consumer waste and 20% FSC-certiedged and rewarded for those interviewed confirmed that the Algro fied pulp. The remaining fibres come from contheir contribution to Sappi’s Design boxes came top in each category. trolled sources. prosperity and long-term They created better shelf impact, conveyed sustainability. The focus of the premium nature of the Phyto Solutions the awards is to create new brand, and the board’s brightness and soft technologies which will retouch provided the best match to the benesult in noticeable improvefits provided by our products, such as clean, ments for the customer. fresh, smooth skin”. 32 Building on our competitive position in our core markets As part of our commitment to ‘Building on our competitive position in our core markets’, we have established several initiatives aimed at the print and design industries which promote the Sappi brand. More information can be found at http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_ sdr_2009/prosperity/build-on-our-competitive-position-in-our-coreTen Ideas that markets/. Matter Forty Designers who saw Foremost among these initiatives is the world’s most prestigious printing a way to change competition, the biennial Printers of the Year competition. To add weight to the world One our sustainability drive, we have added a new award category to the compePaper Company who tition. The ‘BlueGreen’ award recognises and applauds creative excellence believed in their in promoting a good cause, whether it be humanitarian, environmental or vision social. The award is aimed at inspiring printers to integrate the principles of sustainable development into their businesses. Similarly in Europe, our global corporate responsibility programme, Ideas that Matter has incorporated the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet into the competition. This initiative celebrated its tenth anniversary and to celebrate this occasion, Sappi Fine Paper Europe published a commemorative book. Sappi Fine Paper North America also created a book to celebrate the occasion. The book is titled 10-40-1. Ten Ideas that Matter, Forty designers who saw a way to change the world, One paper company who believed in their vision. For details, refer to www.sappi.com/SappiWeb/Initiatives. Papermaking machine, Kirkniemi Mill, Finland 33 2009 sustainability Maintaining our licence to trade Prosperity Following South Africa’s transition to democracy in 1994, legislation relating to Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) was introduced to accelerate economic and social transformation. BBBEE is focused on redressing the inequalities of apartheid by (BB rating) and a preferential procurement recognition level of 60%. opening up economic opportunities to previously disadvantaged As our aim was to obtain a level 6 contribution by 2010, we were groups (Blacks, Coloureds, Indians and Chinese). pleased to have exceeded this target. Our new target is to achieve a ‘level five contributor’ (BBB rating) and a preferential procurement Legislation covers areas such as employment equity, skills develrecognition level of 80% in 2010. opment, ownership, management, preferential procurement, social development and enterprise development. We expect to finalise a BBBEE equity transaction that seeks to broaden the base of shareholders in the foreseeable future. As a company headquartered in South Africa, with significant assets and people, BBBEE is an important component of our licence Empowerdex criteria to trade. Like other major corporations, our BBBEE progress is externally verified and scored in terms of scorecards established by Contribution level Procurement recognition level government. AAA+ Level One 135% AAA Level Two 125% The South African businesses’ BBBEE performance was rated by AA Level Three 110% independent BBBEE certification agency Empowerdex in DecemA Level Four 100% ber 2007. At this time we achieved a score of 41 points with an BBB Level Five 80% overall BBBEE status of a ‘level seven contributor’ (B rating) and a BB Level Six 60% preferential procurement recognition level of 50% (see table below B Level Seven 50% for an explanation of the values). In July 2009, we achieved a score C Level Eight 10% of 54 points and an overall BBBEE status of a ‘level six contributor’ D Non compliant 0% Promoting an ethical culture The Sappi Code of Ethics clearly sets out guidelines for employees, suppliers and contractors related to our core values of Excellence, Integrity and Respect. The Code is reinforced by Sappi hotlines, externally operated whistleblowing lines in each region. Further details about calls to the lines and follow-up actions can be found in our annual report available at www.sappi.com. Following an extensive roll-out of the Code to employees, suppliers and contractors across the world in 2008, in 2009, we focused on keeping the Code alive with ongoing articles in global and regional newsletters and a series of posters. 34 Creating value for all stakeholders Generating prosperity through beneficiating renewable resources into products that are core to modern society’s way of life has direct and indirect socio-economic benefits accruing to all. A measure of wealth created is the monetary value added during manufacturing and the servicing of our customers’ needs. Contributing to the economic prosperity of Case study the communities within which we operate is a central tenet of our approach to Urban development sustainable development. The direct monetary value we add to renewable resources enables us to pay salaries, wages and other benefits, taxes, suppliers as well as As a business, Sappi plays positive roles in provide a return to lenders and investors whose capital we deploy. It also provides many communities through our forestry acus with the wherewithal to reinvest into our business. tivities and mills. The value-add of the pulp and paper industry in the state of Maine Value added statement where our Somerset and Westbrook Mills are situated, highlights this: for year ended September 2009 7,800 people are directly employed in US$ Million 2009 2008 2007 pulp and paper manufacturing (December 2008) in the state of Maine. Sales 5,369 5,863 5,304 Income from investments 61 38 21 For each paper manufacturing job in Less: Paid to suppliers for material and services 3,865 4,077 3,631 Maine, 3.28 direct jobs are created for supTotal value added 1,565 1,824 1,694 pliers and contractors. Distributed as follows: The paper industry indirectly supports To employees as Salaries, wages and other benefts 1,002 965 867 tens of thousands of other jobs in the logging, transportation, retail and other fields – To leaders of capital as interest 205 179 169 an estimated five to seven jobs are created To shareholders as dividends 37 73 68 for every direct job in a paper mill. To governments as taxation 76 89 111 Total value added distributed 1,320 1,306 1,215 The Maine Paper Association conducted a Portion of value added reinvested to sustain and expand 245 518 479 study in response to suggestions that Maine the business * convert its paper manufacturing industry to Total value added distributed and reinvested 1,565 1,824 1,694 the production of wood pellets. Using the current number of workers employed per ton Taxation of pellets produced, the study found that if Paid in taxes to governments** 76 89 111 all the wood used in Maine’s pulp mills were Collected on behalf of, and paid over to governments: used instead for pellet manufacturing, emEmployee’s taxation deducted from remuneration paid 148 158 148 ployment would drop from 7,800 to 1,250 Net value added taxation (VAT) (149) (47) 39 jobs and the current payroll of approximately Total 75 200 298 US$500 million would drop to US$42.5 million dollars. * Excludes the acquisition of the coated graphic business of M-real ** Including US$3 million (September 2008: US$6 million, September 2007: US$38 million) Maine paper mills pay a significant portion direct taxes on income. of the local property tax. Most mills pay 60 to 80% of the municipal property tax in their Source: The Maine Paper Industry: Facts about the Industry, Policy Recommendations for Competitiveness. Compiled by the Maine Pulp & Paper Association, 31 March 2009. town. 35 2009 sustainability Direct contribution of our industry to the economy Indirect contribution Prosperity North America Annually, the US forest products industry accounts for approximately The indirect economic benefits to other clearly: “Public recognition is needed of 6 percent of the total US manufacturing GDP, placing it on par with sectors are detailed on page 28 of Sappi the fact that harvesting trees does not the automotive and plastics industries. The industry generates and Sustainability 2008. Refer to http:// add to CO2 emissions – that the carbon more than US$200 billion a year in sales and employs more than 1 s a p p i . i n v e s t o re p o r t s . c o m / s a p p i _ remains stored in harvested wood million people earning US$54 billion in annual payroll.* sdr_2009/downloads/sappi_sdr_2008. products. Investments, environmental pdf. values, public opinion, new business Europe opportunities – all these will help society What cannot be overemphasised is The pulp and paper industry in Europe employs 260,000 people, survive today’s perfect storm. The forest that paper is core to our civilisation. In turns over €80 billion a year and €18 billion in value and wealth industries are in a better position than the developing world, paper helps to creation.** most. The sector already focuses on promote literacy and is a driver of change the sustainability dimension and on and development. In the developed South Africa enabling climate change mitigation. The world, paper is also used as a packaging According to Forestry South Africa, in this region the forestry, timber, economics of sustainability as a key material, in household applications and pulp and paper industries generate direct employment of 170,000 asset of the sector must be proved at in industrial and construction processes. people in South Africa. The paper industry directly employs 13,500 a large scale as reliance on renewable Despite the rise of electronic media, it is people, with a further 10,700 people employed in the recovery of energy increases and carbon neutrality also still widely used for communication paper for recycling. Taking a conservative view of the dependency becomes more important.”* purposes. The challenge for our industry ratio in rural areas, the forests and forests products sector supports is to ensure that our products remain over 860,000 dependants. Wages in 2007 amounted to R4.136 Rising oil prices, ongoing political relevant in a changing world – the fact million. In the same year, the sector contributed just under R6 billion instability in the world’s oil-producing that the chemical cellulose produced to South Africa’s gross domestic product (GDP) and generated regions and the possibility of increased at Saiccor Mill is a key component of foreign exchange earnings of R6,960 million. green and carbon taxes around the computer screens highlights the fact that world present real, positive opportunities * AF & PA this can be achieved. ** A manifesto for competitiveness and employment, June 2009, for Sappi. Thinking outside the box of published by CEPI our core business, we see significant Exploring new avenues of operational opportunities in maintaining our core beneficiation is another area where business model of producing pulp, paper the industry can play a key role going and board while optimising derivatives forward and continue to contribute like biofuels. (Described in further detail to local and global economies. The on page 52 of this report.) following statement sets it out very Exchange 2009 2008 2007 rates Average Close Average Close Average Close US$/ZAR 9.0135 7.4112 7.4294 8.0751 7.1741 6.8713 €/US$ 1.3657 1.4688 1.5064 1.4615 1.3336 1..4272 £/US$ 1.5578 1.5955 1.9804 1.8448 1.9715 2.0471 *Financial meltdown and the future of the forest products industry, Teresa Presas, Managing Director of the Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI), and President of the International Council of Forest and Paper Associations (ICFPA). From a presentation to the special event ‘Impacts of Global Economic Turbulence on the Forest Sector’ at the nineteenth session of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) Committee on Forestry, Rome, 20 March 2009. Biberist Mill, Switzerland 36 People underpin our success Without our people,we would not have a sustainable business Our 16,427 dedicated employees around the world underpin our business success. Our focus is on equipping our people and the communities in which we operate with the life and career skills, knowledge and confidence that allow them to build on their own capabilities and further their development. And when it comes to people outside our business, our products play a vital role in promoting development and helping people across the world to communicate. Our Charter commitments This report covers three of our six People Charter commitments in detail and gives a brief overview of the other three. An expanded section of this report can be found on our website. Cultivating an inclusive, diverse workplace Being a great place to work Providing training and development opportunities Prioritising health, safety and wellbeing Partnering with communities Engaging with stakeholders openly and constructively 65 9.1 LTIFR 9 Key % Million US$ Increase features More of our people Global training spend Lost Time Injury Frequency Contractor fatalities in participated in the 2009 in 2009 was US$9.1 Rate improved in North South Africa Employee Engagement million, amounting to America and South Africa, survey than in 2007 1.34% of total payroll but safety performance declined in Europe 92 40 Trainees % Voluntary counselling and There were 92 trainees in testing (VCT) improved to 2009, compared to 60 in 2008 just over 40% of workforce in Southern Africa 37 2009 sustainability Cultivating an inclusive, diverse workplace Inclusive diversity, our strength People In the year under review, we integrated over 2,100 M-real employees into our business following the M-real acquisition. We also had to review positions across our regional businesses in light of the economic downturn and reduced demand for pulp and paper products. During 2009, we eliminated 4.65% of jobs across our global businesses to help maintain our viability as a business. In 2009, our staff numbered 16,427 — 1,271 higher than in 2008. North America Europe Southern Africa In March 2009, North America announced the susProject Kilimanjaro, which comIn this region we have embarked on a pension of operations at the Muskegon Mill. This prised benchmarking our newly process to reduce approximately 300 suspension affected approximately 190 salaried and acquired mills against best practice positions, partly as a result of the mothhourly employees. In August, the decision was taken at our old mills, identified a potenballing of a 60,000 ton containerboard to close the mill permanently. Employees impacted by tial 140 positions to be eliminated machine Tugela Mill and of parts of Ngodthe closure of the mill are eligible for unemployment over the next one to two years. wana Pulp Mill which will result in a small benefits and other federal government mandated Discussions with the relevant union net reduction in its pulp output. benefits. organisations are on-going and in some instances, eg Biberist Mill, Subsequent to year end, in October In addition, 70 salaried positions across the North agreement has been reached on 2009, we announced that we were in American regional business were eliminated. All salathe phasing out of jobs. discussions with labour representatives ried employees whose jobs were eliminated at Musabout the intention to cease operations at kegon and across North America received separation Subsequent to year end, we anthe Usutu Pulp Mill in Swaziland in Janubenefits, while hourly employees whose jobs were nounced the possible closure of ary 2010. eliminated at Muskegon were offered separation benKangas Mill in Finland. efits as part of the negotiation process. Teacher training through Penreach, in Mpumalanga, South Africa 38 Being a great place to work A key differentiator to attract and retain talent Employee engagement is fundamental to organisational effectiveness. No company, small or large, can win over the long run without energised employees who believe in the company’s mission and understand how to achieve it. It is clearly in our interests to have a committed, engaged workforce. In January/February 2009, we conducted our second employee engagement survey. This was rolled out to the four new mills acquired from M-real in April 2009. Apart from providing a structured mechanism whereby we gain Being a great place to work is a key differentiator in attracting and valuable insights into what employees are thinking and feeling retaining people. Ongoing employee engagement surveys are just about the company and their specific jobs, the survey provides us one of the ways in which we are achieving this. Other strategies with an opportunity to enter into a dialogue with employees about include: what we can to do enhance the work environment and create a more committed workforce. Our culture of freedom with responsibility whereby employees are encouraged to be innovative and inventive. There was an increase of 65% in the uptake of the 2009 survey when compared with the 2007 survey – a positive development as Our emphasis on high performance and the provision of it translates into greater accuracy when measuring engagement. training and development opportunities provide employThe results, set out below, indicate that we have improved in all ees with the skills and knowledge to improve and advance areas: their careers. Strongly committed 10% (2007: 8%) high performers with low The recognition and rewarding of high performers with above average percentage bonuses. retention risk, who exhibit very strong emotional and rational commitment to their jobs, teams, managers and organisations; To further enhance the quality of the objectives set in the performance Moderately committed 71% (2007: 66%) these employees exmanagement process and support our high performance philosophy, hibit moderate commitment to their work, teams, managers and in 2009 we piloted a ‘line of sight’ methodology within Sappi Kraft. organisations; and This methodology audits the objectives set as compared with actual practice, and closes any gaps through engagement and Uncommitted 22% (2007: 26%) poor performers, putting in minishared understanding. The aim is to continuously improve our mal effort and exhibit strong non-commitment to their organisation, performance management system through a focus on performance jobs, managers and teams. improvement and employees’ input. The methodology will be rolled out to other regions in financial 2010. The results of the survey provided good insight into employees’ levels of commitment and also helped to set the agenda for the next steps in building an engaged workforce. As the value add of an employee survey is the way in which the survey feedback is managed, we have outlined strategies for each region going forward, based on the findings. Apprentices at Enstra Mill, South Africa 39 2009 sustainability Providing training and development opportunities There is a direct link between our people and our sustained business performance Skills development People We recognise that there is a direct link between our people and Global training spend in 2009 was US$9.1 million, amounting our sustained business performance. Our aim is to add value to to 1.34% of total payroll. While this reflected a drop from 2008 our human capital base by developing our employees’ skills and (US$10.5 million: 1.7% of total payroll), the decrease in spend took abilities and by providing them with opportunities to gain new place against a backdrop of constrained economic conditions. experiences. Providing training and development opportunities Training spend per region Training hours per employee per region in 2009* 2009 2008 2007 US$ US$ US$ hours South Africa 5.2 million South Africa 5.2 million South Africa 4.3 million South Africa 109 Europe 1.9 million Europe 1.7 million Europe 1.26 million Europe incl Trading 21 North America 672,000 North America 1.04 million North America 1.13 million North America 31 Sappi Trading 69,000 Sappi Trading 120,000 Sappi Trading 48,000 Total 9.1 million Total 10.5 million Total 8.53 million *We have not averaged out the number of training hours this year, given that South Africa, the region with the highest number of employees, has the highest number of training hours. It was felt that this would distort the data. Training and development framework To determine the annual training and development agenda, Our approach to training and development is decentralised with a rigorous needs analysis is undertaken, underpinned by the each mill, function, business unit and region taking responsibility for performance management process. training. Training is broad and includes: Management and Knowledge and Skills programme and Training framework Sappi World of Work leadership development capacity building individual development Comprises all training that is Comprises training that Comprises formal programmes/ Comprises training that is associated with management, enhances individuals skills for self-study that have both mandatory for legal, safety, supervisory and leadership current or future positions for a practical and theoretical health, environment and quality development. best practice organisation. components that may lead to compliance. educational qualifications. 40 Providing training and development opportunities continued Our global and regional training initiatives sustain our highly skilled workforce whilst our leadership bench is strengthened through dedicated programmes. Leadership skills Performance management As the establishment of a strong leadership bench is integral to All job functions and training and development needs are benchsustainability, we operate a global management development promarked, cross-referenced and appraised accordingly on a contingramme whereby employees with potential receive management ual basis. The performance of every employee within the group is training through recognised business schools and regional Sappi measured annually against objectives and competencies to ensure Leadership Academies. We also use a 360 degree multi-rater feedcareer goals are maintained. However, employees in the bargaining back tool in developing leadership competencies. units in South Africa and North America do not participate in the company performance appraisal process. 220 39 92 360 Apprentices USA Trainees o A In Europe during 2009 Employees engaged in South Africa 45 multi-rater feedback tool future academic study Europe 7 develops competencies North America 40 CEPI AF & PA Sappi Fine Paper Europe is involved in the Confederation The American Forest and Paper Association’s industry of European Paper Industries’ training initiatives training is supported by Sappi Fine Paper North America Stockstadt Mill apprentices, Germany Control room Saiccor Mill, South Africa 41 2009 sustainability Global training initiatives Regional training initiatives We operate a number of schemes including Southern Africa People graduate-in-training programmes, management/ The bulk of our training spend is allocated to this region, given the country’s legacy of manufacturing trainee programmes, internships inequity in training and development. Initiatives include: and co-op programmes, as well as sales development programmes whereby new graduates are Basic life skills for employees with little or no education. This involves helping our illitemployed as trainees for a fixed period of time erate employees and contractors to read and write and to learn basic financial skills. and usually spend some of that time working in a number of different functions. There were 92 Apprenticeship and learnership programmes which focus on providing school leavtrainees in 2009 (2008: 60) South Africa – 45, Euers as well as current employees with opportunities to become process operators, rope – 7 and North America – 40. engineering artisans and technicians through a combination of formal learning and practical on the job experience. Support to employees in continuing their education and obtaining further professional qualifications through our tuition reimbursement and study assistance programmes. To drive transformation and succession planning, we have established coaching and mentorship relationships, utilising trained managers to support performance improvement in both personal and professional growth as well as emotional support across all areas of our business. Equity and learning forums are operational at all operating units and are coordinated at head office level. External training initiatives include the Sappi Pulp and Paper College in Pretoria which has been accredited by FIETA (Forest Industries Education and Training Authority) as a training provider. The Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa (PAMSA) to which we belong, provides a full ladder of learning from school leaver to post-doctorate studies in the pulp, paper and pulp, paper and tissue qualifications. Europe and North America Europe had 220 apprentices in 2009 in various levels of their trade certification. In North America 39 employees were engaged in advancing their academic qualifications. Through our membership of industry associations in these regions (CEPI and AF&PA), we are involved in industry training initiatives. Stockstadt Mill, Germany 42 Prioritising health, safety and wellbeing An entrenched value Our aim is that safety should be an entrenched value and ‘way of life’ for all our employees and contractors worldwide. Safety Health and safety committees are in place Training related to health and safety hazAll mills in Europe are certified to OHSAS at all of our operations. In addition to workards and safe work practices is reinforced 18001, as are all mills in Southern Africa, specific safety training, broader safety by educational pamphlets, posters, videos with the exception of Usutu Mill in Swazieducation and awareness covers areas and a Global Safety Awareness Day. land. such as oil spills, chemical safety, transport and driving, gas leaks and actions required, Our behaviour-based safety approach is While some aspects of our safety perforas well as a broad range of health related reinforced by health and safety risk audits mance showed improvement, these were issues including cholera, meningitis, hygiene which are conducted annually. Once again, overshadowed by nine contractor employand other related topics. a key component of the audits is the ee fatalities in South Africa. We deeply reanalysis of trends and the development of gret these fatalities and view them in a very In terms of safety procedures, dedicated risk corrective action. serious light. We remain committed to and safety management teams ensure that achieving the goals of our formal safety safety management systems are integrated In North America, we are fully compliant campaign, Project Zero, and are as coninto everyday operational procedures in a with the Occupational Health and Safety cerned about the safety of our contractors real, measurable way. Administration (OSHA) regulations, but are as we are about that of our own employees. preparing to implement the Occupational Our aim is that safety should be an enThe ratio of safety representatives to Health and Safety Advisory Services (OHtrenched value and ‘way of life’ for all our employees is 1:50. SAS) 18001 management system. employees and contractors worldwide. LTFIR Own employees SA, EU and NA LTFIR Contractor employees SA, EU and NA 7 1.5 6 5 1.0 4 3 0.5 2 1 0.0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Global Southern Africa Europe North America Global Southern Africa Europe North America LTIFR is the lost time injury frequency rate, and is calculated by dividing the product of lost time injuries and a groupwide standard for man hours by the unit’s man hours, ie LTIFR = LTI * 200,000/man hours. In a similar manner to the frequency rate, LTISR is calculated by dividing the product of the number of days lost to the injury and the groupwide standard hours by the unit’s man hours, ie LTISR = No of days lost * 200,000/man hours. The injury index is a product of the LTIFR and the LTISR and provides an overall sense of safety within the measured unit. 43 2009 sustainability Going forward Occupational health and wellbeing People Our behaviour-based safety (BBS) systems and regional safety Occupational diseases are managed very similarly to any other risk platforms are generally entrenched across the company but require in Sappi. Occupational health risks are measured and monitored further re-energizing, particularly in Europe and South Africa. Sappi on an ongoing basis. Occupational health programmes are Fine Paper North America is continuing to prepare for OSHAS complemented by comprehensive general health and wellbeing 18001 certification. In Europe, insufficient safety audits have been programmes around the world, aimed at the specific needs of each identified as a weakness at Biberist, Kirkniemi and Stockstadt Mills. operating unit. These mills also have the region’s highest LTIFR. Negotiations with external companies are underway to strengthen safety programmes Wellbeing programmes include alcohol awareness, stress to these mills. management and trauma counselling. In the case of the latter, we ensure our employees receive holistic treatment. For example, in a Analysis of the contractor fatalities in Sappi Forests between 2003 case where an employee and their family were hi-jacked, we would to 2009 shows that 13 of the 28 fatalities were attributable to ensure that the entire family receive counselling by the appropriate vehicles used in timber production and nine were due to trees specialists and we act as a bridge between the outside consultant falling during harvesting. Sappi Forests will renew its focus on and the workplace for the employee. management, training and entrenching root cause analyses, visible senior leadership in the field, improving contractor management and performance and re-energizing the behaviour-based safety HIV/AIDS programme. Other risk mitigation measures include enforcing a Overview one-kilometre no-go area for active felling areas, machinery preIt’s estimated that 35% of all persons living with HIV globally are start checks and introducing critical occupation license cards. All concentrated in sub-Saharan Africa. Against this background, of these actions are complicated by the high labour turnover in Sappi’s efforts to combat the pandemic are focused in our Southern forestry, particularly among contractors. Africa operations. In 1992 Sappi Limited established an HIV/AIDS programme in South Africa to measure, monitor and manage the Sappi promotes HIV/AIDS awareness disease in order to mitigate the risks posed to employees, the organisation and the communities in which we operate. To see Exhibitions and campaigns linked to World AIDS Day, National Condom our HIV/AIDS policy, go to http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_ Week and AIDS Memorial Day. Communication materials in various langauges are made available at all sites. sdr_2009/downloads/Sappi_HIV_Policy_Draft_4.pdf. Peer educators (nominated Sappi employees who have been trained) present education programmes focused on changing behavioural Prevalence patterns in the workplace and surrounding communities. We conduct HIV/AIDS surveillance studies on a 3-year cycle to Health workers also play an important role in promoting awareness, determine HIV prevalence as well as conducting cost impact studies encouraging a healthy lifestyle and helping infected and affected and impact studies on the benefit funds. As 83% of our employees employees to understand the disease through intensive counselling and have participated in an HIV survey, we have a very accurate idea of support. the HIV/ prevalence of the workforce – currently 14.7% This is less In 2008 and 2009, we promoted participation in the Right to Know than the South African average – UNAIDS estimates indicate that competition, launched by Discovery Health and the Sunday Times in July the current HIV/AIDS prevalence of those aged between 15 and 49 2008. in South Africa is 18.1%. 44 Partnering with communities Sappi’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility We invested US$2.02 million as part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme to support the developmental aspirations of the communities within which we operate. Good business practice includes support for the social and developmental aspirations of the societies and communities in which 2009 2009 we operate. Our funding objective is to effect meaningful change Global CSR spend South African CSR spend by providing equitable access to resources and opportunities in response to identified needs in areas where we operate. We adopt an involved, participatory approach firstly identifying the needs of individual communities, secondly consulting extensively with the community, its leaders and with local government and then tailoring appropriate programmes to meet the specific needs of the people and the environment. In this way, projects become more sustainable and self-sufficient. Our support of the communities where we have an impact has prioritised educational, environmental and cultural projects. Our US$ US$ charitable donations are geared towards issues of importance to South Africa 882,700 Education 453,754 our staff such as cancer, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. The majority Europe 52,430 Environment 206,000 of Sappi’s CSR spend takes place in South Africa, given the North America 80,000 Arts and culture 122,546 development needs of the country. Global 1 million Other/community 55,000 Total 2.02 million Health and welfare 45,700 In 2009, we spent US$2.02 million on CSR projects, despite our operating loss. Currently, we address the majority of our funding to: Literacy Addressing illiteracy; helping create a culture of reading; encouraging the use of libraries. Education Primary and high school, focused on mathematics, science, technical skills and English; and support for teacher training. Environment Environmental and wildlife conservation, education, preservation and rehabilitation programmes. Arts and culture Programmes and activities which provide opportunity for talent to be developed, in particular when in conjunction with public events in natural surroundings (such as botanical gardens). Health and welfare Community programmes, with a particular focus on HIV/Aids in South Africa. 45 2009 sustainability Engaging with stakeholders openly and constructively People Our focus is on understanding our customers’ needs and building trust by engaging with them and other stakeholders on the basis of transparency and integrity. Our stakeholders and the ways in which we engage with them are set out below. Specific needs Our approach Organisational developments Sappi conducted employee engagement surveys in 2007 and again in 2009. Results were communicated to employees (discussed on page 39). In addition, the following channels ensure effective communications: • Global and regional newsletters. • Global intranet • Letters and presentations by the group CEO as well as regional CEOs • Ongoing consultation with trade unions Employees Channels through which In addition to grievance mechanisms, the Sappi Hotlines in each region allow employees to report breaches of concerns and grievances can be the Code of Ethics in full confidentiality. discussed Information about health and In addition to ongoing safety training is conducted at all operations, there are comprehensive general health safety and wellbeing programmes in place modified to suit the needs of each particular unit Information about sustainability In 2009, we focused on educating every Sappi employee about sustainability. This was achieved through a global roll out and the release of various internal communications (detailed on page 25 of this report) In North America the region has developed a group of Sustainability Ambassadors with personnel at each location to help exchange information on sustainability goals and various key sustainability initiatives Government Join forces to deal with matters In South Africa, Sappi engaged extensively with government in the development of a Broad-based Black and regulatory of mutual concern. Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Forestry Sector Charter which was finalised in 2008. authorities Consultations take place on an ongoing basis with environmental licensing authorities. Join forces to deal with matters In each region where we operate, we are active members of industry association such as AF & PA (American of mutual concern. Forests and Paper Association), CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industries) and PAMSA (Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa). These organisations engage with other industry members and, Industry where necessary, engage with governments and regulatory authorities on the industry’s behalf. In South Africa we are a founder member of the NBI (National Business Initiative). The NBI is the local champion of the UN Global Compact, which we signed in 2008. Sappi Limited is a member of WWF. Our technology centres work with universities and other industry members to overcome specific challenges. 46 Engaging with stakeholders openly and constructively continued Specific needs Our approach Information and issues relating Environmental issues: In South Africa, there are environmental liaison committees at many of the mills to specific communities in which and forestry operations. These committees include members from various regulatory authorities, residents’ Communities our operations are situated. associations, conservancies, municipal representatives and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Members of the public and other parties participate in the environmental impact assessments (EIAs) conducted before the start of any project. Social issues: Engagement takes place in South Africa as regards the social needs in the communities in which the Company’s operations are situated. A partnership approach, whereby Externally appointed consultants conduct regular customer surveys, but the results are considered highly customers feel that their needs confidential and are not externally communicated. In addition to customer satisfaction targets related and concerns are heard and to price, service and quality, Sappi has established complaints targets per mill and paper type. Product specialists in the mills deal with complaints and provide feedback to the production units. Regular meetings reacted upon. are held with customers to determine their product needs as well as their needs in relation to emerging trends. In North America, a Sustainability Customer Council has been established as part of the regional corporate Customers governance for sustainability. Initiatives to promote Life with Print series and technical brochures, available on our website www.sappi.com/Initiatives. design and print. Information about print generally In Europe and South Africa we publish Paper Profiles and information sheets for our papers. These give and more specifically, the fibre details regarding the composition of our papers, as well as key environmental parameters related to our sourcing and production pulp and paper production processes and information on environmental management systems and wood fibre sourcing policies. in North America, we use Metafore’s Environmental Performance Assessment Tool processes behind our brands. (EPAT) which enables buyers to evaluate our performance on a mill by mill basis. 47 2009 sustainability Specific needs People Our approach Timeous, relevant • Mill visits communication that facilitates • Road shows Investors informed decisions. • Quarterly results presentations and other ongoing presentations • One-on-one presentations • Annual report, sustainability report, 20-F report for US investors • Stock Exchange News Wire Services (SENS) • Media release and the internet General: Understanding what is In 2009, we established a supplier policy and questionnaire. http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_ required to establish a mutually sdr_2009/downloads/Sappi_group_supplier_policy.pdf beneficial relationship. Suppliers Specific: Both customers and We responded by setting up a web-based question and answer facility whereby customers and suppliers suppliers had questions related could raise questions, concerns and issues about the integration process platform. to the integration of the M-real mills acquired in 2008. General questions about our We set up a report-back mechanism on our website. Other Sustainability Report. Support of global policy for In 2009, we signed the Copenhagen Communique on Climate Change. climate mitigation Sappi employees at work 48 Treading more lightly on the Planet by balancing our needs with our impact on the Earth While making products that support society’s needs, we strive to achieve the highest standards of environmental performance. Forests are essential to a healthy environment, sustaining vital plants and wildlife, filtering our water and air, and reducing greenhouse gases by removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Forests are also an economic resource, providing a plentiful, renewable natural material that we use responsibly to produce our products, many of them recyclable. Our Charter commitments This report covers three of our six Planet Charter commitments in detail and gives a brief overview of the other three. An expanded section of this report can be found on our website. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing our use of renewable energy Safeguarding biodiversity by promoting sustainable forestry Continuing our commitment to independent environmental, wood and fibre certification systems Reducing solid waste and improving water quality Promoting the recovery and use of recycled fibre Conforming with best environmental practice and legislation 11 Key features % 18.5 % 3.8 % Globally, over 5 years (2005 – 2009) Specific purchased energy TSS COD per ton of pulp Total suspended solids Chemical oxygen demand 10 21 % % Specific water use Solid waste to landfill per ton of pulp Unless otherwise indicated, all data is given in specific form. This means that the actual quality consumed during the year indicated, whether energy, water, emissions or solid waste, is expressed in terms of a production parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper companies, this parameter is air dry tons of product. (The term ‘tons’ is used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000kg). 49 2009 sustainability Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing our use of renewable energy Planet In the last few years, climate change has become a key agenda item for consumers and businesses around the world. Sappi’s focus on reducing its carbon footprint preEN-3 Direct energy specific purchased power (GJ/adt) dates this current focus by many years. As far 3.5 Purchased power for Sappi’s mills back as 2000, Sappi instituted a system for mea3.0 in North America is low as they suring greenhouse gases (GHGs), based on the generate approximately 83% of 2.5 premise of ‘measure, monitor, manage and mititheir own power on site. All regions 2.0 experienced very similar increases gate’. Since that time, one of our key strategic 1.5 in purchased power in 2009, due goals has been to reduce our carbon footprint by to reduced production. Generally, 0.5 improving energy-use efficiency and decreasing in such circumstances, energy consumption does not reduce at the our reliance on fossil fuels. This has been achieved 0.5 same rate as production as energy is through numerous actions which include reducing 0.0 still required to keep mills on standby purchased energy (electricity and fossil fuel) and SA EU NA Global during periods of reduced or zero by increasing the use of renewable energy – an 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 production. approach which ultimately results in a reduction in GHG emissions. EN-4 Specific indirect energy (purchased power and steam) 5 For Sappi, purchased power and To entrench this approach, mill management have steam are the only energy types that energy reduction targets (which in themselves re4 fall under the indirect energy category. sult in GHG reductions) and achievement of those As the quantity of purchased power targets is linked to remuneration. At group level 3 is much greater than purchased executives having responsibility for the mills also steam, this graph is very similar to 2 derive financial rewards associated with GHG rethe EN3 graph – purchased power 1 and the explanations for this figure ductions. apply to EN4. 0 The soundness of our long-standing strategy was SA EU NA Global recognised when we were ranked fifth in the South 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 African Carbon Disclosure Project 2009 Leadership Index, based on the quality of our disclosure. EN-16 CO2 emitted from production of purchased power (ton/adt) We were also included in the first-ever Leadership 0.8 Index of 16 companies in terms of actual perfor0.7 mance for climate mitigation and adaptation ac0.6 tions. (No ranking was provided in this regard.) 0.5 0.4 The carbon sequestration of our tree plantations, 0.3 high percentage of renewable energy we gener0.2 ate, cogeneration and energy initiatives, together 0.1 with the biofuel potential inherent in our processes 0.0 present significant opportunities for us in meeting SA EU NA Global these goals. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 The numbers EN3, EN4 etc relate to the GRI indicators and are used to make referencing to the GRI easier. 50 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing use of renewable energy continued Carbon sequestration According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2007 (IPPC), Fourth Assessment Report, “In the long term, a sustainable forest management strategy aimed at maintaining or increasing forest carbon stocks, while producing an annual sustained yield of timber, fibre or energy from the forest, will generate the largest sustained mitigation benefit”. At Sappi, we use internationally recognised certification Paper industry carbon cycle systems (PEFC, SFI®, FSC and EMAS) to ensure that the land we own and lease as well as Energy recovery the land from which we procure wood is certified as being sustainably managed. As the world looks for fossil-free Trees absorb CO2 alternatives and materials, the during the fact that we manufacture recyprocess of photosynthesis clable products produced from renewable resources grown in sustainably managed forests gives us a competitive advanCarbon is stored in paper Sustainably tage. There are many different managed forests and board methods of calculating the carproducts store carbon bon sequestration of plantation forests. As with carbon footprinting, there are various methMill odologies and we are currently reviewing these. How do forests and paper products mitigate climate change? Paper is not only renewable, but forests, be they natural or planWood products and the wood fibre in paper also store carbon FAQ tations, mitigate climate change by sequestering carbon from the atmosphere and storing it as biomass. This is recycled to the atthroughout their lifetime. Forests only contribute to net carbon emissions when they are logged, converted or burned at a faster mosphere when the biomass is harvested or burnt – a process rate than they grow back. Incineration of wood based fuels (eg bioconsidered to be ‘carbon neutral’ as the carbon dioxide generated mass and black liquor) from a sustainably managed forest landis the same amount that was bound from the atmosphere by the scape can be considered carbon neutral if, as with Sappi, logging process of photosynthesis. is balanced with re-growth. 51 2009 sustainability Assessing our carbon footprint Renewable energy Planet In Sappi and Sustainability 2008, we reported that we were During the pulp and paper manufacturing process, carbon dioxide (CO2) assessing several methodologies for ascertaining carbon is produced from the consumption of coal, gas and oil, as well as a range footprint in the absence of a global standard for the industry. of renewable fuels such as black liquor and combustible sludges, whethOur focus has been on finding a technologically sound, transer this results in the production of steam, heat or electricity. parent methodology in order to provide our stakeholders with credible information. As previously noted, incineration of wood fuels can be considered carbon neutral as long as the wood is derived from sustainably managed forests. This is becoming increasingly important in view of the worldIn the countries where Sappi operates, electricity generation is partially wide trend to basing product choice on carbon footprint – based on the consumption of fossil fuel and this has obvious carbon imeven in instances where the methodology used is not credplications. However, this is balanced by the high percentage of renewible. Our products are inherently renewable and sustainable able energy used in Sappi’s mills. and assessing our carbon footprint across the supply chain will help to entrench this fact with all our stakeholders. In North America, more than 83% (industry average: 64%) of all energy used is derived from renewable resources (black liquor, bark, sludges and It still remains unclear what global standard will emerge as purchased biomass). The percentage of energy derived from renewable most relevant to our customers world-wide. In 2010, we will resources for South Africa is 41% (in this region, Sappi sets the industry continue to assess standards such as: the PAS 2050 from the average) and for Europe is 30% (industry average: 52%), with Sappi’s British Standards Institute, The Carbon Footprint Framework global figure standing at 50%. The figure for South Africa will increase in for paper and board products developed by the Confedera2010, due to the fact that the Amakhulu expansion project at Saiccor Mill tion of European Paper Industries (CEPI) and the Greenhouse is now fully on stream. Gas Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable DevelopThe reason for the much higher percentages of renewable energy in Sapment. Our intention is to seek input from our stakeholders pi’s mills in North American and South Africa than in Europe is that a much regarding these various standards. greater proportion of our product originates from Kraft type integrated pulp and paper mills. These mills typically have Our carbon footprint a higher degree of energy self-sufficiency than mills with different processes or those that only produce paper, as the black liquor (dissolved organic compounds from wood) created during the manufacture of pulp is a biofuel and a primary source of renewable fuel for steam and power production. However, in Europe we operate combined heat and power (CHP) plants at some of our European mills, a process which is more efficient than conventional electricity and heat generation systems. In addition to renewable energy from the production of black liquor in some of our European mills, we also use renewable energy which originates from the production of biogas in the anaerobic digestion of sludge. 52 Safeguarding biodiversity by promoting sustainable forestry Climate change is exacerbating the challenges inherent in sustainable forestry. Our efforts to achieve this Charter commitment were extensively detailed in Sappi and Sustainability Land owned, managed 2008. The information had not changed materially at the time of writing Sappi and Sustainability 2009. or leased by Sappi Please go to page 47 of Sappi and Sustainability 2008 for further details. A significant issue, not detailed to any great extent in last year’s report, is the impact of climate change on sustainable forestry and this is discussed below. Our efforts to safeguard biodiversity by working with the South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) are also discussed opposite. Promoting sustainable forestry ha Climate change is exacerbating the challenges inherent in sustainable forestry. We have become proOwned in SA 371,000 actively involved in risk mitigation measures, described in further detail at http://sappi.investoreporrts. Leased or managed in SA 10,000 com/sappi_sdr_2009/planet/safeguard-biodiversity-by-promoting-sustainable-forestry/. Projects in SA owned and 80,000 managed by farmers Swaziland (Kings Land) 66,000 Working with SANBI Total 527,000 In 2004, South Africa’s grasslands biome was identified in the National Spatial Biodiversity AsPest attacks and disease: sessment as a biodiversity priority area in need of urgent conservation action. In response, the Hardwoods We are addressing eucalypt disease issues through our South African National Biodiversity Institute membership of the Eucalyptus Genome Network (EUCAGEN) which is aimed (SANBI) launched its National Grasslands Proat decoding the Eucalyptus genome. We have also conducted extensive gramme to mainstream biodiversity best practicresearch in to the Cossid Moth which was found to be extensively damaging es into sectors to avoid losing remaining grassmature Eucalyptus nitens in the province of Mpumalanga, and implemented lands. Commercial forestry was identified as one mitigation measures. of the sectors that could assist SANBI in these efforts. A task team of conservation agencies, Softwoods Pinus patula occupies about 65% of Sappi’s softwood government departments, environmental nonlandholdings, yet the sustainability of this species is being threatened by governmental organisations (NGOs) and repredisease caused by the fungal pathogen, Fusarium circinatum. Further details sentatives of forestry companies – including can be found on pages 35 of Sappi and Sustainability 2008. Sappi – are looking at ways to design projects Drought We have been conducting research over 15-20 years into the effect and proactively conserve, improve and avoid of reduced rainfall on the annual increment yield of sample eucalyptus plants transformation of the 500,000 hectares of grassto facilitate our long-term planning. We are looking at alternative species land that occur on forestry land throughout South which are more drought resistant. Africa. Maximising fibre yield We are investing significant research efforts to maximize We are working with SANBI to make seven yield from our raw materials both in energy and in fibre for papermaking. (at this stage) of our grassland areas available These efforts include tree breeding to maximize fibre yield to improve pulping for conservation through SANBI’s grasslands processes to increase yield from our digesters, and papermaking innovations programme. Each area will be thoroughly to reduce the amount of fibre required for our sustainable products. assessed before any final decisions are taken. 53 2009 sustainability Continuing our commitment to independent environmental, wood and fibre certification systems Planet In every region where we operate, we have strict procurement policies. Our procurement policies cover a wide variety of issues, including We do not endorse one certification as ‘better’ than another. the management of plantation forests and harvesting. We do not Rather, our goal is to use as much independently certified wood as procure wood fibre from endangered forests anywhere in the world. possible. To accomplish this, we have pursued certification by the In Southern Africa, wood is sourced from our own plantations and FSC, SFI® and PEFC and have achieved certification from each of other growers in the region. Sappi does not use indigenous wood these independent, third party organisations at our manufacturing in this region. Sappi does not own plantations in North America sites. (See also key material issues on page 19-24 of this report.) or Europe but procures wood from both certified and controlled sources. In terms of sales, ISO 14001 certification covered 98% of the company for the year ended September 2009 (2008: 96%). Go to Sappi has achieved certification by the three internationally http://sappi.investoreports.com/sappi_sdr_2009/planet/continuerecognised forest products certification programmes, those of our-commitment-to-independent-environmental-wood-and-fibrethe Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), the Sustainable Forestry certification-systems/ for details of our ISO14001 and forest Initiative (SFI®) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest systems certification. Certification (PEFC). Why is forest certification important? FAQ Forest certification gives the consumer the assurance that the products they are buying have been legally logged in accordance with sound environmental practices and that social aspects such as indigenous rights have been taken into consideration. Certification is applicable to fibre and manufacturing sites. There are two types of certification: The first is forest certification which assures that forests and plantations producing wood products are managed according to a set of criteria aimed at responsible management. The second is Chain of Custody (CoC) certification which tracks and assures process wood products originate from certified forests and plantations. Forestland, Europe 54 Reducing solid waste and improving water quality Globally, over five years, we have reduced the amount of solid waste we send to landfill by 21% and reduced specific water use by 10%. Every ton of pulp produced Our focus is on minimising end methane, a greenhouse gas Waste by category results in 0.30 tons of solid of-pipe waste and adding value with approximately 21 times waste, comprising biomass, to by-products. This not only the global warming potential lime mud from the pulping prohelps to mitigate environmental of CO2. A more favourable cess, residuals in wastewater impact, but also generates admethod is for biomass-based such as plant matter and pigditional revenue. waste to be used as a fuel for ments, as well as boiler ash. onsite heat recovery. However, Globally, over five years, we The least desirable method of as can be seen from the pie have reduced the amount of solid waste disposal from an chart below, most of the solid solid waste we send to landfill environmental perspective is waste generated is in the form by 21% and reduced specific to discharge organic waste to of boiler ash which has a direct water use by 10%. a landfill site which can emits correlation with the type and quality of fuel used. For extons ample, if the coal used is of a EN-22 Specific total solid waste (ton/adt) poor quality, a higher amount Primary sludge 256,874 Secondary sludge 67,633 0.8 of boiler ash will be produced. Wood waste 59,448 0.7 This is a problem from time to Paper, board 26,086 0.6 time in South Africa, due to Green liquor dregs 12,773 0.5 variable quality of coal. Process rejects 34,947 0.4 Lime mud 18,369 0.3 Wires and felts 126 0.2 Research Domestic waste 18,836 0.1 Plastics 16,545 0 Our research centres and techBoiler ashes 441,002 SA EU NA Global nology experts are looking Hazardous waste 1,688 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 into ways to increase revenue Used Oil 303 through by-products. One such Metals 2,935 avenue is further stripping of Oil contaminates 79 EN-22 Specific total landfilled solid waste (ton/adt) the effluent at Saiccor Mill and Chemicals, roll waste 5,769 0.40 use of the recovered sugars in Other 19,741 0.35 the effluent to produce ethanol Total 1,662,966 0.30 and furfural which is used as a 0.25 solvent and as a fungicide and The ash created by burning bark, 0.20 weed killer, as well as xylose branches and other biomass is 0.15 which is used in sweeteners used in some of our mill boilers; 0.10 and also for dyeing and tanning. 0.05 A comprehensive study has alAt Ngodwana Mill, some bark is 0.0 burnt and the balance is used for ready been completed for the SA EU NA Global composting purposes. furfural extraction. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 55 2009 sustainability Improving water quality Water use in forests Referring to the world’s mounting water stress, the UNDP DevelopIn South Africa, the National Water Act (Act No 34 of 1998) declared Planet ment Report 2006 states, “Put bluntly, the world is running down one timber plantations to be stream flow reduction activities (SRAs). As of its most precious natural resources and running up an unsustainSRAs, all existing plantations must be registered as water users able ecological debt that will be inherited by future generations”. and licensed. All our owned, managed and leased plantations (http://hdr.undp.org/en/media/HR2006) in this region are licensed. The general perception is that timber plantations use vast amounts of water. However, commercial In the regions where we operate, water is of concern in South Africa, forestry plantations account for a little less than 3% of total water where water resources are extremely limited. However, concerns use in South Africa by reducing runoff into rivers and streams while about water are not confined to this region. In Europe, for example, irrigation for agriculture accounts for approximately 62% of water in 2009 CEPI has joined the European Water Partnership (EWP) as used. Unlike other agricultural activities, we do not irrigate but pay their first federation member. what essentially amounts to a ‘rainfall’ tax. The EWP’s mission is to give water one common voice in Europe and to provide an open, independent forum to discuss innovative management, technological and financial solutions. Another aim is to put water on the mainstream political and media agenda and to develop an awareness of water challenges among policy makers and business. CEPI has also joined the Water Footprint Network which aims to develop a water footprint for the pulp and paper industry which will measure direct and indirect impacts. Water is essential in papermaking to produce the fibre that becomes the sheet of paper. It’s also an integral part of the steam systems which generate energy. Recognising the pressure on a finite resource that is core to our processes, we focus on reducing consumption, recycling extensively within the manufacturing process and improving the quality of the effluent we discharge. Sappi forests, South Africa EN-10 Percentage of effluent recycled EN-21 Specific effluent discharged (cubic metres/adt) 2.0 80 70 1.5 60 50 1.0 40 30 0.5 20 10 0 0 SA EU NA Global SA EU NA Global 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 56 Reducing solid waste and improving water quality continued Water use in mills As with pulp and paper mills generally, our mills are situated in the our effluent. At Gratkorn Mill, for example, the installation of an vicinity of rivers, from which we extract water. In North America and anaerobic reactor to the waste water treatment plant in 2009 has Europe, withdrawal and discharge of water is monitored by legislareduced the chemical oxygen demand (COD) of the water and intion. In Southern Africa, only Adamas and Enstra Mills, which use creased the production of biogas. In addition, all our South Afri70% and 50% recycled sewage water respectively, pay for water. can mills have embarked on ‘at source’ water reduction projects. These aim to reduce water consumption where it is actually used, At all mills we use sophisticated measures such as temperature rather than to accept the effluent as discharged and trying to imcontrols, oxygen level controls and other metrics to ensure that we prove its quality. comply with statutory regulations and that we minimise our environmental impact. Non-integrated mills which rely on purchased We are making steady progress in reducing the amount of water pulp use far less water than integrated pulp and paper mills. Conwe use and improving its discharge quality. Globally over five years, sequently, our total water use is lower in Europe than in North total specific (ie per ton of pulp and paper produced), water use has America and South Africa, where we operate more integrated mills. declined by 10% and the quality of our effluent has improved – indiAs with water use, effluent discharge is closely linked to the degree cated by a decrease in total suspended solids (TSS) and chemical of pulp integration. We return approximately 90% of the water that oxygen demand (COD) by 18.5% and 3.8% respectively. we extract to the environment mostly to rivers from whence it was extracted or for agricultural irrigation purposes. The quality of the effluent we discharge is measured in terms of oxygen demand (either BOD or COD) and total suspended solids (TSS). We are constantly looking at ways of improving the quality of EN-21 Specific chemical oxygen demand (kg/adt) EN-21 Specific effluent total suspended solids (kg/adt) (SA and global less Saiccor Saiccor x 1,000) (SA and global less Saiccor Saiccor/10) 30 5 25 4 20 3 15 2 10 5 1 0 0 SA EU NA Saiccor Global SA EU NA Saiccor Global less Saiccor (t/t) less Saiccor less Saiccor less Saiccor 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 57 2009 sustainability Promoting the recovery and use of recycled fibre Planet Despite our focus on coated fine paper, we use a significant percentage of recycled fibre. Cape Kraft Mill runs on 100% recycled fibre, while Adamas, Ngodwana, Tugela and Cloquet Mills use Westbrook Mill 68.3%, 5.2%, 18.46% and 4.9 % respectively. Use of recycled fibre increased from 19.1% to 20.3% Re-using cores in 2009. Westbrook Mill produces specialised casting release In 2009, we geared up to use additional recycled fibre at Tugela Mill, but did not use this extra capacity paper, which is used to proas demand dropped. We offer customers a wide range of products containing recycled fibre. vide the surface aesthetics found in coated fabrics and decorative laminates. North America South Africa In May 2009, the mill identified a way to reduce its All Sappi Fine Paper North America’s fine paper Cape Kraft Mill uses 100% recycled fibre (35% waste by re-using five inch sheet fed products can be manufactured with at post-industrial and 65% post-consumer waste cores, which are used for least 10% post-consumer waste (PCW). paper), producing linerboard and corrugating mein-mill processing and findium, which is sold principally to the corrugating ished rolls. The cores have Opus® sheet and web products are available in a industry; historically been replaced variety of finishes with up to 30% PCW content. and disposed of after a Board, text and cover grades include: single use. Instead, the mill Flo and Somerset Web can be manufactured with Reviva, 100% recycled non de-inked text and took on an innovative approach and worked closely 10% PCW upon request. cover grade Uniqa, a blend of recycled (preand with its recycling partner, post-consumer waste) and bagasse (sugar cane Land Reclamation Inc. Europe waste) text and cover grade; (LRI), to identify ways to recover the remaining paper Royal Roto™ Recycled feels and performs Express Mail, Fluting, Microfluting and Jason Natural; on the processed cores exactly like a virgin fibre paper but contains a and evaluate the potential minimum of 50% post-consumer waste and 20% Typek® Recycled is a standard office paper infor re-using each core. FSC-certified pulp. corporating 30% post-consumer waste and 20% Cores that were deemed post-industrial waste; and reusable were put back into circulation at the mill. Triple Green™, a range of high quality coated fine During the first month of paper and tissue wadding products produced this programme, the apfrom bagasse and wood fibre at Stanger Mill. proximately 750 cores were saved and re-used at an average price of US$20 per core. As a result, these efforts have continued with an annualized savings of approximately US$180,000 and illustrate how environmental responsibility and prosperity can work in tandem. Casting release papermaking, Westbrook Mill, In-store display of Typek® Recycled, South Africa United States of America 58 Conforming with best environmental practice and legislation Our approach to environmental management A technical manager and an environmental manager at each operation monitor legal compliance (emissions, solid waste and effluent). In addition, there are a number of internal ‘clusters’ comprised of experts in various fields. These clusters, which are tasked with establishing best practice across a broad variety of disciplines, as well as driving and monitoring performance. In addition to internal standards, Sappi uses external benchmarks While performance against these parameters is not externally auto monitor environmental performance and ensure compliance with dited, a dedicated energy and emissions specialist monitors the best practice. In terms of energy, for example, we use best pracaccuracy, reliability and consistency of the data provided by the tice energy consumptions indicated by the Technical Association of operations. Targets are monitored on a quarterly basis. Pulp and Paper Industries (TAPPI) in the United States of American, Pulp and Paper Technical Association of Canada (PAPTAC) and Not only our production processes, but also our products, are CEPI. The Swedish Kretsloppsanpassad Massafabrik (KAM) organstrictly regulated by legislation and external standards. Details are isation has indicated what the best practice energy consumption given in Sappi and Sustainability 2008 (Prioritising wellbeing, safety for an entire mill should be for various mill types. and health), page 38. Key performance indices include the following: Specific purchased power Specific purchased fuel Specific total power consumed Specific total fuel consumed Percentage power generated from renewable fuel Percentage energy used originating from renewable fuel Percentage of waste that can be combusted for heat gain compared with that which can potentially be combusted for heat gain Percentage of usable energy to total energy (the energy in its final form that it is used in processes compared with the purchased and generated energy entering the operation) Specific CO2 emissions from fossil fuels combusted in operations Specific CO2 emissions from renewable fuels combusted in operations Specific CO2 emissions from purchased fossil based energy 59 2009 sustainability Environmental legislation Details of the environmental legislation with which we comply can carries heavy penalties. On or after 01 September 2010, importers Planet be found in our annual report on Form 20-F 2009, pages 45 – 47. will be required to submit declarations for imported coated paper and other paper products. Penalties may be imposed for nonIn 2008, we reported that Ngodwana Mill had been audited by compliance. a government environmental management inspection team (also known as the Green Scorpions) as well as other officials and an Sappi Fine Paper North America is conducting appropriate due expert from the United Kingdom Environmental Agency. At year diligence to ensure that the importers of wood and pulp that supend, we were still awaiting the results of this inspection. The Green ply our mills comply with the Act. In addition, our forest manageScorpions also audited Enstra Mill in 2009. We will report on these ment certification systems (detailed on page 13) offer assurance outcomes in our next report. that domestic wood sources are legally harvested. We are also the importer of record for products from Sappi Fine Paper Europe and Last year we also reported on amendments to the Lacey Act which are working with our sister company to ensure that electronic decbans commerce in illegally sourced plants and their products. The larations are timeously filed. Papers imported through Sappi Fine law requires importers to declare the country of origin of harvest Paper Europe include Galerie Publishing Paper, Galerie Art XP and and species of all plant material in products entering the USA, in Galerie Art Web, HannoArt, Magno and EuroArt Plus. the form of declarations to US Customs. Non-compliance Sappi forests, South Africa 60 Glossary of terms ABET – adult basic education and training contractor – refers to an independent employer of self-employed person peforming work for Sappi, excludes temporary or fixedAF & PA – American Forest and Paper Association term employees air dry tons (ADT) – the industry standard is 90% fibre and 10% CSI and CSR – corporate social investment and corporate social moisture responsibility biofuels – organic material such as wood, waste and alcohol fuels, elemental chlorine free (ECF) – refers to bleaching sequences in as well as gaseous and liquid fuels produced from these feedstocks which no chlorine is used when they are burned to produce energy EIRIS – is a leading global provider of independent research into bleached pulp – pulp that has been bleached by means of the ethical governance of companies, as well as their social and chemical additives to make it suitable for fine paper production environmental performance CEPI – Confederation of European Paper Industries EMAS – a voluntary clean citizenship initiative of the European Union, constituting the highest environmental standards in Europe chemical cellulose (dissolving pulp) – highly purified chemical and requiring environmental stewardship, determined continuous pulp intended primarily for conversion into chemical derivatives improvement and detailed public reporting of cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and filament fibre – fibre is generally referred to as ‘pulp’ in the paper industry. Wood is treated chemically or mechanically to separate the fibres chemical oxygen demand (COD) – untreated effluent is generally during the pulping process high in organic matter. COD is the amount of oxygen required to break down the organic compounds in the effluent fine paper – paper usually produced from chemical pulp for printing and writing purposes and consisting of coated and uncoated paper chemical pulp – a generic term for pulp made from wood fibre that has been produced in a chemical process Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) – in terms of the FSC scheme, there are two types of certification. In order for land to achieve FSC CHP – combined heat and power endorsement, its forest management practices must meet the FSC’s ten principles and other assorted criteria. For manufacturers coated fine paper – coated paper made from chemical pulp. Also of forest products, including paper manufacturers like Sappi, Chainreferred to as coated free sheet of-Custody (CoC) certification involves independent verification of the supply chain, which identifies and tracks the timber through all coated papers – papers that contain a layer of coating material on stages of the production process from source to end product one or both sides. The coating materials of pigments and binders which act as a filler to improve the printing surface of the paper Green-e – an independent consumer protection programme created by the Centre for Resource Solutions for the sale of renewable energy and greenhouse gas reduction (www.green-e.org) 61 2009 sustainability Greenhouse gases (GHGs) – the GHGs included in the OHSA – occupational health and safety association Kyoto Protocol are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride packaging paper – paper used for packaging purposes Glossary ISO developed by the International Organisation for Standardisation PAMSA – Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa (ISO), ISO 9000 is a series of standards focused on quality management systems, while the ISO 14001 series is focused on PEFC – the world’s largest forest certification system, the PEFC environmental performance and management is focused on promoting sustainable forest management. Using multi-stakeholder processes, the organisation develops forest IUCN – the World Conservation Union management certification standards and schemes which have been signed by 37 nations in Europe and other inter-governmental kraft paper – packaging paper (bleached or unbleached) made processes for sustainable forestry management around the world from kraft pulp pulpwood – wood suitable for producing pulp – usually not of sufficient standard for saw-milling kraft pulp – chemical wood pulp produced by digesting wood by means of the sulphate pulping process red data list – a global index of endangered species published by the World Conservation Union Kyoto Protocol – a document signed by over 160 countries at Kyoto, Japan in December 1997 which commits signatories to release paper – backing paper for self-adhesives and/or paper reducing their emission of greenhouse gases relative to levels used to impart designs on or to polymers, eg artificial leather emitted in 1990 sackkraft – kraft paper used to produce multiwall paper sacks liquor – white liquor is the aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulphide used to extract lignin during kraft pulping. SMMEs – small, medium and micro enterprises Black liquor is the resultant combination of lignin, water and chemicals solid waste – dry organic and inorganic waste materials Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) – speciality paper – a generic term for a group of papers intended LTIFR = number of lost time injuries x 200,000 manhours for commercial and industrial use such as flexible packaging, metallised base paper, coated bag paper, etc linerboard – the grade of paperboard used for the exterior facings of corrugated board. Linerboard is combined with corrugating Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI®) – the SFI® programme is a medium by converters to produce corrugated board used in comprehensive system of objectives and performance measures boxes which integrate the sustained growing and harvesting of trees and the protection of plants and animals market pulp – pulp produced for sale on the open market, as opposed to that produced for own consumption in an integrated tons – term used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000kg mill total chlorine-free (TCF) – refers to bleaching sequences in which mechanical pulp – pulp produced by means of the mechanical no chlorine containing compounds such as chlorine dioxide are used grinding or refining of wood or wood chips total suspended solids (TSS) – refers to matter suspended or newsprint – paper produced for the printing of newspapers mainly dissolved in effluent from mechanical pulp and/or recycled waste paper uncoated woodfree paper – printing and writing paper made from OHSAS – an international health and safety standard aimed at bleached chemical pulp used for general printing, photocopying minimising occupational health and safety risks firstly, by conducting and stationery, etc. Referred to as ‘uncoated’ as it does not contain a variety of analyses and secondly, by setting standards a layer of pigment to give it a coated surface 62 peopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeop pleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperityp eplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprospe planetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetpro lanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanet lanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperitypeoplepla ritypeopleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetpros pleplanetprosperitypeopleplanetprosperit Printed on Triple Green PrintTM by Sappi www.sappi.com Cover 250g/m2, Text 135g/m2
