Sustainability Report 2011 The only Company in the world, of Creating over comparable size to 5 million be carbon, water sustainable and solid waste livelihoods recyling positive FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS More than 35% of energy consumption at ITC is from renewable All ITC premium sources luxury Hotels are LEED Platinum certified GRI G3 Compliant Application Level A+ ITC : An Exemplar in Triple Bottom Line Performance Economic $ 33 billion market capitalisation Powering $ 7 billion 26,000 growth with turnover employees multiple ITC Group provides direct employment business to more than 26,000 people drivers Diversified multi-business conglomerate spanning FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards & Packaging, Agri Business and Information Total shareholder returns of Technology 26% per annum Figures in this section are as on September, 2011 ITC : An Exemplar in Triple Bottom Line Performance Environment Water Carbon Solid Waste Positive: Positive: Recycling Positive: 9 years 6 years 4 years LEED Platinum Rating All ITC premium luxury Hotels are LEED Platinum certified Irrigating 35% 70,000 1,16,000 hectares renewable hectares greened energy ITC’s Watershed More than 35% of Development initiative ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry ITC’s total energy brings precious water to initiative has greened over consumption is from nearly 70,000 hectares of 1,16,000 hectares renewable sources moisture-stressed areas Social Creating 5 million sustainable livelihoods Empowering Creating Creating 52 million 4 million farmers Community Assets person-days of ITC’s globally acknowledged Strengthening the agri employment e-Choupal initiative is the production base of nearly ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry world’s largest rural digital 4 lakh farmers initiative has created over 52 million infrastructure benefitting person-days of employment over 4 million farmers 38,000 sustainable Animal husbandry Educating livelihoods for services to 5,00,000 2,80,000 rural women milch animals children ITC’s Women’s Empowerment ITC’s Livestock Development initiative ITC’s Primary Education initiative has created over has provided animal husbandry services initiative has educated over 38,000 sustainable livelihoods for nearly 5,00,000 milch animals 2,80,000 children All photographs used in this Report are an actual depiction of ITC's Figures in this section are various businesses and sustainability initiatives across the country as on September, 2011 Contents Chairman’s Statement: ITC’s Vision and Strategy 04 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 08 ITC: Organisational Profile 16 Certfications, Honours and Awards 28 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary 32 Governance, Commitments and Engagements 36 Economic Performance 44 Creating Enduring Institutions 52 Environmental Performance 54 Climate Change and Sustainable Development 56 Water Management Stewardship 64 Recycling and Waste Management 72 Significant Air Emissions 78 Material Sustainability in ITC Businesses 82 Social Performance 86 Labour Practices and Decent Work 88 Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal 98 Product Responsibility 106 GRI Index 111 Annexures 116 Management Approach 117 Policies and Guidelines 122 Memberships & Affiliations 128 Independent Assurance Statement 130 Self-declaration on Application Level 133 04 Chairman's Statement Chairman’s Statement: ITC’s Vision and Strategy I am delighted to present ITC’s Sustainability commitment to contribute and provide leadership Report 2011. to building a sustainable, secure and inclusive future for the larger Indian society. Published for the 8th consecutive year, this Report is a transparent and voluntary disclosure This Report has been independently verified by M/s. of the Company’s multi-dimensional Sustainability Ernst & Young and conforms to the stringent ‘G3’ Initiatives. It is an expression of ITC’s enduring guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Sustainability Report 2011 05 It is ‘GRI checked’ and qualified at the highest and higher growth. The World Economic and Social ‘A+’ level. Survey 2011 says that 25 countries have completely lost their forests and 29 countries have less than I am also happy to state that the Company’s 10% forest cover. The world has lost 50% of its initiatives and practices support the principles wetlands since 1900. This imminent collapse of underlying the United Nations Global Compact the globe’s ecosystem will cause serious distress (UN-GC). ITC’s large scale sustainability initiatives to the world’s living systems. Further exacerbating continue to contribute meaningfully to achieving these challenges is the ominous threat of climate many of the Millennium Development Goals change and global warming, exposing the planet to enunciated by the United Nations. These include unforeseen peril. focussed programmes to create sustainable livelihoods that improve the quality of life of rural It is abundantly clear that business cannot succeed communities, particularly women and children. in societies that fail. Indeed, the limits to future growth will be defined more by vulnerabilities It is a matter of great satisfaction that ITC’s focus flowing from social inequities, environmental on creating larger societal value has enabled its degradation, and climate change than by any other businesses to generate sustainable livelihood economic factor. Therefore, in enlightened selfopportunities for over 5 million people, many of interest, businesses must play a more meaningful, whom represent the weakest sections of society. involved and active role in the creation of a more In addition, its commitment to contribute to climate sustainable and inclusive future. With its numerous change mitigation and to the creation of natural touch points in society, businesses can deliver capital has led to a symphony of efforts making ITC significant social value given their wide array of the only enterprise in the world of comparable enterprise capabilities including financial, human size to have achieved and sustained the three and other strategic resources. global environmental distinctions of being water positive (for 9 years), carbon positive (for 6 years), For India, the developmental challenges are even and solid waste recycling positive (for 4 years). more acute. It is estimated that over 400 million people live in multi-dimensional poverty, surviving on less than $1 a day. In addition, with 17% of the Global Challenges : global population, India possesses only 2.4% of Redefining Role of land-mass, 4% of water resources and 1% of forest resources. It is estimated that almost half of the Business total 600 districts in the country face severe waterstress. This will aggravate the challenges of food The year gone by has been witness to a series of security and impact India’s agricultural sector tumultuous social upheavals across the world. which provides sustenance to almost 55% of the In more ways than one, this widespread global country’s work force. unrest is a reflection of the growing intolerance of civil society with economic models that have The challenge therefore, before business failed miserably in ensuring social equity. While and industry, is to not only sustain profitable there is little doubt that the world has created enterprises as growth engines for the economy but enormous material wealth over the last century, to contribute meaningfully to building social equity. it is a painful reality that almost half of the world And this it must do by pursuing innovative business lives in some form of poverty. Today, the richest strategies that synergise the creation of sustainable 1% of adults control 43% of the world’s assets. The livelihoods and the preservation of natural capital bottom 50% have access to only 2% of the world’s with the building of shareholder value. assets. The 2010 Human Development Report of the UNDP says that around 1.75 billion people, living in as many as 104 countries, are in a state of Embedding ‘multi-dimensional poverty’, a new indicator that reflects acute deprivation in health, education Sustainability in and standard of living. This iniquitous balance has Business Strategy created a vulnerable and fragile social order putting future generations at enormous risk. ITC’s belief that businesses can bring about transformational change to create a more Compounding this further, there has been utter sustainable future led to a conscious redefinition disregard of the environment in the race for faster of its abiding Vision, a decade and a half ago, 06 Chairman's Statement to make societal value creation a primary assets that support sustainable agriculture as well purpose of its business strategy. We believe as off-farm livelihood opportunities. that sustainable corporations can create larger societal value by not only serving their consumers ITC’s business-linked sustainability initiatives together with its social investment programmes through competitively superior value propositions have enabled a transformational change in but by innovating business strategies to ensure rural India given the scale and reach of these that it simultaneously leads to the creation of interventions. The figures speak for themselves. sustainable livelihood opportunities and a positive For example, the ITC e-Choupal initiative has environmental footprint. This ‘Triple Bottom Line’ benefited over 4 million farmers in 40,000 approach to creating larger ‘stakeholder’ value, villages; ITC’s Social & Farm Forestry programme as opposed to merely ensuring uni-dimensional has greened nearly 1,14,000 hectares of ‘shareholder value’, is the driving force that defines wastelands creating over 51 million person days ITC’s sustainability vision and its growth path into of employment; ITC’s Watershed Development the future. Initiative has supported sustainable agriculture by irrigating over 64,000 hectares of water-stressed Innovation inspired by this super-ordinate goal to areas; ITC’s Animal Husbandry Programme has sub-serve larger societal needs lies at the heart reached out to nearly 5,00,000 milch animals; of ITC’s business strategies. As a result, ITC has ITC’s Women Empowerment Programme has crafted unique business models that synergise created over 37,000 sustainable livelihoods, and long-term shareholder value creation with ITC’s Supplementary Education Programme has enhancing societal and environmental capital. This educated over 2,47,000 children. approach manifests itself through several unique initiatives such as ITC’s globally acknowledged Mission Sunehra Kal is also engaging with several e-Choupal programme that has significantly raised State Governments to deliver quality projects of rural incomes and is today the world’s largest high social value through intensive public-privaterural digital infrastructure. Similarly, ITC’s Social people partnerships. and Farm Forestry programme, which utilises an extensive research-based clonal propagation programme, encourages plantations through Towards a Low-Carbon poor tribals and small farmers in their private Growth Path and a wastelands generating significant livelihoods and natural capital. Details of these initiatives are Cleaner Environment provided in the respective Chapters in this Report. In line with our vision to pursue a pro-active low carbon strategy, a multi-pronged approach has Building capacities: been adopted to address the accelerated impacts of climate change. While the large-scale afforestation Investing in Social initiatives help in sequestering twice the carbon emitted from the Company’s operations, the Development propagation of sustainable agricultural practices In addition, ITC’s Sustainability Vision is vigorously and watershed development help adapt to the pursued through a dedicated social investment harsh realities of climate change. These actions programme titled ‘Mission Sunehra Kal’ that aims are complemented by our effort to continuously to empower stakeholder communities to conserve enhance energy efficiency and conservation as well and manage their social and environmental capital. as invest in cleaner and renewable energy sources. These endeavours are focussed in two strategic As a testimony to its low carbon philosophy, ITC areas : (a) diversifying farming systems as a continues to provide inspiration to the ‘green strategy for sustainable agriculture and climate buildings’ movement in India. I am delighted to change mitigation by broad basing the farm-based announce, that today, all ITC premium luxury livelihoods portfolio of the poor; and (b) expanding hotels have been accorded the LEED (Leadership off-farm income opportunities to reduce the in Energy and Environmental Design) Platinum disproportionate dependence of rural households on certification. This achievement makes ITC Hotels land. This deep engagement with rural communities the ‘greenest luxury hotel chain’ in the world, has enabled ITC to contribute to the creation of positioning ITC, once again, at the forefront of sustainable livelihoods by building community global environmental stewardship. Sustainability Report 2011 07 Today, more than 35% of the company’s total energy ITC’s Corporate Governance framework ensures consumption is from renewable sources. In keeping the highest standards of ethical and responsible with its commitment to utilise an increasing conduct of business to create enduring value for all component of renewable energy, ITC has set up stakeholders. The cornerstones of its governance a 14 MW wind energy unit in Chennai. It has also philosophy are enshrined in the strong values recently commissioned a 21 MW plant in Karnataka of trusteeship, transparency, empowerment and a 2.5 MW plant in Rajasthan. and accountability, control and ethical corporate citizenship. Plans are afoot to further step up our investments in wind energy and explore solar energy as In our endeavour to promote adoption of sustainable another viable source, in order to further enhance business practices amongst a larger section of our renewable energy portfolio. Investments have industry, ITC, in partnership with the Confederation also been made in ‘green boilers’ to tap biomass of Indian Industry has supported the creation of a based energy. unique institution – the CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development. The Centre provides ITC’s Wealth-out-of-Waste programme, that thought leadership, promotes awareness and promotes recycling and source segregation is today builds capacity of Indian enterprises on issues of supported by over 3 million citizens including sustainable development and inclusive growth. 500,000 school children and over 1500 commercial organisations and has helped create awareness It is my belief that ITC’s relentless endeavour to amongst consumers on the benefits of the Reducecreate new benchmarks in sustainable business Reuse-Recycle approach. practices will lend it a unique source of competitive advantage in the years to come. The Company’s In addition, a beginning has also been made in Triple Bottom Line performance will continue to carrying out detailed Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) in a inspire proactive action from all our employees and few of our businesses. This will help enhance their drive continuous improvement in our sustainability environmental responsibility efforts. The possibility practices to progressively attain and exceed evolving of extending the Company’s sustainability practices global standards in this sphere. to some of the supply chain network partners in the near future is also being explored. ITC’s sustainability philosophy draws upon its deep commitment to build an exemplary Indian ITC’s strategies for climate change adaptation enterprise that can progressively contribute to and sustainable livelihood creation are aligned to building a secure, sustainable and inclusive future the Indian Government’s National Action Plan on for all our shared tomorrows. At the same time Climate Change. it strives to humbly contribute to strengthen the Government’s endeavours in ensuring sustainable Geared For Tomorrow: economic development with equity. Sustainability I have great pleasure in dedicating this Report to all our stakeholders and the nation. for Enduring Competitiveness As ITC moves into the future, its strategy of creating multiple drivers of growth will continue to be powered by its enterprise strengths including deep Y C Deveshwar consumer insights, world-class Indian brands, Chairman, ITC Limited an extensive trade marketing & distribution September, 2011 organisation, world-class manufacturing, vibrant human resources, and above all by its commitment to creating larger societal value. In addition, its large-scale investments in cutting-edge R&D will create new game changing business opportunities that will further enhance its wide spectrum of competitive vitality. 08 Key Impacts Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities: Sustainability Challenges Taxation and Regulation Discriminatory Rates of Taxation Disproportionate taxation on the cigarette form of tobacco coupled with a growing incidence of smuggling and illegal manufacture continue to adversely impact the Indian cigarette industry. This disproportionate and high taxation on cigarettes has led to its share in total tobacco consumption declining from about 25% in the 1970s to about 15% currently. This has also led to a shift, as well as an increase in consumption of other revenue inefficient forms of tobacco including chewing tobacco and bidis. As a result total consumption has continued to grow even though the share of cigarette form of tobacco has declined. The high taxation on cigarettes has not only sub-optimised the revenue potential from the tobacco sector but has also failed to achieve the objective of reducing aggregate tobacco consumption in the country. The problem of discriminatory central taxation has been exacerbated with the increase in the VAT rate on cigarettes by many states above the revenue neutral rate of 12.5%. The differential and high rate of VAT across the States encourages unscrupulous tax arbitrage and leads to large scale smuggling. ITC’s Initiatives ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations to enable a balanced regulatory and fiscal framework that addresses the challenges of the cigarette industry. It has been ITC’s strategic intent to create multiple drivers of growth by building a portfolio of world-class businesses leveraging enterprise strengths, new technologies and proven internal competencies. Sustainability Report 2011 09 Regulation impacting Agri Business A quantum jump in farm yields and the creation of sustainable livelihoods in rural areas will necessitate a larger role of agri business in providing customised extension services to improve productivity through technology, regenerate and enrich land fertility, enable better usage of scarce water resources and adopt best practices in crop management. In addition, investments by agri business can help in creating rural infrastructure that can provide more efficient market linkages. It will also provide a new thrust in R&D for development of agri-inputs, new varieties of seeds and climate resistant crops for sustainable agriculture. However, large investments by agri businesses are today rendered unviable by several Policy measures, such as the non-implementation of the ‘Model APMC Act’ by several States, lack of fiscal incentives for the creation of an efficient rural infrastructure as well as frequent imposition of the ‘Essential Commodities Act’ that restricts storage, transportation and exports. In fact, ITC’s e-Choupal initiative, that has empowered over 4 million farmers by assiduously developing rural value chains over several years, was dealt a body blow by such regulations that are unable to distinguish between bonafide agri business and unscrupulous hoarders. ITC’s Initiatives ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through appropriate fora for a balanced and pragmatic framework that addresses the unique requirements of India’s agri-sector and its farmers. ITC’s Agri Business ensures farmer empowerment through its extension work in crop development and sustainable agricultural practices. ITC through its e-Choupal network has piloted a number of convergence programmes which will progressively transform the e-Choupal network into an all weather venture, relatively de-risked from regulatory uncertainties and market volatility. For eg, Choupal Haats have been established for raising product awareness, demonstration and brand marketing and targets availability of quality FMCG products in Rural India. Recognising the fast evolving needs of rural India, ITC’s e-Choupal is gearing up to provide a new spectrum of personalised agri advisory services, which leverage the spread of mobile telephony. Analytical tools are being designed to upload data through mobile phones to provide individualised services to farmers. 10 Key Impacts Climate Change and Environmental Degradation Given that ITC is largely dependent on agricultural inputs, possible disruptions in agricultural patterns and yields is a significant potential risk arising out of climate change and global warming. Climate change can lead to a decrease in agricultural output due to changed weather patterns and higher temperatures. While this could impact the Company, it will have a debilitating effect on farmers and thereby impact social stability. In addition to these direct impacts of climate change, water availability is yet another risk. By 2030, it is estimated that 3 billion people will live in areas of water scarcity. The Company is exposed to the physical risks related to climate change since we have 2 large manufacturing plants in the coastal areas. Disruption in road and rail traffic caused by such extreme events may also affect an individual Unit’s output. Future regulatory regimes may include restrictions on carbon emissions. Future competitiveness of businesses will also depend on the ability of companies to minimise their carbon intensity and adopt a low carbon growth path. Growing awareness and concern amongst civil society will also demand that businesses chart their growth path with low carbon strategies. The need of the hour is to augment natural resources on a large scale vis-à-vis incremental measures that are aimed at minimising environmental damage alone. The absence of policies that encourage the creation of natural resources acts as a constraint to efforts that look at natural resource development. The Government may look at introducing policies and incentives that would encourage businesses to integrate augmentation of natural resources into their business strategy. For eg, the development of a large forest cover, soil and moisture conservation through the establishment of water harvesting structures could be encouraged through a preferential set of incentives. We also recognise that wastepaper and other paper products if dumped indiscriminately can lead to immense wastage of resources. This also has an adverse environmental impact, which is caused by the conversion of wastepaper into methane when dumped in municipal landfills. Sustainability Report 2011 11 ITC’s Initiatives ITC’s response has been to adopt a three-pronged strategy that includes the following: 1. Identify and evaluate climate change risks for each business. 2. Reducing the environmental impact of our processes, products and services and work towards creating a positive environmental footprint. 3. Creating Sustainable Livelihoods and promoting sustainable agricultural practices. Protection of our assets have been reinforced in the coastal areas in anticipation of increased severity of storms and cyclones which may occur. ITC has expanded its renewable energy portfolio and more than 35% of our energy consumption is met from renewable sources. As a part of its low carbon growth strategy, ITC has established iconic green buildings which have set benchmarks in energy efficiency, water conservation and solid waste recycling. All premium luxury Hotels of ITC are LEED Platinum certified. ITC’s Afforestation Programme has greened nearly 1,14,000 hectares and has led to large scale carbon sequestration besides creating over 51 million person days of employment. 12 Key Impacts ITC’s Initiatives ITC has aligned its objectives in climate change mitigation and adaptation to the Government’s National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC). ITC’s strategies for natural resource augmentation include the following: 1. ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Initiative, is an area where large scale environmental and social capital has been created whilst creating a competitive source of fibre for ITC’s Paperboards business. Afforestation on private wastelands owned by small farmers and tribals generate significantly higher incomes and employment in rural and tribal hinterlands, while restoring ecological balance. ITC invested significantly in research & development to create clonal saplings which are disease-resistant, grow faster, have higher survival rates. These are provided to tribals and marginal farmers to enable them to convert their private wastelands into viable pulpwood plantations. Intercropping is encouraged, providing economically vulnerable households with an assured income and a source of nutrition during the gestation period, while loppings and toppings meet their fuel wood requirements. The Forestry Initiative has brought a multiplicity of additional benefits by creating extensive green cover that plays a crucial role in conserving in-situ moisture, groundwater recharge, reducing topsoil losses, increase in soil fertility and carbon sequestration. 2. One of these social forestry projects of ITC has also been registered as a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). 3. Besides continuously minimising the consumption of freshwater per unit of output in all its Units, ITC has created rainwater-harvesting potential, covering over 64,000 hectares in water stressed areas of the country. Adopting a bottom-up participatory approach, the programme facilitates village-based participation in soil and moisture conservation, building, reviving and maintaining micro water harvesting structures and management of water resources to reverse land degradation, provide critical irrigation and raise agricultural productivity. This initiative has transformed the lives of millions of farmers and has brought precious water closer home. ITC is working closely with several state governments including Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Bihar for watershed development under different schemes like the MGNREGA, NABARD, Integrated Watershed Development Programme and Integrated Watershed Management Programme. 4. ITC has made significant efforts in solid waste recycling and nearly 100% of wastes generated by its Units is recycled. Over and above that, ITC have pioneered a special initiative ‘Wealth out of Waste’ (WOW) initiative aims to raise awareness among the public on the benefits of the reduce-reuse-recycle process and inculcate the habit of source segregation, thereby protecting the environment, conserving scarce natural resources and improving civic amenities, public health and hygiene. This not only caters to the fibre requirements of our Paperboards business but also creates large scale urban employment besides preserving natural resources. Sustainability Report 2011 13 Poverty and Income Inequities It is estimated that over 400 million people in India live in multi-dimensional poverty surviving on less than $ 1 a day. The magnitude of social inequities is indeed alarming. This will undoubtedly impact long term stability and will limit future growth. Nearly 700 million people living in rural India, with low adaptive capacities, have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive sectors (agriculture, forest, fisheries) and natural resources (such as water, bio-diversity, mangroves, coastal zones, grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihoods. Limited options of alternative off-farm employment combined with endemic poverty continue to imperil the livelihood security of millions of small and marginal farmers, mainly in the rain-fed agriculture regions of the country. An estimated 147 million hectares suffer from various forms of land degradation due to water and wind erosion, stemming mainly from unstable use and inappropriate land management practices. Erosion rates are reported to be in the range of 5 to 20 tonnes/ hectare. As many as 99 districts spread over 14 states were identified by the Central Water Commission as drought prone in the country. Such areas are concentrated in the states of Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Based on current evidence, there is a compelling case to argue that these factors are likely to get exacerbated due to the changes wrought by climate change, leading to an increase in the frequency and intensity of droughts and floods. Climate change over the long-term will thus affect the rural economy in a number of ways the majority of which would threaten food security and livelihoods for the most vulnerable sections of society. 14 Key Impacts ITC’s Initiatives The overarching aim of the Company’s social investments is to empower rural communities to conserve, augment and manage their social and environmental capital. Rural communities are provided help and support to adopt sustainable practices that enable them to be economically competitive and socially secure. These endeavours are aimed at: (a) diversifying farming systems as a strategy for sustainable agriculture and climate change mitigation by broad-basing the farm-based livelihoods portfolio of the poor; and (b) expanding off-farm income opportunities to reduce the disproportionate dependence of rural households on land. This deep engagement with rural communities has enabled ITC to contribute to the creation of sustainable livelihoods by building community assets. Today, this deep engagement with rural communities has enabled us to contribute to the creation of sustainable livelihoods by building community assets. ITC’s social development Initiatives have: (a) Benefited over 4 million farmers in 40,000 villages through the e-Choupal rural digital infrastructure, (b) Greened nearly 114,000 hectares of wastelands, by the Social and Farm Forestry programme, creating as a result, over 51 million person days of employment, (c) Irrigated over 64,000 hectares of drylands, by its Watershed Development Initiative, (d) Provided Animal Husbandry services to nearly 5,00,000 milch animals, (e) Created sustainable livelihoods for over 37,000 rural women, (f) Benefited over 2,47,000 children through its Supplementary Education programme Sustainability Report 2011 15 Supply Chain Management Our supply chain comprises a large number of small-scale partners. Many of them operate under limiting circumstances in terms of their ability to invest in efficient technologies and their necessity to rely on labour intensive practices. It will be important to integrate the Triple Bottom Line approach amongst the supply chain for long-term competitiveness by adopting a balanced approach towards creation of livelihoods and economic viability of the small scale units. ITC’s Initiatives The Company's engagement with the supply chain will be extended in a structured and phased manner. ITC has mandated some of its suppliers to comply with external certifications such as ISO 14000. Efforts have been made to engage with our suppliers to enable reduction in specific energy consumption. ITC has also commenced work on Life Cycle Analysis of its products and services to identify risks and opportunities along the entire value chain, which would necessitate larger interventions with our supply chain. Addressing issues related to Employee Safety Given India’s favourable demographic dividend, it is evident that a large pool of India’s youth is joining the workforce every year. The presence and participation of a large young pool of man power makes it critically important for an organisation to address issues related to accidents and safety. While we are progressing steadily towards our target of zero accidents within our premises, we cognise that accidents outside the workplace are on the rise in India given issues such as the steady proliferation of 2 wheelers on the roads, which are rendered unsafe due to poor conditions and inadequate infrastructure. ITC’s Initiatives While we have introduced a number of safety measures in our Units and have achieved international benchmarks in safety standards, we have witnessed an increase in the spate of road accidents amongst our young employees. We have designed and implemented specific programmes to address the issue of road accidents, which have begun to show tangible benefits. Organisational Profile Powering Growth with Multiple Business Drivers Certfications, Honours and Awards 18 Organisational Profile Powering Growth with Multiple Business Drivers ITC completed its Centenary on the 24th of August, have today transformed ITC into a US $ 7 billion 2010. Company with a Market Capitalisation of over US $ 33 billion. The ITC story is one of transformation from a single product company to one of India’s largest ITC has been rated among the World's Best Big multi-business corporate enterprises in the private Companies, Asia's 'Fab 50' and among India's Most sector. This long and inspirational journey of Valuable Companies by Business Today. It has challenge and change has led to the creation of a been ranked as the world’s 6th largest 'sustainable national asset in the form of an exemplary Indian value creator' among consumer goods companies enterprise. globally, according to a report by the Boston Consulting Group (BCG). Today, ITC has created multiple drivers of growth with a diverse portfolio of Businesses Inspired by a larger national purpose to build spanning Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), societal capital, ITC’s Businesses have contributed Paperboards, Paper & Packaging, Hotels, significantly in enhancing the natural resource Agri Business and Information Technology. Its base and opportunities for sustainable livelihoods. aspirations are matched by a formidable array of enterprise capabilities deep consumer ITC is the only enterprise in the world, of insights, international quality products, globally comparable size to be carbon positive (6 years in contemporary business processes, excellent trade a row), sequestering twice the amount of carbon it marketing and distribution, world-class human emits; water positive (9 consecutive years), creating capital, investments in cutting edge R&D. two times more rainwater harvesting potential than the net consumtion by the Group; and is solid The strategic choices made by its leadership over waste recycling positive (for the last 4 years). ITC’s the years, the untiring efforts of its dedicated businesses help in generating more than 5 million human capital, the support of its shareholders, and livelihoods across value chains that touch the lives the trust of millions of consumers and its partners of many who live at the margin in rural India. FMCG The Indian FMCG industry is growing rapidly its new FMCG Businesses comprising Branded driven by robust macro-economic conditions, Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, rising income levels, increasing urbanisation Education & Stationery Products, Lifestyle and favourable demographic trends. Given these Retailing, Safety Matches and Incense Sticks positive fundamentals, ITC has rapidly scaled up (Agarbattis) with segment revenues growing at an Sustainability Report 2011 19 impressive compound annual growth rate of 35% ‘Sunfeast’, ‘Kitchens of India’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘mint-o’ during the last 5 years. Within a relatively short and ‘Candyman’. This year, the Business launched span of time ITC has established several strong ‘Sunfeast Yippee’ noodles in the fast growing instant consumer brands in the Indian FMCG market. noodles category. ITC’s unwavering focus on quality, innovation and differentiation backed by deep consumer insights, The Business continued to expand rapidly with sales world class R&D and an efficient and responsive recording an impressive growth of 25% over the supply chain will further strengthen its leadership previous year and continues to focus on enhancing position in the Indian FMCG industry. consumer franchise through new product launches, heightened communication and increased levels of consumer activation. The quality of products Branded Packaged continues to be ‘best-in-class’ and is seen as a benchmark in the industry across all segments. Foods ITC’s range of offerings includes staples, spices, biscuits, snack foods, confectionery and readyto-eat meals, under six brands – ‘Aashirvaad’, 20 Organisational Profile Personal Care Products category and this year three of its products, namely ‘Fiama Di Wills Aqua Pulse’ shower gel, ‘Vivel Bringing world-class products to quality conscious Active Fair’ skin cream and ‘Vivel Deo Spirit’ soap, consumers, ITC's personal care portfolio is have been voted ‘Product of the Year’. anchored on extensive consumer research, R&D It is estimated that ‘Vivel’ and ‘Superia’ soaps and and product development. Its array of brands – shampoos have together reached over 9.9 crore ‘Essenza Di Wills’, ‘Fiama Di Wills’, ‘Vivel’ and households so far. ‘Superia’ – offer consumers clearly differentiated benefits and a superior value proposition. The business has garnered a significant market share, through a judicious mix of innovative The Personal Care Products Business continues consumer offers and by leveraging the strong to receive accolades for its product innovation distribution network of the Company. initiatives. Last year the ‘Fiama Di Wills’ gel bathing bar was voted the ‘Product of the Year’ in the soap Sustainability Report 2011 21 Cigarettes The market leader for cigarettes in India, ITC’s leadership position is backed by its ceaseless innovation in quality, technology and sustainability. Lifestyle Retailing ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing Business offers discerning consumers a complete fashion wardrobe as well as an international shopping experience through a nationwide chain of exclusive Wills Lifestyle stores. Wills Lifestyle, the fashion destination, offers a tempting choice of Wills Classic work wear, Wills Sport relaxed wear, Wills Clublife evening wear, fashion accessories and Essenza Di Wills an exclusive range of fine fragrances and bath & body care products and Fiama Di Wills a range of premium shampoos and shower gels. Wills Lifestyle has also introduced Wills Signature designer wear, designed by the leading designers of the country. With a distinctive presence across segments at the premium end, ITC has also established John Players as a brand that offers a complete fashion wardrobe to the male youth of today. Wills Lifestyle is now available in 74 exclusive stores in 40 cities and across more than 150 ‘shop-in-shops’ in leading departmental stores. In the popular segment, ‘John Players’ has established a strong pan-India presence with over 280 Flagship Stores and 1,100 Multi Brand Outlets and Departmental Stores. 22 Organisational Profile Education & Stationery launched – an initiative that challenged the imagination of the youth to create their vision Products for the India of tomorrow. The event reached out to 25 lakh students across 30 cities and The Education & Stationery Products Business received nearly 60,000 entries that culminated in recorded an impressive sales growth powered by 11 national finalists. brand ‘Classmate’ which continued to consolidate its leadership position in student notebooks. Sales The Business has also positioned Paperkraft of non-paper categories registered an impressive Premium Business Paper, as an environment growth indicating growing consumer acceptance friendly multi-purpose paper, which uses a of ‘Classmate’ pens, pencils, mathematical pioneering manufacturing process called ‘Ozone instruments, erasers & sharpeners. With its brand Treated Elemental Chlorine Free Technology’ and ambassadors Yuvraj Singh and Soha Ali Khan, pulpwood sourced from renewable plantations. further strengthening brand value for the range, the year also witnessed the launch of art stationery under the ‘Classmate – Colour Crew’ brand. On the occasion of ITC’s Centenary, the ITC Classmate Ideas for India Challenge was Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) ITC’s ‘Mangaldeep’ brand of incense sticks further strengthened its market standing during the year with sales recording an impressive growth of 54% driven by increasing consumer franchise for the brand combined with enhanced distribution reach and innovative product offerings and is currently the second largest national brand in the category. More importantly, the business continues to provide livelihood opportunities to more than 10,000 women, through small-scale entrepreneurs, NGOs, Self-Help Groups across India, thereby contributing to the Company’s commitment to the Triple Bottom Line. Safety Matches ITC’s Safety Matches business sustained its market standing through continued consumer preference for its strong brand portfolio across all market segments. Sustainability Report 2011 23 Hotels India’s second largest hospitality chain, ITC Hotels personifies an ethos that integrates world-class enmeshes the fine tradition of Indian hospitality green practices with contemporary design elements with globally benchmarked services to set new to deliver the best of luxury in the greenest possible standards of excellence in accommodation, manner. ITC Hotels’ commitment to ‘Responsible environment, cuisine, and guest safety. Luxury’ blends elements of nature to deliver a unique value proposition to guests, conscious of With over 100 properties in 80 locations the Business their responsibility to be planet positive. operates under four distinct brands – ‘ITC Hotels’ for ‘luxury’, the ‘WelcomHotels’ in the ‘five star This commitment to ‘Responsible Luxury’ has segment’, ‘Fortune’ in the ‘mid-market to upscale’ given ITC Hotels the unique distinction of being segment and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the ‘heritage the greenest luxury hospitality chain in the world. leisure’ segment. In addition, the Business has Today, all ‘ITC Hotels’ITC Maurya, New Delhi; licensing and franchising arrangements for two ITC Maratha, Mumbai; ITC Grand Central, Mumbai; international brands – ‘The Luxury Collection’ and ITC Sonar, Kolkata; ITC Windsor, Bengaluru; ITC ‘Sheraton’ from the Starwood group. Gardenia, Bengaluru; ITC Kakatiya, Hyderabad and ITC Mughal, Agra are LEED Platinum certified ITC Hotels pioneered the concept of ‘Responsible for their commitment to perform to the highest Luxury’ in the hospitality industry, drawing on standards of energy, water and waste efficiency, the strengths of the Company’s exemplary continuing to provide inspiration to the Green sustainability practices. ‘Responsible Luxury’ Building movement in India. 24 Organisational Profile Paperboards, Specialty Papers & Packaging ITC's Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business India's largest, technologically advanced and most eco-friendly paper and paperboards business. The business caters to a wide spectrum of packaging, graphic, communication, writing, printing and specialty paper requirements through its four world-class manufacturing units, which are today all FSC certified. A front runner in introducing cutting edge environmental practices in India, ITC established the country’s first Elemental Chlorine Free fibre line and Ozone Bleaching technology. ITC also became the first in the country to gain membership of the Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Committed to developing a sustainable raw material base, ITC’s pulpwood is largely sourced from renewable plantations under its Social and Farm Forestry programme which assists tribals and farmers to convert their wastelands into commercial plantations – turning an unproductive asset into a sustainable livelihood option. ITC's Packaging & Printing Business the largest value added converter of paperboard packaging in South Asia. It converts over 70,000 tonnes of paper, paperboard and laminates per annum into a variety of value-added packaging solutions for the food & beverage, personal products, cigarette, liquor and consumer goods industries. With three packaging factories at Tiruvottiyur near Chennai (in the South), Munger in Bihar (in the East), and Haridwar (in the North of India), ITC offers a comprehensive product range in packaging backed by its packaging expertise over the decades and cutting edge technology making it truly a ‘One stop shop for Packaging’. Sustainability Report 2011 25 Agri Business ITC's pre-eminent position as one of India's leading ITC’s pioneering initiatives in the Indian agricultural corporates in the agricultural sector is based sector has led to enhancement of farm productivity on strong and enduring farmer partnerships and empowerment of farmers. By promoting that has revolutionised and transformed the sustainable agricultural practices and providing rural agricultural sector. A unique rural digital efficient market access, ITC’s e-Choupal is an infrastructure network, coupled with deep example of how private sector initiatives can understanding of agricultural practices and complement state interventions to create significant intensive research, has built a competitive and value for the farmer. The sourcing strengths of efficient supply chain that creates and delivers e-Choupal lend significant competitive advantage immense value across the agricultural value chain. to ITC's Foods and other Businesses. 26 Organisational Profile Information Technology ITC’s wholly owned subsidiary ITC Infotech provides The business is focused on providing Engineering domain specific IT solutions and services to leading and IT solutions to industries in Oil and global customers. The company also provides Gas, Manufacturing, Consumer goods and high-end engineering design solutions and services Transportation segments among others. to market leading engineering organisations worldwide. The company services a plethora of ITC Infotech has e-enabled solutions to an everindustries including Banking Financial Services increasing number of global names in North & Insurance (BFSI), Consumer Packaged Goods America, Europe, Asia and Africa. Its deep and (CPG), Retail, Manufacturing, Engineering Services, diffrentiated capabilites are being increasingly Media and Entertainment, Travel, Hospitality, Life recognised by global analyst firms. Sciences and Transportation and Logistics. Sustainability Report 2011 27 A bouquet of world-class Indian brands 28 Certifications, Honours and Awards Certifications, Honours and Awards Major Awards over the ITC was awarded the Corporate Award for Social Responsibility from The Energy and Resources Years Institute (TERI) (2008). ITC Limited was presented the FICCI Award ITC was conferred the Corporate Social for Outstanding Achievement in Rural and Responsibility Crown Award for Water Practices Community Development by the Finance from UNESCO and Water Digest (2008). Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee (2010). ITC Hotels topped the Hewitt Best Employer in Mr K Vaidyanath won the Best Performing CFO in Asia (Hospitality) Study (2008). the FMCG and Retail Sector at the 5th edition of ITC won the top UNIDO Award at the International the CNBC TV 18 CFO Awards (2010). Conference on Sharing Innovative Agri Business ITC ranked 2nd among top companies in India Solutions at Cairo (2008). and 7th in Asia in the first of its kind Asian In the first-of-its-kind S&P Environmental, Sustainability Rating released by CSR Asia Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) ratings, (2010). ITC ranked second among top Indian companies ITC became the first Indian Company to gain (2008). Membership with WWF-GFTN for Responsible Chairman Y C Deveshwar was awarded the SAM/ Forestry (2010). SPG Sustainability Leadership Award in Zurich (2007). ITC won the National Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (2007). ITC won the Asian CSR Award for Environmental Excellence, given by the Asian Institute of Management (2007). ITC received the Readers' Digest Pegasus Award for Corporate Social Responsibility (2007). ITC won the NASSCOM Award in the FMCG Sector (2007). Chairman Y C Deveshwar received the Business Person of the Year Award from UK Trade & Investment (2006). ITC e-Choupal won the Stockholm Challenge Award (2006). ITC was the first Indian company and second in the world to win the Development Sustainability Report 2011 29 Gateway Award for its trail-blazing e-Choupal initiative (2005). ITC won the prestigious Corporate Social Responsibility Award from The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) for its e-Choupal initiative (2005). ITC’s e-Choupal initiative won the Inaugural World Business Award at Marrakesh (2004). Select Awards for the Year 2010-2011 Chairman Y C Deveshwar honoured with the Padma Bhushan All ITC’s Premium Luxury Hotels are now LEED In recognition of his outstanding contribution to the nation, Platinum rated, establishing their commitment Chairman Y C Deveshwar was conferred the Padma Bhushan, to perform to the highest standards of energy, one of the nation's highest civilian awards. He received the water and waste efficiency continuing to provide Award from the Hon'ble President of India, Shrimati Pratibha inspiration to the Green Building movement in Patil at a ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mr Deveshwar is the first Chairman of ITC to be honoured India. with the Padma Bhushan. ITC has been ranked as the world’s sixth largest sustainable value creator among consumer ITC Maurya received the National Tourism goods companies globally, by the Boston Award for the ‘Best Eco-Friendly Hotel’ from the Consulting Group (BCG). Ministry of Tourism, Government of India. ITC has been rated amongst Asia-Pacific’s 50 ITC’s Packaging & Printing Business won two biggest listed companies in ‘Asia Fab 50’ by World Star Awards for the brands Classic Rock Forbes in 2010. Rounded Corner Limited Edition Pack and Fiama Di Wills Skinsense Soap in their respective ITC’s Sustainability Report 2010 was adjudged categories. as one of the best global reports for the 2nd consecutive year in the Carbon Disclosure ITC’s Agri Business Division ILTD, Chirala Unit category in CRRA 2011 (Corporate Responsibility received the ‘Best Management Award 2010’ Reporting Award 2011), the only body to evaluate from the Labour Department, Government of Corporate Responsibility Reports. Andhra Pradesh in recognition of its exemplary employee relation practices and implementation ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division of Labour Welfare measures. won the Siemens Ecovatives Award 2011 in the ‘Conservation’ category for their Recycling ITC Limited received seven National Awards initiative ‘Wealth Out of Waste’ (WOW). for Corporate Communications from the Public Relations Society of India (PRSI). ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division was adjudged as the best performer in the Choupal Haat, ITC’s rural marketing and Paper & Pulp category at The Financial Express consumer engagement platform in the Agri Emergent Ventures India Awards presented Business Division, won the gold award for the in recognition of excellence in the area of ‘Best Integrated Rural Marketing Initiative’ environmental stewardship. presented by the ‘Rural Marketing Association of India’ (RMAI). ITC Hotels was adjudged the Best Hotel Chain in the country at the Business World, ‘India's Most Kaya Kalp, The Royal Spa at the ITC Mughal, Respected Companies’ Awards. Agra, has been awarded the ‘Best Luxury Hotel Spa’ in the ‘Spa Country Winners’ category at the ITC Grand Central received the prestigious National Tourism Award 2009-10 from the World Luxury Hotel Awards 2011. Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, in the ITC Mughal’s Kaya Kalp The Royal Spa won the Best Eco-friendly Hotel category. Conde Nast Traveller Best City Spa Award. 30 Certifications, Honours and Awards ITC Maurya has won the Today’s Traveller Award ITC’s acclaimed cuisine brands including 2010 for the ‘Best Luxury Metro Hotel’. Bukhara, Dum Pukht, Dakshin, Kebabs & Kurries, Pan Asian, West View, Edo, My Humble ITC Gardenia has been selected as the winner House won several accolades such as the Times of HICAP (Hotel Investment Conference Asia Food Guide Awards, HT Crystal Awards, Miele Pacific) Award under the category of Sustainable Asia and HOTELS, US. Project Design. Fortune Hotels was awarded the ‘Best First Class ITC Gardenia, received the Award for ‘Green Hotel Chain’ at the 6th Hospitality India & Explore Hospitality’ from the Honourable President The World Annual International Awards-2010. Pratibha Patil at the NDTV Toyota Greenies Eco Awards Ceremony. Wills Lifestyle won Retailer of the Year and Best Retail Marketing Campaign at the Asia Retail ITC Gardenia became the first hotel in the country Congress 2011 along with Customer & Brand to win an award for Universal Design presented Loyalty in the ‘Retail Sector’ at the 4th Loyalty by the Center for Universal Design (CUD) at Awards presented by Carlson Marketing. North Carolina State University, USA. ITC Classmate Ideas for India Challenge, an ITC Centenary initiative, received two awards at the WOW Event and Experiential Marketing Awards. Certifications & Awards All the EHS Management Systems & Sustainability Reporting in ITC conform to the best international standards. ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems: All Manufacturing Units of ITC, all the major hotels & ITC R&D Centre at Bengaluru are certified. OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems: All the Manufacturing Units of ITC are certified. SA 8000 Social Accountability: Leaf processing plants at Chirala and Anaparti, Cigarette factory at Kolkata, Surya Nepal’s Simra factory, Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur and ITC Infotech, Bengaluru are certified. Food Safety: ISO 22000/ HACCP Food Safety Management System: ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Sonar, ITC Windsor, ITC Kakatiya and WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi, WelcomHotel Sheraton Rajputana and WelcomHotel Sheraton Chola are certified. Foods Unit in Haridwar has also received HACCP certification. Sustainability Report 2011 31 Awards: The following awards bear testimony to the highest standards conformed by various Units of the Company and the significant achievements in the areas of Environment, Health & Safety. Sword of Honour by British Safety Council, UK Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni. 5 star rating (Health & Safety) by British Safety Council Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at Bhadrachalam, Tribeni, Bollaram and Kovai. Globe of Honour for Environmental Best Practices by British Safety Council Cigarette Units at Bengaluru and Munger Leaf Threshing Unit in Chirala and Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur LEED [Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design] Existing Building (EB) Platinum rating by US Green Building Council ITC Maurya, ITC Windsor, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Sonar, ITC Mughal and ITC Kakatiya. National Energy Conservation Award, by Ministry of Power, Govt. of India – 2nd prize ITC Windsor, Bengaluru CII National Energy Award 2010 – Energy Efficient Unit Award by CII Cigarette Units at Munger and Bengaluru and WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi. Environment Champion among large hotels Water Efficient Unit Award by CII by Federation of Hotels & Restaurants Association of India ITC Maurya, New Delhi ITC Maurya, New Delhi Greentech Environment Excellence Award 2010 – Gold category by Greentech Most Innovative Project Award for Foundation Environmental Best Practices by CII – Hyderabad ITC Windsor, Bengaluru Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit at WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi Bhadrachalam Greentech Safety Platinum Award by Most Innovative Environmental Project Greentech Foundation Award 2011 & Most Useful Environmental WelcomHotel Sheraton, New Delhi Project Award 2011 by CII 7th National Award for Excellence in Water Cigarette Unit at Bengaluru Management 2010 by CII-Godrej Green Certificate for doing excellent work in energy Business Centre, Hyderabad conservation under ENCON Award 2010-11 by Cigarette Unit at Kidderpore CII – Eastern Region 'Prashansa Patra' Safety Award by National Cigarette Unit at Munger Safety Council of India Cigarette Unit at Munger 32 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary Report Profile, Scope and Boundary Sustainability Report 2011 33 This is ITC’s Eighth Sustainability Report on its impacts that can substantially influence the sustainability performance for the period from assessments or decisions of our stakeholders. April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011. Our businesses/Units continue to proactively engage with key stakeholders, who, either have a ITC reports its performance annually and the last major interest or are significantly affected by our Sustainability Report was published in September operations, products or services. 2010 covering the period from April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010. Sustainability and sustainable development are integral to ITC's ethos and find expression in our ITC is headquartered at Virginia House, 37 J L commitment to enhancing the Triple Bottom Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700 071 (India). Line dimensions of building economic, social and For any clarifications on the Report or to request environmental capital. for additional copies, please contact the Corporate The Report does not include environmental and Communications Department at the above address social performance of outsourced manufacturing or via e-mail: enduringvalue@itc.in Units. We continue our efforts to integrate This Report covers the performance of all sustainability practices along the value chain and businesses and units directly under ITC Limited we intend to extend them significantly in the years and the four subsidiary companies where we have to come, to cover all our suppliers. operational control. The economic performance reported here is from This covers all our significant operations in India the Company's Report & Accounts (R&A) 2011. and one subsidiary company based in Nepal. (As The R&A 2011 was prepared in accordance with detailed in Reporting Boundary). the Companies Act, 1956 and has been audited by independent external auditors M/s Deloitte The reporting principles and methodology continues Haskins & Sells. to remain in accordance with the 2006 version of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 guidelines. The The data on environment and social sections relevant indicators and technical protocols have is based on actual performance of the various been followed for reporting on various indicators, businesses, factories, hotels and large offices of and there has been no significant change in the the Company and its Subsidiaries. The authenticity reporting scope or boundary limits over the last year. of the data and systems have been verified by M/s. Ernst & Young as per the assurance statement This report reflects material issues, which have provided, which forms a part of this Report. significant economic, environmentel and social 34 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary Reporting Boundary This Report covers the following businesses and their corresponding Units: Agri Business Units at Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh), Chirala (Andhra Pradesh) and Research Centre at Rajahmundry FMCG (Andhra Pradesh) Cigarette Units at Kolkata (West Bengal), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Munger (Bihar), (Uttar Pradesh) and Pune (Maharashtra) Saharanpur Lifestyle Retailing & Others Units: Design & Tech. Centre, Gurgaon (Haryana), ITC R&D Centre, Bengaluru (Karnataka), ITC Green FMCG Others Centre, Gurgaon (Haryana) and ITC Head Office, Foods Unit at Haridwar (Uttarakhand) & Pune Kolkata (West Bengal) (Maharashtra) Personal Care Products Unit at Haridwar Subsidiaries (Uttarakhand) and Manpura (Himachal Pradesh) ITC Infotech India Limited Units at Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Hotels Kolkata (West Bengal) ITC Hotels Maurya (New Delhi), Maratha (Mumbai), Surya Nepal Private Limited Grand Central (Mumbai), Sonar (Kolkata), Mughal Cigarette Manufacturing Unit at Simra (Nepal) (Agra), Gardenia (Bengaluru), Windsor (Bengaluru), Srinivasa Resorts Limited WelcomHotel Sheraton Chola (Chennai), New Delhi ITC Kakatiya, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) (New Delhi), Rajputana (Jaipur) Bay Islands Hotels Limited Fortune Resort Bay Island Hotel, Port Blair Paperboards, Paper & (Andaman & Nicobar) Packaging Units at Munger (Bihar), Tiruvottiyur (Tamil Nadu), Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Tribeni (West Bengal), Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh), Bollaram (Andhra Pradesh) & Kovai (Tamil Nadu) Sustainability Report 2011 35 36 Governance, Commitments and Engagements Governance, Commitments and Engagements FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Effective management of multiple businesses through a three-tiered governance structure Clearly defined roles and responsibilities Robust & comprehensive framework of strategic planning and performance management Building an institution of tomorrow Sustainability Report 2011 37 Our Corporate Governance processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. The practice of Corporate Governance at ITC takes place at three interlinked levels: Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors (Board) Strategic management by the Corporate Management Committee (CMC) by the Divisional / Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Chief Executive management Executive assisted by the respective Divisional / SBU Management Committee (DMC) The role, powers and composition of the Board, Board Committees, CMC and DMC are available on the Company’s corporate website. Governance Structure Board of Directors Sustainability Audit Compensation Nominations Investor Committee Committee Committee Committee Services Committee Corporate Management Committee Corporate Functions, each headed by a Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Head of Department Management Committees, each headed by a Divisional/SBU Chief Executive Corporate Functions include Businesses include Planning & Treasury, Accounting, Taxation, Risk Management, Legal, Secretarial, FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Specialty Internal Audit, EHS, Human Resources, Papers & Packaging, Agri Business and Corporate Communications, Corporate Information Technology Affairs, Research & Development and IT Support Services 38 Governance, Commitments and Engagements Chair of the Highest and societal expectations. The Chairman of the Company is therefore chosen from the Executive Governance Body management. The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the Company. He is the Chairman of the Board and Board of Directors the CMC. His primary role is to provide leadership to the Board and the CMC for realising Company The ITC Board is a balanced Board, comprising goals in accordance with the charter approved by 4 Executive and 12 Non-Executive Directors the Board. (including 9 Independent Directors). We have a diversified business portfolio, which demands that the senior leadership has an Selection of Directors in-depth knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the Company, so as to enhance the ITC’s Governance Policy stipulates that the value-generating capacity of the organisation and Non-Executive Directors (including Independent contribute significantly to stakeholders’ aspirations Directors) be drawn from amongst eminent Sustainability Report 2011 39 professionals with experience in business / finance/ such commission is determined by the Board law / public enterprises. The selection of Executive within the limit approved by the shareholders. Their Directors is done by the Nominations Committee, remuneration is based, inter alia, on Company which comprises the Chairman of the Company and performance and regulatory provisions and is eight Non-Executive Directors, seven of whom are payable on a uniform basis to reinforce the principle Independent Directors. of collective responsibility. Non-Executive Directors are also entitled to sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board and Committees thereof, Performance of the Highest the quantum of which is determined by the Board, Governance Body within the limit approved by the shareholders. The Board evaluates Directors collectively to Avoidance of Conflicts of reinforce the principle of collective responsibility. Interest Compensation for Members In terms of the ITC Code of Conduct, Directors, of the Highest Governance senior management and employees must avoid Body situations in which their personal interests could conflict with the interests of the Company. This is an area in which it is impossible to provide Remuneration of the Chairman and other Executive comprehensive guidance but the guiding principle Directors is determined by the Board, on the is that conflicts, if any, or potential conflicts, must recommendation of the Compensation Committee be disclosed to higher management for guidance comprising only Non-Executive Directors; and action as appropriate. remuneration of the Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders. Such remuneration Contracts in which Directors are interested, if is linked to the performance of the Company in any, are required to be placed before the Board as much as the performance bonus is based on for approval. Further, senior management is also various qualitative and quantitative performance required to confirm on an annual basis that no criteria. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors material transaction has been entered into by is by way of commission for each financial year; them which could have potential conflict with the 40 Governance, Commitments and Engagements interests of the Company; such confirmations are placed before the Board. Precautionary Approach As a diversified enterprise, the Company has always The Company has a Code of Conduct for Prevention had a system-based approach to business risk of Insider Trading ('ITC Code') in the securities of management. Backed by strong internal control the Company. The ITC Code, inter alia, prohibits systems, the current risk management framework purchase / sale of securities of the Company by of the Company consists of the following elements: Directors and employees while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information in relation The Corporate Governance Policy clearly lays to the Company. down the roles and responsibilities of the various entities in relation to risk management. A range of responsibilities, from the strategic to Shareholder Mechanisms the operational, is specified in the Governance Detailed in Shareholders’ section of 'Stakeholder Policy. These role definitions, inter alia, are Engagement'. aimed at ensuring the formulation of appropriate risk management policies and procedures, their effective implementation and independent monitoring and reporting by Internal Audit. A combination of centrally The Corporate Risk Management Cell works issued policies and divisionallywith the businesses to identify and establish the evolved procedures brings respective risk profiles. The risk profiles include both strategic risks and operational risks. robustness to the process of ensuring that business risks A combination of centrally issued policies and divisionally-evolved procedures brings robustness are effectively addressed to the process of ensuring that business risks are effectively addressed. Appropriate structures have been put in place to proactively monitor and Sustainability Report 2011 41 manage the inherent risks in businesses with ensuring effective implementation. EHS performance unique / relatively high risk profiles. of all units / factories / hotels is audited at least once annually, to ensure conformity to statutory A strong and independent Internal Audit function requirements, Corporate EHS Guidelines and at the Corporate level carries out risk-focused Standards. audits across all businesses, enabling identification of areas where risk management The Corporate Human Resources (CHR) Department processes may need to be improved. The similarly coordinates all activities relating to the Audit Committee of the Board reviews Internal Company's social performance. Reports relating to Audit findings, and provides strategic guidance Economic, EHS and Social performance are provided on internal controls. The Audit Compliance and to the CMC on a monthly basis. In addition to the Review Committee closely monitors the internal above, periodic presentations are made to the CMC control environment within the Company and to ensure performance in accordance with specified ensures that Internal Audit recommendations targets. are effectively implemented. All management systems and standards in ITC At the business level, Divisional Auditors conform to relevant national and international continuously verify compliance with laid down standards and benefit from internationally accepted policies and procedures, and help plug control best practices. Quality Management Systems in gaps by assisting the operating management various businesses are certified in accordance with in the formulation of control procedures for new ISO 9001, International Quality Rating System (IQRS), areas of operations. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP), TQM / TPM, Six Sigma and other internationally A robust and comprehensive framework of renowned standards, as applicable to the respective strategic planning and performance businesses. management ensures realisation of business objectives based on effective strategy Environment Management Systems in all ITC implementation. The annual planning exercise manufacturing units and major hotels are certified in requires all businesses to clearly identify accordance with ISO 14001. The Occupational Health their top risks and set out a mitigation plan with & Safety Management Systems in all manufacturing agreed timelines and accountability. Businesses Units are certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001. have confirmed that all relevant business risks The Investor Service Centre of the Company is have been identified, assessed, evaluated and certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 and rated appropriate mitigation systems implemented. 'Level 5' (highest level) by the certifying agencyThe combination of policies and processes, as Messrs Det Norske Veritas (DNV). outlined above, adequately addresses the various Internal Audit Services relating to Systems and risks associated with the Company’s businesses. The Controls in all areas of operations in the Company senior management of the Company also periodically are certified under ISO 9001:2008 and rated 'Level 5' reviews the risk management framework to maintain (highest level) by DNV. its contemporariness so as to effectively address the emerging challenges in a dynamic business environment. Oversight, Implementation A robust and comprehensive and Audit of Economic, framework of strategic Environmental, Social and planning and performance Related Policies management ensures realisation of business The CMC approves the relevant Financial, objectives based on effective Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety strategy implementation. and Social policies of ITC. The Corporate Internal Audit Function audits the implementation of all systems and policies in all Company businesses and Corporate Headquarters. The Head of the Corporate EHS Department is responsible for laying down ITC's EHS standards, preparing EHS Guidelines and 42 Governance, Commitments and Engagements Stakeholder Engagement We have systems and procedures to identify, Customers prioritise and address the needs and concerns of all our key stakeholders, across all businesses Understanding customer’s needs and aspirations and units that have withstood the test of time. and continuing to seek consumer delight by The stakeholder engagement process has evolved making available products and services of high over the 100 years of the organisation’s existence, quality along with cost competitiveness and on based on mutual trust and respect developed time delivery thereby developing a strong longover the years. Almost all our Units have been term customer relationship is the prime focus in all operating from the same premises for many years our businesses. and similarly our relationships with almost all major suppliers and contract manufacturers go Each business has various mechanisms to capture back several decades. However, the purpose is to the needs and expectations of the customer such formalise these processes in due course. as market surveys, personal contacts/ visits, events, customer satisfaction surveys, joint development and improvement projects, key Shareholders account management, multi-level interfaces at As trustees of shareholders, we believe it is our dealer-customer-end user, personalised lifestyle responsibility to protect and enhance their wealth. privilege programme, etc. Their primary expectations remain centered around Product/service quality, availability, visibility & on continued profitability and growth, communication time delivery, cost competitiveness, continuous and investor servicing. product/process innovation, demand for ‘green’ As one of India's foremost private sector companies, product and value added services are the major we have performed consistently for a century now topics/ issues which are being discussed during and since the inception of the Company, have the customer engagement process. Robust rewarded our shareholders with uninterrupted Quality Assurance systems supported with process dividends and issue of bonus shares from time innovations, adoption of green technology, lean to time. management, six sigma, and TPM help to achieve benchmarks in products and services quality in line Our Chairman addresses and provides clarifications to the shareholders at least once a year at the Annual General Meeting, the principal forum for face-to-face interaction, in the presence of the Board. The Board encourages open dialogue with all the shareholders individuals, corporates or foreign investors. Our corporate website www.itcportal.com provides comprehensive information and an exclusive section on 'Shareholder Value' serves to inform and service shareholders; an exclusive e-mail ID isc@itc.in has also been provided to the shareholders for direct interaction. Sustainability Report 2011 43 with customer expectations. We continue to invest ensuring the capability of suppliers/vendors to significantly in R&D to develop newer products/ provide best-in-class products/services. variants. Cost of materials, products and services, variability in demand, long-term business partnerships, Employees timely payments, technology upgradation, capacity We continued to progress our strategic agenda improvement and hygiene standards are some of remaining globally competitive and creating of the key topics discussed during the supplier engines for sustainable growth by nurturing quality engagement process. talent and blending proven skills and capabilities Supply chain management with emphasis on IT and drawn from different parts of the ITC Group. Each infrastructure development ensures world-class business focuses on engaging with employees products and services. Additionally, supplier audits, through communication meetings, workplace product certifications, sharing best practices, interactions, mentoring and suggestion schemes, joint product development, supplier/vendor employees/manager surveys and talent recognition capacity building help suppliers/vendors to remain programmes. competitive. We have strived to attract and retain the talent Our Managers directly supervise many significant through various initiatives that focus on providing outsourced-manufacturing sites, which ensure personal development and growth, a work culture product quality, delivery commitments, compliance that ensures high levels of performance, worldto required EHS standards and cost competitiveness. class learning and a conducive work environment. We have further strengthened the organisational Community vitality and competitiveness through various efforts All our businesses / units regularly interact including: with communities surrounding their operations. Developing agility and creativity to speedily Community need assessment surveys by embrace change. Competent agencies are conducted in and around the Units. Developing leaders from a pool of talented, passionate and diverse individuals. Livelihood support, infrastructure needs, health & sanitation, primary education, economic Creating an environment where employees empowerment of women and skill development are inspired, engaged and aligned with the are the priority concerns raised through the need Company’s Vision, Mission and Core Values. assessment surveys. Based on this, various social interventions are planned and implemented. The Farmers details are provided in the ‘Social Performance’ section of this Report. As majority of our principal raw materials are agribased, farmers have always been an integral part of our value chain. A large part of our R&D efforts Government is dedicated to providing expertise and support to We continue to maintain 'beyond compliance' status improve agri quality and productivity. by adopting globally recognised best-in-class practices. We proactively interact with Government We partner with farmers in ensuring them better / Regulatory Authorities on aspects relating to price realisation, assured markets and improved regulatory and public policy framework through productivity. More details are provided elsewhere in industry bodies and various other fora. this Report. Suppliers Suppliers are critical to our value chain and intrinsic to our product and service quality. All our businesses have processes and practices in place such as regular formal & informal interactions, reviews, vendors’ surveys & feedbacks, etc to understand their key issues and concerns, thereby Economic Performance Progressive investments in multiple drivers of growth Sustaining high quality top line and earnings growth 26% growth in Total Shareholder Returns over the last 15 years 25 fold increase in market capitalisation from 1996 46 Economic Performance ITC, in its Centenary Year, posted yet another year ITC completed 100 years in August 2010. It is a of stellar performance with an impressive top line matter of great pride to reflect on the enormous growth and high quality earnings reflecting the progress made by ITC over the years. ITC today is robustness of its corporate strategy of creating the leading FMCG marketer in India, the second multiple drivers of growth. This performance is largest Hotel chain, the clear market leader in particularly noteworthy when viewed against the the Indian Paperboards and Packaging industry backdrop of the extremely challenging business and the country’s foremost Agri business player. context in which this was achieved, namely, the Additionally, ITC’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC steep increase in excise duties in the Union Budget Infotech India Limited, is one of India’s fast growing 2010 coupled with the amplified impact of arbitrary Information Technology companies in the mid-tier increases in VAT on cigarettes, brand building and segment. incubation costs of the new FMCG businesses, the impact of the significant investments made ITC today is one of India’s most admired and in augmenting distribution infrastructure and the valuable corporations with a market capitalisation gestation costs of the large investments in the in excess of ` 1,40,000 crores and has consistently Hotels business. been, over the last fifteen years, amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market Gross Turnover for the year grew by 16.5% to capitalisation. ` 30,604.39 crores. Net Turnover at ` 21,167.58 crores grew by 16.6% primarily driven by a 23.1% Last year, in celebration of ITC completing a growth in the non-cigarette FMCG businesses, 100 years, the Company had declared a Special 22.9% growth in Agri business and 17.6% growth Centenary Dividend of ` 5.50 per share (adjusted in the Hotels segment. Pre-tax profits increased by for bonus issue ` 2.75 per share) in addition to 20.8% to ` 7268.16 crores while Post-tax profits at a Dividend of ` 4.50 per share (adjusted for bonus ` 4,987.61 crores registered a growth of 22.8%. issue ` 2.25 per share). In addition a 1:1 Bonus issue was also made in the Centenary year. Earnings Per Share for the year stands at ` 6.49 (previous year adjusted for Bonus Issue ` 5.34). Cash flows from Operations stood at ` 7,460 crores ` 4,988 Crores Profit After Tax compared to ` 6,632 crores in the previous year. Direct Economic Impact ` Crores Key Economic Indicators 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Gross Turnover 23,144 26,260 30,604 Net Turnover 15,612 18,153 21,168 Exports 1,762 2,239 2,464 Contribution to Government / Exchequer 11,233 13,633 15,845 Cost of Bought out Goods and Services 9,901 10,684 13,208 Employee Wages & Salaries 891 1,003 1,159 Payments to Providers of Capital Interest and Dividend 1,415 3,883 3,491 Retained Profits 1,634 -391 986 Community Investments 61 40 53 * Detailed Financial Performance available at www.itcportal.com Sustainability Report 2011 47 Analysis of Value Added Share of value added (%) 80 75 74 74 70 60 50 40 30 2008-09 21 20 20 19 2009-10 10 6 6 5 2010-11 00 Exchequer Employees Providers of Capital Turnover and Contribution to the National Exchequer Market Capitalisation, which stood at ` 5,570 crores in Contribution to the exchequer 74% of the Value Added. 1996, has multiplied 25-fold to cross ` 1,40,400 crores Direct Taxes Highest Tax payer in eastern India and amongst the top tax payers in the country. Excise Payments 7% of the Country's total collection. 10% 16.50% Increase in Increase in gross 16% export turnover turnover over Increase in over 2009-10 2009-10 Taxes Paid Turnover and Taxes Paid ` Crores Domestic Exports Gross Taxes Year Turnover Turnover Turnover Paid 2006-07 17,374 1,926 19,300 8,455 2007-08 19,661 1,695 21,356 10,768 2008-09 21,382 1,762 23,144 11,233 2009-10 24,021 2,239 26,260 13,633 2010-11 28,141 2,463 30,604 15,845 48 Economic Performance Dividend Paid Return on Capital Employed ITC was ranked by the Boston Consulting Group, Return on Capital Employed has improved an international management consultancy firm, substantially from 41% in 2009-10 to 46% in 2010-11. amongst the top 10 global consumer goods Average companies in terms of sustained shareholder Capital value creation for the period 2005 2009. It is one Employed ROCE (` Crores) of India’s most admired and valuable corporations with a market capitalisation in excess of `140000 48% 15906 16000 crores and has consistently been, over the last fifteen years, amongst the top 10 private sector 46% 14868 46% 15000 companies in terms of market capitalisation. 44% Dividend Paid (incl Dividend DistributionTax) 42% 13798 14000 41% 5000 40% 2449 38% 38% 13000 4000 1484 38% 3000 36% 12000 2518 11964 2000 2004 34% 35% 1365 1543 1634 11000 1000 32% 10308 00 30% 10000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Dividend (` Crores) Special Dividend (` Crores) ROCE Average Capital Employed Sustainability Report 2011 49 Locally based Suppliers Our businesses have state-of-the-art facilities manufacturers. High-class utility machinery and use the best relevant technologies to ensure such as boilers, gensets, air-conditioning and benchmarked quality and value. refrigeration machinery, electrical and electronic systems are sourced largely from Indian or India Our suppliers constituting both local and based suppliers. Competent Indian contractors international are one of our most important carry out construction of new factories, hotels and stakeholder groups. large-scale upgrades. We source specialised production machinery Nearly 87% of our raw materials are locally globally as well as from reputed Indian procured. Raw Material Consumed ` Crores 6092 5241 4334 938 3124 3905 714 582 572 667 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Indigenous Imported Financial Assistance from Government Subsidies Received ` Crores 14 12 10 08 7.9 06 04 1.8 1.6 02 1.0 0.1 00 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 We support a large number of national priorities. Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division (PSPD) The Governments of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil has received such assistance for the Bhadrachalam Nadu offer incentives such as deferment of sales and Bollaram Units in Andhra Pradesh and for tax for setting up new units or for modernisation/ expansion of the Kovai Unit in Tamil Nadu. expansion/diversification of existing Units. Our 50 Economic Performance Engaging Talent, Local Hiring We encourage local employment in the workforce in manufacturing and hotels, depending on the and Senior Management availability of requisite skills. ITC has fostered a culture that rewards continuous learning, collaboration and development across the organisation to be future-ready and meet Employee Benefits ` Crores the challenges posed by ever-changing market 1200 realities. 1100 The Company creates and nurtures workplace 1159 1003 challenges that keep employees engaged, 1000 motivated and innovative. This talent has, through 891 strong alignment with ITC’s Vision, successfully 900 built and sustained its standing as one of India’s 800 most admired and valuable corporations despite 733 unrelenting competitive pressures. 700 630 Unswerving belief in the mutuality of interests of 600 key stakeholders binds all employees to a shared vision and purpose, thus providing it with the vital 500 force for winning in the market place. 400 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Sustainability Report 2011 51 Pension Obligations with independent actuarial valuation. Expected rate Employees’ Retirement Benefit Schemes are of return on plan assets is based on the current funded through duly constituted and approved portfolio of assets, investment strategy and market independent trusts. scenario. Provident Fund and Family Pension contributions in In order to protect the capital and optimise returns respect of unionised staff, as required by applicable within acceptable risk parameters, the plan assets statutes are deposited with the Government in a are well diversified. The funds are consistently timely manner. sustained to meet requisite superannuation The pension plans and other applicable employee commitments. benefits obligations are fully funded in accordance ` Crores 130 122 120 121 110 118 100 100 102 90 84 80 70 70 77 71 60 Contribution 50 to Provident & 50 58 Other Funds 40 30 38 38 Contribution to Pension Funds 19 20 28 10 Workmen & Staff Welfare Expenses 00 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Community Investments Citizen First ITC endeavours to create shareholder value while making a substantial contribution to society. ` 53 crores were invested in various community development projects. 52 Economic Performance Creating Enduring Institutions Our diverse social sector investments are further To promote and propagate Indian Classical complemented by our efforts to create enduring Music; symbols of excellence, be it in the field of culture or sustainable development. Inspired by ITC's Vision, a host of illustrious musicians have joined the Academy, ready to impart their knowledge to the next generation, bringing ITC Sangeet Research Academy back the old traditions of the 'Guru-Shishya Parampara' and grooming many of today’s leading With a changing social ethos, India’s rich 2000 yearmusicians. old tradition of classical music with all its diverse forms and genres seemed in the danger of being Since its inception, three decades ago, ITC Sangeet irrevocably lost. Research Academy (ITC-SRA) has effectively demonstrated how India’s rich cultural heritage To restore, maintain and preserve this priceless can be preserved for future generations. Sangeet cultural legacy, to cultivate its growth and gradually Sammelans and other Musical soirees have added build its future, ITC set up the Sangeet Research a new vibrance and energy to the classical music Academy in December, 1978. A public charitable scenario, while the Academy’s strong archiving trust, the Academy has a three-fold vision: and documentation practices, have enhanced the To establish a modern 'Gurukul', reviving India’s quality of music education. time-honoured tradition of the 'Guru-Shishya For the regular music-lover, ITC-SRA is merely, Parampara'; an institution. For ITC, this initiative is a corporate To support the oral tradition of Indian Classical tribute to the great Indian tradition and history of Music with modern research and technology; Classical Music. CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development is a co-creation of the apex national Chamber – the Confederation of Indian Industry and ITC. With its abiding objective of promoting sustainable business practices amongst corporates, the Centre is engaged in a wide spectrum of value-added and targeted services. By creating awareness in business and industry, providing thought leadership, building capacity of organisations and professionals and rewarding exemplary performances, the CII-ITC Centre has become a unique focal point of Sustainability movement. The Centre is steered by its Advisory Council, led by Chairman, ITC Limited, Mr Y C Deveshwar and comprises members from industry, government, Sustainability Report 2011 53 civil society and institutions which provide strategic to train key decision makers in large organisations direction to the organisation. on sustainability strategies. During the year, the Centre introduced three Another major global investor driven initiative of new service lines in the areas of stakeholder the Centre has been the Carbon Disclosure Project engagement, climate change strategies and (CDP). training of sustainability assurance professionals. It is the only certified trainer for sustainability This project aims to collect critical climate change assurance professionals in South-east and South data from the world’s largest companies to appraise Asia. The Centre was involved in a number of the global marketplace on investment related risks capacity-building activities throughout the year, and commercial opportunities. including training and raising the awareness of The Centre also introduced two new publications, over 1200 employees across various sectors on ‘Excellence in Sustainable Business Strategies & sustainability best practices. Practices for Business Growth & Competitiveness’ It also conducted the first ever in-house Sustainable a knowledge resource on best practices drawn Business Strategy Programme. The CII-ITC Centre from the assessment findings of award-winning is today playing a major role in engaging with policy companies over the last four years and ‘Sustainable makers to create an environment that encourages and Inclusive Innovation Strategies for Tomorrow’s the adoption of sustainable business practices. World’a report which offers valuable insights into The Centre is a consulting partner in several policy how innovations in products, services and processes interventions such as Green Guidelines for Public are driving the creation of new businesses and Procurement, Low Carbon Expert Group of the industry structures. Planning Commission, National Innovation Council, In an effort to identify and recognise Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs on CSR policy. businesses for their exemplary sustainability The annual flagship event from the Centre, the 5th performance, the Centre annually presents the ‘Sustainability Summit: Asia 2010’ was organised CII-ITC Sustainability Awards. A new category of in response to the growing demand for new growth applications for micro-business organisations was models that are more ‘sustainable and inclusive’. introduced this year. 68 companies competed for Specific focus was given to key areas such as the Awards, now in its sixth year. Innovation-led Inclusive Growth; Clean Energy; Water: Survival & Sustainability etc. Other infrastructure initiatives The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development also successfully organised the Information on e-Choupals (rural digital network) , Business Leaders Programme with Prof. Stuart Hart watershed development etc. are detailed elsewhere as the faculty. The objective of the programme was in the Report. Environmental Performance Climate Change and Sustainable Development Water Management Stewardship Recycling and Waste Management Significant Air Emissions Material Sustainability in ITC's Businesses 56 Environmental Performance Climate Change and Sustainable Development FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Holistic Triple Bottom Line approach Enhanced use of renewable energy Establishment of green buildings Reduction of specific energy consumption Alignment with the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) Natural Resource Augmentation through afforestation and soil & moisture conservation programmes Carbon Positive for the 6th year in a row Sustainability Report 2011 57 The world today is confronted with an impending Reduce the environmental impact of our catastrophe of immense proportions. This is processes, products and services and work related to the phenomenon of global warming and towards creating a positive environmental accelerated climate change. footprint. Today global warming presents a serious challenge Adopt a low carbon growth path through to governments, the general public and industries, reduction in specific energy consumption the world over. Excerbating the impacts of poverty and enhanced use of renewable energy. and environmental degradation, global warming is clearly a threat of far-reaching consequences. Enlarge our carbon positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by One of the defining traits of ITC is its deeply Indian expanding forestry projects in wastelands. character that aligns larger societal concerns and national priorities to its corporate strategies. Reduce specific water consumption and Therefore, in line with the Indian Government’s augment rainwater harvesting activities both National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) on site and off site at watershed catchment ITC has adopted strategies that address climate areas. change related impacts and has also developed Work towards resource conservation, by mitigation and adaptation plans. minimising waste generation, maximising The ITC approach has been to integrate these plans reuse & recycling and using external post with our business strategies. consumer waste as raw material in our Units. Our strategies include Create sustainable livelihoods and sustainable agricultural practices. Identify and evaluate climate change risks for each Business. 58 Environmental Performance Climate Change Risks Based on our assessment of possible impacts due changed weather patterns and higher temperatures to climate change on the Company's Businesses, not only impacts ITC but also threatens to push strategies for mitigation and adaptation have been millions of farmers beyond the brink, thereby worked out. deeply impacting social stability. ITC’s commitment has been to create a holistic Agriculture Triple Bottom Line approach that focuses on creating sustainable livelihoods. Since ITC is largely dependent on agricultural Our water conservation, watershed development inputs, possible disruption in agricultural patterns and rainwater harvesting projects, not only improve and yields is a significant potential risk. the sustainability of our agri-related businesses, but also create sustainable livelihoods for a large number of marginal farmers. Our R&D specialists, in collaboration with expert study groups are ITC's Triple Bottom Line constantly evaluating agricultural productivity/ performance is a holistic adaptation issues related to climate change and approach towards building support is being provided to farmers through economic, societal and in-house extension services. environmental capital while generating large scale Built environment sustainable livelihoods We are also exposed to physical risks related to climate change. We have 2 large manufacturing facilities in coastal areas. Protection of our assets in these coastal areas has been reinforced in anticipation of increased severity of storms and Other than the the direct impacts of climate change, cyclones, which are likely to occur. water availability is the single largest risk that we All new buildings have been constructed with the forsee. requisite factors of safety. For existing buildings In addition, and infrastructure that had to be reinforced, work reduction in was taken up in a phased manner and has been agricultural completed. outputs Disruption in road and rail traffic by such extreme due to events may also affect an individual Unit’s output, which has been addressed by appropriate contingency Sustainability Report 2011 59 and insurance plans. Higher surface temperatures building in the world. All new constructions by ITC (increased air conditioning costs) and disruption in now incorporate validated green attributes and water supplies are other anticipated risks. efforts are underway to have existing buildings and factories also meet these validated green norms. Green buildings are the obvious response to such challenges. We started the conscious movement In line with this commitment, all ITC premium towards green buildings by the construction of luxury Hotels are now LEED certified Green the ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon, which in 2004 buildings with a Platinum rating. was the largest platinum rated LEED* certified * LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 60 Environmental Performance Minimising Carbon Intensity & Adopting a Low Carbon Growth Path ITC has consolidated its ‘Carbon Positive’ status Renewable energy utilisation in ITC over the years by adopting a strategy of reducing specific energy consumption, increasing its 8000 35.3 36 renewable energy portfolio and large scale carbon 30.6 30.9 7957 sequestration through additional forestry activities on degraded wastelands. 7000 30 26.3 6622 6000 24 Sources of energy 24.1 5909 5000 18 In 2010-11, ITC Units consumed 22,554 Terra Joules (TJ) of energy, which is 5.2% higher than 4000 12 the energy utilised in the previous year. (21,456 3437 3571 TJ in 2009-10). This is due to significant growth in 3000 06 production volumes of almost all businesses over the last year (Paperboards business grew by 2.9%, 2000 00 Foods Business’ snacks and biscuits products up by 2006-07 2007-08 2009-10 2010-11 94% and 25.8% respectively and soaps in Personal Total renewable energy (TJ) Care business increased by 27.8%). Percentage of total energy Improved utilisation of carbon neutral fuels such as Sources of energy in ITC (2010-11) biofuels in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business and the commissioning of a 21 MW wind power project in Karnataka and a 2.5 MW wind 61.9% power project in Rajasthan contributed to increased energy directly utilisation of renewable energy, even though the from fossil fuels renewable energy contribution from the above wind power projects has only been for part of the year. ITC has consolidated its ‘Carbon Positive’ status by adopting a strategy of reducing specific energy consumption, increasing its renewable 2.8% 35.3% energy portfolio and large energy purchased from State utilities energy from renewable sources scale carbon sequestration Sustainability Report 2011 61 Renewable energy sources Energy consumption within ITC across businesses (2010-11) in ITC comprise the following: Foods & Personal Care Products 1.3% Black liquor waste from pulping process in the Bhadrachalam Paperboards Unit. Packaging 1.1% Waste wood biomass from chipping operations. Locally sourced chip/sawdust and de-oiled bran Paper & Paperboards 90.6% as boiler fuel in Kovai. Wind Energy farms for Packaging & Printing, Leaf 2.1% Cigarettes and Hotels Businesses. Solar thermal systems for preheating boiler Hotels 2.2% feed water and canteen hot water in a number of our Units. Cigarettes 2.4% Progress in reduction of specific energy Others* 0.3% consumption in * Others include ITC Infotech, ITC R&D Centre and large offices ITC's businesses A focused approach on energy conservation through has been rated as the most energy efficient rigorous third party audits and implementation of in the Indian Paper and Paperboard Business the recommendations also resulted in substantial sector , according to the Centre for Science and improvement in specific energy performance. Environment, New Delhi (Challenge of the New Balance, CSE, 2010) In the Paperboards Business, the three factories, Bhadrachalam, Tribeni and Kovai together In 2010-11, specific energy consumption at the accounted for 90.3% of total energy consumption Paper & Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam has for ITC. marginally gone up (by 1% over the last year) due to increase in pulp production (reducing import of ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business pulp) and value added products. Specific energy consumption (GJ/tonnes): Other Units which performed Bhadrachalam remarkably in improving specific energy consumption over the 40 previous year are: 38.4 38.3* 37.4 37.7 6.8% 34.5 Cigarette Unit at Kolkata 35 32.1 30.2 10.2% 30 Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur 13.9% 25 Cast Coating Unit at Bollaram 9.1% 20 ITC Hotel Grand Central 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 *Due to installation of additional pulping facility 62 Environmental Performance The snacks units of the Foods Business in Haridwar Cast Coating Unit at Bollaram (13.9%) and ITC Hotel and Pune have considerably improved on their Grand Central ( 9.1%). specific energy utilisation as illustrated below: Additional data on energy conservation measures implemented by ITC Units are available at Foods Percentage www.itcportal.com under Report & Accounts 2011. business improvement units 2009-10 2010-11 ITC has 8 Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) GJ/ Tonnes projects registered with UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) Haridwar 6.23 5.19 16.7 under the Kyoto Protocol. In addition, 2 projects have qualified for receiving carbon credits in the Pune 10.41 8.83 15.2 voluntary carbon markets. These projects besides reducing Greenhouse gas emissions have also Other Units which performed remarkably in helped ITC offset some of the investments made reducing specific energy consumption over the towards reducing specific energy consumption and previous year are: Cigarette Unit at Kolkata (6.8%), enhancement of the renewable energy portfolio Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur ( 10.2%), through the sale of carbon credits. ITC’s large scale social forestry project, the first of its kind in India, All ITC Premium Luxury Hotels are LEED Platinum certified ITC has always been at the space in the world in 2004) and building category, followed forefront of establishing iconic the ITC Gardenia in Bengaluru closely by ITC Grand Central, green buildings certified to (the World’s largest LEED ITC Maratha, ITC Windsor, the highest levels of energy Platinum rated hotel), has now ITC Mughal, ITC Sonar and efficiency and environmental inspired the implementation of ITC Kakatiya all of which design. validated green/sustainability received the LEED Platinum standards in existing hotels rating. A journey that began with the and factories. In a testimony ITC Green Centre in Gurgaon to these efforts, the ITC (the largest LEED Leadership Maurya in New Delhi became in Energy and Environment the first LEED Platinum rated Design Platinum rated office hotel worldwide in the existing Sustainability Report 2011 63 with retrospective carbon credits is in advanced However, higher CO2 emissions were partially stages of verification. This project will provide avoided by improved biofuel utilisation in additional returns to the farmers in the coming Bhadrachalam and commissioning of new wind years. Several other projects are in the process of power projects. being registered. ITC’s social and farm forestry initiatives added In addition, we are well positioned to take advantage 11,652 hectares of plantations during 2010-11. Total of other opportunities in voluntary carbon markets plantations, as on March 31, 2011, now stand close and India specific schemes on the anvil, such as to 114,000 hectares. The social & farm forestry Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) promoted by the initiatives have not only provided a sustainable Government of India. source of raw material for the Paperboards Business, but have also helped sequester 4011 Kilotonnes of CO2, provided over 51.24 million person-days of employment and have also built upon ITC’s status as a ‘Carbon Positive’ Company Enlarging ITC’s carbon for the sixth year in a row. positive footprint CO2 sequestered/CO2 released 4700 4785 4200 4011* 3700 3695 3200 2700 2638 2200 2025 2046 1700 1709 1572 1244 1352 1200 1058 1202 1013 1143 906 700 311 200 2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006 2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 CO2 sequestered in Kilotonnes CO2 released (Manufacturing & Freight) in Kilotonnes * Dip in CO2 sequestration rate caused by reduced productivity of Eucalyptus plantations due to infestation in some areas and lesser incremental addition of plantation area compared to 2009-10. In 2010-11, ITC's operations (manufacturing & freight) generated total CO2 emissions of 2046 Kilo tonnes (1,709 Kilo tonnes in 09-10). Higher CO2 emissions were due to significant growth in ITC A Carbon most businesses as detailed elsewhere, increased pulp production which substitutes imported pulp Positive Corporation as well as use of revised emission factors for the 6 Years in a Row transportation sector, published by the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), UK, which has been adopted for CO2 estimations. 64 Environmental Performance Water Management Stewardship FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Ensuring lower specific water consumption through treating and recycling wastewater Sustained efforts to ensure zero effluent discharge Integrated Watershed Management Programmes Water Positive for the 9th year in a row Sustainability Report 2011 65 Water remains a serious concern globally. With the phenomenon of climate change further aggravating 2. Zero effluent discharge water availability challenges, India is faced with a Treating and progressing to achieve recycling of all difficult and turbulent water future. wastewater. Not only are there serious supply threats to our major snow fed rivers such as the Ganga and 3. Water positive footprint Brahmaputra as a result of the glacial melt, but there is also the direct threat of reduced agricultural Enhance our water positive footprint through outputs due to disruptions in monsoon patterns. rainwater harvesting, both within our own Units and across different watershed areas. Agriculture accounts for around 90% of total water consumption in India and its challenges as a result of water stress are aggravated by the huge 4. Water availability inequalities in geographical distribution as well as Ensure supply of water of satisfactory quality by the fact that the entire monsoon rainfall occurs to neighbouring farmer communities during the around a 12-week period. non-monsoon period so as to provide an alternative Given these challenges, ITC is committed to option to rain-fed agriculture. conserve and manage this precious natural resource. ITC’s approach to Water Management is as follows: ITC is committed to conserve and manage this precious 1. Water conservation natural resource Water audits, benchmarking and use of leading practices to achieve lowest possible specific water consumption (water per unit of product). 66 Environmental Performance Water Conservation In 2010-11, ITC units withdrew 29.36 million Kilolitres (KL) of fresh water, (29.96 million KL in Bhadrachalam Unit 2009-10), a reduction of 2% over the previous year, India's largest integrated paper and paperboards despite significant growth in almost all businesses. mill in India, accounted for 75.3% of the total fresh water intake in ITC. While the production volumes This was made possible only by a focussed approach have increased by three times between 1998-99 by all Units through water audits, benchmarking and 2010-11, the fresh water intake of the Mill has and adoption of leading practices to achieve the increased by only 15% during the same period. lowest possible specific water consumption (water required per unit of production). In 2010-11, Bhadrachalam Unit’s freshwater intake was 50.5 Kilolitre per tonne of product, a significant improvement of 7.7 % over the last year (54.7 KL/ Water sources tonne in 2009-10). It is worth mentioning that this Of the 29.36 million KL of fresh water, 79.7 % of surpasses the proposed benchmark standard of 63 water was sourced from river water, 17.9% from KL /tonne as set by the National Productivity Council ground water sources and only 2.4% from municipal (NPC), for large scale integrated pulp and paper and other water sources. mills. (Reference: Final Report on Development of Guidelines for Water Conservation in Pulp and This year of our total fresh water intake by ITC, Paper Sector by NPC, New Delhi, March 2006). our 3 Paperboards & Specialty Paper mills (Bhadrachalam, Kovai and Tribeni) alone withdrew 91.6 % of fresh water. Normalised production versus fresh water intake comparison of Bhadrachalam Unit 300 300 290 Total Production 253 250 Total fresh water intake Base year, 1998-99, taken as 100 212 201 200 188 160 149 147 148 150 145 135 119 109 115 130 107 106 105 102 102 100 100 100 98 99 94 50 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Sustainability Report 2011 67 Tribeni Unit In 2010-11, the Cigarette Business reported a specific fresh water intake of 3.9 KL/Million The Tribeni Mill, which manufactures specialty Cigarettes equivalent; an improvement of 9.7% paper which is a water intensive process, has over last year (4.3 KL/Million Cigarettes eq. in 2009implemented various water conservation measures, 10). (British American Tobacco reported a specific resulting in the use of less than half the freshwater water consumption of 4.15 m3/Million Cigarette eq. per tonne of product during the reporting period in in BAT Sustainability Report 2010). comparison to 1998-99. Unit wise improvements in specific freshwater intake over the last year are: Specific freshwater intake in Tribeni Mill (KL/Tonne) Percentage 2009-10 2010-11 improvement 2010-11 124 KL/ Million cigarettes 2009-10 117 equivalent 2008-09 120 Munger 5.38 4.60 14.4 2007-08 106 Bengaluru 4.14 3.67 11.6 2006-07 99 Saharanpur 4.51 4.24 6.03 2005-06 105 Kidderpore 2.95 2.61 11.4 2004-05 107 2003-04 128 2002-03 178 ITC’s Snacks Units of the Foods Division at 2001-02 213 Haridwar and Pune have achieved substantial 2000-01 226 52.1% savings in freshwater intake per tonne of product 1999-00 233 reduction in as illustrated below: specific fresh 1998-99 259 water intake Foods Percentage over 1998-99 business Snacks Units 2009-10 2010-11 improvement L/kg Kovai Unit Haridwar 10.83 5.90 45.5 Pune 20.48 11.69 42.9 Specific fresh water intake in Kovai Unit (KL/Tonne) Other Units which achieved significant reduction in specific freshwater intake over the last year: 2010-11 13.97 2009-10 13.10 Packaging & Printing Units 21.2% & 12.2% 2008-09 15.31 at Tiruvottiyur & Munger respectively 2007-08 17.31 Cast coating unit at Bollaram 12.4% 2006-07 21.01 33.5% ITC Grand Central 5.8% reduction in specific fresh water ITC Windsor 11% intake over the 2006-07 level WelcomHotel Sheraton Chola 20.3% Consistent efforts towards implementing water conservation initiatives have yielded positive results WelcomHotel Sheraton 16.2% in the Kovai Unit. Kovai has achieved substantial New Delhi reduction of close to 33.5% in specific fresh water WelcomHotel Sheraton intake over the 2006-07 level, as illustrated above. 10.6% Rajputana This specific freshwater intake of 13.97 KL/tonne is better than the proposed benchmark standard of 19 KL/tonne by NPC, New Delhi in 2006 for this category of Paper Mill. 68 Environmental Performance Effluent Discharge We are committed to achieving zero effluent In 2010-11, 97.7% of total wastewater discharged discharge through treating & recycling all the outside the Unit premises in ITC, was accounted wastewater and harvesting all rainwater incident for by the two Paper & Paperboard mills, on our properties, which not only reduces fresh Bhadrachalam and Tribeni. The Kovai wastepaper water intake but also maximises ground water based Paperboards Unit recycled/reused the entire recharge, reduces run off, etc. treated effluents within the Unit premises for irrigation purposes. The treated effluent quality is Many ITC Units have already achieved the goal of far better than the stipulated standards, as depicted zero effluent discharge. For example this year, below: Cigarette factories at Bengaluru, Saharanpur & Pune, Leaf Processing Plants at Anaparti & Chirala, Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur, Research Treated effluent quality : annual Centres at Bengaluru & Rajahmundry, Paperboards average (2010-11) ITC Paperboards Unit at Kovai and Bollaram and ITC Green Centre at & Specialty Papers Units Gurgaon recycled all their treated effluents within the Units and achieved zero effluent discharge 300 status. 250 250 All our Units, apart from meeting the effluent 200 172 norms set by the Regulatory Bodies, have defined 150 internal norms, more stringent than statutory 115 112 100 limits to maximise reuse and recycling. 100 60 30 38 50 23 In addition, we have started using more environment 09 08 13 friendly DEWATS wastewater techniques that are 0 chemical free and require negligible energy inputs, BOD COD TSS through the Centre for Science & Environment, Auroville. These have been presently installed at Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai National our SNPL Simra factory & housing colony at Nepal Standard Limits and in the new Cigarette factory at Pune. All units in mg/l and figures rounded off to nearest digit BOD – Biochemical oxygen demand Among the ITC businesses, the Paperboards and COD – Chemical oxygen demand Specialty Papers business faces the most serious TSS – Total suspended solids challenges in effluent quality and quantity. These three Units are already well within norms (100 KL/tonne) of specific treated effluent Many ITC Units have already discharge, as defined by Corporate Responsibility achieved the goal of zero for Environmental Protection (CREP), a voluntary effluent discharge charter by the Ministry of Environment & Forests and Central Pollution Control Board. Sustainability Report 2011 69 Specific treated effluent discharge in ITC Paperboards & Specialty Papers Units (KL/Tonne) 80 74.4 72.5 68.5 2006-07 70 63.9 63.0 63.7 59.1 59.6 60 2007-08 48.0 50 44.9 40 2008-09 30 2009-10 20 11.3 9.3 8.1 10 6.9 2010-11 0.0 00 Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai The National Productivity Council’s (NPC) report on and paper mills. Kovai Unit, which is included in 'Proposed standard for Pulp and Paper Industries this category, did not discharge any treated effluent in India' recommends a benchmark standard of outside its premises. 50 KL /tonne for Integrated Pulp and Paper industry, which is applicable for our Bhadrachalam Unit. In the current year, Absorbable Organic Halides (AOX), (applicable only to our Bhadrachalam Unit) The current level of 44.9 KL/tonne at Bhadrachalam, level was a mere 0.0024 Kg per tonne of product. an improvement of 6.5% over the previous year (48.0 KL/tonne in 2009-10), is better than the above The benchmarking of Bhadrachalam Unit’s proposed benchmark. performance in respect of AOX level is depicted below: Similarly, the above report suggests a benchmark standard of 15m3/tonne for wastepaper based pulp Specific AOX levels in Bhadrachalam Unit (Kg/Tonne) 0.0083 0.011 0.0074 0.0051 0.0024 0.012 0.010 0.008 0.006 0.004 0.002 0 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 units is kg/tonne Indian Paper/Paperboards mills* 0.46-0.8 European Paper Industries # 0.029 World Bank Standard ** 0.25 * Average as per Comprehensive Industry Document for Large Scale Paper Mills, study conducted by Central Pulp and Paper Research Institute, 2007 # CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industries), Sustainability Report 2009 ** World Bank Guideline for New Paper Mills (2007) 70 Environmental Performance Enlarging a Water Positive Footprint The continued focus on rainwater harvesting both dependent on the incident rainfall as well as on the in the Company premises and socially relevant pattern of rainfall among other factors, introducing watershed areas has enlarged our water positive a number of challenges, given that ITC's activities footprint. In addition, wherever feasible, adequate cover such a large geographical spread. provisions have been made to utilise the treated effluent for irrigation purposes. In 2010-11, 60.7% ITC will continue to strive towards improving its of total treated effluent discharged has been water audits, benchmarking and consumption utilised for irrigation. practices in order to ensure greater effectiveness in rainwater harvesting. As at March 31, 2011, the Watershed Projects covering over 64,000 Hectares (ha) of land, support the Water Positive status of the Company for the 9th year in a row. The total rainwater harvesting potential so far created by the Company is over two times the net water consumption by our operations. The amount of actual rainwater harvested is Sustainability Report 2011 71 Water balance at ITC 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Fresh water intake 24.1 22.48 24.98 25.58 25.79 27.46 32.72 29.96 29.36 Treated effluents dis14.64 14.04 19.55 20.96 19.58 18.92 24.52 23.41 22.21 charged Percentage of treated effluent utilised for irrigation by nearby ** ** 86.9 86.8 80.5 79.4 72.3 84.8 60.7 farming community Net water consumption 9.49 8.44 5.43 4.62 6.21 8.54 8.2 6.55 7.15 RWH potential created 0.24 0.39 0.34 0.61 0.47 0.42 0.5 0.42 0.92 within ITC units RWH potential created through watershed projects 12.5 15.67 16.52 18.99 23.12 25.42 19.43 20.18 18.97 (cumulative for that year) Total RWH potential 12.74 16.06 16.86 19.60 23.59 25.84 19.93* 20.60* 19.89* created (for the year) * ‘RWH potential’ figures account for silt deposits in various watershed structures. The adjustments are based on actual sample measurements & the extent of silt deposit depends on the age & location of a structure ** Not available All figures in Million KL, except percentage ITC Water Positive for 9 Consecutive Years 72 Environmental Performance Recycling and Waste Management FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Resource conservation 100% recycling Creating Wealth out of Waste –use of post consumer waste as raw material Sustainability Report 2011 73 A direct consequence of an ever-increasing population, higher consumption levels and 2. Segregation at source inadequate infrastructure, has been the issue of All ITC Units are required to ensure that wastes are Waste Management. segregated at source in line with company-defined guidelines. This ensures maximum reuse/recycling Often considered to be only an urban phenomenon, of wastes, by ensuring for example, that paper waste management seriously threatens the quality waste is not contaminated with wet waste thus of life throughout the country. rendering it unrecoverable. Mounds of unattended waste foraged by cattle and rag-pickers alike, is today an integral part of life all across the country, both in cities as well as in 3. Towards 100% recycling rural areas. This is often responsible for a number Each category of waste is individually addressed of serious public health concerns, in addition and tracked to ensure reuse where possible, and if to other issues such as land and groundwater not, recycling. This ensures that almost no waste contamination. from our businesses land up in municipal or private landfills. In alignment with ITC’s commitment to reduce its environmental impact and to create a positive environmental footprint, we practice the following 4. Creating a positive methods in waste management to achieve a positive waste recycling footprint: environmental footprint Increase consumption of externally generated wastepaper as a source of fibre. Besides the direct 1. Resource conservation environmental benefits of reduced consumption of Reduce waste generation through constant power, water & chemicals compared to virgin fibre, monitoring of specific waste generation figures at this also brings about the additional public benefits all ITC Units. of encouraging better waste management. Resource Conservation In 2010-11, ITC Units generated 638,405 tonnes Coating Unit by 28.8%, Kovai Unit by 17.3%, of wastes, most of it being generated by our Packaging & Printing Unit at Haridwar by 11.2% Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division (91%). and ITC Windsor – 19.7%. This 10.3% increase over the last year is due to higher production volumes in almost all businesses, increased pulp production (replacing imported Percentage 2009-10 2010-11 improvement pulp) and construction debris from renovation projects at different units. KL/ Million cigarettes equivalent In 2010-11, ITC’s Cigarette Business achieved Munger 96.1 84.9 11.7 significant reductions in specific waste generated, over the last year. The Unit wise performance is as Bengaluru 115.3 105.4 8.6 given in the table. Saharanpur 97.3 87.7 9.9 Other Units, with significant reduction in specific waste generation in 2010-11 are: Bollaram Cast 74 Environmental Performance Business wise break up of wastes generated in ITC (2010-2011) Paperboards & Specialty 91.09% Papers Packaging & Printing 3.36% Leaf Tobacco 1.96% Cigarettes 1.17% Hotels 1.04% Foods 0.98% Personal Care Products 0.39% Offices 0.01% Segregation of waste Of the total wastes generated, only 4% by weight All Units have established systems/procedures to are hazardous waste in accordance with the Indian verify the authorisations/licenses of the hazardous statutes. In 2010-11, 99.4% of these hazardous waste recyclers and monitor performance of third wastes were recycled as detailed below and the party recyclers to ensure that they are in compliance balance 0.6% disposed/stored completely in with legal regulations and norms. Corporate EHS accordance with applicable statutes. verifies compliance in each of the units, once a year. Hazardous waste item Quantity Disposal (tonnes) To authorised agencies for 24,743 Sludge from effluent treatment plant of making paperboards, trays, etc. Paperboards & Specialty Papers factories 57 Authorised Landfill Decontaminated and returned to Empty containers of hazardous chemicals 361 original suppliers Used oil 586 Recycled through authorised recyclers Used batteries 28 Returned to original suppliers 58 Recycled Spent solvents/ink ink sludge/adhesives Incinerated/or sent to authorised 106 landfills/stored within the Unit Biomedical waste 1.2 Incinerated/Autoclaved Sustainability Report 2011 75 76 Environmental Performance Towards 100% Recycling Wherever generation of waste cannot be eliminated wastes in 2009-10 – a noteworthy achievement. due to limitations on processes or technology, Bhadrachalam generated 1116 kg of waste per ITC Businesses/Units are mandated to recycle tonne of paper/paperboard in 2010-11; an increase all (100%) wastes which not only saves precious of 8.3% over last year (1030 kg/tonne in 2010-11), natural resources and energy but also prevents due to enhanced pulp production to substitute wastes from reaching landfills, with all its attendant imported pulp and increased manufacture of value problems such as health hazards, increase in GHG added products over the previous year. However, emissions, soil and ground water contamination, etc. this is better than the performance of all other integrated mills in India. According to the Centre for Recycling also creates significant employment Science and Environment Report, 'All About Paper' opportunities. (2004), similar mills generated 1200 Kg. of solid waste per tonne of paper. Waste Destination In 2010-11, ITC generated 288,204 tonnes of fly ash, (45.1% of total waste in ITC), which is 17.2% The graph below depicts the final destinations of more than the previous year due to low-grade coal total wastes: and significant growth in production volumes in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business. Despite this increase, we have ensured 100% fly Total waste and their ash utilisation for brick making, road/embankment destination (2010-11) construction and as raw material in cement factories. Progress on waste recycling 6,38,405 700 98.9 98.8 99.8 99.8 100.0 Total Waste 93.1 638 90.0 600 80.7 579 80.0 6,37,452 762 191 500 78.7 490 Reused/ On-site Incineration 70.0 Recycled storage + landfilling 400 353 60.0 315 304 300 40.0 Reuse/Recycle includes 4845 tonnes of wastes composted. 281 All above Units in Tonnes. 30.0 200 20.0 We have ensured recycling of 99.8% of waste 100 10.0 generated, the same level as last year, although the total quantity of waste has gone up by 10.3%. 0 00 2004200520062007200820092010India's largest integrated paper & paperboards mill, 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Bhadrachalam which generated 76.5% of the total Wastes generated in Kilotonnes wastes generated in ITC, recycled more than 99% Percentage Recycling Sustainability Report 2011 77 Creating Wealth Out ITC benefits from the initiative commenced with an generation of sustainable average monthly collection of of Waste (WOW) raw material sources at 100 MT in 2007 and has now competitive prices, while spread across South India with ITC’s WOW – ‘Wealth Out of also conserving our precious an average monthly collection Waste’ programme has been natural resources and creating of 3000 MT. instrumental in creating sustainable livelihoods. awareness amongst the public on the benefits of The initiative has helped the Reduce-Reuse-Recycle create awareness amongst approach. The waste recycling consumers on the benefits initiatives implemented by the of segregation of waste like programme have contributed paper, plastic and metals. significantly to the protection Segregated dry waste can of the environment, as well as save almost 40% of municipal in improving civic amenities, garbage handling costs, public health and hygiene. thereby releasing resources This initiative has received for improvement of other civic several accolades from amenities. the Government, NGOs, commercial institutions and What started in a small way the public at large including with households has now the prestigious Papyrus Award spread to schools, government by the Bureau of International offices, corporates and Recycling (BIR). other institutions. The WOW In line with our commitment to consolidate our Green Centre at Gurgaon, Surya Nepal’s Cigarette waste recycling positive status, many of our factory at Simra and Hotels – ITC Maurya, ITC Units, are already progressing towards zero waste Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Windsor, ITC discharge. Mughal, ITC Sonar, ITC Gardenia, ITC Kakatiya, and WelcomHotel Sheraton Chola, WelcomHotel Cigarette factories at Bengaluru, Saharanpur, Sheraton New Delhi & WelcomHotel Sheraton Kolkata and Pune, Leaf Threshing units at Rajputana reused/ recycled entire wastes (more Anaparti, Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units than 99%) generated out of their operations. at Kovai and Tribeni, Personal Care Business Unit at Haridwar, Foods Business Unit at Pune, the ITC Wastes used as Raw Materials 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Our Kovai Paperboards Unit, continued to use postTotal waste 352,970 490,180 578,865 638,405 consumer wastepaper for the entire production and (tonnes) our Bhadrachalam Unit also utilised 23,664 tonnes Waste recycled 349,264 484,287 577,766 637,452 of postconsumer waste paper as raw material. (tonnes) % Recycled 98.9% 98.8% 99.8% 99.8% ITC not only recycled almost all the solid waste generated by its Units, but also procured and Un-recycled 3706 5893 1099 953 recycled 1,19,002 tonnes of waste paper this year, waste (tonnes) resulting in yet another positive environmental External footprint. wastes used as raw 163,245 125,337 125,931 119,002 materials (tonnes) ITC – Solid Waste Recycling Positive – Waste recycling footprint (%)* 145 124 122 119 4 Years in a Row. * Waste Recycling footprint (%): (Waste recycled + external waste used as raw material) X 100 / Total waste generated in ITC 78 Environmental Performance Significant Air Emissions FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Cleaner fuels Monitoring combustion efficiencies to achieve lower specific emissions Investments in state-ofthe-art pollution control equipment Sustainability Report 2011 79 ITC continued to invest in reducing air emission emissions (In 2009-10, PM : 880 tonnes, NOX : 811 levels through adoption of cleaner technologies/ and SO2 : 909 tonnes). The increase in the total fuels, monitoring of combustion efficiencies and emissions is mainly due to significant growth in investment in state-of-the-art pollution control production volumes in almost all businesses; equipments such as plasma filters, electrostatic Paperboards Business up by 2.9%, Foods’ Business precipitators, etc. snacks and biscuits by 94% and 25.8% respectively and soaps in Personal Care by 27.8%. All our Units monitor significant air emission parameters such as Particulate Matter (PM), In 2010-11, Particulate Matter emissions from Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) on Bhadrachalam were 1.32 Kg per BDMT (Bone-Dry a regular basis, to ensure compliance with internal Metric Tonne) of production, an improvement of norms that are more stringent than regulatory 14% over last year (1.54 kg/BDMT in 2009-10). As requirements. per the report by Centre for Science & Environment, large-scale Indian mills typically emit 3.8 kg/BDMT In 2010-11, the total significant air emissions (Source: ‘All About Paper The life cycle of Indian included 765 tonnes of Particulate Matter Pulp and Paper Industry’, Green Rating project, (PM), 874 tonnes of NOX and 1133 tonnes of SO2 2004). 80 Environmental Performance In 2010-11, the specific NOx emission in Bhadrachalam was better than the standards stipulated in European countries, as illustrated below: NOx (Kg/tonne) Bhadrachalam 200720082009201008 09 10 11 0.43 0.69 0.60 0.58 Standards Sweden 1.2-2.4 EU 1.0-1.8 EU-BAT* 1.0-1.5 Reported Values CEPI** 0.84 Specific SO2 emission level of Bhadrachalam Unit In addition to the above parameters, Bhadrachalam is comparable with international benchmarks Unit also monitors Hydrogen Sulphide. The and the Unit is working towards achieving these average measured value for the year 2010-11 was international standards. 8.99 mg/Nm3, lower than the regulatory norm of 10 mg/Nm3. SO2 (Kg/tonne) All other units also strive towards reducing the Bhadrachalam 2007200820092010specific emission levels. 08 09 10 11 0.5 0.84 0.79 0.74 Some of the units which significantly reduced the specific emission levels and their percentage Standards improvement over the last year is depicted below: Sweden 0.5-1.4 EU 0.1-0.5 Percentage improvement in specific emission of Unit EU-BAT* 0.2-0.4 PM NOx SO2 Reported Values Cast coating 7.6 6.3 13.2 CEPI** 0.29 Unit, Bollaram Sources– Snacks Unit 58.6 12.3 50.6 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large Scale Pulp & Haridwar Paper Mills, study done by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT:EU Norm Best Available technology 2. **CEPI Confederation of European Paper Industries, The specific emission levels in the Cigarette Business Sustainability Report 2009 for the last 5 years are illustrated in the graph below: Cigarette Business Specific Emissions in Kg/Million Cigarettes PM NOx SO2 1.8 1.75 1.6 1.4 1.29 1.2 0.99 1.06 1.05 1.0 0.91 0.75 0.89 0.8 0.69 0.64 0.7 0.65 0.78 0.73 0.69 0.6 0.4 20062007200820092010200620072008200920102006200720082009201007 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Sustainability Report 2011 81 Ozone depleting substances Biodiversity (ODS) Our Units/operations do not have any significant In accordance with Government of India’s ODS impact on biodiversity. Rules, 2000, which was formulated to comply with All the new/expansion projects have been Montreal Protocol, 1987 which regulates/bans the undertaken after due Environmental Impact use of ozone depleting substances internationally, Assessments (EIA) and stakeholder consultations, ITC has developed and implemented an ODS phase as applicable. Environmental Management out plan. Plans where required as per the EIA studies, are The salient features of ITC’s Plan on ODS phase out implemented along with projects. are – All newly purchased equipment to be free of Beyond compliance Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), Halons and Methyl All our Units are committed to implementing Chloroform (MCF). state-of-the-art processes and technologies and All units to monitor and reduce consumption of achieving benchmarked performance. ODS. Environment, Occupational Health & Safety Replace all the existing equipment using ODS management systems in our Units conform to well before the phase out stipulation. international standards such as ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001/HACCP etc. and are certified by accredited Recover all the ODS from the equipment being 3rd Party agencies. replaced for recycling or safe disposal. Besides business division wise internal audits and In 2010-11, the total consumption of ODS by all our other 3rd party audits, Corporate EHS experts audit Units was 139 Kg of CFC-11 equivalent. every unit at periodic intervals not exceeding 18 months, to ensure compliance to statutory norms and Corporate EHS requirements. Responsible management of chemicals, oils and fuels During 2010-11, no violation of environmental laws/ regulations was recorded in any ITC Unit. All our Units manage chemicals, oils and fuels as per defined ITC norms, which take into account all statutory requirements, and international best practices. These norms are considered right from design stage and include measures for leakage/ spillage prevention, containment provisions, impervious flooring, leak detection system and all requirements as per Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for hazardous chemicals. Safe work practices on handling & storage, procedures for leak detection & spill control and preventive maintenance have been instituted to avoid any incidence of uncontrolled spills or leakage. The effectiveness of these measures is checked on a regular basis. We also continuously evaluate the feasibility of substituting hazardous chemicals with less or nonhazardous materials. In 2010-11, there was no significant spill of any chemicals, oils, fuels or hazardous wastes in any of our Units. 82 Environmental Performance Material Sustainability in ITC's Businesses Material flow in ITC Product supplied to Principal raw materials ITC (externally sourced) Businesses Industrial Supplies and FMCG (B to C) Exports (B to B) Green leaf (1,66,186) 75,812 Leaf business (63,483) Filters (5,594) 2,600 111,854 FMCG Cigarettes (16,584) (35,365) Boards (12,069) Films/polymer granules 25,123 (9,937) Packaging and Printing (50,772) Wood (6,91,839) Wastepaper (1,19,002) Paperboards and 4,12,567 Special pulp (1,24,893) speciality papers (5,956) Raw materials (35,345) 39 45,776 Foods (4,55,148) Agri-products (6,37,955) 55,819 1,20,684 Agri-business (49) Soap noodles (44,969) 52,055 Surfactants (9,798) Personal care products Inter divisional usage The diagram shows only principal raw materials, that are over 5% of the total raw materials in the respective businesses and all figures are in tonnes Sustainability Report 2011 83 Environmental footprint of In 2010-11, nearly 87% of the total raw materials used were renewable materials. In addition, we also our products and services used very substantial quantities of post-consumer wastepaper in our Paperboards & Specialty Papers ITC products can be broadly classified into the Business and this was sourced locally as well following categories: as internationally, details of which are already provided elsewhere in this Report. 1. FMCG (B to C) products Our initiatives on social and farm forestry Cigarettes, foods, personal care products plantations, watershed development in socially relevant areas, empowerment of marginal farmers 2.Industrial Supplies and Exports through e-Choupals generate large scale rural Paper, paperboards, packaging; leaf tobacco, etc. employment. These measures coupled with technology upgradation, extensive R&D and waste 3.Services minimisation & recycling through product and process innovations help us in ensuring material Hotels and ITC Infotech sustainability for our businesses. The diagram on page 70 represents material flow We have completed pilot studies on life cycle (only principal raw materials having more than 5% assessment of certain product categories. Based of total raw materials in each business) of various on the outcome of these studies, we plan to carry businesses in ITC. The synergy through vertical and out full scale life cycle assessments to evaluate the horizontal integration of our businesses, provides environmental impacts at various life cycle stages. us with significant opportunity in reducing our This would help us in identifying opportunities for environmental footprint through better material improving upon their environmental attributes. utilisation, waste recycling and optimising logistics. Responsible Sourcing of Wood Fibre Wood is a major source of fibre fibre manufactured in for the paper and paperboards Bhadrachalam is from industry. Availability of wood wood sourced from our remains a critical challenge social and farm forestry to farmers and planted 11,652 and is a serious sustainability initiatives and the balance hectares during the year. concern, especially in a (11%) is from other sources. Apart from the obvious country with limited natural Fibre for operations at the benefits of increasing the resources and acute income Kovai Unit is totally sourced green cover, plantation on inequities. from recycled waste. 100% of degradable wastelands under Approximately 66% of the total wood and recycled fibre used the social forestry programme fibre requirements of ITC’s by ITC’s Paperboards and also directly contributes to inPaperboards and Specialty Specialty Papers Business situ moisture conservation, Papers Division is met by is of known and legal origin. ground water recharge and the Organisation’s social Internal R&D has produced significant reduction in topsoil and farm forestry projects, high yielding, site specific, losses caused by wind and another 12.7% comes from disease resistant eucalyptus water erosion. In addition, as recycled fibre, processed at and subabul clones on the a result of the leaf litter from Kovai and Bhadrachalam back of extensive knowledge multi-species plantations and and the balance is imported of plantation management the promotion of leguminous pulp used at Bhadrachalam practices. ITC distributed 54.03 intercrops, depleted soils are and Tribeni Units. 89% of million high quality saplings constantly enriched. 84 Environmental Performance Forest Stewardship Council Certifications Further consolidating ITC’s Triple (Forest Stewardship Council) management of the world’s Bottom Line performance, Chain of Custody’ Certification. forests and is recognised as the four Units of ITC’s the gold standard in the wood Paperboards and Specialty The FSC (Forest Stewardship certification for ethical and Papers Division i.e Council) is an independent, legal sourcing. The FSC is Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, non-governmental, not-forrepresented in more than 50 Kovai and Tribeni, recently profit organisation established countries around the world, received the prestigious ‘FSC to promote the responsible and is the most widely accepted Sustainability Report 2011 85 and respected amongst forest Paperboards Division can now Papers Units exemplifies product certification schemes. supply FSC certified paper / the organisation’s continued paperboards from all its four commitment to sustainable The FSC endorsement implies Units with the FSC claim of business practices and to that an organisation complies ‘FSC Mixed’ or ‘FSC Recycled’. the building of an inclusive with its principles and criteria and secure future for both its in the different areas of its The FSC certification for ITC’s stakeholders and the larger operations. ITC’s Paper and Paperboards and Specialty society. Social Performance Labour Practices and Decent Work Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Product Responsibility 88 Social Performance Labour Practices and Decent Work FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Supporting livelihoods for over 5 million people Building a future-ready talent bank Strong focus on occupational health and safety Progressing towards zero accidents Sustainability Report 2011 89 Talent Management Local Hiring & Senior Management Our Talent Management strategy is focussed on building a ‘future-ready’ talent bank in the We recruit quality talent from India's premier organisation to ensure a pipeline of high quality educational institutions across the country through managerial talent, specialists and business leaders. a robust selection process. New employees are This is premised on attraction, development and assigned to various businesses of the Company and retention of high-quality talent. ITC’s talent brand are deployed across the country. Our strategy of 'Building winning businesses. Building business organisation is based on the principle of distributed leaders. Creating value for India' reflects its leadership in order to unleash the entrepreneurial commitment to nurturing world-class talent, and energies of our human resource. The strategy providing them with the opportunity to develop as of organisation and its ongoing emphasis on leaders and as contributors to a larger purpose. It developing and supporting distributed leadership is also strongly rooted in ITC’s value system that is has ensured that each of our Businesses is based on meritocracy. managed by a team of competent, passionate and inspiring leaders. ITC's talent engagement strategy focuses on: We encourage local employment in the workforce Attracting and nurturing quality talent supported in manufacturing and hotels, depending on the by significant investments in learning and availability of requisite skills. At some of our Units, development, a culture of care and concern and we also partner with local Industrial Training systems and processes that build engagement Institutes to provide vital inputs to the management and enhance empowerment. of these institutions. A large section of youth are also provided apprenticeship opportunities at our Creating a responsive, stakeholder-centric manufacturing Units. and market focussed culture and enhancing organisational capability and vitality. 90 Social Performance Our unique employee value proposition backed Harmonious employee relations at all the operating by a strong corporate equity enables sustained Units is a reflection of the Company’s approach to engagement in challenging times. employee engagement focusing on a collaborative approach and mutuality of interests. During 2010-11 our full-time direct employees numbered over 28,500 of which nearly 2,278 Our remuneration philosophy recognises employees in the Leaf Tobacco business were performance and meritocracy, whilst being engaged on a seasonal basis due to the nature of competitive and sustainable. This is reflected in the Business. the total employee cost of ` 1159 crores during 2010-11, which represents a 14% compounded In addition approximately 10,523 employees of annual growth over the last three years. service providers were engaged during this period. Our significant operations are in India except for Attrition one subsidiary company in Nepal which employed around 878 full time direct employees and Our unique employee value proposition and the 290 employees of service providers. integrated approach to managing the human resource anchored on ITC’s Group Philosophy and The different value chains related to our Businesses ITC’s HR Philosophy enables attraction, retention provided indirect employment to over 5 million and motivation of employees. The overall attrition people, whose livelihoods were substantially linked across management and non management to their association with the Company. Indirect employees for 2010-11 was 13.5%. Within the employment covers the supply and distribution management cadre, attrition was 13.3%. network, agri-sourcing, social and farm forestry, e-Choupals, women’s empowerment and microLearning and Development enterprises and livestock development. ITC’s Learning and Development initiatives are Over 12,000 of our employees are members of powered by a strong Learning & Development various unions. Employees were aligned and Vision ‘To build ITC’s talent and leadership involved in the implementation of technology pipeline to power our engines of growth and and process improvements aimed at enhancing enhance organisational capability to compete, win productivity, quality and delivery effectiveness. in the market place and create enduring value Sustainability Report 2011 91 for our shareholders and society.’ The Capability Development Agenda flows from ITC’s Mission, ITC’s Strategic Agenda, the 3 Horizon Growth In 2010-11, close to 110,000 Strategy and ITC’s Vision. person-days of formal training Learning and Development initiatives offered were organised for employees during 2010 – 11 were aligned with this agenda. The at various levels. ongoing core programmes were revitalised to reflect the emerging capability requirements. In addition to core programmes, customised programmes were also offered to address the needs expressed by Businesses, aimed at building specific capabilities at various levels of the organisation. Planning for initiatives in this area begins much before the commencement of the year and flows from the various Business Plans and capability requirements emerging thereof. Business HR teams work closely with the Corporate HR team in designing and implementing Learning and Development initiatives. Employee training at the factory level is undertaken after assessment of skills gaps or after evaluation of emerging technology or skills needs. The process is proactive and wellstructured. In 2010-11, close to 110,000 person-days of formal training were organised for employees at various levels. In addition, on-the-job learning opportunities were provided to a cross-section of employees supported by inputs from peers and superiors. 92 Social Performance Occupational Health & Safety At ITC, primary importance is placed on the In order to disseminate the learning from accidents, Occupational Health & Safety of its employees the serious accident details, along with root cause (including that of service providers) and all visitors analysis and proposed corrective measures are to our establishments. This is ensured through communicated throughout the Company. Thereby, strict observance of Corporate Environment, Units are equipped to initiate proactive measures to Health and Safety Guidelines incorporating best eliminate/ control similar situations. international standards and practices. All ITC establishments are audited by corporate resources and expert third party agencies on a periodic basis Lost Time Accidents, Injury to verify compliance. These Reports are reviewed at Rate and Lost Day Rate the Board level. All these efforts have yielded excellent results in safety performance during the reporting period. In Towards Zero Accident 2010-11, the number of Lost Time Accidents (LTA) to ITC employees has been brought down to 12, All our factories, hotels and large offices have close to half the LTAs in comparison to the previous established Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) year, as detailed below: Management systems with designated roles & responsibilities, competent EHS resources and Lost Time Accidents (LTA) safety infrastructure, which are under constant upgradation to comply with best international 2010-11 12 standards. In addition, strong employee involvement 2009-10 23 is encouraged through participation in suggestions 2008-09 15 schemes, celebration of EHS events, etc. 2007-08 20 A continual process of risk assessment has been 2006-07 14 institutionalised across Businesses wherein risks 2005-06 16 are systematically identified and mitigation plans 2004-05 37 implemented. All new projects and major renovation 2003-04 27 jobs are reviewed and vetted at the design stage by 2002-03 35 EHS experts and engineering control measures 33 2001-02 are implemented along with the project. Pre Lost time Accidents commissioning audits are also conducted to LTA An accident where the to ITC employees ensure compliance to all EHS requirements before injured does not return to work in the next sceduled shift brought down to during 2010-11 12 commissioning. A comprehensive incidents / accidents reporting In ITC, Lost Time Accident (LTA) is defined as an system has been established in all Units. accident where the injured is not able to come back These incidents/accidents undergo a thorough to work in the next scheduled shift. This is more investigation for identifying root causes and stringent than the 'Reportable Accident' as per corrective / preventive measures initiated. The Factories Act, 1948, which is defined as an accident findings and recommendations are also discussed where injured person is unable to resume duty in the Safety Committee meetings to ensure within 48 hours after the accident. complete management and employee buy in. Sustainability Report 2011 93 Injury rate, the frequency of injuries in relation Injury Rate (IR) to total time worked has been brought down considerably. The injury rate has been consistently 2010-11 0.05 reduced; an improvement of 44% in comparison to 2009-10 0.09 2009-10, despite significant growth in all Businesses. 2008-09 0.06 Lost day rate, defined as number of days lost due to 2007-08 0.09 accidents for every 2,00,000 person hours worked, 2006-07 0.08 for the year 2010-11 was 2.25 (28.4 in 2009-10). 2005-06 0.09 2004-05 0.21 Zero Accident Units 2003-04 0.17 Many Units, through effective implementation 2002-03 0.2 0.05 2001-02 0.22 Injury Rate for of safety management systems and adoption of 2010-11 state-of-the art technologies, attained the goal of IR LTA per every 200,000 'zero accidents'. person-hours worked The following Units have achieved zero lost time accidents in 2010-11: Cigarette factories Munger, Bengaluru, Saharanpur, ITC Infotech’s Bengaluru Office Complex Kolkata and Pune ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon Leaf Threshing Units at Chirala and Anaparti ITC Head Quarters, Kolkata Packaging & Printing Units at Munger and Haridwar ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at Sonar, ITC Windsor, ITC Kakatiya and ITC Gardenia Bhadrachalam and Kovai WelcomHotel Sheraton Chola, WelcomHotel Foods Unit at Pune Sheraton Rajputana and WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi Personal Care Products Unit at Manpura Surya Nepal's unit at Simra Research Centers at Bengaluru and Rajahmundry Fortune Resort Bay Island Hotel, Port Blair Lifestyle Retailing Business’s Master Facility at Gurgaon 94 Social Performance Occupational Health HIV/AIDS A healthy workforce is a vital element of our We remained committed to the various programmes competitiveness and sustainability. All Units and interventions introduced in response to maintain conducive work environment meeting the serious threat posed by HIV/AIDS. During Indian/International standards on hygiene, lighting, 2010-11 we conducted 123 awareness programmes ventilation and effective controls on noise and dust. for the employees and communities around our units. The interventions covered a total of 14,935 All the Units are provided with occupational health people of which 13,306 were our employees while centres with adequate medical staff to monitor the balance were members of the local community. occupational health and provide immediate relief, In addition we also organised counseling sessions when required. Also, at least 2% of total employees at various locations covering a total of 1,667 people, in each Unit are trained to provide first aid. of which 1,452 were our employees. In 2010-11, over 12,430 employees underwent preventive medical examinations, to identify symptoms of any occupational illness and there were no occupational related illnesses reported from Units. Preventive Medical Examination 2010-11 12430 2009-10 10801 2008-09 11510 2007-08 9752 2006-07 8006 2005-06 8135 2004-05 7718 2003-04 5996 2002-03 4556 2001-02 4593 12430 Preventive medical examination conducted during 2010-11 Sustainability Report 2011 95 Human Rights: Significant Investments During 2010-11, nearly 49 % of our total capex cash We procure inputs for the Company’s agri-based flow of ` 1281 crores was incurred on machinery and businesses entirely from state controlled trading technology sourced from reputed global suppliers/ platforms and the open market. vendors who follow internationally accepted norms We position our managers at all significant and standards on Human Rights. Approximately ‘outsourced’ manufacturing facilities (cigarettes, ` 555 crores were invested on new factories, hotels, personal care, branded apparels and packaged modernisation. foods) to ensure high standards of product All large contracts in ITC, for the construction of quality and adherence to ITC’s guidelines on EHS and labour practices. Government officials hotels, factories, and significant upgrades, included also routinely inspect these Units to ensure environment, health, safety and human rights’ adherance to relevant labour and factory acts, clauses covering decent place of work, and beyond which, inter alia, provide for the necessary EHS compliance labour practices. and labour practices standards. In 2010-11, large projects such as construction The execution of ITC’s human rights policies is of the Green Leaf Threshing plant at Mysore, obligatory for all service providers operating Packaging and Printing factory at Haridwar, the within our establishments. Master Facility of the Lifestyle Retailing Business at Manesar, ITC Hotels at Chennai and Kolkata and During 2010-11, the total number of service modernisation of the Cigarette factory at Kolkata providers was 5,170 of which 1,309 operated within are in progress. All these were managed and the Company’s premises and 3,861 worked off-site. supervised by ITC managers, who also ensured 100% of contracts on-site and 82% of contracts off site, included important clauses on Human Rights, proper Human Rights compliance. environment, health and safety. No contracts Systems have been established to ensure were cancelled during the year as a result of compliance of our Policies and Standards, through non-compliance with ITC’s Human Rights policy. rigorous audits by Corporate Internal Audit and Corporate EHS. Prevention of Discrimination at the Work Place Human Rights: Supply Chain During 2010-11 no incident of discrimination in As a large and multi-product enterprise whose any of the ITC Units was reported either to the products are benchmarked nationally and concerned Units or statutory authorities. internationally, we recognise our responsibility to proactively encourage high levels of ‘Human Rights’ Freedom of Association standards in our supply chain. During 2010-11 no incidents of violation of Our approach to managing human rights in the freedom of association were reported either to the following distinct categories is described below: concerned Units or statutory authorities. Within ITC’s operations, there are no areas where the right Our major Businesses are vertically integrated to exercise freedom of association and collective across several Divisions that follow ITC policies. bargaining is at risk. 96 Social Performance Prohibiting Child Labour and The strategic management of the Company rests with the Corporate Management Committee Preventing Forced Labour at comprising Executive Directors and six members Work Place drawn from senior management representing diverse functions. During 2010-11 no incidents of child or forced labour were reported either to the concerned Units The executive management of each Business is or statutory authorities. vested with the Divisional Management Committee (DMC), headed by the Divisional Chief Executive. Governance Bodies and The DMC draws resources from different functions. Each DMC is responsible for and focussed on the Diversity management of its assigned Business. Our approach to management of the human resource is premised on the fundamental belief Equal Remuneration of fostering meritocracy in the organisation, Our compensation philosophy does not differentiate promoting diversity and offering equality of on gender, caste or age. It is linked to responsibility opportunity to all employees. We do not engage levels and based on performance. We also ensure in or support direct or indirect discrimination in compliance with the Equal Remuneration Act recruitment, compensation, access to training, which mandates every employer to pay equal promotion, termination or retirement based on remuneration to men and women employees for caste, religion, disability, gender, age, race, colour, the same work or work of similar nature. ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious, union organisation or minority group. The Board of Directors at the apex, as trustees Our approach to human of shareholders and responsible for the strategic resource is premised on the supervision of the Company, consists of 4 Executive fundamental belief of fostering Directors (including the Chairman) and 12 Nonmeritocracy in the organisation, Executive Directors as on March 31, 2011. The Non-Executive Directors come from different fields promoting diversity and offering with experience in business/finance/law/public equality of opportunity to all enterprises thereby ensuring multi-dimensional employees. perspectives in setting the strategic agenda. Sustainability Report 2011 97 Prevention of Corruption at Workplace We believe that corporations like ours' have a responsibility to set exemplary standards of ethical Public Policy Advocacy behavior, both within the organisation as well Our senior managers participated in a large number as in our external relationships. We believe that of industry fora to help contribute to debates on unethical behavior corrupts organisational culture public policy issues related to our businesses. and undermines shareholder value. ITC has provided assistance to establish industry institutions – namely the Tobacco Institute of India A booklet on ITC’s Code of Conduct, which also and the CII – ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable contains the policies against corruption, is Development – to promote public debate and shape periodically circulated to all managers. In addition, policies on important national and industry issues. it is posted on the corporate intranet sites and the The Tobacco Institute of India is a tobacco industry ITC Portal. The Audit Committee of the Board met body, which helps support industry norms and nine times during the year to review, interalia, the Government policies and initiatives. adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls and monitored implementations, including those relating to the strengthening of the company’s risk Compliance management policies and systems. All our Businesses/Divisions have systems and Instances of fraud involving employees or business procedures to identify and comply with all relevant partners were cognised for and suitable action statutory requirements. There was no major was taken. ITC has a zero tolerance approach to non – compliance with laws or regulations by any of corruption, resulting in immediate termination our Businesses in 2010 –11. of service. 98 Social Performance Social InvestmentsMission Sunhera Kal FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Strengthening rural livelihoods Wasteland Development through Social Forestry Soil & Moisture Conservation Programmes Livestock Development Initiatives Building skills and social infrastructure through: Primary Education, Health & Sanitation Women Empowerment & Gender Equality Sustainability Report 2011 99 ITC endeavours to address social and environmental challenges through a set of strategic initiatives to Coverage create sustainable sources of livelihood for the two The total number of projects implemented during sets of stakeholders we engage with 2010-11 was 76, up from 66 during 2009-10. These projects are spread across 51 districts of The rural communities in ITC's Agri Business Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya areas: The approach is to strengthen the Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Haryana, agricultural production base of rural households through conservation, re-building and nurturing Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. natural resources, thus enabling the emergence Together these programmes reach out to more of diversified and sustainable farming systems, than 3 lakh households and more than 16 lakh and hence sustainable livelihoods. These sets of individuals who are directly impacted by the various measures also prove to be an effective climate programmes spread over 5,495 villages. change adaptation strategy. This is sought to be achieved through an integrated approach 2010-11 that includes the development of wastelands, watersheds, agriculture and animal husbandry. Projects (No) 76 The communities in our Factory catchments: States (No) 12 The initiative aims to create market-linked Districts (No) 51 opportunities for members of poor households Villages (No) 5,495 through enterprise development and augment social capital through skills like training, Beneficiaries (Hh-lakhs) 3.04 education and improved health. Together, all Beneficiaries (Persons-lakhs) 16.70 these interventions help them compete more effectively in the labour/employment market. This is being achieved through the promotion The interventions, with the overall objective of of gender-centric economic empowerment creating sustainable livelihoods for the rural programmes for women, enhancing the quality of communities, involves strengthening rural livelihoods primary education, skills training and improving and building skills and social infrastructure. health and sanitation conditions. 100 Social Performance Strengthening Rural Livelihoods e-Choupal: A Path-breaking Initiative A business concept embedded with social goals, that Empowers the Farmer e-Choupal has been designed to benefit farmers by enabling a virtuous cycle of higher productivity, higher incomes, enlarged capacity for farmer risk The e-Choupal initiative revolutionised the Indian management and, thereby, larger investments agricultural landscape by leveraging digital to enable higher quality and productivity. Given technology and customised extension services the productivity challenges and the new threats to empower farmers and raise rural incomes. By emerging from global warming, ITC’s e-Choupal providing the power of Information and Digital is extensively engaging with farmers to promote Technology, small and marginal farmers are sustainable agricultural practices through a empowered with a host of services related to knowdedicated initiative titled the ‘Choupal Pradarshan how, best practices, timely and relevant weather Khet’. This customised extension service is aimed at information, transparent discovery of prices and bringing the benefits of agricultural best practices much more. The e-Choupal network not only to small and marginal farmers. connects farmers to markets, but also allows for virtual integration of the supply chain, to create ITC’s e-Choupal network also serves as an significant efficiencies in the traditional system. effective rural marketing platform and, together Sustainability Report 2011 101 with other channels established by ITC in rural With this, the total area under Social Forestry markets, the network reaches remote villages in now stands at 19,820 hectares covering 24,382 rural India. In recognition of the changing needs households in about 541 villages. The achievement of rural India, new partnerships are being forged of 3,349 hectares in a single year is a milestone for under the e-Choupal framework to help support the Social Forestry programme. micro-enterprises, as well as create new offfarm opportunities, through a recently created In order to retain the interests of farmers in virtual rural employment platform available at pulpwood plantations, agro-forestry demonstration 'www.rozgarduniya.com'. These innovations will plots are being promoted. continue to add value to the rural population as India takes the next leap into the future. Cum to Performance Cum to Wasteland Development Activity 2009-10 2010-11 date Social Forestry Social & Farm Forestry The Social Forestry Programme aims at wealth generation for poor farmers by providing landNo of new 42 13 55 use options for degraded/marginal lands, mandals through promotion of plantations. As a result of No of new 480 61 541 this intervention, other positive outcomes on a villages significant scale include groundwater recharge, No of new beneficiaries 19,376 soil conservation and carbon sequestration. 5,006 24,382 The total area brought under plantations during Plantation the year was 3,349 hectares. Of these 265 hectares area 16,471 3,349 19,820 (Hectares) were on account of the energy plantations in Chamrajnagar and Mysore districts of Karnataka. Saplings planted 658.95 251.71 910.66 The balance comprised pulpwood plantation in (Lakhs) Andhra Pradesh. 102 Social Performance Soil and Moisture Conservation The achievement at the end of this year was 13,204 hectares under the soil and moisture conservation programme. 416 large and small water-harvesting The promotion of watershed management structures were constructed and it created 4.58 practices to control soil erosion in rain fed tracts lakhs person days of work for the landless and is another measure towards strengthening the marginal farmers. agricultural base of the farmers. This initiative was further enhanced with the various Government As a result, the total area brought under soil and partnerships in different states. moisture conservation now stands at 64,498 ha while the number of water-harvesting structures Cum to Performance Cum to increased to 3,229, covering more than 65,000 Activity 2009-10 2010-11 date direct beneficiaries. Water-harvesting Several partnership projects with the state governments and NABARD were initiated during Minor Structures 1,755 228 1,983 the year. Of these, the Bhilwara IWDP project is in (No) the fourth year while Jalna NREGA project is into Major the third year of implementation. Structures 1,058 188 1,246 (No) Some of the highlights of the partnership programmes include: Total 2,813 416 3,229 Structures In Maharashtra: The PPCP MGNREGA model Watershed Area initiated in Jalna district has attracted attention from various quarters since its inception. Encouraged by Area Treated 28,301 10,867 39,169 its success, the model has emerged as a replicable (Ha) model for other agencies as well. Critical Irrigation 22,993 2,337 25,330 In Rajasthan: The objective of ensuring transparency Area (Ha) in the payment systems and ensuring payment Total within 15 days completion of work was implemented Watershed 51,294 13,204 64,498 at all the sites. The Panchayat members in the Area project villages were given intensive training in Sustainability Report 2011 103 net planning and preparation of detailed project through developing the second most important reports. livelihood asset for rural households – milch animals. The Integrated Animal Husbandry In Madhya Pradesh: MoUs were signed with the Programme assists small and landless households Panchayat and Rural Development Departments to upgrade livestock quality through cross-breeding of the Government of Madhya Pradesh for three by artificial insemination to boost milk productivity PPP watershed projects under the ‘Integrated and provides a package of services to ensure safe Watershed Management Programme’ (IWMP). The delivery and animal health. projects will be implemented in Indore, Ujjain and Mandsaur districts. Two partnership watershed The total number of Cattle Development projects were also signed with NABARD in Shajapur Centres (CDC) established to date is 210. and Chhindwara districts. 1.67 lakhs artificial inseminations (AIs) were performed during the year 2010-11. The period saw Improved Agricultural Practices over 47,000 live births. Till date, the total number of calves born as a result of this programme stands at 1.51 lakhs. Another step towards improving farm productivity and increasing sources of income are through the promotion of efficient farming practices and Cum to Performance Cum to Activity 2010-11 2009-10 date technologies such as provision of timely and quality agri-inputs through composting varietal CDC 161 49 210 demonstrations and efficient management of (No) water through group wells and sprinkler systems. During the year 2010-11, 2,177 farmers were Breed Improvement covered through 46 group irrigation projects, 172 No of AIs 4,07,609 1,67,378 5,74,987 sprinklers, 318 compost units and 1,190 IPNM/ varietal demonstration plots. No of 72,080 pregnancies 1,79,880 2,51,960 Integrated Animal Husbandry Programme No of calfing 1,04,233 47,051 1,51,284 The integrated approach to develop sustainable livelihoods for the rural community includes Vaccination 1,77,701 38,612 2,16,313 & health increasing the source of income for the farmers 104 Social Performance Building Skills and Social Infrastructure around our Factories For the households around our Units, the challenge is that of providing the necessary social Cum to Performance Cum to Activity 2010-11 2009-10 date infrastructure to enable a decent quality of life. Thus these projects aim to create sustainable Micro Credit Programme livelihoods through community development for our second group of stakeholders Communities in SHGs 1,035 1,314 1,314* Factory Catchments. Members 14,278 15,068 15,068* Women Empowerment and Skill Building Savings (` L) 179 205.59 206* These projects aim to empower and create sustainable income opportunities for women by Livelihoods mobilising them into self-help groups, promoting Self thrift and linking them to financial institutions for Employed 23,797 5,993 29,790 access to credit. Micro enterprises 5,898 1,848 7,746 A total of 1,314 SHGs were functional during the period with a membership of 15,068 Credit women handling a total micro-credit corpus of ` 206 lakhs. In addition, the groups raised ` 69 lakhs Internal 306.79 89.95 396.74 as loans from banks for various income generation loans (` L) activities. Creating employment opportunities for External 398.14 69.90 468.04 youth through vocational training and skill building loans (` L) activities ensures an additional source of income to * The figures are as on date the families and as a result leads to development of the community. Sustainability Report 2011 105 Primary Education and Health and Cum to Performance Cum to Activity 2010-11 Sanitation 2009-10 date Primary Education A strong foundation in primary education and skill building for the children in the community is a step Learning Centres (No) 2,380 143 2,523 towards ensuring sustainable development for the community as a whole. The initiative with its focus Rural Libraries (No of schools) 304 53 357 on minimising drop outs and ensuring every child is in school and learning well aims at enriching the Roaming Laptop process of learning. It also enhances the learning (No of schools) 260 55 315 environment by giving infrastructural support to Govt Schools Infra the Government Schools. support 577 164 741 (No of school) Over 18,000 children were covered under Text/Exercise books (No) 2,28,415 1,25,450 3,53,865 the education programme, through the 251 supplementary learning and coaching centres, Children the roaming laptop and library initiatives. Thus the covered 2,28,872 18,193 2,47,065 total number of children covered till date is almost 2.48 lakhs. Health & Sanitation Sanitary toilets Improvement in the status of health and sanitation (No) 2,937 283 3,220 conditions in a community is an indication of the Backyard overall development of the community. Thus the horticulture 23,614 23,614 initiatives in health and sanitation aim at creating (No saplings) an environment which addresses the health and Health camps 309 5 314 sanitation needs of the community. There were (No) 283 low cost toilets that were built this year. The total number of health camps till date are 314 Beneficiaries (No) 21,780 1,039 22,819 reaching out to over 22,000 patients. 106 Social Performance Product Responsibility Sustainability Report 2011 107 Customer Safety Our Prime Concern Our uncompromising commitment in providing world-class products and services to satisfy customers on a consistent basis is supported by concern for the safety of our consumers/ customers. New products creation in our Cigarettes Business involves consideration of global developments and is supported by comprehensive research and testing facilities at ITC Research & Development Centre, where laboratories conform to ISO/ IEC 17025 and are certified by NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration.) We use proprietary software for regular monitoring and review of stringent product specifications of all the raw materials. The manufacturing Units have state-of-the-art facilities, cutting edge technology and international quality management systems, which are constantly reviewed and upgraded. With the objective of preserving customer health and safety, the Foods Business ensures adherence to the highest levels of quality, safety and hygiene standards in manufacturing processes and in the supply chain. The Business operates predominantly on a model of outsourced manufacturing. The quality performance of each manufacturer is monitored on a daily basis. 37 out of 41 manufacturing locations have already been either Hazard Analysis In our Information Technology Business the quality and Critical Control Point (HACCP) certified or of the software is assured through well-defined ISO 9001certified. QMS following SEI – CMM framework and certified to ISO 9001 standards. We ensure the security of the In our Personal Care Products Business, products software by using standard software packages from have been created through extensive research reputed specialist organisations. Effective access and consumer engagement. The products have control and asset management mechanisms are been developed in the state-of-theart R&D certified under ISO 27001 frameworks. centre in Bengaluru, by our team of highly skilled professionals over the last several years. The In our Hotels Business, policies are in place to formulations use internationally recognised ensure the highest standards of customer health, safe ingredients and are subjected to the highest security and safety. Effective measures are taken standards of safety and performance. The to ensure that these policies are implemented and manufacturing facilities adopt stringent hygiene standards continually improved upon. standards, benchmarked manufacturing practices and robust quality systems. 108 Social Performance Our Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business is At our Agri Business Division, products are sold or the pioneering manufacturer of Elemental Chlorine exported entirely as per customer specifications Free (ECF) pulp in India, which ensures the levels and requirements. Products in Choupal Saagars of dioxins and furans in the pulp to be less than 1 and Choupal Fresh are sourced from reputed PPT (Parts Per Trillion). The global migration test companies as per statutory norms. In addition, is conducted periodically on all food grade paper fruits and vegetables in Choupal Fresh are sourced and paperboards for compliance with the US FDA from farmers and mandis. Stringent process standards and to adhere to prescribed limits for control and quality inspection norms are in place to presence of heavy metals. All manufacturing ensure the quality of all products. ingredients are procured from reputed international suppliers and must conform to US FDA standards In the Leaf Tobacco Business the products are as well as BFR recommendation No. 36. We ensure manufactured as per customer specifications. The that the components of food allergens listed in EC customers in this Business are large domestic and directive 2003/89/ EC, US FDA food allergen labelling international Cigarette Manufacturers and Tobacco and consumer protection are not used in any of Merchants. We ensure that the specifications are the virgin grade boards and papers. The Bollaram meticulously complied with. Hygiene and Infestation Unit, manufacturing food grade board for direct Management Systems to control infestation are food contact, is ‘third party’ certified in accordance in place. with BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium/ Institute Our Agri Extension Services are designed to ensure of Packaging) standards. Pira, a renowned testing Seed Integrity, Pesticide Residue Level monitoring and consultancy firm, now certifies our ‘Indobarr’ and Non Tobacco Related Matter (NTRM) and ‘Cyber Propac’ brands to be compliant with elimination to promote Product Hygiene standards. German BFR standards for Food Packaging. Several additional measures to eliminate NTRM Our Packaging & Printing Business uses only nonacross the value chain were implemented during hazardous materials/ films and paperboards from the year. either our own Paperboards & Specialty Papers Both Anaparti and Chirala GLTs have been certified Business or other approved suppliers. The Chennai to ISO 9001, IQRS Level 7 and other accredited third Unit is the first in India to achieve IQRS (International party certifications. Quality Rating System) Level 8 (Certified by DNV). The Munger Unit of the Business has achieved With a view to provide the highest standards of IQRS Level 7. customer satisfaction, health and safety in our Sustainability Report 2011 109 Lifestyle Retailing Business, prior to manufacture, Our Personal Care Products Business complies inputs are tested for conformance to our in-house fully with the Standards of Weights and Measures state-of the-art R&D centre, accredited with NABL Act (Packaged Commodities Rules), Drugs & and certified to international standards. Product Cosmetic Act, Bureau of Indian Standards and the Quality is monitored through an internal rating applicable Trade Marks Law. system (PQRS) along with an external AQL norm Our Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business followed internationally for apparel. issues Quality Assurance Certificates for the consignments on request from customers. The Product Information & information about the product, covering relevant technical parameters agreed with the customers, Labelling is documented in the product specimen sheet. As an organisation which upholds and makes The label on each pack bears the product name, extraordinary efforts to ensure legitimacy, substance (gsm), size, weight and batch/reference transparency and good governance, ITC’s Business number for effective traceability. operations strive to comply with every relevant law of the nation. Gradually increasing social pressure In our Packaging & Printing Business, we barcode on tobacco often leads to public debates on its all packages. Internal quality procedures follow consumption. Stringent quality standards/systems norms/specifications agreed with the customers. are established to respond to queries/ concerns, Products in our Agri Business are primarily sold and are made known to all stakeholders. on a B2B basis and are labelled to meet customer Our Cigarette Business fully complies with the requirements on quality, shipping marks or applicable laws and regulations concerning Product importing country labelling requirements. Where & Service Labelling. required we provide phytosanitary certificates, surveyor quality and quantity reports, Chamber Our Foods Business complies with all statutes of Commerce certificates, etc. We comply with all including statutes on labelling and product statutory requirements for exports. Products sold information (e.g. Prevention of Food Adulteration through Choupal Saagars and Choupal Fresh are Act, Standards of Weights & Measures Act, Food labelled as per statutory requirements. Products Order, Packaged Commodity Rules, etc.) relevant to packaged branded food products. In the Leaf Tobacco Business all the products are labelled in accordance with customer specifications. Our Information Technology Business provides Labels normally contain information about the various Manuals & Release notes with proper labelling of software & services rendered to Grade, Crop Year, Weight, Lot No., Date and the the customers. Location at which the product is packaged and in certain cases, the destination and details of the In our Hotels Business, brochures, inroom customer. The bar code label on the packed product literature and websites are used to provide ensures ‘Product Traceability’ in the tobacco supply relevant information regarding Rooms and Food & chain from Farm to the Customer. Beverages. 110 Social Performance All products, in our Lifestyle Retailing Business In our Hotel Business marketing communication is conform with the Standards of Weights and governed by Self Regulation and guided by Indian Measures Act. Additionally, we also provide product Society of Advertisers (ISA) Rules and guidelines. information including attributes and salient features like fabric, styling, finishing, wash-care Our Agri Business has adopted a voluntary code for and benefits. advertising and communication duly approved by the Divisional Management Committee. All external communication is also vetted by the divisional Legal Marketing Communications resource. All our Businesses/Divisions have well established systems, procedures and review mechanisms to Compliance concerning identify and comply with the laws and regulations concerning marketing communication. In addition, provision and use of product we have a dedicated consumer response cell in and services order to answer any queries on the product. All our Businesses/Divisions have well established The Foods, Personal Care Products and Lifestyle systems, procedures and review mechanisms to Retailing Businesses voluntarily follow the ASCI identify and comply with the laws and regulations (Advertising Standards Council of India) Code for concerning our products and services. all marketing communications. Each product/ We continued to comply with all applicable statutes campaign is vetted for compliance. during 2010-2011. Sustainability Report 2011 111 GRI Indicators Index GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Remarks Indicators Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Statement of 04 of the organisation: relevance of sustainability Continuing Support. to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 08 opportunities Organisational Profile * 2.1 Name of the organisation 18 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 18 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 18 2.4 Location of Organisation's Headquarters 33 2.5 Number of countries where the 33 organisation operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 18 2.7 Markets served 18 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 18, 46 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 33 regarding the size, structure and ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 28 Report Parameters * Report Profile 3.1 Reporting Period 33 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report 33 3.3 Reporting cycle 33 3.4 Contact Point for questions regarding the 33 report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining Report content 33 3.6 Boundary of the Report 34 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary 33 of the Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 33 leased/ outsourced operations and other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of 33 calculations including assumptions and techniques 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-instatement 33 of information provided in the earlier Reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting period 33 3.12 GRI Content index 111 3.13 Assurance 130 * There is no COP requirement 112 GRI Indicators Index GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Remarks Indicators Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Actions Taken to Implement Principles 1-10 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 37 4.2 The Chair of the highest Governance body 38 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive members 38 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 40 to provide recommendations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of 39 highest governance body and the organisation's performance 4.6 Process for the highest governance body to ensure 39 conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the members of 38 the highest governance body 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of 122 conduct and principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 41 overseeing the management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 39 body's own performance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 The precautionary approach or principle Actions Taken to 40 Implement Principle 7 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Actions Taken to Implement 5 and social charters, principles Principles 1-10 4.13 Memberships in associations 128 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Sharing the COP with the 42 Company’s Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholders 42 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 42 frequency of engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns and how the organisation 42 has responded to those Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 117 Principles 1, 4, 6 and 7 Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee * 46 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Actions Taken to Implement 58 opportunities for the organisation's activities due Principle 7 to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations * 51 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government * 49 Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of * 49 operation * There is no COP requirement Sustainability Report 2011 113 GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Remarks Indicators EC7 Procedure for local hiring, and proportion of Actions Taken and 50 senior management hired from the local Outcomes from community at locations of significant operation Implementing Principle 6 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for * 52 public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 117 Principles 7, 8 and 9 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Outcomes from Implementing 82 Principle 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Outcomes from Implementing 82 input materials Principles 8 and 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Outcomes from Implementing 60 energy source Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 60 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Outcomes from Implementing 62 improvement Principles 8 and 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Outcomes from Implementing 66 Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Outcomes from Implementing 66 recycled and reused Principles 8 and 9 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Outcomes from Implementing 81 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Principle 8 high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 81 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Outcomes from Implementing 63 emissions by weight Principle 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 63 emissions by weight EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 81 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 79 by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 68 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 73 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 81 Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Actions Taken to Implement 83 products and services, and extent of impact Principles 7, 8 and 9 Mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Outcomes from Implementing 83 materials that are reclaimed by category Principles 8 and 9 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and Outcomes from Implementing 81 total number of non-monetary sanctions Principle 8 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Social * There is no COP requirement 114 GRI Indicators Index GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Remarks Indicators Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Actions Taken to Implement 118 Principles 1, 3 and 6 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region * 90 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by Outcomes from Implementing 90 age group, gender and region Principle 6 Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Outcomes from Implementing 90 bargaining agreements Principles 1 and 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Outcomes from Implementing 124 changes, including whether it is specified in Principle 3 collective agreements Occupational Health & Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days Outcomes from Implementing 92 and absenteeism, and number of work-related Principle 1 fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and Actions Taken to Implement 94 risk-control programmes in place to assist Principle 1 workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases Training & Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee category * 91 Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Outcomes from Implementing 96 breakdown of employees per category Principles 1 and 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by 96 employee category Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 119 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Outcomes from Implementing 95 investment agreements that include human Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Actions Taken and Outcomes 95 contractors that have undergone screening on from Implementing Principles human rights and actions taken 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Actions Taken and Outcomes 95 actions taken from Implementing Principles 1, 2 and 6 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Actions Taken to Implement 95 freedom of association and collective bargaining Principles 1, 2 and 3 may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Actions Taken to Implement 96 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Principles 1, 2 and 5 contribute to the elimination of child labour Forced and Compulsory Labour * There is no COP requirement Sustainability Report 2011 115 GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Remarks Indicators HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Actions Taken to Implement 96 incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Principles 1, 2 and 4 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Society Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 120 Principles 10 Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts * 99 of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Outcomes from Implementing 97 analysed for risks related to corruption Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's 97 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Actions Taken to Implement 97 corruption Principle 10 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Actions Taken to Implement 97 policy development and lobbying Principles 1-10 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for * 97 non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 121 Principles 1 and 8 Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Actions Taken and Outcomes 107 impacts of products and services are assessed for from Implementing Principle 1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Products and Services labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required Actions Taken and Outcomes 109 by procedures, and percentage of significant from Implementing Principle 8 products and services subject to such information requirements Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing * 110 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations * 110 concerning the provision and use of products and services * There is no COP requirement Annexures Sustainability Report 2011 117 Management Approach ContextPlease refer to the ‘Report of the Directors Economic Performance and Management Discussion and Analysis’ PolicyThe Company’s commitment in the area of section of the Report and Accounts 2011 for a economic performance is encapsulated in its Vision detailed discussion on the business environment, statement, which is ‘to sustain ITC’s position as opportunities, key challenges, etc. pertaining to one of India’s most valuable corporations through each of the Company’s Businesses (available on world-class performance, creating growing www.itcportal.com). value for the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders’. ITC’s Mission is ‘to enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in Environmental Performance a globalising environment delivering superior and ITC strives to maximise natural resource usage sustainable stakeholder value’. efficiencies across its operations and also endeavors The Company’s strategy is to ensure that each of to create positive environmental externalities. its Businesses is world-class and internationally This is achieved by appropriate mechanisms such competitive in the Indian global market in the first as framing requisite policies, systems that verify instance and progressively in the offshore global compliance and a work environment that fosters markets. innovation. ITC, as a premier ‘Indian’ enterprise, consciously Focus areasThe Company focuses on the following exercises the strategic choice of contributing to aspects in its drive to continuously improve and securing the competitiveness of the entire environmental performance. value chain of which it is a part. This philosophy has shaped the Company’s approach to business into ‘a Moving beyond Statutory compliance – with respect commitment beyond the market’. to emissions, effluents and waste. A low carbon growth path – reduce specific energy Goals and PerformanceAt the enterprise level the consumption, increase contribution from renewable Company’s goals include energy sources and increase carbon sequestration. Sustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s most Maximise water usage efficiencies and rainwater valuable corporations. harvesting Achieving leadership in each of the Business Minimise waste generation, achieve 100% waste segments within a reasonable time frame. recycling and use external waste as raw material, Achieving a Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) in where possible. excess of the Company’s cost of capital, at all times. ResponsibilityIt is the overall responsibility of Please refer to the ‘Report of the Directors and the Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Chief Management Discussion and Analysis’ section Executives, through the members of their Divisional of the Report and Accounts 2011 (available on Management Committees, General Managers www.itcportal.com) for a detailed discussion on the and Unit Heads, to ensure implementation Company’s market standing in each of the business of Policies and Corporate Standards on segments. Environmental Performance, including institution 118 Annexures of various committees and designating specific disruptions in rainfall patterns as are anticipated responsibilities. due to climate change. The impact will be felt not only by the agri commodity business but The Corporate EHS Department is responsible for several other businesses like Cigarettes, Foods, reviewing and updating Corporate Standards on Paperboards, which are critically dependent on Environmental issues, verifying compliance and agri-supply chains for raw material. Accordingly providing guidance and support as required. the impact will be across a significant part of the supply chain. ManagementQuantified targets and objectives are defined for each business unit, to ensure Of all the approaches that address the complex progress on all applicable environmental aspects, inter-relationships between natural resources progress against which is reviewed through annual and their impact on agricultural productivity, the Corporate and 3rd party audits. Performance integrated watershed development approach has of each business unit is reviewed at the Central emerged as the most successful strategy. ITC has Management Committee level, which is the apex adopted this approach as the basis of its own model. management body for the organization. Reflecting its commitment to the Triple Bottom Line, ITC’s model converges its social and environmental AwardsThe large number of awards and goals with the demands of its supply chains. certifications listed in this Report are a testimony to ITC’s commitment and progress towards creating positive environmental externalities. Labour Practices and Decent Work Environment ContextITC Businesses have internalised good environmental practices and no instances of PolicyITC is committed to employee engagement statutory infringements have been recorded across that upholds individual dignity and respects human all businesses. Progress has also been recorded rights. ITC’s employment practices are premised on key aspects such as reduction in net carbon on attracting and retaining talent based only on intensity (increase in turnover and profits and merit. Its capability development agenda ensures further increase in sequestration over emissions), the deepening and enhancement of skills of all increase in rainwater harvesting potential created its employees through customised training and and improved waste recycling. development inputs. All ITC employees operate in a work environment that is benchmarked ITC will endeavour to extend these learning’s down internationally for the quality of its safety and the supply chain where we believe that significant health standards. opportunity to influence and change, exists. ITC understands that it is exposed to risks related ResponsibilityIt is the overall responsibility of the to climate change. Protection of our assets in Divisional Chief Executives, through the members coastal areas has been reinforced in anticipation of their Divisional Management Committees, of increased severity of storms and cyclones, Human Resources and EHS Functions, to ensure which may occur. Disruption in road and rail that employment and EHS practices in all units traffic by such extreme events may also affect are in accordance with the policy outlined above individual unit’s output, which has been taken and to ensure total compliance with all statutory care of by appropriate contingency and insurance provisions governing labour practices and decent plans. Higher surface temperatures (increased air work. Specific responsibilities are assigned to conditioning costs) and disruption in water supplies different individuals based on the roles being are other anticipated risks. ITC has started a performed by them. conscious movement towards green buildings by The Corporate Human Resources and EHS construction of the ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon functions are responsible for reviewing and which in 2004 was the largest platinum rated LEED updating standards and guidelines on labour certified building in the world. All new construction and EHS policies, employment practices, and for by ITC now incorporate validated green attributes providing guidance and support to all concerned. and efforts are underway to have existing buildings and factories also meet validated green norms. ManagementThe Company leadership ‘walking Our Agri Businesses accounts for a significant the talk’ and a relentless focus on implementing part of our turnover and these can be affected by the policy underline the Company’s approach to Sustainability Report 2011 119 employment practices and creating a decent work AwardsA number of awards for excellence in environment. Human Resources and EHS management and practices bear testimony to ITC’s commitment to The Human Resources and EHS functions of each Human Resource Development and EHS and to Business are the primary custodians of ITC’s labour best-in-class employment practices. and EHS policies and employment practices, the implementation of which is reviewed periodically ContextHigh standards of employment and EHS at the unit and the divisional levels. The Corporate practices enhance the Company’s performance, Human Resources and EHS functions provide help in the attraction and retention of quality specialist services to assist in the implementation talent, and enhance the equity of the Company as a and monitoring of the same. The multi-layered responsible employer. and multi-dimensional audit framework of the Company also helps in monitoring compliance with laid down policies and statutory regulations. Human Rights Training & AwarenessThe policy is shared with PolicyITC is committed to conducting business in employees and potential employees through a manner that reflects its high ethical standards. training programmes, communication sessions, It expects its employees and business partners the Company portal, intranet sites and preto subscribe and adhere to this philosophy, which placement presentations. Managers from HR, EHS honours all local laws and upholds the spirit of and Engineering departments are provided regular human rights as enshrined in existing international training for effective implementation of these standards such as the Universal Declaration and policies. the Fundamental Human Rights Conventions of the ILO. The Corporate Management Committee of the Monitoring & Follow-upThe HR and EHS Company has approved policies covering crucial resources of the Divisions regularly monitor human rights areas. ITC’s Human Rights policies progress to ensure proper implementation of these extend to all its operating sites. policies, while the Unit Heads and the Divisional Management Committees follow-up periodically ResponsibilityIt is the overall responsibility of the to ensure full compliance. The Corporate EHS Divisional Chief Executives, through the members Department undertakes regular audits of the units. of their Divisional Management Committees, General Managers and Unit Heads, to ensure ObjectivesThe primary objective is to nurture a implementation of these policies on human rights, culture of meritocracy amongst a committed and including designating individuals for specific enthusiastic workforce from diverse backgrounds. responsibilities with respect to their Division. In the pursuit of this objective, the following goals have been set for the next five years Corporate Human Resources is responsible for reviewing and updating standards on social All ITC’s units, which are already ‘beyond policies, and for providing guidance and support to compliance’ in all areas related to labour practices, all concerned. will continue to be so. ManagementThe Human Rights policies Ensure that the Company’s record of attraction and approved by the CMC provide guidelines for the retention of talent is superior to other companies in implementation of these policies and their periodic the comparative sample. review. Corporate HR provides specialist services Enable employees to perform to their fullest to assist in implementation and monitoring. potential to add value to the enterprise, nation and themselves. Training & AwarenessEmployees are provided with training on the Company’s Human Rights Enhance the Company’s employee value proposition policies at Induction Programmes. The policies are so that ITC retains its position as an employer of available on the Company’s website and intranet choice. portals. Endeavour to eliminate accidents and injuries both onsite and offsite. Monitoring & Follow-upThe HR resources of the Divisions ensure periodic follow-up to ensure 120 Annexures implementation. The Internal Audit function of ResponsibilityIt is the overall responsibility of the Company is charged with the responsibility of the Corporate Management Committee to ensure ensuring compliance. that its investments in the social sector are an integral part of the Company’s corporate strategy. ObjectiveThe Company’s primary objectives in the Division-level initiatives respond to local needs area of Human Rights performance and the goals and are monitored by the Divisional Management for the next five years are to ensure that Committees and implemented through their local units in conjunction with the Corporate Human All ITC’s operational Units are and will remain Resources Department. fully compliant with the Company’s Human Rights policies, premised on a zero tolerance guiding The Corporate Management Committee and principle towards such violations. the Divisional Management Committees are responsible for reviewing and updating Corporate All investment decisions will integrate Human Standards on social and cultural development, Rights considerations into the decision-making and updating standards and guidelines for work in process. these areas as well as for providing guidance and All ITC’s Business partners will follow and adhere support to all concerned. to the Human Rights policies that the Company upholds. ManagementThe Corporate Management Committee is the primary custodian of ITC’s ContextHigh standards on Human Rights enhance social initiatives. Implementation is reviewed the Company’s reputation and build its brand equity, periodically at the Unit, Divisional and the CMC thus helping it achieve the goal of operational levels. A dedicated team in the Corporate Human excellence. It gives ITC’s Business partners, Resources Department provides specialist services customers and other strategic stakeholders the to assist in implementation and monitoring of confidence of dealing with a value-driven Company. projects. The Units are responsible for responding It is a crucial value proposition that is offered to to specific needs spelt out by local communities potential employees to attract and retain talent and and implementation is monitored by the Divisional motivate employees to give their best. Management Committees. In discharging social responsibility projects, all applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Society Training & AwarenessEmployees engaged in PolicyAs a large Indian enterprise, ITC is uniquely social development initiatives are given regular positioned to contribute to public policy, which it training both to enhance their domain knowledge does through active participation in a number of and improve management skills. Society is made fora. Its size also enables it to influence the process aware of these projects and programmes through of development and contribute to sustainable the circulation of a brochure called ‘Transforming growth in the areas in which it operates, thereby Lives and Landscapes’. helping to transform the lives of a large number of people and communities. ITC’s objective of Monitoring & Follow-upRegular monitoring making a positive contribution to the society where and follow up is undertaken by Corporate Human it operates is served by aligning its own operations Resources. External accounting firms undertake with interventions and initiatives aimed at creating quarterly financial audits. External audit firms and sustainable livelihoods through farm and non-farm the Internal Audit function of the Company carry based activities. out system audits regularly. Striding a wider canvas in the interest of the nation, ObjectiveThe primary focus of ITC’s Social ITC is committed to ensuring the preservation of Development Initiatives is to create sustainable India’s unique cultural heritage through various sources of farm and off-farm livelihoods and to initiatives to promote, encourage and keep cultural improve the social infrastructure especially in traditions alive. areas where it impacts women and children. With such a diverse and critical social agenda, all In pursuit of these objectives, the following goals ITC employees have the obligation to display high have been set for the period 2010-15: levels of integrity and ethical behavior. Sustainability Report 2011 121 Bring atleast 1,00,000 hectares under soil and Product and Service LabellingAll ITC products moisture conservation practices. and services are in complete compliance with relevant statutory requirements addressing Transform atleast 1,50,000 hectares of wastelands these issues. An elaborate system of checks and into productive and revenue-generating assets for measures are in place to ensure that no violations the poor. occur. Create atleast 45,000 women entrepreneurs with a sustainable source of supplementary incomes. ComplianceAll ITC Businesses have wellestablished systems and procedures to Improve the genetic stock of atleast 10,00,000 cattle ensure compliance with statutory and internal through artificial insemination practices. requirements, concerning issues such as Customer Health & Safety, Product & Service labelling, Provide supplementary education support services marketing communications and Customer privacy. to atleast 5,00,000 children. International Quality Rating System (IQRS) for In its endeavour to preserve India’s cultural and Business Excellence, which rates key processes artistic heritage, ITC will also continue to ensure against international benchmarks, has already that its initiatives in the areas of preservation and been introduced in a number of businesses. promotion of Indian music, art and theatre are In addition, various other quality improvement strengthened. tools such as ‘Six Sigma’ initiatives have been integrated with the Quality Management Systems, ContextA high level of community involvement to further strengthen compliance. In addition there creates long term enduring partnerships that is a rigorous system of internal audits to ensure contribute to creating a stable environment for its compliance. operations. ITC’s commitment that extends beyond the market enhances the Company’s credibility in Goals & PerformanceITC continuously endeavours the minds of stakeholders and policy makers. ITC’s to provide its consumers products and services focus on Social Development and on preserving that are benchmarked to international quality India’s heritage is also a key element of its employee standards. Individual business performance on value proposition which helps in the attraction and ‘Product Responsibility’ is described elsewhere in retention of quality talent. the Report. ContextAll ITC products and services aspire to be Responsibility for Products best-in-class for their respective categories. These and Services aspirations are backed by extensive R&D efforts spearheaded by the in-house R&D resources. Management ApproachITC ensures that all Aspects influencing Health & Safety are factored in products and services offered to the consumer at the product / service design stage. ITC anticipates are in full compliance with all applicable national that social pressures towards responsible use standards and aspires to achieve best-in-class of tobacco will increase and ITC remains fully international standards on environmental impacts, committed to support this concern. The growing health and safety. trend towards voluntary disclosures points to an era of increasingly well informed consumers, Measures such as migration from solvent based which we think will create additional opportunities inks to water based inks in the Packaging and for products & services with authenticated Printing Business and replacing chlorine bleaching sustainability attributes. process with ozone bleaching in the Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business allows us, for example, to offer complete food grade packaging solutions, while having hotels, factories and offices comply with Green Building Standards and the National Building Code allows us to offer a green and safe environment for all our customers and employees. ITC continues its efforts on these aspects to achieve continual improvements in standards. 122 Annexures Policies and Guidelines Vision, Mission and We want individuals to dream, value differences, create and experiment in pursuit of opportunities Core Values and achieve leadership through teamwork. ExcellenceWe do what is right, do it well and win. ITC’s Vision We will strive for excellence in whatever we do. Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most valuable InnovationWe will constantly pursue newer corporations through world-class performance, and better processes, products, services and creating growing value for the Indian economy and management practices. the Company’s stakeholders. Nation OrientationWe are aware of our ITC’s Mission responsibility to generate economic value for the Nation. In pursuit of our goals, we will make no To enhance the wealth generating capability of the compromise in complying with applicable laws and enterprise in a globalising environment, delivering regulations at all levels. superior and sustainable stakeholder value. Corporate Governance PolicyITC defines ITC’s Core Values Corporate Governance as a systemic process by which companies are directed and controlled to ITC’s Core Values are aimed at developing a enhance their wealth-generating capacity. Since customer-focused, high-performance organisation large corporations employ a vast quantum of societal which creates values for all its stakeholders. resources, ITC believes that the governance process should ensure that these resources are utilised in TrusteeshipAs professional managers, we are a manner that meets stakeholders’ aspirations conscious that ITC has been given to us in ‘trust’ by and societal expectations. This belief is reflected in all our stakeholders. We will actualise stakeholder the Company’s deep commitment to contribute to value and interest on a long-term sustainable basis. the ‘Triple Bottom Line’, namely, the development, nurture and regeneration of the nation’s economic, Customer FocusWe are always customer-focussed social and environmental capital. and will deliver what the customer needs in terms of value, quality and satisfaction. ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, systems and processes are based on two core principles Respect for PeopleWe are result oriented, Management must have the executive freedom setting high performance standards for ourselves to drive the enterprise forward without undue as individuals and teams. We will simultaneously restraints; and respect and value people and uphold humanness and human dignity. We acknowledge that every This freedom of management should be exercised individual brings different perspectives and within a framework of effective accountability. capabilities to the team and that a strong team is founded on a variety of perspectives. ITC believes that any meaningful policy on Corporate Governance must empower the executive Sustainability Report 2011 123 management of the Company. At the same time, Governance must create a mechanism of checks ITC’s EHS Policy and balances to ensure that the decision-making ITC’s Mission is to sustain and enhance the wealthpowers vested in the executive management generating capacity of its portfolio of businesses are used with care and responsibility to meet in a progressively globalising environment. As one stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. of India’s premier corporations employing a vast From this definition and core principles of quantum of societal resources, ITC seeks to fulfil Corporate Governance emerge the cornerstones of a larger role by enlarging its contribution to the ITC’s governance philosophy, namely, trusteeship, society of which it is a part. The trusteeship role transparency, empowerment & accountability, related to social and environmental resources, control and ethical corporate citizenship. ITC aligned to the pursuit of economic objectives, is believes that the practice of each of these creates the cornerstone of ITC’s Environment, Health and the right corporate culture that fulfils the true Safety philosophy. ITC’s EHS philosophy cognises purpose of Corporate Governance. for the twin needs of conservation and creation of productive resources. The Policy Document that sets out the structure, policies and practices of governance is available on In the multi-business context of ITC, Corporate the Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com Strategies are designed to create enduring value for under the section ‘Our Values’. the nation and the shareholder, through leadership in each business and the attainment of world-class competitive capabilities across the value chain. ITC Code of Conduct The objective of leadership extends to all facets of business operations including Environment, Health The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the Board and Safety. of Directors, is applicable to Directors, senior management and employees of the Company. This ITC is, therefore, committed to conducting its Code is derived from three interlinked fundamental operations with due regard for the environment, principles, viz. good corporate governance, good and providing a safe and healthy workplace for corporate citizenship and exemplary personal each employee. Various international and national conduct. The Code covers ITC’s commitment to awards and accreditations stand testimony to ITC’s sustainable development, concern for occupational commitment to EHS. Such external recognition health, safety and environment, a gender friendly further reinforces the need to direct the collective workplace, transparency and auditability, legal endeavour of the Company’s employees at all levels compliance, and the philosophy of leading by towards sustaining and continuously improving personal example. Any instance of non-adherence standards of Environment, Health and Safety in a to the Code or any other observed unethical bid to attain and exceed benchmarked standards, behaviour on the part of those covered under whether regulatory or otherwise. the Code is to be brought to the attention of the immediate reporting authority, who, in turn, should In particular, it is ITC’s EHS policyTo contribute to report the same to the Head of Corporate Human sustainable development through the establishment Resources. The Code is available on the Company’s and implementation of environment standards that corporate website. are scientifically tested and meet the requirement of relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice. ITC Code of Conduct for To take account of environment, occupational Prevention of Insider Trading health and safety in planning and decisionmaking. ITC has a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading (‘ITC Code’) in the securities of To provide appropriate training and disseminate the Company. The ITC Code, inter alia, prohibits information to enable all employees to accept purchase/sale of securities of the Company by individual responsibility for Environment, Health directors and employees while in possession of and Safety, implement best practices, and work unpublished price sensitive information in relation in partnership to create a culture of continuous to the Company. The ITC Code is available on the improvement. Company’s corporate website. 124 Annexures To instil a sense of duty in every employee portals. Unionised employees at the concerned towards personal safety, as well as that of others units are informed of all major changes well in who may be affected by the employee’s actions. advance through their representatives. To provide and maintain facilities, equipment, The responsibility for the implementation of the operations and working conditions which are policy rests with the Unit’s Human Resources safe for employees, visitors and contractors at Department in the case of unionised employees the Company’s premises. and with the concerned Divisional Management Committees for other employees. To ensure safe handling, storage, use and disposal of all substances and materials that The employees are given enough time to consider are classified as hazardous to health and the implications of change and an opportunity environment. to discuss their apprehensions, if any, with the management. The Policy is actualised through To reduce waste, conserve energy, and promote consultative meetings with representatives recycling of materials wherever possible. of employees, culminating in joint minutes/ To institute and implement a system of regular agreements. EHS audit in order to assure compliance with laid down policy, benchmarked standards, and Monitoring & AuditingCompliance with the Policy requirements of laws, regulations and applicable is regularly monitored by the Unit Head. codes of practice. To proactively share information with business Policy on HIV/AIDS partners towards inculcating world-class EHS PolicyThe Company’s policy on HIV/AIDS with standards across the value chain of which ITC is regard to its employees will, at a minimum, comply a part. with all relevant Central and State legislations and the Company will implement all policies and All employees of ITC are expected to adhere to directives of the Government regarding HIV/AIDS and comply with the EHS Policy and Corporate whenever issued. Standards on EHS. The Company will provide to all its employees ITC’s EHS Policy extends to all sites of the sensitive, accurate and the latest information about Company. It will be the overall responsibility of risk reduction strategies in their personal lives, the Divisional/SBU Chief Executives, through with the objective of reducing the stigma of HIV/ the members of their Divisional Management AIDS, encouraging safe behaviour and improving Committees, General Managers and Unit Heads, to understanding of treatment. The Company ensure implementation of this Policy and Corporate is committed to providing a safe and healthy Standards on EHS, including formation of various workplace to all its employees. It is the Company’s committees and designating individuals for specific objective that employees will have access to health responsibilities in respect of their Division/SBU. services to prevent and manage HIV/AIDS. The Corporate EHS Department is responsible for The Company will not discriminate against any reviewing and updating Corporate Standards on employee infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to EHS, and for providing guidance and support to all promotions, training and other privileges and concerned. benefits as applicable to all employees. All HIV positive employees will be allowed to continue to Significant Changes work in their jobs unless (a) medical conditions interfere with the specific job being done, in which PolicyAll major changes in operations, involving case reasonable alternative working arrangements work processes, manning norms and other will be made; or (b) the employee is incapacitated productivity linked issues are implemented after to perform his/her duties and is declared medically discussions with the employees and the recognised unfit by a medical doctor, in which case the unions at each location. employee will be assisted to rehabilitate himself/ herself outside the Company. ImplementationBusiness plans are shared with employees at all units through a series of The Company will not make pre-employment HIV/ communication meetings, and through the intranet AIDS screening mandatory as part of its fitnessSustainability Report 2011 125 to-work assessment. Screening of this kind refers human rights, safety, health, labour practices and to direct methods (HIV testing), indirect methods environment in their operations as practiced by the (assessment of risk behaviour), and questions Company. about HIV tests already taken. HIV/AIDS test will not be part of the annual health check-up unless ImplementationThe responsibility for specifically requested for by an employee. implementation of this policy rests with the Divisional Chief Executive/SBU Head of the Voluntary testing for HIV/AIDS, when requested concerned Business. for by the employee, will be carried out by private or community health services and not at the Monitoring & AuditingThe Internal Audit function workplace. There will be no obligation on the part of of ITC conducts periodic audits to ensure that such the employees to inform the Company about their clauses form part of the investment contracts clinical status in relation to HIV/AIDS. Information signed during the audit period. on clinical diagnosis of an employees’ status in terms of his/her HIV/AIDS status, if advised to the Company, will be kept strictly confidential. Prevention of Discrimination at Workplace ImplementationThis policy is publicly available throughout the Company and clearly communicated PolicyITC’s approach to its human resources is to all employees in a manner in which it can be premised on the fundamental belief of fostering understood through induction programmes, policy meritocracy in the organisation, which promotes manuals and intranet portals. diversity and offers equality of opportunity to all employees. ITC does not engage in or support The responsibility for the implementation of the direct or indirect discrimination in recruitment, policy rests with the Unit Human Resources compensation, access to training, promotion, Departments. A report is provided to the Divisional termination or retirement based on caste, religion, Head on such programmes. disability, gender, age, race, colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious, or Monitoring & AuditingCompliance with the Policy union organisation or a minority group. is regularly monitored by the Unit Head. Implementation--The policy is communicated to all Human Rights Consideration in employees through induction programmes, policy manuals and intranet portals. The custodian of this Significant Investments policy is the Divisional Chief Executive or the SBU Head of each Business. PolicyITC’s commitment to human rights extends to all its significant investment decisions in order The speedy resolution of formal complaints is to ensure integration of statutory compliance, premised on the freedom of employees to approach environmental, occupational health and safety, higher officials in case the issue is not settled at human rights and progressive labour policies into the level of his/her immediate superior. The salient business decision-making processes. features of the issue and steps taken towards its resolution are minuted. For the unionised ImplementationThe custodian of this policy is employees, compliance with the policy is ensured the Divisional Chief Executive/SBU Head of the through a robust grievance handling procedure and concerned Business. the presence of a union that is expected to bring violations to the notice of the Unit HR Head. Monitoring & AuditingThe Internal Audit function of ITC conducts periodic checks to ensure that such Monitoring & AuditingThe accountability for clauses form part of investment contracts signed the application of this policy rests with the Unit during the audit period. Head who reviews anti-discriminatory complaints annually or on a case-by-case basis. The HR department of the Division/SBU reports annually Human Rights Consideration on incidents of discrimination, if any, to the SBU Across the Supply Chain Head or the Divisional Chief Executive. Corporate Human Resources conducts non-discrimination PolicyITC endeavours to ensure that all its service reviews annually on a sample basis with Unit Heads providers/vendors incorporate high standards of and through on-site assessments. 126 Annexures Employment contracts and other records, Freedom of Association documenting all relevant details of the employees, PolicyITC respects the employees’ right to organise including age, are maintained at all units and are themselves into interest groups, independent open to verification by any authorised personnel or from supervision by the management. In keeping relevant statutory body. with the spirit of this policy, employees are not The unit provides an annual report on all reported, discriminated against for exercising this right. if any, incidents of child or forced labour to the functional head. ImplementationThe policy is communicated to all employees through induction programmes, policy Monitoring & AuditingCorporate Internal manuals and intranet portals. The custodian of this Audit and EHS departments undertake audit and policy is the HR Head of each operational unit who assessment annually. Corporate Human Resources reports directly to the Unit Head on such issues. undertakes random checks of records annually. The employees are informed of these rights by the unions who solicit their support to represent them formally before the management. Prevention of Corruption at Workplace Monitoring & AuditingEach ITC Unit has appropriate systems to ensure compliance with PolicyAll employees of ITC have the obligation the Policy and statutory provisions, including to conduct themselves in an honest and ethical means for filing of grievances, collective bargaining manner and act in the best interest of the Company agreements and minutes of worker meetings. The at all times. They are expected to demonstrate HR department of the concerned Unit submits exemplary personal conduct. All employees of annual reports to the functional head in cases ITC must avoid situations in which their personal of identified incidents of violation of freedom of interest could conflict with the interest of the association and collective bargaining. Divisional Company. Conflict, if any, must be disclosed to the and Corporate HR regularly monitor compliance higher management for guidance and action. All with the Policy. Corporate HR compiles these on employees must ensure that their actions in the a half-yearly basis and reports to the Corporate conduct of business are totally transparent. Management Committee. ImplementationThe strong corporate governance Prohibition of Child and process of the Company creates the environment for the formulation of robust internal systems and Forced Labour procedures in a structured manner for the conduct of the Company’s Business. An effective policy PolicyITC does not employ any person below for prevention of corruption is actualised through the age of eighteen years at the workplace. ITC appropriate policies, systems and processes such as prohibits the use of forced or compulsory labour at the delegated authority structure as per Corporate all its units. No employee is made to work against Governance policies, segregation of duties, tiered his/her will or work as bonded/forced labour, or approval mechanisms, the involvement of more subject to corporal punishment or coercion of any than one manager in key decisions and maintenance type related to work. of supporting records. ImplementationThis policy is publicly available All ITC managers are provided with adequate throughout the Company and clearly communicated training inputs to be aware of the systems and to all employees in a manner in which it can be procedures and to ensure compliance. understood through induction programmes, policy manuals and intranet portals. The workers are The custodian of this policy is the Corporate informed of these rights by the trade unions active Management Committee, the Divisional Chief at each unit. Executives/SBU Heads and Heads of departments. A core responsibility of the DMCs is to put in The implementation of the policy is the responsibility place appropriate control and risk management of the Unit’s HR Department and the security staff mechanisms to ensure that businesses are who do not permit minors to enter the factory as conducted as per the Governance Policy and the workers. Company’s Code of Professional Conduct. The Sustainability Report 2011 127 Divisional Chief Executives/SBU Heads provide confirmation of compliance with the laid down systems and procedures. Monitoring & AuditingThe Company remains committed to ensuring an effective internal control environment that provides assurance on potential risks. ITC’s well-established and robust internal audit processes continuously monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment across the Company. Weaknesses or noncompliance, if any, are identified during the audit process for rectification, thereby providing crucial inputs for continuous improvements in the systems and procedures. Significant issues, if any, are brought to the notice of the Audit Committee together with the progress made for resolution. Confirmations given by the businesses to the Board are independently verified by Internal Audit as per the directions of the Audit Committee. e-Waste Management ObjectiveITC's achievements across all three dimensions of the 'Triple Bottom Line' economic, social and environmental is well known and recognised globally. Being a pioneer in environmentally sustainable operations (e.g Carbon and Water positive , Solid Waste Recycling positive), we need to meet demanding standards of responsible waste management in all aspects of our operations. ITC's approach on e-waste is to comply fully with Government of India's directives as enunciated in the e-Waste (Management and Handling) Rules 2011. An internal audit process by Corporate EHS ensures compliance. 128 Annexures Memberships & Affiliations Agricultural & Processed Foods Export Coffee Board Development Authority Coffee Exporters Association All India Food Processors Association Coimbatore Management Association All India Management Association Coimbatore Productivity Council All India Rice Exporters Association Confederation of Indian Industry All India Spices Exporters Forum Eastern India Shippers Association Andhra Chamber of Commerce Ecotourism Society of India Apparel Export Promotion Council Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Asian Packaging Federation Commerce and Industry Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry Federation of Biscuits Manufacturers Association of India Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Uttar Pradesh Federation of Hotels & Restaurants Association of India Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce Federation of Indian Export Organisations Bangalore Management Association Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industry Bihar Industries Association Federation of Industries and Commerce of North Bihar State Productivity Council Eastern Region Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce & Industry Bombay Management Association Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce Bureau of Indian Standards & Industry Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce & Federation of Madhya Pradesh Chambers of Industries Commerce & Industry Central Food Technology Research Institute Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry Chemicals & Plastics Export Council of India Guwahati Management Association Coal Consumers Association Hotel Association of India Cochin Chamber of Commerce & Industry Indian Association of Tour Operators Sustainability Report 2011 129 Indian Chamber of Commerce Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce Coimbatore National Council of Applied Economic Research Indian Coffee Trade Association National Safety Council Indian Confectionery Manufacturers Association Oil Technologists’ Association of India Indian Green Building Council Pacific Asia Travel Association Indian Industries Association Paper Film and Foil Converters Association Indian Institute of Packaging PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry Indian Merchants’ Chamber Protein Food and Nutrition Development Indian Oil & Produce Exporters Association Association of India Indian Paper Manufacturers Association Retailers Association of India Indian Printing Packaging and Allied Machinery Seafood Exporters Association of India Manufacturers Association Snack Foods Association Indian Spices & Foodstuff Exporters Association Solvent Extractors Association of India Indian Society of Advertising Soyabean Processors Association of India Indian Soap & Toiletries Makers’ Association Spice Board Indian Tobacco Association Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers Association Indian Wind Power Association Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Indo American Chamber of Commerce Industry Indo Australian Chamber of Commerce The Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry Indo German Chamber of Commerce The Central Organisation for Oil Industry and Trade Institute of Directors The United Planters’ Association of Southern International Chamber of Commerce India International Life Science Institute The Utkal Chamber of Commerce & Industry International Market Assessment India Limited The Visakhapatnam Chamber of Commerce & International Packaging Group Industry Karnataka Planters Association Travel Agents Association of India Kerala Management Association U.S. Green Building Council Leatherhead Food International, UK West Bengal State Productivity Council Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry Western UP Chamber of Commerce & Industry Madras Management Association World Travel & Tourism Council India Initiative Madras Printers and Lithographers Association World Wide Fund Global Forest and Trade Network Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture Marine Products Export Development Authority 130 Independent Assurance Statement from Ernst & Young Independent Assurance Statement from Ernst & Young The Management and Board of Directors ITC Limited Virginia House Kolkata 700071, India. Ernst & Young Pvt. Ltd. (EY) was retained by ITC Limited (the Company ) to provide an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report 2011 (the Report ), limited to the social and environmental information therein. ITC’s management is responsible for the content of the Report, identification of the key issues, engagement with stakeholders and its presentation. EY’s responsibility is to provide assurance on the Report content, as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Company only, and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Assurance Standard The assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). Our evidence-gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we base our conclusions. Scope of Assurance and Methodology The scope of our work for this assurance is limited to review of information pertaining to environment and social performance for the period of 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011, in 10 selected representative Units from various Businesses of the Company and Head office, Kolkata, which are material to the Company’s Triple Bottom Line performance, as below: ITD ( Tobacco Division) – Bengaluru FBD ( Foods Division ) – Haridwar PCPB ( Personal Care Products Business) – Haridwar Hotels – ITC Maurya, New Delhi & ITC Gardenia, Bengaluru PPB (Packaging and Printing Business ) – Haridwar PSPD (Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division) – Bhadrachalam & Kovai ILTD ( Leaf Tobacco Division) Anaparti ITC Infotech India Limited Bengaluru Sustainability Report 2011 131 EY’s multidisciplinary team of professionals visited the Company’s above manufacturing units in order to review and verify the data and information presented in the Report, on core G3 indicators listed below: EN 1: Material consumption by weight and volume EN 3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN 4: Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source EN 8: Total water withdrawal by source EN 16: Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight EN 20: SOX, NOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN 21: Total water discharge by quality, and destination EN 22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method LA 1: Total workforce LA7: Safety performance (Fatality, reportable injury and man-days lost) LA 10: Training manhours per employee category SO 1: Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impact of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting SO 2: Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risk related to corruption SO 5: Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying HR 1: Percentage and total number of significant investments agreements that include human rights screening The nature and scope of our work was based on our professional judgment and we have performed procedures deemed necessary to provide a basis for our conclusions. The approach to the assurance exercise included interaction with key personnel to identify the processes in place to capture sustainability performance data and information as per GRI 2006 (GRI-G3) guidelines. The team conducted review and verification of data collection process, measurement methodology and general review of the logic of inclusion/omission of necessary information/data to: Review of major anomaly within the Report as well as between the Report and source data/information; Verification of the transcription of data internally verified by the Company; Execution of audit trail of selected data streams and information to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation processes followed; Review of the reliability of the information, assessing related controls and their operating effectiveness; Review of the Company’s plans, policies and practices, pertaining to their social, environmental and sustainable development. Limitations of our engagement The assurance scope excludes: Aspects of the Report other than those mentioned above; Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011); The Company’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and national or global socio-economic and environmental aspects; Data and information on economic and financial performance of the Company, which are from the Company’s audited financial records. 132 Independent Assurance Statement from Ernst & Young Conclusion On the basis of our procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance, we conclude that in our opinion: The Company has presented, in a fairly balanced, accurate and complete manner, the information pertaining to Environment, Occupational Health & Safety and Social parameters on the GRI indicators pertaining to material consumption, energy, water consumption and discharge, GHG emissions, wastes, safety performance and social programmes. Observations The initiatives on carbon sequestration, waste recycling, creating rainwater harvesting potential and creating sustainable livelihoods demonstrate the Company’s commitment on these key sustainability issues. The Company’s carbon positive status is based on improvements in specific energy consumption, increasing share of energy from renewable resources and sequestration of CO2 emissions through social and farm forestry initiatives. The water positive status is based on net water consumption vis-à-vis rain water harvesting potential created through rainwater harvesting structures. Waste recycling positive status of the Company is by recycling of wastes generated out of their operations and external wastes used as raw material. During our review, we understood that the company has a well structured data management system, and as a process of improvement, is taking up initiatives to further strengthen its robustness, reporting protocols and review mechanisms for data related to sustainability performance. Ernst & Young Private Limited Sudipta Das Partner September 20, 2011 Kolkata Sustainability Report 2011 133 Application Level A+ Standard Disclosure G3 Performance IndicaG3 Management Approch tors & Sectors SupG3 Profile Disclosures Disclosures plement Performance Indicators Output Output Output Reported on Management Approch Responded on each 1.1 1.2 disclosed for each core G3 indicator with 2.1 2.10 Indicator categpry due regard to Materiality 3.1 3.13 Principle by either 4.1 4.17 a) reporting on the indicator, or b) explaining the reason for its omission Report Externally Assured by Ernst & Young
