Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Opportunities for all What’s inside this report? 04 At the heart of the Africa Group Aligning 06 Diversity means business CR with our business Building a high goals performance culture 08 Social mobility Raising aspirations 10 Access for all Creating opportunities for all stakeholders 12 Community Access to justice 13 Community Access to finance 16 Environment Cleaner technology p02 Managing Partner David Childs and Senior p10 Community: Partner Malcolm Sweeting give an overview of the Our efforts to improve access to justice, to finance firm’s performance during 2010/11. They outline our and to education strategic CR direction, and explain how we are managing responsibility. p16 Environment: Steps we are taking ourselves and with clients to p03 UN Global compact contribute to a more sustainable business environment p04 Our CR strategy in action Harnessing CR in Africa p18 Looking forward and back p06 People: Our targets and progress How we are developing our people and increasing diversity in our firm p20 GRI Index Opportunities for all Our CR strategy creates opportunities to work together with our clients and as one firm. By engaging with individuals, groups and organisations where we have something of value to offer and where our efforts can make a difference, we enrich our own professional and personal experience and we strengthen our ties to one another and to our clients. In this, our fourth Corporate responsibility report, we provide a snapshot of some of the very many activities taking place every day across our firm and review our progress against the CR goals that are central to Clifford Chance’s culture. About the firm 37 58,368 Clifford Chance is one of the world’s leading law firms, with legal resources across the key markets of the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East pro bono and volunteering hours and, soon, in Africa. by partners or staff Our ambition is to become the leader of clients worked with us across the elite group of international law firms that 20 or more offices £1,219m £17.8m we believe will emerge in the coming years. This requires unrelenting investment in our strategic goals. We want to be the law firm of choice for all of our clients, working revenues up 2% on 2009/10 time cost value of lawyers’ pro bono alongside them to achieve their goals and and community hours helping them to compete more successfully in their local markets and around the world. This Corporate responsibility report and our Annual review are also available at www.cliffordchance.com Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Cover image courtesy of Build Africa. Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 01 Overview Senior and Managing Partners’ introduction Opportunities for all I n our most recent Annual review we Two years ago, for instance, we outlined an concentrate on the opportunities open to aspiration to double the proportion of women our clients and, as a result, to our firm in in the partnership to 30% from around 15%. a changing world. While there is still some way to go before we In this, our fourth Corporate achieve that, one-third of the lawyers that we responsibility (CR) report, we also focus promoted to the partnership in 2010/11 were on opportunities: considering how the women. investments we make in support of our We have also performed strongly versus wider social responsibilities open up our targets for the environment as well as for possibilities for a broader set of stakeholders. pro bono and volunteering, which totalled We look at the opportunities we are more than 58,000 hours during 2010/11. Malcolm Sweeting Senior Partner putting in place for people to build their skills There is never room for complacency, and develop their careers. We provide details as events during the year demonstrated. of the opportunities we are creating for The earthquake in Japan devastated communities to access the basic necessities communities there. Clifford Chance provided of life. We also highlight where we are financial help and we are proud of how our advising clients on seizing the opportunities network came together to support presented by clean technology and colleagues in Tokyo, who maintained renewable energy, while we seek greater continuity of service to clients throughout energy efficiency in our own operations. the disaster. The consistency of our focus on No doubt there will be new challenges these three areas – people, community, and opportunities in the year ahead but our environment – is enabling us to increase clear strategy, robust financials and strong the alignment between our business governance equip us to meet these with David Childs Managing Partner strategy and our corporate responsibility confidence. In the meantime, we continue programme. For example, we are finding to build a global corporate responsibility more opportunities to partner with clients programme that is among the best in in giving others a chance. Last year, we our industry. Our progress, in no small part, worked with 19 clients on 31 pro bono or is down to the hard work of members of community outreach collaborations. the firm. We thank them for their support, The inaugural Clifford Chance Access to enthusiasm and unflinching commitment. Justice Award also featured a panel of clients who judged a high number of quality entries We welcome your feedback on any before awarding £50,000 and 500 pro bono part of this report: please contact us hours to PLACE in Sudan (see page 13). at crfeedback@cliffordchance.com. We maintain a strong commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact (see page 3) and are pleased to report good progress against our CR targets (see page 18). 02 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Global CR highlights The Clifford Chance Foundation donated Our Washington, DC office achieved the Launches, landmarks and £1.6m to 129 charities across Africa, high benchmark for sustainability, with the the Americas, Asia‑Pacific, Europe and LEED Gold Award. achievements from our global the Middle East. CR programme in 2010/11 We launched two new channels for 58,368 pro bono and volunteering hours shaping our community support, Clifford included: invested globally in supporting CR goals. Chance Access to Justice Award and Clifford Chance Intelligent Aid. The Clifford Chance Academy celebrated 10 years of training and development. Clifford Chance Corporate Responsibility Awards support and recognise We marked the 30th anniversary of our achievement in a CR programme that Hong Kong office with donations to creates opportunities for all. 30 local charities in Hong Kong. Business and Human Rights A matter of Principles Clifford Chance has contributed to work “As a member of the United Nations London partner Rae Lindsay serves as a behind the UN’s Guiding Principles on Global Compact, Clifford Chance has member of the UK Equality and Human Rights Business and Human Rights. made a commitment to embrace, support Commission’s Working Group on Business These will have far-reaching implications and enact, within our sphere of influence, and Human Rights. for the way business is done in the future. a set of core values in the areas of human As a corporate partner of the International Activity of this type goes to the heart rights, labour standards, the environment Business Leaders Forum, our London office of our commitment to the UN Global and anti-corruption. Most importantly, hosted ‘Countdown to 2011’, a series of three Compact, and is one component of our under Principle 1 of the Global Compact, events organised by the IBLF, together with international efforts to support the rule of we have agreed to support and respect Amnesty International and the UK Equality and law and the protection of human rights. the protection of internationally Human Rights Commission. These events proclaimed human rights.” Professor John Ruggie was appointed as the brought together a diverse range of companies Special Representative of the UN Secretary In line with the Global Compact Human Rights and stakeholders from NGOs, academia, General on the issue of business and human Management Framework we have been intergovernmental organisations and rights in 2005. Clifford Chance’s active support working to build relationships with other governments to explore the implications of for Professor Ruggie’s mandate has included stakeholders towards supporting and each pillar of the ‘Protect, Respect, and the provision of pro bono advice on a diverse respecting human rights. We have kept our Remedy’ framework. range of domestic and international legal clients informed of developments in relation Through our support of Advocates for issues. to business and human rights, including the International Development, we are playing a On 16 June 2011, the United Nations Human publication of the Guiding Principles and the leading role in educating lawyers on how Rights Council voted unanimously to endorse revised OECD Guidelines for Multinational business and human rights is relevant to their the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Enterprises. day-to-day legal practice. Rights, which marked the culmination of In addition: We support the promotion and protection of Professor Ruggie’s mandate, and a major the human rights of individuals and groups contribution to the operationalisation of his As a major benefactor of the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law, we are supporting the through pro bono legal work, volunteering and ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework, funding from the Clifford Chance Foundation – previously endorsed by the Human Rights maintenance, development and promotion of the rule of law, which is of fundamental both directly and through relevant NGOs. Council. importance for the human dignity and In the run up to the vote on the Guiding well‑being of people everywhere. Principles, we had sent an open letter to Professor Ruggie expressing support for the We are collaborating with the British Institute Guiding Principles and the hope that they of International and Comparative Law (BIICL) would be positively received by the Member on research relating to human rights States of the Human Rights Council. responsibilities in oil and gas operations. This research has been sponsored by the Association of International Petroleum Negotiators. Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 03 F or Clifford Chance’s Africa opportunity and aspiration to communities to have a strong, positive influence on Group, helping clients that enjoy and benefit from working alongside the way multinationals operate across achieve their goals in Africa the Clifford Chance team. Africa and beyond. The steps we take in goes hand-in-hand with The community initiatives we are involved local communities are no less important. support for sustainable in address a broad, related, aim: to improve In Giseyeni, northern Rwanda, for example, community initiatives, as the access to the basic necessities of life for we are helping a handful of orphans at team harnesses corporate people in Africa. They often combine the Noel Orphanage to achieve a better responsibility in a series of hands-on volunteering opportunities for start in life. impactful collaborations. members of the firm with financial support Hearing about the impact of what Africa is a place of phenomenal spirit and from the Clifford Chance Foundation. we do can be very humbling. energy. Every day that energy is translated Much activity features sustainable “Financing my studies was the best gift into deal-making and investment projects education ventures for a new generation that you could have given me, which is why in countries across the continent – of African lawyers, improving skill sets, I held on to it so tightly,” says Agostinho opportunities that Clifford Chance has been governance and the quality of legal services Madjedje, one of 25 students from rural helping clients with for more than 30 years. in the regions in which they are based areas of southern Mozambique to receive Investment in Africa’s long-term development through training and development, Clifford Chance Foundation-funded is integral to the work that we do there. secondments, scholarships, and scholarships for higher education. It deepens our understanding and experience infrastructure projects. The Fundación Mozambique Sur students of Africa’s culture and environment, bringing The initiatives range in scale. The firm’s were selected based on their strong work advising on the UN Business and performance in secondary school and Human Rights Principles (see page 3) is set their socio-economic deprivation. At the heart of the Africa Group Clifford Chance’s Africa Group is harnessing corporate responsibility in a series of collaborations that go to the heart of the team’s business goals. 04 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Agostinho continues, “I have overcome The Foundation has supported the work of We are providing continued support for the various obstacles, but despite this, words like 28 non-governmental organisations in Africa Centre for Legal Studies in Malawi, which ‘quit’ or ‘backdown’ were never part of my with a total of £541,757 in the past two years. provides post-academic legal education vocabulary. What I want most is to continue to Malawian lawyers, with a focus on For several years we have provided to be able to go to school, but at a more commercial law. Clifford Chance lawyers additional, significant funding and support advanced level… and one day be able to have been assisting in the delivery of the to Avocats Sans Frontières France, which do with others what you have done for me.” Centre’s transaction-based programme. carries out a lot of access to justice work Inspired by Agostinho, we will draw in Francophone Africa. Lawyers have been The team is heavily involved in the on his energy and spirit to create new seconded to Nigeria to work on a project recently formed School of Law in opportunities for many more like him. involving judicial assistance for victims of Tanganyika, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania as Working in Africa from coast to coast torture and training on the United Nations part of the International Lawyers Project. Convention Against Torture to Nigerian From Maghreb and non-Maghreb North We collaborate closely with the judicial actors. The pro bono commitment Africa to Southern Africa, from Anglophone International Law Book Facility and have of ASFF lawyers resulted in the establishment and Francophone West Africa to the Indian collected legal textbooks in English, French of case law recognising torture as a Ocean Islands, Lusophone and East Africa, and Portuguese for universities in Angola, prohibited practice. we are using our skills and experience to Benin, Senegal, the Ivory Coast, Morocco help others. Notably, an access to justice initiative and South Africa. in Africa (see page 13) received the inaugural The following examples outline the reach of Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award the work that we carry out: 2010 of £50,000 and 500 pro bono hours. Using our finance expertise to implement bridge funding in support of timely malaria net purchases in Zambia (see the case study on page 14). This image: We are investing, through the Clifford Chance Foundation, in Build Africa’s construction of three new classrooms and an administration office at Okula Primary School in the Kumi District of Uganda. Image courtesy of Build Africa Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 05 People Building a high performance culture At Clifford Chance we have set our sights high: we need to draw on the best talent available and establish a culture that encourages, supports and enables performance at world-class standards. Diversity means business O ur Principles, our A diversity of perspectives is also an essential People strategy and ingredient for providing the best advice to our CR strategy all our clients. Our clients increasingly expect place significant us to field teams which reflect their own emphasis on diversity diverse organisations and international and development. spread of business interests. Moreover, it is We are proud of the clear to us that ‘group think’ is not productive diversity of the firm, in finding innovative solutions to today’s and the benefits it legal and business challenges. The greater brings to our decision-making capability and the variety of views and experiences we our breadth of knowledge. We know that we can bring to the table, the more likely need to continue to foster, encourage and we are to develop the critical insight and develop a diverse range of skills, talents and analysis needed to tackle the most backgrounds in order to retain our challenging issues. competitive edge. We also need the means for harnessing Diversity is business critical. Our our diversity of talent and perspectives in business model is dependent on our ability a manner which can be delivered to clients. to recruit and retain outstanding individuals: Therefore, in order to deliver legal advice people who combine strong technical to the highest standard, we must provide expertise, business acumen, collegiality a consistent and uniform framework and and cultural and market knowledge. To build tools for working with, and supporting, high performing teams, we need to look our clients. This means a common set of as widely as we possibly can for individuals Clifford Chance standards, templates, best who can continue to augment the firm’s practice guidance, global Academy courses capabilities, and to ensure that our and Principles. Continued › processes welcome and encourage people regardless of their background, ethnic origin, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation or age. 06 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Gender representation Diversity: Gender balance 14.5% Building a diverse partnership of partners are female 49.0% In 2009 we announced our ambition that our events which aim to give more junior lawyers of lawyers are female partnership should more closely reflect the the opportunity to hear from male and female make up of our associate population, most particularly in terms of gender. At that time, partners in the firm about their path to partnership, how they manage the demands 68.4% we set ourselves the target that 30% of our of a high-pressure role and the associated of business services are female partners should be women. rewards. In France and Germany, formal Since then, gender balance has been a groups have been put together to examine Ethnic minorities core area of focus for the firm’s most senior the specific challenges within those markets, leadership. A number of steps have been the success of actions taken to date, such as the crèche at our Frankfurt office, and to Partners* taken to help us secure progress, from training plan further steps that need to be taken. on unconscious bias to transparency of information around the recognition and Bearing in mind the significant effort expended 4.7% 5.4% promotion of talent (more information is to date, it was pleasing to see such a healthy NY/Washington DC London available in last year’s CR report). improvement in the number of women promoted from the associate ranks this year. Lawyers* We have continued to reinforce our efforts this One-third of the 23 new partners were women, year. In addition to the firm-wide activities that have now been put in place, individual offices including four in our fast-growing Asia region, where women represent approximately one 28.3% 13.7% in our network have also been considering NY/Washington DC London what they can do to better promote gender quarter of the partnership. However, while this was most certainly a positive development, Business Services* balance locally while respecting the firm’s strongly meritocratic culture. In London, this we remain focused on securing a sustainable has taken the form of an active programme of improvement. This issue will continue to require our attention over the years to come. 42.8% 11.2% NY/Washington DC London *Self-reporting as ethnic minority Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 07 People Supporting the development of the individual is another feature of a high performance Diversity: Social mobility culture. We believe that for everyone in the firm to achieve their best, we need to be clear in our expectations, transparent and Encouraging objective in how we monitor and manage social mobility in the UK performance and strongly supportive in developing the necessary expertise and capabilities. This is why the firm has rolled out globally consistent appraisal processes for all our partners, lawyers and business services teams. Our people are ambitious and strive to succeed. We encourage this. We want to create a culture based on people developing every year they are with us, learning new skills and taking on new responsibilities. One of the major attractions of the firm is The question of social mobility is high on Work with children at primary school level the opportunity for a top-flight international the agenda in many markets and nowhere to support their literacy and numeracy career, with exposure to the most complex more so than in the UK. In recent years, development, providing over 70 volunteers and demanding work, for the world’s leading access to the professions has been a week to read or play numbers games. organisations. To operate at this level highlighted as a particular issue, with requires an unflinching focus on quality Government papers noting a certain Work to encourage local secondary school and on developing abilities to meet those homogeneity of background among the students to aspire to careers in the City. demands. Responsibility for this is shared ranks of junior lawyers in the UK’s leading Our ‘raising aspiration’ days hosted some between the firm and every one of our legal institutions. 550 students last year alone, through our people. It is up to the individual to take the We take this issue seriously. own dedicated programmes as well as lead in developing their career within Clifford Our emphasis is on finding the best talent. working with carefully chosen organisations Chance, and the role of the firm is to support But we understand that identifying that such as Pathways to Law, The Social them wherever possible. talent is not simply a matter of fair and Mobility Foundation, Black Lawyers Directory open recruitment processes. It is also a and Pure Potential. question of ensuring that talent is fostered within schools and that the most able Provide secondary school mentoring for students, regardless of background, aspire approximately 150 students with partners to the best career opportunities and are such as African Caribbean Diversity, Career encouraged to pursue their goals. Academies UK and Clare Partnership for This belief in ‘raising aspirations’ Schools, amongst others. underpins a great deal of the firm’s community work in the UK and In addition, the firm is a founder member internationally (see page 10-11). We are of PRIME, a new cross-industry initiative long-term participants in a number of designed to provide quality work experience programmes with exactly this end in mind. opportunities to young people from For example, in London we: disadvantaged backgrounds. To track our progress as a firm, we have begun to monitor the social and educational background of our incoming graduates, and expect to publish this data in next year’s CR report. We don’t expect that the current imbalance in intakes will be remedied immediately but as a strictly meritocratic organisation we are committed to ensuring that we live up to our own values. 08 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 A decade of development Clifford Chance Academy: Manon Clifford Chance Academy: Grzegorz Although Clifford Chance has a long history Deswarte-Abdoun, Lawyer, Paris Namiotkiewicz, Managing Partner, Warsaw of investing in training and development, it was the foundation of the Clifford Chance Academy in 2000 that established a firm“Wider cultural “At every stage wide approach to learning, underpinned awareness and there have been by the needs of clients, of the firm and of a new generation of lawyers looking to build a understanding” courses which career in a leading international law firm. have inspired me” The first programme run by the Academy was the five day European General Induction Course for all new associates. Since then the Academy’s offering has evolved to take into account the wide range of business, commercial, personal and technical skills required by today’s successful lawyers. It now offers programmes through e-learning and distance learning as well as classroom teaching (see page 33 in our Annual review “At each stage of my career there has “It’s difficult to say which Academy courses for more information). been a range of Academy courses to fulfil have played a particular role in my own One of the Academy’s most recent my particular needs,” says Paris Avocat career”, explains Warsaw managing partner, offerings is a new programme, Building Manon Deswarte-Abdoun. “When starting Grzegorz Namiotkiewicz. “Probably because Personal Profile, which indicates just how out, the programme for junior lawyers helped at each stage there were courses that were me to fully integrate into the global firm, and important. From presentation skills and far the firm’s approach to learning and later on, the senior programme provided an financial training when I was starting out, development has come. The course works opportunity for me to reflect on the particular to leadership courses later on in my career, with associates to help them identify their skills under development at this stage. at every stage there have been courses personal strengths and how to deploy them which have inspired me. “Courses on negotiation skills and handling effectively in support of the individual’s own client meetings also helped me along my “Before Poland joined the European Union, career, and the firm’s business. The course career path. The courses have not only the Academy offered a crash course on includes follow-up six weeks after completion, allowed me to learn from others’ experience European financial regulation which proved to assess progress. The programme but also get a wider cultural awareness and an invaluable guide to the complex system underlines Clifford Chance’s commitment to understanding of the firm.” of European law. I’ve also had the privilege nurturing a diverse associate population and of attending two Harvard Business School reflects our desire to equip a new generation courses, which were both interesting of lawyers with the skills to access the and stimulating.” knowledge and expertise in our global firm. This course is just one of a series of investments that we continue to make into the Academy, ensuring that its programmes are tailored to the needs of our people today and of the firm and the client tomorrow. “ We want to create a culture based on The Clifford Chance Academy 4,644 people developing participants* every year they are 440 with us. ” courses* 92% satisfaction (4.6 out of 5.0) *excluding practice area-based legal training and e-learning Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 09 Community We believe that everyone should have fair access to justice, to finance and Clifford Chance Foundation: Ramana’s Garden to education. This conviction guides our volunteering and philanthropic work across the firm globally. A Foundation for Access hope in India for all Ramana’s Garden India is a children’s home and school near Rishikesh in northern India which supports abandoned, destitute, and abused children who are given food, shelter, necessities, and education. The home and school has more than 60 resident children, many of whom have lost both parents. C lifford Chance continues to seek opportunities to help people who, for various reasons, need support and encouragement to access the basic necessities of life. We achieve this through the donations of the Clifford Chance Foundation (see page 12) and the volunteering efforts of members of the firm, often working alongside clients, charities and NGOs that share our convictions. We have performed strongly versus our community targets (see page 18). The highest-ever proportion of Clifford Chance partners took part in pro bono activities: some 41%. There was also a 51% increase in the number of volunteers from our business services teams worldwide. The number of our pro bono volunteering hours per lawyer has continued to rise globally, with notable progress in Germany where the number of hours increased by almost two-thirds. 10 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 “Very special thanks to Clifford Chance for providing for our school for the whole year! ” Ramana’s Garden Annual review There are another 165 children from nearby for instance at the end of January 2010, and still sign their names with a thumbprint. impoverished families, many with a single Shakespeare’s Macbeth was fully revived, with Their children now speak, read, and write parent, who come into school each day. a facelift and a new Bollywood look, in a heart fluent English and Hindi. The Clifford Chance Foundation has provided warming performance at the school. the funding for the operation of the school over Without Ramana’s Garden, most of these the last school year. The children and teachers children would be forced to work or beg in find exciting ways to put our support to use – the street. Most of the parents are illiterate In London, where 71% of lawyers did some or within nominally wealthy countries. Community and pro bono commitment pro bono work in 2010/11, a record for the We were sorry that we weren’t able to help for 2010/2011 firm, we received the disappointing news that Law for All to keep going, but another key a key pro bono law initiative was to fold. Law for All, which has helped tens of London initiative has fared better. When the Newham Asian Women’s 58,368 55,021 community and community and thousands of Londoners access high quality Project – a haven for threatened and pro bono hours pro bono hours legal advice, struggled to make ends meet in vulnerable Asian women where Clifford invested globally invested by lawyers the challenging climate for not-for-profit Chance lawyers have been volunteering for across the firm advice schemes and took the very difficult many years – was facing imminent closure, decision to place itself into liquidation, having concluded that it was not sustainable in the we successfully collaborated with many of the Project’s supporters at longstanding 3,347 £17.8m community hours time cost value of longer term. Its closure will impact the pro client Citigroup to keep it open. invested by lawyers’ pro bono bono hours we will carry out in London Our contacts at the Project were warm Business Services and community hours in 2011/12. We are exploring alternative, in their thanks: “We are very pleased that equally well-organised and scalable channels to leverage our lawyers’ skills and reach a we will be able to continue providing the service to vulnerable women and girls. But £1.6m broad London constituency in need of pro this would not have been possible without of Clifford Chance bono legal advice. We take this opportunity the support of our friends at Citi and Clifford Foundation charitable to congratulate Law for All on the impact Chance. It really did mean a lot as, without donations committed it has had. that funding, we would have closed down the In this challenging environment, the counselling and advice services. In the financial lifelines we provide through the changed political/financial climate, we are See www.cliffordchance.com/ Clifford Chance Foundation are crucial, seeing even greater numbers of women crreport2011 for a full breakdown whether they are being extended to affected by severe abuse, so we know the of figures and trends. traditionally impoverished communities support services are required more than ever before.” Continued › Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 11 Community The Clifford Chance Foundation 162 children and parents in Bangkok, many 1 new Loan Officer in Rumphi, Malawi to of whom are asylum seekers, received Thai, manage a small number of the 24,000 The Clifford Chance Foundation, established English, maths, IT and cookery classes microfinance clients in Malawi in 2008, was set up to provide a focused and co-ordinated approach to our charitable 633 students in three schools in Bardarash In partnership with Bain & Company, giving, aligned with our goals of improving district of northern Iraq provided with Credit Suisse, Ernst & Young, Permira access to justice, to finance and to stationery and sports equipment and Thomson Reuters we funded the education. It is the focal point around which establishment of Social Business Trust, 25 students from southern Mozambique able the firm’s charity fundraising, pro bono work which helps social enterprises scale up to complete their university education and volunteering efforts come together. using a combination of funding and In the last 12 months the Foundation 491 students at the Law School of Tanzania business expertise. committed funds of more than £1.6 million. attended law-related seminars Every office gets involved in choosing 36 survivors of torture from various Access to justice which charities to support but the firm’s African nations assisted with legal advice charitable giving extends beyond just those Clifford Chance is an international law firm in Virginia, USA communities where the firm has offices. with a deep seam of high quality legal 129 charities received support from Draft new legislation dealing with violence experience. Leveraging that expertise to the Foundation in the last 12 months. against women prepared and presented secure access to justice for people who Through the work of these charities many to the Haiti Women’s Ministry would otherwise be denied it, has been a more people now have opportunities to feature of life at the firm for several decades. Over 6,000 children and parents in Kenya access either education, justice or finance. Today, our access to justice work reflects educated on child rights and responsibilities Just a few examples of the opportunities the global nature of our practice. We have with the aim of reducing exploitation created through the Foundation funds last invested in people and systems to manage and trafficking year include: our activity and to ensure that our efforts are 50 legal sessions undertaken with sustainable and effectively co-ordinated. 1 new primary school building in Yunnan survivors and victims of gender-based Together with the commitment of our lawyers Province, China violence in Botswana and the positive outcomes that are generated 265 teachers in 50 schools in Delhi trained to by our highly professional, award-winning 1,816 clients (94% are women) in the slum provide a better education to 33,000 children access to justice initiatives, this investment area of a district of San Juan de Miraflores underlines how seriously we take our outside Lima, Peru received small loans and responsibility to improving access to justice business training in the communities in which we work. Access to finance: Intelligent Aid Competition UK undergraduates Intelligent Aid, an undergraduate competition focused on microfinance, was a highlight of the swot up on London office’s 2010/11 graduate recruitment activities. Open to non-final year students microfinance studying any subject, the competition first required entrants to respond to questions on microfinance via an online form. The top 10 entries were selected by the firm’s graduate recruitment team and invited to our Canary Wharf offices for a day. There, they attended a presentation training course followed by a chance to present their ideas to a panel of judges. University College London student, William Green was declared the winner, giving him the chance to select one of the Clifford Chance Foundation’s approved charities to receive a donation of £1,000, a place on our vacation scheme, a trip to New York with a day spent in our office there, and an iPad. 12 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Activities range from direct interventions Access to justice: The Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award on behalf of individuals who face barriers between them and the legal advice they need, to the creation of legislation, guidelines and legal education programmes on a Legal aid in Sudan broader scale. We also recognise the importance of working with those who share our convictions, so we partner with clients, other members of the profession, and hundreds of charities In 2010, the Clifford Chance Foundation launched the Access to Justice Award, to achieve access to justice goals, often which seeks to recognise a not-for-profit linked to funding from the Clifford Chance organisation that helps individuals, groups or Foundation. communities preserve or secure their right to This combination, for instance, is the basic necessities of life. Nominations were helping us to improve the human rights submitted to the firm’s website and then of women in Haiti. a panel of judges met to select a winner. Violence against women is a such a Our partners Stuart Popham and Michael major problem in Haiti that it has raised Smyth were joined on the panel by international concern and caused the representatives from our clients such as Peter Warwick CEO, Legal at Thomson Reuters Haitian Ministry of Women’s Affairs to ask and from charitable organisations, like Esther for assistance with drafting new legislation. Lardent President and CEO at the Pro Bono Clifford Chance New York, Duke Law Institute. The prize – a donation of £50,000 School in North Carolina, the Organization of and 500 hours of volunteering time over an 18 American States and the International Senior month period – was awarded to PLACE, the Lawyers Project responded to this need, People’s Legal Aid Centre in Sudan, and has working together to draft legislation to protect been used to accelerate the organisation’s Haitian women from violence. The unique legal support for displaced people. collaboration is being made possible by Clifford Chance Foundation funds. Continued › Access to justice: North Virginia Family Service (NVFS) Access to finance: Asociacion Domenchina Shatu Helping survivors Microcredit of torture blueprint Foundation funding enabled the NVFS to Microcredit extends very small loans to make a tangible difference to the lives of people in extreme poverty who lack access vulnerable people through their Program for to traditional forms of credit. The intention Survivors of Torture and Severe Trauma. is to encourage entrepreneurship, help The funding paid for a case manager who them generate an income and exit poverty. has assisted 38 survivors. A further 36 have Although strong demand exists for microcredit received direct financial assistance to help programmes, large numbers of people both with basic necessities – food, still do not have access to microcredit. medication, clothing – and to help them The Clifford Chance Foundation is supporting move towards self-sufficiency by paying for a research project to determine the key language, driving and computer training. principles of a successful microcredit Additionally, pro bono assistance from programme, as well as the reasons for failure, Clifford Chance lawyers enabled an African and to create a blueprint that can be used by victim of torture to obtain political asylum microfinance institutions to help those in the United States. in poverty to gain financial independence. Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 13 Community Access to finance: Funding malaria nets Bridging a financial gap When a delay in donor funding threatened delivery of vital mosquito nets just before the rainy season in Zambia, we found a novel way to bridge the shortfall. Our framework agreement allowed a major bank to issue a letter of credit underwritten by the Zambian government and the UN Foundation (itself guaranteed by the Gates Foundation), enabling timely delivery of the nets and undoubtedly saving many lives. Kate McCarthy (Partner, New York), who worked on the framework agreement, said, “This was a way we could really add value, enabling the private sector to bridge the finance gap.” Access to finance making capabilities. Clifford Chance is A Clifford Chance team got together to ask, working in partnership with NYU Law School “How can we help?”. The answer was by Using our legal expertise to help ensure that and plans to expand the programme which using their language skills. Colleagues from access to finance is not prejudiced by social began this past summer, involving student the Frankfurt office’s lawyer and business condition has become increasingly pertinent. interns working on-site at WHIDC, mentored services community have been helping The global economy continues to reverberate by Clifford Chance lawyers. ambitious migrant women to improve their with the impact of the financial crisis. German and English towards the level Many people around the world continue Access to education required to pass the German school to lack the most basic necessities of life. Our multi-dimensional education programme certificate, a key stepping stone to Clifford Chance is one of very few law is giving people the opportunity to reach further opportunities. firms with a global microfinance group that higher and achieve success. is supporting and advising on a range of In contrast with the other two pillars sustainable microfinance activities around of our community programme (access Whilst Clifford Chance focuses much the world. to finance and access to justice), which of its energy on facilitating improved access Microfinance is also an area where we predominantly generate volunteering in the fundamentally important spheres combine pro bono legal advice with Clifford opportunities for our lawyers, education of justice, finance and education, it is also Chance Foundation funds to positive effect. volunteering gives those in business services determined to engage with the particular Washington Heights & Inwood – who play a vital role in the high standards of interests and concerns of its employees. Development Corporation (WHIDC) uses client service we provide – the opportunity to We therefore encourage the development microfinance to encourage the development use their skills to help others. In that sense, of other relationships and in 2010/11 our and retention of businesses and jobs in the access to education unites us all. London office was successful in pitching to predominantly Hispanic (Dominican) The Crespo Foundation’s Saba provide pro bono services to the NSPCC. Washington Heights and Inwood community programme is one example of the many in New York. Clifford Chance access to education WHIDC has set up a pro bono legal initiatives that bring the firm together to service for its clients with lawyers from give others a chance. Clifford Chance and students from New York Since 2006, the Crespo Foundation in University School of Law. The effort is being Frankfurt has been offering young migrant enhanced by Clifford Chance Foundation women the opportunity to complete their funds, which are being used to expand the secondary school education with the non-profit organisation’s micro-business loan Saba scholarship. 14 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 “ Helping to improve the protection of Access to education: Partners in Leadership children’s rights, Connecting supporting ongoing business and litigation work and schools helping to better train our paralegals will have a real, direct With the aim of fostering closer relationships meetings and one-on-one discussions will enable impact on the people between business and schools, Clifford Chance’s the teachers to gain a deeper insight into ” Frankfurt office has launched a new CR initiative business processes and how economic tools of Sudan. called Partners in Leadership. The project will bring together 25 executives from existing or can be transferred productively to their schools. Three Clifford Chance lawyers at different stages Rifaat Makkawi, Director PLACE, winner of the potential Clifford Chance clients, including in their careers – Sandra Thiel, Christof Häfner Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award 2010 Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Börse, Siemens, and Hans-Josef Schneider – are among those Merck and Procter & Gamble, with an equivalent acting as mentors. number of German head teachers. Structured Access to education: Access to education: Furthering learning Mahamek Home for Boys, Bangkok Beach boys Step up into education Across the world, Clifford Chance supports educational programmes set up by and sponsors initiatives that open the doors HOPEHIV – thanks in part to a donation of further education to socially disadvantaged by Clifford Chance. The Bangkok office treated 150 boys from students. In Vietnam, Clifford Chance continues to Mahamek Home for Boys to a day beside the As part of its long-standing relationship with support the work of the international Room to seaside at Cha-Am. the law school at Sciences Po university, Read project, which improves the educational The children rarely get the chance to swim in our Paris office funds an annual two-year chances of children of all ages in remote rural the sea and eagerly took advantage of the postgraduate bursary for an outstanding areas of the country through the provision of opportunity to have a lot of fun. Lunch was student who has completed a first degree as mobile libraries and books. provided at a seafood restaurant and dinner a result of the university’s acclaimed affirmative Art education is on the agenda in the Middle at Eurasia Cha-Am Lagoon, next to the action programme. East, where Clifford Chance funds workshops beach. In the US, Clifford Chance was the first law for refugee and orphaned children via the Clifford Chance has a long-term relationship firm to support New York University’s AnBryce Jordan-based not-for-profit organisation with Mahamek Home for Boys, and has Scholars Program, which seeks to identify and START. Last year, two employees from our taken the children on a number of outings cultivate young future leaders from among Dubai office played an active role in one such over the past few years. society’s most economically disadvantaged. workshop at the Al-Baqa’a refugee camp just Full tuition scholarships are awarded to outside Amman. outstanding students to enable them to study at the university’s law school. Mkuranga, a poor district of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, benefited last year from a significant Clifford Chance Foundation grant that enabled not only a new two-classroom school building to be built but also six talented youngsters to enjoy a secondary school education. In Kenya, vulnerable and orphaned children in two border towns where child trafficking is rife are being helped to identify and protect themselves from abuse through a variety of Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 15 Environment It’s important for business to work as one in addressing environment‑ related issues. How is Clifford Chance fulfilling its obligations? By working with clients around the world as they adopt a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Action on the environment W e are working On the surface, there is a long way to go Managing our environmental impact: alongside our clients before renewable resources make significant Bound volumes as they seize the inroads into reducing global emissions Bound for opportunities of CO2 and weaning business off its generated by dependency on rapidly depleting fossil environmentally fuel reserves. Global renewable electricity success friendly technologies, and advising clients on making sustainability generation has grown at an annual average of 2.7% since 1990, less than the 3% for an integral part of their operations – as total electricity generation, according to we too adopt steps that minimise the the International Energy Agency (IEA). environmental impact of our business On a more positive note, there are Great things happen when the right people activities (see page 19 for our progress). now 10 countries with sizeable domestic come together. Creating a ‘bound volume’ (a compilation of transaction documents Crucially, with the impact of climate markets for solar power, up from just three for a specific legal matter) used to be a change more evident by the day, our in 2000, says the IEA, while global wind time‑consuming and paper-heavy affair. community initiatives include support for power capacity rose from 17 gigawatts to Bringing together those involved with the those on the front line of devastating droughts, 194 gigawatts during the same period. process, from print room to partner, a small floods and other natural disasters, many of Clifford Chance is working with its clients team designed and introduced an improved which are linked to global warming. to accelerate this trend. process resulting in an 80% time saving and One key aspect of our involvement is a paper saving of around 1,500,000 pages Applying the heat to renewable advising on the funding schemes aimed a year in London alone. The team won resources at kick starting renewable energy solutions. our Corporate Responsibility Award for Commitment to the Environment. The new Clifford Chance is taking an active role in In the US, the Department of Energy process will be rolled out globally. helping clients around the world to tap into Loan Guarantee Program was originated and exploit renewable energy resources – in 2006. Clifford Chance is transactional using our deep-set sector experience on counsel to the Program, for which over projects of increasing importance to a US $50bn has been appropriated carbon-constrained planet. by US Congress. Since January 2010, the Program has financed, inter alia, the world’s largest wind farm; six solar and wind manufacturing projects and several of the world’s largest solar generation facilities. 16 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Financial support: WaterAid Providing water and sanitation In a bid to improve water governance within a flood-threatened Bangladeshi community, the Clifford Chance Foundation granted £47,000 to WaterAid to support a community-based organisation working in Karial Slum, Dhaka. The latter succeeded in motivating the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority to build a water supply network inside Karial. In addition, mechanics and caretakers were trained, community lavatories built and 50 volunteers trained to promote hygiene. As a result of the donation, 3,376 people now have access to WaterAid/Juthika Howlader safe water, 2,627 are enjoying improved sanitation and nearly 5,000 have received hygiene education. European Investment Bank (EIB) Credit syndication and commercial partnering lending towards renewable energy reached are also important drivers of renewable Client work: U.S. Department of Energy €6.2 billion in 2010, while the share of energy initiatives – sharing risk and pooling renewable lending in the overall EIB energy portfolio tripled from below 10% in 2006 to resources in order to make renewable energy projects a viable, and bankable, proposition. The world’s more than 30% in 2010. A Clifford Chance team from the Paris and Milan offices has A team in Germany and London advised Stadtwerke München GmbH on the largest wind farm advised longstanding client the EIB in relation establishment of a joint venture with RWE to one of its key renewable energy-focused Innogy and Siemens Project Ventures to A Washington DC-based team has advised lending facilities, the €500 million financing build, operate and maintain the 576MW the U.S. Department of Energy’s Loan granted to EDF Energies Nouvelles for the offshore wind park Gwynt y Mor, Wales’ Programs Office as a guarantor for a development of solar power projects in largest wind farm. The expected output will US$1.3 billion loan to help finance the France and Italy. be capable of powering around 400,000 construction of what will be the world’s Combined with private sector funds, homes, 40% of the homes in Wales, and largest wind farm. The farm, known as the Caithness Shepherds Flat project, is an this state and supranational support is preventing the release of 1.7 million tonnes 845-megawatt facility located in eastern enabling the commercial sector to push of CO2 every year. Oregon. Sponsors of the project are the boundaries on what clean technology 2011/12 will see new opportunities in Caithness Energy, LLC and GE Energy is capable of delivering. renewable and clean technology. We look Financial Services. The loan is funded by The 79MW solar power plant in the forward to helping clients at the forefront a group of 26 institutional investors and Lopburi province, Thailand, is a case in point. of this fast-moving industry. commercial banks led by Citibank, Bank of When fully up and running, the largest solar Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., RBS Securities power plant in Asia will power up to 70,000 and WestLB Securities, Inc. homes. Construction began in 2010 and is set to be completed by the end of 2011. A Clifford Chance team advised the lenders on Top of the Superleague the financing for the plant – a project that’s PLC’s ‘Superleague’ research, published in helping Thailand to reduce its CO2 emissions 2010, looks at environment practices across by 20% by 2022. the globe. Clifford Chance gained the joint top score among law firms for its environment advice. Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 17 Looking back and looking forward Our progress in 2010/11 Governance target: Increase partner visibility and leadership in CR activities Action: Progress: Increase the number of partners involved in pro 41% of partners involved in pro bono or community affairs activity during the year (2010: 28%). bono/community activities and the average The average number of pro bono hours recorded by all partners was 12 hours each, an increase hours contributed by each partner. of 31% Governance target: Increase engagement with our people Action: Progress: Increase the pro bono and community hours Average pro bono and community hours per FTE lawyer was 38.4, an increase of 1.8% on recorded globally by 10% per FTE the previous year Enhance internal CR Awards programme Following a successful launch in 2009, the CR Awards were expanded in 2010 to include three new categories aligned with the firm’s CR focus Increase staff engagement with Clifford Chance Foundation application form revised to be more explicit on opportunities for employee engagement Foundation charities Support for Social Business Trust initiatives includes professional input from business services teams, as well as legal pro bono work Clifford Chance Art Competition focused on representations of the firm’s community/charity partners Run environmental awareness campaigns World Environment Day and Earth Hour both used as hooks for environmental awareness campaigns and activities across the firm’s international network People target: Achieve a more diverse partnership Action: Progress: Ultimate aim for women to represent at least 30% of 1 May 2011 promotions were women 30% of the partnership 14.5% of the partnership were women at 30 April 2011 Roll out a series of initiatives including review Paris and Germany have established committees to review gender balance within their offices and partner candidates and diversity training to establish action plans Diversity e-learning live in Americas, London, Warsaw Career Development Partner role rolled out globally to all associates New Academy programme launched on Building Personal Profile (for male and female associates) Regularly review partnership candidates Reporting in place to Management Committee on partnership promotion process Business alignment target: Embed CR into client relationships Action: Progress: Integrate CR into programmes for specific 31 pro bono or community outreach collaborations in place with 19 global clients clients and sectors Launch Access to Justice Award Successful launch of Access to Justice Award with pro bono work underway to support the winning organisation (PLACE in Sudan) 2011 Award launched Environmental operations’ target: Monitor progress against operational environmental targets – using 2007/08 baseline relationships Action: Progress: Purchase 10% of energy from renewable Renewable energy was purchased for 100% usage in Amsterdam and Luxembourg; 28% Madrid sources where available and Barcelona; 27% Frankfurt and Dusseldorf; 23% Munich; 10% Paris and Brussels; 5% London Overall 10.7% of total energy was bought from renewable sources, in 2010/11 Reduce CO2 emissions by 3% per employee 29% reduction in net CO2 emissions, to 5.55 tonnes per FTE (2007/8: 7.81 tonnes) Data collected from 28 offices (2007/8: 18) Recycle at least 25% of all general waste 19 offices achieved or exceeding the target for cans; 20 for plastics; 27 for IT hardware; 24 for batteries; 28 for toner cartridges; 22 for lightbulbs; 24 for cardboard; 20 for glass (2010: 13 cans; 12 plastics; 10 IT hardware; 18 toner; 11 cardboard; 11 glass) Recycle at least 30% of office paper waste 25 offices now recycle 100% of office paper waste (2010: 14); 3 offices recycle at least 30% Reduce paper use by 10% per FTE 24% decrease from baseline 18 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Environmental operations’ target: Continued Action: Progress: Ensure at least 10% of paper has at least 30% 17 offices now exceeding this target (2010: 14); another six making progress post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised certified sources with a low carbon footprint Introduce initiatives to reduce water 12 offices have introduced dual flush toilets throughout their facilities; 9 offices have introduced consumption water saving devices Work with key suppliers to understand, Suppliers are asked to complete an assessment questionnaire which includes a detailed section manage and reduce the environmental impacts on environmental performance and requires supporting evidence. We work with suppliers to of our purchases consider whether there are better ways to procure products or services. We continued to promote our internal training course to help people making purchasing decisions to consider the overall carbon footprint of any purchase For a full update on our progress and targets see www.cliffordchance.com/crreport2011 Our targets for 2011/12 Governance targets: Actions Increase partner visibility and leadership Increase the number of partners who are trustees or directors of not-for-profit organisations in CR activities and/or the number of partners leading pro bono relationships Increase engagement with our people Increase the number of pro bono and community hours recorded globally (excluding London) by 5% per lawyer FTE, vs 2010/2011 figures Maintain the number of pro bono and community hours recorded per lawyer FTE in London, vs 2010/2011 figures Increase the proportion of lawyers undertaking pro bono work across the firm to 60% by the end of 2013/14 Review global targets across all community and pro bono activities Continue to run awareness raising programmes around all aspects of the CR strategy Business alignment targets: Actions: Embed CR into client relationships Increase the number of pro bono/CR initiatives in which we partner with clients Embed CR into our global alumni programme Raise awareness amongst the global business development community and associates about how the firm can partner with clients on CR People targets: Actions: Achieve a more diverse partnership Facilitate management training across the partnership in support of 30% female partners ambition Achieve a more diverse staff population Further roll out diversity training across the firm Environmental targets: Actions: Every office to achieve minimum standards by Every office to purchase 10% of energy from renewable sources where available 2013 in every category Every office to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 3% per employee from 2007/08 baseline Offices already achieving the minimum Every office to recycle at least 25% of all general waste standard to maintain progress Every office to recycle at least 30% of office paper waste Every office to reduce paper use by 10% per FTE from 2007/08 consumption Every office to ensure at least 10% of paper has at least 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised certified sources with a low carbon footprint Work with key suppliers to understand, manage and reduce the environmental impacts of our purchases Monitor business travel in each office Corporate responsibility report 2011 Clifford Chance LLP 19 UN Global Compact Clifford Chance is proud to be a signatory of the UN Global Compact. This commits us to align our strategies and operations with the 10 Principles, covering human rights, labour, environment and corruption. The information carried in this report provides only a flavour of the work that the firm is undertaking in these areas and the steps that we have put in place to manage our own business in accordance with the Global Compact Principles. As part of our commitment to the Compact, we have for the first time prepared a full Global Reporting Initiative index which can be found on our website at www.cliffordchance.com/ungc The index below is a summary only. Our Global Compact Index Issue areas Global Compact Principles Relevant GRI indicators Human rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect EC5, LA4, LA6–9; the protection of internationally proclaimed human LA13–14, HR1–9, rights. SO5, PR1–2, PR8 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they HR1–9, SO5 are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of LA4–5, HR1–3, association and the effective recognition of the right to HR5, SO5 collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination HR1–3, HR7, SO5 of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective HR1–3, HR6, SO5 abolition of child labour. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination EC7, LA2, of discrimination in respect of employment and LA13–14, occupation. HR1–4, SO5 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a EC2, EN18, EN26, precautionary approach to environmental challenges. EN30, SO5 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to EN1–30, SO5, promote greater environmental responsibility. PR3–4 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the EN2, EN 5–7, development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN 10, EN 18, technologies. EN 26–27, EN30, SO5 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against SO2–6 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Global Reporting Index demonstrates how our efforts meet the requirements of the GRI Reporting Principles www.globalreporting.org/ 20 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2011 Our global office network Our worldwide offices New offices in 2011 Visit www.cliffordchance.com for all our office contact details Australia Grand-Duché de Luxembourg Poland Thailand Perth Luxembourg Warsaw Bangkok Sydney Belgium Hong Kong SAR Qatar Turkey Brussels Hong Kong Doha Istanbul Brazil Italy Romania Ukraine São Paulo Milan Bucharest Kyiv Rome Czech Republic Japan Russia United Arab Emirates Prague Tokyo Moscow Abu Dhabi Dubai France Morocco Kingdom of Saudi Arabia United Kingdom Paris Casablanca (to be opened in 2011) Riyadh* London (Upper Bank Street and Coleman Street) Germany The Netherlands Singapore Düsseldorf Amsterdam Singapore USA Frankfurt New York Munich Washington, D.C. People’s Republic of China Spain Beijing Barcelona Shanghai Madrid *Clifford Change has a co-operation agreement with Al-Jadaan & Partners in Riyadh. www.cliffordchance.com © Clifford Chance LLP, September 2011 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London, E14 5JJ. We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. This report is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk which is FSC® certified and contains 50% genuine de-inked post consumer waste and 50% FSC certified virgin fibre. The printer is FSC and ISO 14001 certified and used vegetable oil based inks. Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com
