engineering advantage IMI plc Annual Report 2010 FAST TRACK TO NEWS HIGHLIGHTS CONTENTS 2010 Results in brief 1 BUSINESS OVERVIEW IMI at-a-glance 2 Our goals and how we are 4 achieving them Measuring our business 6 performance Key Themes: helping our customers P16 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW to achieve energy efficiency Chairman’s statement 8 Chief executive’s review 10 Our five platform businesses 12 Key Themes: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contributing to cleaner energy Independent auditor’s report 65 production 14 Consolidated income statement 66 Key Themes: Helping our customers to achieve Consolidated statement of 67 energy efficiency 16 comprehensive income Key Themes: Consolidated balance sheet 68 Contributing to a healthier lifestyle 18 Consolidated statement of 69 Key Themes: changes in equity Investing in our core competencies Consolidated statement of 70 of Key Account Management and cash flows Engineering Advantage 20 Notes to the financial statements 71 Financial review 22 Independent auditor’s report 118 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Company balance sheet 119 High standards of responsibility 28 Company notes to the financial 120 BOARD REPORTS statements Principal risks and uncertainties 34 Subsidiary undertakings 126 Board of directors 36 Five year summary 128 Directors’ report 38 Shareholder information 130 Chairman’s governance introduction 42 General information 131 The Board’s corporate Index 132 governance report 43 Remuneration report 48 Statement of directors’ responsibilities 64 BUSINESS OVERVIEW A very strong performance with encouraging progress across most of the Group P8 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Key Themes: contributing to cleaner energy production P14 Key Themes: contributing to a healthier lifestyle P18 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2010 RESULTS IN BRIEFHTS Segmental operating profit Adjusted earnings per share2 £319.7m +37% 66.3p +45% 2009 £234.2m 2009 45.8p Profit before tax Total dividend for year £306.1m +64% 26.0p +23% 2009 £186.2m 2009 21.2p BOARD REPORTS Basic earnings per share Revenue 70.4p +73% £1,911m +7% 2009 40.8p 2009 £1,792m Adjusted profit before tax1 1 continuing operations before exceptional items (restructuring, acquired intangible £304.4m +44% amortisation, financial instruments excluding the reversal of economic 2009 £211.7m hedge contract gains and losses, and employee benefit curtailment UK scheme) totalling a gain of £1.7m (2009: loss £25.5m) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 continuing operations before the after tax gain from exceptional items totalling £0.5m (2009: loss £15.7m) IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 1 IMI COMPRISES FIVE BUSINESSES WITH GROWING LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IN FOCUSED NICHE MARKETS. AT-A-GLANCE 14,700 EMPLOYEES* PROVIDE INNOVATIVE KNOWLEDGE-BASED ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS FOR MARKET LEADING CUSTOMERS AROUND THE WORLD. IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1966. At 31 December 2010 it had a market value of £3.0bn and shareholders’ funds of £526m. The Company’s headquarters is at Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, England. The trading activities of the IMI Group are conducted through subsidiary companies. segmental revenue by PLATFORM BUSINESSES revenue operating profit geographical destination Severe Service RoW 13% UK 5% Controlling critical North in-plant processes by America providing superior custom 19% Western engineered severe service Europe valve, actuation and control Emerging 28% solutions. Markets 35% 24% £452m 25% £78.4m Fluid Power RoW 4% UK 9% Engineering advantage North in motion and fluid control America applications. 23% Western Europe Emerging 49% Markets 15% 36% £685m 35% £113.7m Indoor Climate RoW 1% North America UK 4% Perfecting indoor climate 5% through the provision of Emerging critical energy efficient Markets Western valve products and related 17% Europe services for water-based 73% heating and cooling systems. 15% £296m 22% £70.3m Beverage Dispense RoW 3% UK 9% Supplying innovative beverage North cooling and dispense solutions America Western to brand owners and retailers 57% Europe around the world. Providing 15% complete beverage and food Emerging service parts management Markets solutions. 16% 16% £315m 10% £32.0m Merchandising RoW 1% UK 12% Providing permanent point of Western sale solutions and technologies Emerging Europe that enhance retailer and Markets 5% brand owner profitability 3% by driving impulse purchase. North The main markets are global America brand owners and retail 9% £169m 8% £25.3m 79% sales outlets. * As at 31 December 2010, including temporary agency and contractor staff and approximately 200 head office employees. 2 BUSINESS OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Group revenue Segmental operating profit Group revenue by £1,911m £319.7m geographical destination Fluid Fluid ROW 6% UK 7% Controls Controls 75% 82% Retail Retail North Dispense Dispense America 25% 18% 30% Western Europe Emerging 38% Markets 19% segmental GROUP OPERATING REVIEW operating operating revenue profit margin FACTFILE £m £m % Key brands CCI, BTG, IMI Nuclear, Orton, Truflo Rona, STI, Z&J 512 Main markets 443 452 Fossil and nuclear power generation; oil & gas production; combined heat & power 101.4 (CHP); liquefied natural gas (LNG); iron & steel; petrochemical and gas processing. 81.3 78.4 Major operational locations 18.4 19.8 17.3 USA, Switzerland, Italy, Sweden, Czech Republic, South Korea, UK, Japan, China, Canada, Germany, South Africa and Belgium. Employees 3,350 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 666 685 Key brands RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Norgren, FAS, Kloehn, Herion, Buschjost, KIP 520 Main markets 113.7 Industrial pneumatic applications; commercial vehicles; rail; energy; 91.3 life sciences; food & beverage. Major operational locations 16.6 UK, USA, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico, Czech Republic, Brazil and China. 32.8 13.7 6.3 Employees 6,050 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 Key brands TA Hydronics, FDI, TA Heimeier, Pneumatex Main markets Heating and cooling systems for commercial buildings and temperature control for residential buildings. 281 292 296 70.3 60.7 23.8 Major operational locations 45.2 20.8 16.1 Sweden, Germany, Poland, Switzerland and USA. Employees 1,850 BOARD REPORTS 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 Key brands Cornelius, 3Wire Main markets Soft drinks, health and wellness drinks and alcoholic beverage cooling, dispense and point of sale equipment for bars, restaurants and retail outlets. 305 297 315 Major operational locations USA, UK, Germany, Mexico and China. 27.6 21.1 32.0 9.0 7.1 10.2 Employees 2,250 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 Key brands FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Artform, Cannon Equipment, DCI Marketing, Display Technologies Main markets Global brand owners and retail sales outlets. Major operational locations USA and UK. 202 164 169 15.0 10.3 11.1 Employees 1,000 20.9 18.2 25.3 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 3 Business overview OUR GOALS AND HOW WE ARE ACHIEVING THEM OUR GOAL IS TO BECOME ONE OF THE WORLD’S We are focused on growth with industry or LEADING ENGINEERING COMPANIES IN THE sector leading customers in niche global markets. Adding value to such customers and improving their NICHES WE SERVE, RECOGNISED FOR OUR performance is the route to sustainable profit growth INNOVATION, APPLICATIONS EXPERTISE AND for our shareholders. We seek to operate in those GLOBAL SERVICE. markets which have good exposure to the key global WE AIM TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE ORGANIC trends, including climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing populations which are shaping GROWTH IN EXCESS OF GDP GROWTH AND our future and driving growth, where we already OVER TIME TO REACH OPERATING MARGINS hold or can achieve a market leadership position OF AT LEAST 20% IN EACH OF OUR FLUID and where we can clearly differentiate ourselves CONTROLS BUSINESSES AND 15% IN IN EACH from our competitors with end-user insight and the OF OUR RETAIL DISPENSE BUSINESSES. application of innovative technology. ACCELERATING OUR INVESTING IN KEY ACCOUNT FOCUS ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE Highly talented, customer-focused, We invest in techniques that improve market entrepreneurial-minded teams of people in understanding and customer insight. We then IMI add long-term value for both customers apply our acquired knowledge and our engineering and ourselves. Developing these skills, capabilities to the issues faced by our customers. understanding the drivers of our customers’ The result is relevant, bespoke technologies businesses, and our own, and ensuring that we and new products that create real value work with the best customer partners, are and strengthen our customer relationships. critical components of our business model. This core capability effectively engineers solutions Recognising where value can be added for that provide advantages for our customers both parties is a fundamental part of our and we refer to this as Engineering Advantage. approach. A centrally-based ‘Key Account Our current aim is to accelerate our investment Academy’ helps to train our people and in research and development ensure that best practice is shared and thereby increase the across the Group. percentage of revenue from new products, launched in the prior three years, to over 20% by the end of 2013. Mike Doody was recently Jay Faramarzi has a worldwide promoted to President of our reputation in the control DCI Merchandising business valves technology that having successfully generated underpins CCI’s Engineering value to our customers, and to Advantage. Jay has IMI, through our key account accountability for the highly activities in sectors such as skilled engineering group in consumer electronics. CCI and for leveraging our engineering capabilities to add value to our customers. 4 BUSINESS OVERVIEW World class key account management and project The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising management are important disciplines for the businesses operate in Retail Dispense markets, effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our where our customers are brand owners and retailers. customers in these markets. We also provide Our strategic growth drivers set out below are aftermarket support in the form of service and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW understood by all the senior management in IMI and spares to our customers’ installed product base. embedded throughout our businesses. We believe Our five business platforms share this common in the highest ethical standards and The IMI Way, philosophy. The Severe Service, Fluid Power and our code of responsible business, is at the heart Indoor Climate business platforms serve Fluid Controls of everything we do. markets, where our customers include plant operators, original equipment manufacturers and building owners. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SEIZING THE INITIATIVE IN BALANCE SHEET EMERGING ECONOMIES MANAGEMENT We continue to invest in emerging economies including The Group remains strongly cash generative and China, India, Brazil and Eastern Europe which currently maintains a healthy balance sheet with relatively offer stronger growth opportunities than most low levels of debt. IMI’s financial strength means developed economies. To take advantage of these that it is extremely well placed to invest for the opportunities we are accelerating our investment future in organic growth, in partnering with our key in both engineering and in key account managers. customers to develop new, innovative and bespoke In addition we are continuing to invest in a significant engineering solutions and in value enhancing manufacturing and procurement presence in acquisitions. Acquisitions must align with our these markets with sites in Mexico, Brazil, the strategic criteria with good exposure to the key Czech Republic, China, Poland and most recently India. global trends identified above and should bring BOARD REPORTS Focused investment of this sort technology, talent and key account relationships enables us to support our with the ability to create significant customers as they seek differentiation, so strengthening further themselves to grow our leadership positions in our wellin these developing markets. defined niche markets. They must also be supportive of our growth and margin targets. All potential acquisitions and all major investment proposals must be able to demonstrate positive economic value added on a cumulative basis within three years. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ricardo Rodrigues, who MingMing Gao leads the finance began his career with IMI function in IMI China where she on our Global Graduate guides the businesses to ensure Programme, now has we have tight financial controls in accountability for Norgren’s place and drives the effective Latin Americas Region. optimisation of our balance sheet Ricardo is spearheading to get maximum value from our our growth with a special investment programme in China. focus on Brazil, a key emerging market. 5 Business overview BUSINESS PERFORMANCE IS MEASURING OUR EVALUATED REGULARLY BY THE BUSINESS BOARD OF IMI USING A VARIETY OF PERFORMANCE TOOLS. THE FIVE MOST IMPORTANT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) ARE SHOWN HERE. ORGANIC REVENUE OPERATING MARGINS GROWTH Organic revenue growth excludes Operating margins are defined the impact of acquisitions, as the ratio of segmental disposals and foreign exchange operating profit as a percentage rate movements. The revenues of segmental revenues. In 2010 from acquisitions are only included these margins were 16.7% in the current year for the period compared to 13.1% in 2009. during which the revenues were This represents a significant also included in the prior period. improvement and is the first In 2010, the Group’s revenue time the Group has exceeded its grew by 6% on an organic basis historic long term objective set reflecting our broadly balanced in 2001 of 15%. Consequently, we mix of early and late cycle have now raised the long term businesses. objective for operating margins in each of our three Fluid Controls businesses to 20% while retaining 6% 5% a 15% objective for each of our Retail Dispense businesses. -16% 16.7% 08 09 10 14.0% 13.1% 08 09 10 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Each business unit of IMI and sector targets and KPIs which This process enables the Board to participates in an annual round of reflect and measure business review performance against tactical planning meetings with the Executive performance. In addition, each and strategic milestones and allows Committee of the Board, during business has its own regular business informed decisions to be taken at which future plans for that business reviews from weekly updates each level of the organisation. are reviewed and updated. These to formal quarterly reviews. plans include specific local, regional ECONOMIC VALUE LOST TIME CO2 EMISSIONS GROUP OPERATING REVIEW ADDED ACCIDENT RATES Economic value added (EVA) The Group takes seriously its Our CO2 emissions in 2010 is defined as the segmental responsibility for the safety of amounted to 97,000 tonnes, operating profit after tax less a all employees, contractors and an increase of 8% on last year capital charge. The capital charge visitors. Our lost time accident (2009: 90,000 tonnes). Normalised is arrived at by applying the (LTA) rate improved by 7% in 2010 against hours worked, our Group’s after tax weighted to 0.25 accidents per 100,000 performance deteriorated to 3.6 average cost of capital of 8% hours worked from 0.27 in 2009. CO2 tonnes/1,000 hours worked to the average invested capital. We are on track to deliver our (2009: 3.5 CO2 tonnes/1,000 hours Invested capital is net assets plus current health and safety target worked). Despite a range of net debt and the IAS19 pension of no more than 0.22 accidents good initiatives across the Group deficit (net of deferred tax), per 100,000 hours worked by 2012. overall performance was impacted RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS excluding exceptional items in by abnormally cold weather the balance sheet (being 0.47 experienced in Europe and restructuring provisions, net North America during the year. derivative liabilities and Severe Last year we set a new target to Service investigation costs). reduce this KPI to no more than The 2010 EVA was £164.5m which 0.27 3.2 CO2 tonnes/1,000 hours is an increase of 69% over 2009. 0.25 worked by 2012. The Group has a 2010 EVA has been calculated on a renewed focus in 2011 to improve different basis to previous years’ performance in this area. figures to be in line with the EVA calculated for internal reporting 3.5 3.6 and incentive purposes and prior 3.3 year figures have therefore been restated. The major changes are 08 09 10 BOARD REPORTS in respect of the treatment of restructuring cost and the IAS19 pension deficit. £164.5m £120.7m 08 09 10 £97.3m FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 08 09 10 IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 7 Chairman’s statement ‘A TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR OF 26.0p, AN INCREASE OF 23% OVER LAST YEAR’S 21.2p’ I AM PLEASED TO REPORT A VERY STRONG PERFORMANCE WITH ENCOURAGING PROGRESS ACROSS MOST OF THE GROUP. REVENUE, OPERATING PROFIT, OPERATING MARGIN AND EARNINGS PER SHARE HAVE ALL SHOWN SIGNIFICANT UPLIFT ON 2009 REFLECTING THE INCREASE IN DEMAND SEEN IN MANY OF OUR MARKETS, AND STRONG DISCIPLINE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR COST BASE. Group segmental revenues grew by number of lower margin, older 6% on an organic basis. Segmental and more commoditised products. operating profit increased by 37% and Operating margins also benefited the operating margin improved from from operational efficiencies and an 13.1% to 16.7%. Adjusted earnings per improved project mix, increasing to share increased by 45% to a record 11.8% from 8.5% last year. 66.3p. This together with our strong performance on cash conversion and The IMI Way confidence in the future prospects During 2010 we continued to embed of the Group lead the Board to our code of responsible business recommend that the final dividend ‘The IMI Way’ across all of our be increased by 29% to 17.0p. worldwide operations. The code This makes a total dividend for the targets the very highest standards year of 26.0p, an increase of 23% of ethical business and compliance over last year’s 21.2p. as well as setting out our responsible business priorities. Importantly Collectively our three Fluid Controls we are seeing a growing positive businesses performed well helped by convergence between these priorities, a significant recovery in Fluid Power including our focus on the key business volumes where organic revenue drivers of energy efficiency and growth was 31% for the year. cleaner energy, and our customers’ This performance, together with good own responsible business agendas. progress on margins in both Fluid Power and Indoor Climate, helped to IMI people offset the expected lower activity The most important factors behind levels in our later cycle Severe Service IMI’s success over many years are the business. Overall, on a constant skills, expertise and energy displayed currency basis, Fluid Controls by my colleagues across the world revenues grew by 7%. Operating and I am deeply grateful for their margins for Fluid Controls rose to continued efforts and enthusiasm. 18.3% from 14.7% last year. We continue to invest in upgrading our In Retail Dispense, both Beverage talent through new innovative training Dispense and Merchandising made programmes such as the Management encouraging progress with revenues Boot Camp which we launched in 2010. up 4% on an organic basis despite a We were pleased to announce in deliberate and focused programme to August 2010 that Ian Whiting, improve margins by exiting from a 8 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Norman B M Askew RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Chairman President of Severe Service, had the global economic downturn seen been promoted to the Board and in late 2008 and 2009. The Group assumed the important additional is now well placed, under a strong responsibilities for developing IMI’s management team, for a more BOARD REPORTS interests in the emerging markets and progressive agenda with an increased for the Group’s procurement function. focus on growth. As I announced in November 2010, I intend to retire from the Board during the course of 2011 once a successor is found. Since I joined the Norman B M Askew Group in 2005, IMI has made great Chairman progress in its development into one 2 March 2011 of the leading global engineering businesses, with a clear focus on the precise control of fluids in critical FINANCIAL STATEMENTS applications. Importantly, in 2010 IMI emerged as a stronger business from IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 9 Chief executive’s review ‘WE HAVE DETAILED PLANS TO ACCELERATE GROWTH, DELIVER FURTHER MARGIN IMPROVEMENT AND MAKE GREATER USE OF OUR STRONG BALANCE SHEET’ 2010 WAS ANOTHER VERY ENCOURAGING YEAR FOR IMI, WITH ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH OF 6% AND RECORD OPERATING MARGINS OF 16.7%, WELL AHEAD OF THE GROUP’S HISTORIC LONG TERM OBJECTIVE OF 15%. The 2010 results reflect the The global trends shaping our future 쐍 accelerate our investment in significant benefits that have and providing higher than average research & development and been derived from the gradual but growth opportunities for IMI include: thereby increase the percentage fundamental reshaping of the Group, of revenues generated from new 쐍 climate change with opportunities which has been underway for many products, launched in the previous for IMI to provide solutions for years. The focus on achieving leading three years, to 20% by the end cleaner energy (such as liquefied positions in niche global markets, with of 2013. natural gas and nuclear), improved highly bespoke engineered products energy efficiency and better Overall we expect to invest an and a low cost manufacturing environmental control; additional £45m, spread over the base has created a significant and next three years, in new sales and sustainable improvement in the 쐍 resource scarcity with engineering resources to help us underlying quality and profitability opportunities for IMI in process achieve these goals. of the Group. improvement and automation; 쐍 urbanisation in the emerging 3. Margin improvement Looking forward, IMI is now well placed economies with major The Group has been successful in to move on to its next stage of opportunities for IMI around driving margin improvement over many development. Over the next few building design and mass transit years. In 2010 we delivered a full year years we will focus on four key areas: infrastructure; and operating margin of 16.7%, ahead of 1. Strategic convergence 쐍 an ageing population with its rising the Group’s long term objective of IMI’s preferred area of operation is aspirations for a more balanced and 15% for the first time. Within this, best defined by the convergence of healthier lifestyle and an improved the three Fluid Controls businesses three key attributes: quality and longevity of life. collectively achieved an overall operating margin of 18.3% and 쐍 technology leadership in the precise 2. Growth acceleration the Retail Dispense businesses an control of fluids in critical Having established a firm platform for operating margin of 11.8%. Given this applications; development, we are now in a position strong progress it is now appropriate 쐍 market leadership in global niches to increase investment in sales and to raise the long term margin populated by large successful engineering resource to accelerate objective for each of the three Fluid customers who value highly revenue growth. More specifically we Controls businesses to 20%, whilst customised and differentiated intend to: maintaining the 15% margin objective products; and for Retail Dispense. 쐍 allocate a greater proportion of 쐍 high exposure to the key global current sales and engineering We can expect continued progress in trends which we see shaping the resource in favour of those end margins over the next few years as a future and driving economic growth. markets where growth is benefiting result of the following initiatives: Today around half of IMI’s operations from the favourable global trends as 쐍 expanding our use of pricing have a high exposure to all three of set out above; specialists across the business to these attributes. These parts of IMI 쐍 double our investment in sales and optimise the value of our products are characterised by higher growth, engineering resource in the key and services; higher margins and greater resilience. markets of China, India and Brazil to 쐍 improving product mix through the Over time we would expect to significantly increase our revenues introduction of new products at significantly increase this proportion from emerging markets over the higher margins, an increased focus through disciplined choices around next three years; and on high margin aftermarket sales customer selection, new product and selective exit from low margin or development and acquisitions. commoditised product lines; and 10 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Martin J Lamb RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Chief Executive 쐍 investing a further £15m in each of new niche opportunities for the In light of this performance, and our of the next two years to transfer combined business, as does Z&J’s confidence in future prospects we further manufacturing to our growing emerging markets exposure. are pleased to raise the final dividend established facilities in the by 29%. Looking forward the Group will make lower cost economies of China, greater use of its strong balance We remain optimistic that the Group BOARD REPORTS Mexico, India, Poland and the sheet to fund further value enhancing will continue to make good progress Czech Republic with the aim of acquisitions. At the same time, the in 2011. increasing the percentage of low Group will continue to focus on cash cost manufacturing to over 55% generation with the aim of maintaining by 2014. cash conversion at over 90%. 4. Balance sheet utilisation Outlook At the end of the year we were IMI delivered a very strong set of pleased to complete the acquisition results in 2010 with record profits, of Zimmermann & Jansen (Z&J), in margins and earnings. We are now our Severe Service division. Z&J has a well placed for the next stage in Martin J Lamb strong reputation for its engineering the Group’s development and have Chief Executive expertise, has market–leading FINANCIAL STATEMENTS detailed plans to accelerate growth, 2 March 2011 positions and technologies and a deliver further margin improvement strong aftermarket business. Its and make greater use of our strong activities in the petrochemical and balance sheet in delivering value iron & steel markets open up a number enhancing acquisitions. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 11 OUR FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER SEVERE SERVICE At the end of December we completed All of the five key global sectors Our Severe Service business saw an the acquisition of Zimmermann & Commercial Vehicles, Life Sciences, overall organic revenue decline of 14% Jansen (Z&J), a leading engineering Rail, Energy and Food & Beverage for the full year. This performance business specialising in severe service performed well with a particularly was a reflection of the later cycle valves and related flow control strong bounce back in commercial nature of its markets and the lower products, for a consideration vehicle volumes after a difficult 2009. order intake seen in new construction (net of cash acquired) of £110m. Overall our targeted sectors now markets in 2009. As previously The acquisition of Z&J is highly represent 41% of total Fluid Power indicated shipments of new valves in complementary, both in market revenues. both the Oil & Gas and Fossil Power terms, extending our interests into The business continued to deliver sectors were significantly down on downstream Oil & Gas (Refining and strong profits drop-through on higher 2009. Activity levels in the Nuclear Petrochemical) and into Iron & Steel; volumes throughout the year with sector were slightly down, whilst in the and in technology terms, with Z&J’s segmental operating profits up 247% Aftermarket, shipments were stronger highly acclaimed isolation valve and operating margins up at 16.6% than last year. As expected, margins technology a natural fit alongside the compared with the 6.3% delivered were impacted by lower volumes Truflo technology acquired in 2006. last year and 13.7% in 2008. This step and fell to 17.3% for the full year. The use of IMI’s global sales and change in margin performance has Our new manufacturing facility in the aftermarket infrastructure is been driven by increased operational Czech Republic opened in May 2010 expected to improve Z&J’s geographic efficiencies as we continue to transfer and its sister facility in India is penetration. manufacturing to our low cost now operational. The increased order intake seen in the facilities in China, the Czech Republic, The order book at the year-end was up year, together with ongoing strength Brazil and Mexico, and by our initiatives 17% on the position at the beginning in the Nuclear and Aftermarket to deliver material cost savings and of the year. Order intake was up 3%, businesses, are expected to support to maximise the value secured for with like-for-like orders up 9% a return to growth in 2011. However, our products and services. after adjusting for the effect of the margins in the first half of 2011 will The positive momentum in Fluid Power multiyear, master contract agreed be impacted by an unfavourable mix seen in 2010 has been maintained in with EdF in 2009. The strong recovery of lower margin Nuclear and Oil & Gas the first two months of 2011. in the Oil & Gas sector and the LNG projects. markets in particular continued with INDOOR CLIMATE FLUID POWER As expected, the Indoor Climate order intake up around 70% in the full The overall organic growth in revenues business returned to growth in the year. As previously indicated we have was 31% for the full year reflecting the second half of the year and delivered seen a slower recovery in bookings continued improvement in end markets full year organic revenue growth of 2% in the Fossil Power market where after the significant falls seen in 2009. despite the lacklustre construction order intake was down around 20% in the year. There continues to be During the year we have continued market. This resilient performance significant opportunities in the Nuclear to make good progress in developing continued to be driven by strong market and we were pleased to sign our sector business. This part of our refurbishment activity levels and a memorandum of understanding business, which focuses on bespoke the increasing impact of European with the Shanghai Automation solutions for key original equipment energy efficiency legislation. Overall Instrumentation Company Ltd in manufacturer (OEM) customers in refurbishment activity represented December to create a new venture to global niche markets, grew at 38% two thirds of sales in the year supply control valves into the China in the full year, compared to 28% for reflecting the growing trend to nuclear industry. the rest of the Fluid Power business. retrofit our products into existing 12 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW INDOOR CLIMATE BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING GROUP OPERATING REVIEW buildings in the drive to improve energy BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING efficiency and deliver more effective Beverage volumes continued to Overall organic growth for the year climate control. recover throughout the year with was 2%. As expected, after a weaker We continued to invest in educating overall organic revenue growth of 5% first half, the second half benefited the market to help drive demand on 2009, notwithstanding our decision from some good project wins in for our energy efficient products and to exit a number of lower margin the automotive sector with second solutions with over 60,000 customers product lines which accounted half organic growth of over 15%. attending one of our seminars during for around 3% of 2009 revenue. While the automotive sector was the year. We are expanding this The strongest markets were in the stronger, the cosmetics sector ended seminar programme further in Americas and China which more slightly down on last year and the food 2011 with particular focus on North than offset the more challenging and beverage sector was broadly flat. America, Germany and China. conditions seen in Europe where Operating profits were up 39% volumes were impacted by the weaker compared to 2009. As with Beverage We benefited during the year from the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Spanish, Greek and Irish markets Dispense, Merchandising has been cumulative impact of a number of cost and by our decision to exit some of focusing on improving the overall saving initiatives implemented during the lower margin beer business. quality of the business by targeting 2009 and operating profit for Indoor 3Wire, our parts management business higher margin project opportunities. Climate increased by 16% to £70.3m. in North America, continued to The business has made good progress The operating margin showed further perform well. in this regard delivering operating strong progression on last year, rising from 20.8% to 23.8% in 2010 Operating profit increased by 52% margins of 16.8% in the second as we continued to benefit from the to £32.0m resulting in a strong half and 15.0% for the full year, positive mix of renovation business. uplift in operating margin to 10.2%. a significant improvement on the Underlying margins in the second This positive performance reflects 11.1% achieved last year. half were nearer 24% as we benefited both our focus on improving the In 2011 we are planning to open our from the recovery of certain legal quality of the business and a new ‘In-Vision’ customer experience costs incurred in prior years. In recent further improvement in operational centre in the US which will be used months we have faced significantly efficiencies. to explain to customers the science BOARD REPORTS higher copper prices albeit we We have continued to make good of merchandising and to visually expect to recover this through progress on new product development demonstrate how we can add greater improved pricing. where we are targeting the higher value for them. As energy costs continue to rise growth water, juice, frozen drinks and we expect the drive to make both smoothies markets. The demand for existing and new buildings more energy our new more energy efficient coolers efficient to accelerate. To take is also growing as these products fit advantage of this opportunity we well with our major customers own are expanding our engineering and sustainability initiatives. sales resource, notably in the emerging Looking forward we expect to benefit markets and North America, as from increased investment in emerging FINANCIAL STATEMENTS well as investing further in our markets by our major global customers industry leading seminar programme. which together with continued The ongoing drive for improved energy strength in North America and our efficiency positions us well for higher new product initiatives should support growth in 2011. further positive progress in 2011. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 13 Group operating review KEY THEMES CONTRIBUTING TO CLEANER ENERGY PRODUCTION CCI is known internationally for providing reliable turbine bypass valves to the fossil power generating fleet, and it is now becoming the partner of choice for the emerging solar thermal industry. Capable of providing precise flow control and withstanding cyclic operation, CCI is providing the technology today that tomorrow’s generating fleet needs. Clean energy How we contribute If the world is to meet its ambitious IMI, principally through our Severe aims to reduce the growth of carbon Service and Fluid Power businesses, is emissions over the coming decades actively involved in supplying a number without constraining overall growth in of fluid control solutions to clean output, then the proportion of energy energy providers. For instance, over generation coming from sustainable, the last few years we have supplied low carbon and cleaner sources will a range of control valves for thermo have to significantly increase. To solar power generation projects in achieve these aims a wide combination Spain. More recently in 2010 we of solutions and technologies will be supplied our first turbine bypass required, ranging from sustainable solution to a new biomass power energy sources such as hydro, wave, generation plant in Texas. wind, thermal and solar, through next In natural gas we have a market Nuclear power is also a key strategic generation nuclear power reactors leading position in the supply of low carbon solution. There are and also the use of cleaner fossil critical control and isolation valves approximately 400 reactors in power sources such as natural gas. used in liquefied natural gas (LNG) operation around the world today to Natural gas is considered to be the trains. LNG is a high growth market which IMI has a long history of most environmentally friendly fossil as countries with limited local supplying parts and services to fuel because it has the lowest CO2 resources of natural gas, such as maintain these reactors in optimal emissions per unit of energy and China, seek to import supplies from condition. More recently, ambitious because it is suitable for use in resource rich countries like Australia plans have been developed by a high efficiency combined cycle power in an efficient and secure way. We number of countries to expand this stations. Going forward, we expect supply a range of valves in the population and IMI is positioned well to increasing worldwide government liquefaction plants including antibenefit from this expansion as and sponsorship of cleaner energy surge control valves, which protect when it materialises. solutions through a combination of the compressor, and also control and legislation and grants which should isolation valves in the regasification support strong growth in this area. plants. Worldwide LNG capacity is expected to continue to grow over the next few years which should represent a major opportunity for IMI. 14 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW “When we converted our Bayside Station in Florida from coal-fired generation to gas, the plant began a new era of cleaner but more severe service operation. As the operating conditions were now going to require more variable operation, the valve solution needed re-engineering to help us improve the temperature and thermal shocks this kind of clean generation requires. In addition to reducing our maintenance costs, CCI provided us with the sales, engineering and product design support necessary to solve our problem helping us to reduce maintenance and down time along with increased reliability.” Paul Lofton, Specialist Engineer, Tampa Electric Co. Bayside Station. For more than 50 years, Thompson Valves, a business unit of Norgren and part of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW IMI Nuclear, has been the internationally recognised benchmark for nuclear control and instrumentation. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Group operating review KEY THEMES HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS TO ACHIEVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY Display Technologies’ Freedom Barrel helps our customers meet their environmental impact goals. Predominantly made from reprocessed materials, it can also be easily disassembled for recycling. Three units are packed in approximately the same space as a single traditional unit, providing freight and warehouse savings of more than 50%. Energy efficiency How we contribute Moving towards energy sustainability IMI has long identified energy will require a change, not only in the efficiency as a major growth driver for way that energy is generated and the Group. It is fundamental to our supplied, but also in the way that own responsible business agenda it is used, so reducing the amount where we not only have a priority of energy required to deliver various to reduce the Group’s own carbon goods and services is essential. emissions, but also have a priority to Our Indoor Climate business is almost According to the International Energy engage with our customers on their entirely focused on providing more Agency, improved energy efficiency in own responsible business agendas energy efficient valve solutions for buildings, industrial processes and which, almost without exception, both commercial and residential transportation could reduce the include the reduction of carbon buildings. As has been highlighted world’s energy needs in 2050 by one emissions. Consequently, there previously, these trends are third, and thereby help control global continues to be increasing demand increasingly supported by legislation emissions of CO2. As well as climate from our customers across all of our and there is growing evidence that change, the other key factor behind businesses for more energy efficient greater energy efficiency can have a the drive for more energy efficient products and services. This is often positive impact on building occupancy products is the increasing cost of supported by government legislation rates and valuations. energy itself. A combination of higher whether relating to truck emissions, raw material costs and the move or the energy efficiency of buildings. Energy efficiency is now one of the towards more sustainable and Energy efficiency therefore remains key priorities in the development of more expensive energy production a key driver of our new product all new dispensing equipment in technologies is increasing the cost development activity. our Beverage Dispense business. of energy worldwide. By investing Over the last few years we have Our Severe Service business has developed a range of new coolers for in more energy efficient solutions, developed a range of valve and companies can reduce the impact of the beer and carbonated soft drinks actuator solutions to help customers markets, such as the Energize and these higher costs. reduce energy usage and emissions IntelliBlue systems, which both of CO2 and other gases. Recent use around 40% less energy than examples of this include the ‘CoolMist’ traditional coolers. This resonates solution in Combined Cycle Plants well with the global drinks brand which reduces emissions by around owners who are all now very focused 20% and our solutions to on reducing their carbon footprints. help reduce fugitive emissions in the Similarly in Merchandising, we are Oil & Gas markets. Similarly, product increasingly focused on developing development in our Fluid Power more energy efficient product designs business is largely focused on helping for our customers. to improve efficiencies in key sectors such as rail and commercial vehicles. 16 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW McDonald’s welcomed the opportunity to partner with IMI Cornelius on its new drink cooling system Energize, resulting in 40% energy savings, equivalent to CO2 emissions of 3.0 tonnes a year, and reducing typical restaurant energy costs by £425 per year. This type of energy efficient technology is aiding McDonald’s in achieving their global sustainability targets. “The objective for our state of the art head office in Prague was to have a reliable and energy efficient heating and cooling network, operating in an environmentally GROUP OPERATING REVIEW friendly way. The long standing cooperation between IMI Indoor Climate, the consultants and us, on the heating and cooling network, helped us to achieve our goal. This successful collaboration contributed to the building, with its sustainable design features, becoming the first LEED certified building in the Czech Republic with a gold award an internationally recognised green building certification.” Pavel Kavánek, Chief Executive Officer, CSOB RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Group operating review KEY THEMES CONTRIBUTING TO A HEALTHIER LIFESTYLE Healthier living Ageing populations is a global trend. In the more developed regions the population aged 60 or over is increasing at the fastest pace ever and is expected by the United Nations The technical experts from Indoor Climate provided a system solution for the Sarvar to increase by more than 50% over Spa & Wellness centre in Hungary which not only optimises the performance and energy the next four decades, rising from efficiency of the heating system, but also controls the water temperature, ensuring an enjoyable and safe environment for the Spa visitors. 264 million in 2009 to 416 million in 2050. In the developing world, the population is ageing even more How we contribute demands on the indoor climate rapidly, with the population over and air quality system are very high. 60 forecast to rise from 475 million to In Fluid Power, IMI has identified This is most critical in specialist 1.6 billion over the same time period. Life Sciences as one of its key global areas, such as surgery and pulmonary Population ageing has a number of sectors. In 2010, revenues in this medicine, where precise air treatment major implications notably in the area sector grew by over 20% and it and humidity levels are extremely of healthcare with spending in this remains a very strong growth important. Indoor Climate’s expertise area expected to rise significantly as opportunity for the business. and industry leading solutions, such populations grow older. At the same Fluid Power has a range of bespoke as their differential pressure control time as developing countries become valve solutions which are used in a valves, have successfully delivered wealthier, they are also likely to wide variety of medical equipment these solutions in a number of new increase the proportion of national including respirators, anaesthesia hospital projects. income spent on healthcare to bring machines and oxygen concentrators. them up towards the levels spent In addition, through its Kloehn The fastest growing area of the in more developed countries. business in the US, Fluid Power is market for our Beverage Dispense We therefore expect that healthcare supplying precise micro-dosing pump business is health and indulgence. and related markets are likely to be solutions for dispensing reagents in Consumers are demanding healthier a major growth opportunity over the new DNA sequencing systems, which is drinks such as water and juices and next few years. In addition, people, a very fast growing area of medicine. we have successfully developed a particularly in the developed world, number of new dispensing solutions As well as providing energy efficient are looking for healthier options in to address this area of the market. solutions, Indoor Climate systems terms of the food and drinks that they This has included multi-purpose are also able to optimise the climate consume as part of a trend towards purified still, carbonated and hot control and conditions in a building to an overall healthier lifestyle. water dispensing solutions for provide the perfect environment for both the commercial and domestic the building users. This is particularly markets. important in hospital buildings where 18 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW “Luxfer’s new Intelligent Oxygen System (IOS®) features our patented SmartFlow® technology, an exceptionally efficient valve-regulator that delivers GROUP OPERATING REVIEW dependable flow and near-complete use of cylinder contents. This a unique feature that allows patients to breathe longer on one fill, which increases ambulatory time and improves a patient’s fitness level and quality of life. We chose to work with Norgren on this project because of their reputation for high quality engineering.” David Rix, Managing Director – Europe – Luxfer Gas Cylinders Pearlmax3 from IMI Cornelius is a stylish water dispenser specially designed to supply organisations and venues with fresh drinking water. The unit is made to ensure the highest levels of hygiene and connects to the mains water supply so is always ready to dispense a perfectly chilled and refreshing glass of water. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Group operating review KEY THEMES INVESTING IN OUR CORE COMPETENCIES OF KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT AND ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE The balancing instrument TA-SCOPE optimises the hydronic balancing process, ensuring that the heating and cooling system in a building provides comfort using the absolute minimum of energy. TA-SCOPE enables accurate measurement of differential pressure, flow, temperature and power and has advanced functions for data analysis. The two core competencies common to all of IMI’s businesses are Key Account Management and Engineering Advantage. IMI is increasing its investment in these two key areas to underpin the Group’s aspirations of accelerating top line growth and delivering further margin improvement. Key Account Management World class Key Account Management The new framework breaks Key 쐍 we reduce their life costs and is central to our strategic aims. Account Management down into five risks by minimising installation By understanding the value drivers core skills: and warranty costs through our for our customers we are able to engineered solutions; and create greater value for them. 쐍 Backing winners 쐍 we help them optimise their initial We aim to select the best customers 쐍 Insight investment in their equipment, to partner with and manage those 쐍 Engineering Advantage system or plant. relationships closely for the benefit 쐍 Capturing value We call this Engineering Advantage. of both the customer and IMI. 쐍 Execution ability We set up our Key Account As with Key Account Management This new framework will be used to we are increasing our investment in Management Academy in 2003 train and develop all our KAMs across Engineering Advantage over the next with the help of Cranfield University. the Group. At the same time IMI few years to help drive future growth, Since then our Key Account Managers is investing in new KAMs in each particularly in the emerging markets. (KAMs) from across our platform business with over 100 expected to be This will result in more ‘Valve Doctors’ businesses have had regular recruited in 2011 alone. Recruitment in Severe Service and an increase opportunities to share best practice is heavily weighted towards the faster in the number of engineers in our and develop their skill sets within growing emerging markets. technical centres in Fluid Power. the framework of the academy. The next phase of our KAM In Indoor Climate we are investing in Engineering Advantage a new engineering support centre in development is being led by Sean We create value for our customers in Poland and an increase in the number Toomes, President of Indoor Climate three critical ways: of ‘Hydronic Gurus’ to help develop and Executive Committee member, who is refocusing our efforts in 쐍 we help them increase the value of our programme of seminars around this important area. the products or systems they are the world. selling to their own customers and create competitive advantage for them in their own markets; 20 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW “Product development has been central to our Company’s growth plans and the new Neptune series of engines is an example of this success. The engine is designed to set benchmarks, offering superior levels of performance, power and fuel efficiency. In order to also meet the demanding requirements of emissions legislation, we needed a partner to work with, who had the experience to provide a proven solution & appropriate technical support and we chose Norgren. Norgren’s proportional valve to control the exhaust gas recirculation system has provided a precise, compliant and reliable solution. Their ability to integrate all the components that are needed for installation has reduced the number of sub-suppliers we use and the installation time required.” Mr. Murali Saketheran, Neptune Programme Manager & Special Director – Central Quality, Ashok Leyland To further enhance understanding of the process challenges in the development of In Beverage Dispense there will be Overall we have plans to add well over GROUP OPERATING REVIEW severe service solutions, IMI Severe renewed focus on our new product 200 new engineers across the Group Service has developed the IMI Severe Service University to provide customers development activity and in in the next couple of years. Investing with both classroom and on-site training. Merchandising we are opening a new in Engineering Advantage is key to The course design team works directly with the Valve Doctors, engineers, and interactive ‘In-Vision’ laboratory using creating value for our customers and field service experts to create courses the latest visual display technology to thereby creating greater value for that provide the ideal mix of industry knowledge, subject expertise, and explain the science of merchandising our shareholders. hands-on experience. based on the knowledge that we have built up over many years. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Financial review FINANCIAL REVIEW THE GROUP’S SEGMENTAL OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN WAS 16.7%, COMPARED TO 13.1% IN 2009. PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS WAS UP 44% AT £304.4M. With effect from 1 January 2010, As the acquisition completed on the Group has implemented IFRS3 31 December 2010 there is no impact (revised) ‘Business Combinations’ on the Group’s 2010 consolidated and the amendments to IAS27 income statement. ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial In 2010 revenues were up 7%. Statements’, IFRS2 ‘Group CashExcluding a favourable exchange settled Share-based Payment impact of £19m, organic sales Arrangements’ and IAS39 ‘Financial growth was 6%. The following review Instruments’. With the exception of of our business areas for 2010 IFRS3 (revised) the amendments do compares the performance of our not have a material impact on the operations as reported under financial statements. IFRS3 (revised) IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’ with is applied prospectively and there is 2009. Revenue growth has been therefore no impact on prior periods. stated on a constant currency basis. The income statement has been In Fluid Controls, the Severe Service re-presented to show net finance business declined by 14% in the year expense from defined benefit reflecting the later cycle nature of pension schemes separately from its markets and lower order intake other finance income and expense. seen in new construction markets This provides a more meaningful in 2009. As expected margins were analysis of net financial expense and impacted by the lower volumes the comparatives have been restated and fell to 17.3% for the full year accordingly. In all other respects, (2009: 19.8%). these financial statements have been prepared on a consistent basis using Fluid Power rebounded strongly the accounting policies set out in in 2010, growing at 31% for the the IMI Annual Report and Financial year reflecting the significant Statements for the year ended improvement seen in end markets. 31 December 2009. All of Fluid Power’s five key global sectors (Commercial Vehicles, Life On 31 December 2010 IMI acquired Sciences, Rail, Energy and Food & Zimmermann and Jansen (Z&J) for Beverage) performed well and a consideration of £110m (net of cash now represent 41% of Fluid Power acquired). The acquisition of Z&J is volumes. Operating margins were highly complementary in both market particularly strong at 16.6% and technology terms and it is for the year compared to 6.3% anticipated the use of IMI’s global in 2009. This step change in margin sales and aftermarket infrastructure performance has been driven will improve Z&J’s geographic by increased volumes as well as penetration. Z&J’s balance sheet increased operational efficiencies; as at 31 December 2010 has been including further moves to lower consolidated into the Group under cost manufacturing locations and acquisition accounting per procurement benefits. IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’. 22 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Douglas M Hurt Finance Director As expected, the Indoor Climate to 15.0% for the year and delivered Restructuring costs in the year RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS business returned to growth in the operating profits in 2010 up 39% were £16.0m (2009: £34.9m) as the second half of the year and delivered over 2009. Group continued to seek operational full year growth of 2% despite the The Group’s segmental operating efficiencies and move more activity depressed construction market. profit margin was 16.7%, compared to lower cost manufacturing A number of cost saving initiatives to 13.1% in 2009. In the traditionally locations. Of this amount the largest contributed to margin growth from stronger second half, the Group costs were in the Severe Service 20.8% to 23.8%. Underlying margins delivered an operating margin (£4.8m) and Beverage Dispense were about one percentage point of 17.6% (2009 H2: 15.3%). The businesses (£5.0m). The majority lower than reported in the second segmental operating profit was up of these costs were closure and half as we benefited from a 37% at £319.7m (2009: £234.2m). redundancy costs but they also recovery of legal fees expensed include plant transfer, installation Interest costs for the year of and set up costs incurred in in previous years. £15.3m (2009: £18.5m) were covered the year. The Group expects to incur In Retail Dispense, the Beverage 24 times (2009: 14 times) by earnings restructuring costs of around £15m BOARD REPORTS Dispense business continued to before interest, tax, depreciation recover during the year and posted in each of the next two years as part and amortisation of £369.2m (2009: of a plan to move production to its 5% growth; notwithstanding £262.5m). our decision to exit a number of lower cost manufacturing centres. A gain arose on the revaluation of Acquired intangible amortisation lower margin product lines that financial instruments and derivatives was £7.0m (2009: £7.2m). This charge accounted for 3% of 2009 revenue. under IAS39 of £12.3m (2009: gain will be higher in 2011 following the Operating margins improved to 10.2% of £7.7m) reflecting primarily the acquisition of Zimmermann & Jansen. for the year following the favourable movements in exchange rates during There was no impairment of goodwill mix and further improvement in the year on forward foreign exchange in the year (2009: £nil). operational efficiencies. contracts. In Merchandising, sales growth was Profit before tax from continuing Profit from continuing operations operations was £306.1m (2009: 2% for the year following a stronger FINANCIAL STATEMENTS before tax and exceptional items was £186.2m), an increase of 64% over second half, notably in the automotive up 44% at £304.4m (2009: £211.7m). the prior year. sector. Operating margins improved IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 23 Financial review A summary of the major changes in revenue and profit over Half year analysis each six month period compared to the prior period is as The comparison for the first and second halves of the follows: year is as follows: Revenue PBTE* PBT Change 2010 2009 £m £m £m % £m £m Revenue First half 2009 900 86.4 79.7 First half +3 925 900 Second half +11 986 892 Effects of currency translation 3 1.0 1.0 Organic growth 34 47.2 47.2 +7 1,911 1,792 Net interest cost 0.5 0.5 Other financing items 1.3 1.3 Segmental operating profit First half +49 145.6 97.4 Financial instruments excluding Second half +27 174.1 136.8 economic hedge contract gains and losses (10.5) +37 319.7 234.2 Restructuring costs 14.2 PBTE* Acquired intangible amortisation 0.1 First half +58 136.4 86.4 Reversal of economic hedge Second half +34 168.0 125.3 contract gains and losses (12) +44 304.4 211.7 2010 925 136.4 133.5 Restructuring costs First half (3.3) (17.5) Second half Second half (12.7) (17.4) 2009 892 125.3 106.5 (16.0) (34.9) Effects of currency translation 16 3.0 3.0 Organic growth 79 34.3 34.3 Employee Benefit Curtailment Net interest cost 2.7 2.7 UK Scheme Other financing items 2.7 2.7 Second half 15.1 Financial instruments excluding 15.1 economic hedge Acquired intangible amortisation contract gains and losses 3.5 and impairment Restructuring costs 4.7 First half (3.6) (3.7) Employee benefit curtailment Second half (3.4) (3.5) UK Scheme 15.1 (7.0) (7.2) Acquired intangible amortisation and impairment 0.1 Financial instruments excluding Reversal of economic hedge economic hedge contract contract gains and losses (1) gains and losses First half 4.0 14.5 2010 986 168.0 172.6 Second half 5.6 2.1 Year 1,911 304.4 306.1 9.6 16.6 Profit before tax * Profit before tax and exceptional items. First half +68 133.5 79.7 Second half +62 172.6 106.5 +64 306.1 186.2 * Profit before tax and exceptional items. 24 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Taxation After Severe Service investigation costs and the The effective tax rate for the Group before exceptional refund of the EU fine, free cash flow before corporate items was unchanged at 30% (2009: 30%). After taxation activity was £203m (2009: £168m). £130m was spent on of £92.5m (2009: £53.8m) the profit was £213.6m (2009: acquisitions in the year, driven largely by the acquisition of £132.4m), an increase of 61%. The taxes paid in the year Z&J. Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £71m in the of £56.3m (2009: £52.6m) are still largely based on prior year (2009: £66m) and there was a net cash outflow GROUP OPERATING REVIEW period profit levels. The Group is planning a series of of £28m in respect of shares purchased and issued organisational and process restructuring initiatives to (2009: inflow of £1m). The investment by the UK Pension reduce the effective tax rate over time. Fund in the pension partnership was £48.6m giving a net Discontinued operations cash flow of £30m (2009: £82m) which reduced net debt to £145m (2009: £172m). £12.8m of income (2009: £nil) attributable to discontinued operations was recognised in the year. This comprised 2010 2009 £5.4m being the partial rebate of a fine from the EU levied £m £m in 2005, which related to a business sold in 2002 and £7.4m deferred contingent consideration received in respect of EBITDA from continuing operations* 369.2 262.5 the disposal of Polypipe in 2005. No tax is chargeable on Working capital requirements 32.2 60.7 the discontinued items. Capital expenditure (including development expenditure) (50.8) (42.2) Earnings per share (EPS) Other (15.8) (3.0) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Basic EPS was up 73% at 70.4p (2009: 40.8p) and diluted EPS was 69.4p (2009: 40.6p). The Board considers that a Operating cash flow 334.8 278.0 more meaningful indication of the underlying performance of the Group is provided by earnings from continuing Tax paid (56.3) (52.6) operations before charging/(crediting) exceptional items Interest/derivatives (11.5) (27.3) after tax. Details of this calculation are given in note 9. Operating cash flow after interest On this basis the adjusted EPS from continuing operations and tax 267.0 198.1 was 66.3p, an increase of 45% over last year’s 45.8p. Severe Service investigation costs Cash flow and fine (4.3) (13.5) The Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows is Additional pension scheme funding (65.4) (16.8) shown on page 70. The change in net debt is summarised Refund of EU fine 5.4 in the table opposite. Free cash flow before The operating cash flow from continuing operations was corporate activity 202.7 167.8 BOARD REPORTS £335m (2009: £278m). This represents a conversion rate of segmental operating profit after restructuring Acquisitions (including costs into operating cash flow of 110% (2009: 139%). non-controlling interests) (129.8) (19.4) Cash spent on property, plant and equipment in the year Polypipe earnout recovery 7.4 was £46m (2009: £37m) which was equivalent to 1.0 times Dividends paid to equity shareholders (70.9) (66.0) (2009: 0.8 times) depreciation. Expenditure on research Dividends paid to non-controlling and development in the year was £42m (2009: £39m). interests (0.5) (1.6) Of this amount development costs capitalised in the year Net (purchase)/issue of shares (27.9) 1.4 were £5m (2009: £5m). Investment in pension partnership by After payment of interest and tax, the free cash flow UK Pension Fund 48.6 generated from operations was £267m (2009: £198m). Net cash flow 29.6 82.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The additional pension contributions of £65m comprised £16.8m in accordance with the repayment plan agreed Opening net debt (172.4) (298.7) and an additional special contribution of £48.6m. Foreign exchange translation (2.6) 44.1 Closing net debt (145.4) (172.4) * Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 25 Financial review Balance sheet Dividends Net debt at the year end was £145m compared to £172m The Board has recommended a final dividend in respect at the end of last year. The year end net debt to EBITDA of 2010 of 17.0p per share, an increase of 29% over last ratio was 0.4 times (2009: 0.7 times). year’s level. This makes a total dividend for the year At the end of 2010 the US loan notes totalled £252m, of 26.0p (2009: 21.2p). The cost of the final dividend is with a weighted average maturity of 7.4 years and other expected to be £54m, giving a total dividend cost of loans totalled £16m. Total committed bank loan facilities £83m in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010. available to the Group at the year end were £226m of Dividend cover based on adjusted earnings is 2.6 times. which £13m were drawn. Pensions Intangible assets The Group recognises there is a funding and investment The value of the Group’s intangible assets increased to risk inherent within defined benefit pension arrangements. £517m at 31 December 2010 (2009: £386m). Most of this It has therefore undertaken a number of key initiatives to increase was due to the recognition of £77m of acquired manage this risk, including the closure of six schemes to intangibles and £49m of goodwill on the acquisition of Z&J. new entrants and five to future accrual. The charge for intangible amortisation will be higher in The IMI Pension Fund, the largest employee benefit 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J. obligation within the Group was closed to future accrual Property, plant and equipment on 31 December 2010 resulting in a curtailment gain of £15.1m. The Fund has also worked with the Group to The net book value of the Group’s investment in property, reduce the interest rate, inflation and mortality risks plant and equipment at 31 December 2010 was £241m and purchased £325m of annuities to fully match certain (2009: £233m). The movement was driven by the addition liabilities thereby reducing the volatility of the funding of Z&J’s property, plant and equipment (£12m) with capital position. The Group also made a special contribution of expenditures of £46m (2009: £37m) more than offset by £48.6m which the Fund invested into a partnership as depreciation at £47m (2009: £49m). described above. Total equity The last triennial actuarial valuation of the IMI Pension Total equity at the end of December 2010 was £576m, an Fund was as at 31 March 2008. This valuation resulted in a increase of £174m since the end of 2009, which includes funding deficit of £118m. A recovery plan was agreed with the attributable profit for the year of £226m, less an the pension fund Trustee that requires additional cash after-tax actuarial loss on the defined benefit pension contributions from the Company of £16.8m each year plans of £19m (2009: £109m) and the 2009 final and 2010 until July 2016. Accordingly an additional contribution interim dividends totalling £71m. of this amount was made in July 2010. A further such The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (‘the partnership’) contribution will be paid in July 2011. The next triennial was established during the year ended 31 December 2010. actuarial valuation will be conducted as at March 2011. The IMI Pension Fund invested a special contribution The Group expects to agree a revised recovery plan with of £48.6m made by the Group during the year into the the Trustee in late 2011 or early 2012, but in any event by partnership, giving them rights to receive income of £4.4m 30 June 2012. per year for twenty years or until the fund is no longer The IAS19 deficit at 31 December 2010 for the Group’s in deficit. The partnership is fully consolidated in these employee defined benefit pension plans was £199m down accounts with the pension fund’s interest presented from £258m at the end of 2009. The decrease was mainly within equity in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet, due to the actions taken to mitigate risk. The Group separately from equity attributable to the owners of continues to explore with the Trustee various options the parent. to reduce further the funding risk in respect of the UK Share buybacks defined benefit scheme and will continue its programme of closing overseas plans where they are neither mandatory No shares were repurchased during the year. 3.7m shares nor an operational necessity. costing £29.5m were purchased by the IMI Employees Benefit Trust for potential use in relation to employee Treasury policy share schemes. IMI’s centralised Treasury function provides treasury services to Group companies including funding liquidity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rate and base metal commodity management. It ensures that the Group 26 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW operates within Board approved guidelines in order to Going concern minimise the major financial risks and provide a stable The Group’s business activities, together with the factors financial base. The use of financial instruments and likely to affect its future development, performance and derivatives is permitted where the effect is to minimise position are set out in the Group Operating Review on risk to the Group. Compliance with approved policies pages 8 to 21. The financial position of the Group, its cash is monitored through a control and reporting system. flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are GROUP OPERATING REVIEW There have been no changes in the year or since the year described in this Financial Review. In addition, note 18 to end to the major financial risks to the Group or the way in the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, which they are managed. policies and processes for managing its capital; its Foreign exchange and interest rate risk financial risk management objectives; details of its Further information on how the Group manages its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to these financial risks is shown in note 18 to the exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. Note 19 to the financial statements. The translation impact on the 2010 financial statements addresses the management of the segmental operating profit was an improvement of £4m. funding risks of the Group’s employee benefit obligations. The most important foreign currencies for the Group The Group has considerable financial resources together remain the Euro and the US Dollar and the relevant rates with long-standing relationships with a number of of exchange were: customers, suppliers and funding providers across different geographic areas and industries. The Group’s Average At 31 December forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2010 2009 2010 2009 possible changes in trading performance, show that the Euro 1.17 1.12 1.17 1.13 Group is able to operate within the level of its current US Dollar 1.54 1.57 1.57 1.61 bank facilities without needing to renew facilities expiring in 2011. As a consequence, the directors believe that If the exchange rates as at 1 March 2011 of US$1.63 and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks ¤1.18 had been applied to our 2010 results, it is estimated successfully despite the uncertainties inherent in the that revenue and segmental operating profit would have current economic outlook. Additionally, as part of the been 1.3% and 0.4% higher respectively. Group’s normal ongoing funding review, the Group has received indicative offers of additional funding facilities Economic value added and confirmation of the lenders’ intention to agree to the Economic value added (EVA) is defined as the segmental renewal of a number of existing facilities. operating profit after tax less a capital charge. After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The capital charge is arrived at by applying the after expectation that the Company and the Group have tax weighted average cost of capital to the average adequate resources to continue in operational existence invested capital. Invested capital is defined as net BOARD REPORTS for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to assets plus net debt and the IAS19 pension deficit adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual (net of deferred tax), excluding exceptional items in report and financial statements. the balance sheet (being restructuring provisions, net derivative liabilities and Severe Service investigation Share price and shareholder return costs). For 2010 the segmental operating profit was The share price at 31 December 2010 was 945p (2009: £319.7m and the Net Operating Profit after Tax (‘NOPAT’) 519p), an increase of 82% over the year. Based on the was £223.8m. The Group’s invested capital at the end year end share price, the proposed total dividend of 26.0p of 2010 was £715.3m comprising £685.9m of net assets represents a yield of 2.8%. excluding exceptional items and £29.4m of net debt (excluding the impact of Z&J on net debt). The average invested capital was £741.4m. Applying the 2010 WACC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of 8% to the invested capital gives a charge of £59.3m. The EVA in 2010 was £164.5m, representing an increase of 69% over the 2009 EVA of £97.3m. EVA has been calculated on a different basis to 2009 to be in line with Douglas M Hurt EVA used for internal reporting and incentive purposes. Finance Director The major changes are in respect of the treatment of 2 March 2011 restructuring costs and the IAS19 pension deficit. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 27 Responsible business HIGH STANDARDS OF RESPONSIBILITY ARE AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO WE BELIEVE THAT RESPONSIBILITY IMPACTS POSITIVELY ON Our code of responsible business is a guide to help employees consistently PROFITABILITY, RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS, REPUTATION AND demonstrate their commitment to GROWTH. OUR INTERNAL STANDARDS DEMAND SOUND MANAGEMENT The IMI Way throughout our worldwide operations. It can help determine OF OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AGENDA AND AIM TO INTEGRATE THIS the right course of action, for THINKING WITHIN ALL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. instance, in a feedback conversation with a colleague, in negotiations with THE IMI WAY; Our Code of a major customer or supplier, in an assessment of our health and safety Responsible Business performance or in a review of product The most consistent factor in IMI’s innovations. longstanding business success has During 2010 face-to-face training been our commitment to a guiding was again given to all our employees set of values that exemplify how our worldwide. Two of our businesses, employees behave. Wherever anyone Severe Service and Indoor Climate, works in IMI and whenever an IMI held IMI Way days where all of their employee is encountered, you can employees were trained and took part expect to see these values at work: in team building activities on the same 쐍 IMI people pursue excellence and day. Training this year covered the deliver results introduction of the new STAR Guide, 쐍 IMI people innovate and provide value which stands for Stop Think Act to our customers Reflect and acts as a user friendly 쐍 IMI people act with integrity aide memoire for considering ethical dilemmas in the workplace. There was In 2009, IMI formalised these values also more functional specific faceinto a code of responsible business entitled ‘The IMI Way’. We believe to-face training which focused on that it is vital for our future business ethical dilemmas for sales, finance performance that we continue, as a and procurement personnel. Group, to demonstrate the values and In 2011, all five platform businesses behaviours that set IMI apart. are planning to hold IMI Way days and training will include the introduction of the new UK Bribery Act. We will also be seeking input from all of our employees for an updated version of The IMI Way which is planned for 2012. A comprehensive programme of anti-corruption processes, procedures and training has been developed for implementation across the Group. This programme is led by Jo Morgan, the IMI Chief Compliance Officer, with direct sponsorship from the Executive Committee. Group compliance staff and a team at CCI are working closely with the monitor appointed pursuant to a CCI settlement with the US Department of Justice. In addition, we use The IMI Way to highlight any conduct which is not in line with our values and we provide our employees with an anonymous hotline 28 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW service on the telephone and via the which best practice ideas internet to raise any such concerns. on health and safety, GROUP OPERATING REVIEW All hotline issues are reviewed by the customer engagement, Ethics and Compliance Committee on supplier audits and energy a monthly basis and reported to the efficiency are shared. Executive Committee and the Board Our continued inclusion in as appropriate. both the FTSE4Good and Dow Again, in 2010 we presented CEO Jones Sustainability indices is awards for The IMI Way, recognising evidence of our responsible the achievement of individuals and business progress. teams for their commitment to The All of our businesses are IMI Way. Additionally, the targets required to have associated with The IMI Way form responsible business part of the overall incentive bonuses objectives as part of and collation of the for the senior management group of their rolling three year annual audit data to the Company. strategic plans. These further improve the quality include identification of future risks, and distribution of this RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS opportunities and measures to ensure IMI Responsible Business full alignment of each business with information. The results of the initiatives the Group’s four responsible business responsible business audit are reviewed by the Board and statistics As a reflection of the values that priorities, as well as specific local from the annual audit are published underpin The IMI Way, we take our objectives. This also feeds into our on our website www.imiplc.com. responsibilities to the environment Strategic Risk Assessment process. and the communities in which we Typical local actions include measures 1. Health and safety operate very seriously. We put to improve health and safety, energy We promote a strong health and particular emphasis on ensuring that efficiency, waste minimisation and safety culture to minimise risk for our our management of people, social, recycling and steps to gain relevant people, the environment, adjacent environmental and economic issues HS&E or quality accreditation in communities and other stakeholders. is aligned and integrated with the particular facilities. During 2010, we made further overall management of the business. progress in improving our health To support this commitment, IMI is a and safety record. We now have signatory to the UN Global Compact, Responsible Business priorities 45 full-time health, safety and which establishes standards for environmental officers across the human rights, labour practices, The IMI Way sets out our four Group, up 20% on 2009. We also BOARD REPORTS the environment and anti-corruption. responsible business priorities: increased capital expenditure in this We strongly believe that high 쐍 Health and safety critical area. Our overall lost time standards of responsibility are not 쐍 Supporting our customers’ accident rates fell from 0.27 accidents just compatible with, but positively per 100,000 hours worked in 2009 responsible business priorities support growth and business to 0.25 in 2010, a 7% improvement. efficiency. 쐍 Supply chain and manufacturing in lower cost economies Whilst modest compared to last In 2010, we continued to make good year’s improvement, this performance 쐍 Energy efficiency and carbon demonstrates the continued progress on our initiatives in this area. management clear focus and commitment at Responsible business activities are managed by a Steering Group chaired Our four key priorities are reviewed all levels across the Group on by Sean Toomes, President of Indoor at least annually to ensure that they health and safety matters. Climate and the member of the remain relevant and appropriate. We have increased resources, Executive Committee with functional The performance of our business improved the quality of reporting and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS responsibility for health, safety units on these four key priorities is focused more attention on near and environment (‘HS&E’) matters. assessed during an annual responsible misses to address health and safety Douglas Hurt has main Board business audit and throughout the risks more proactively. In particular, responsibility for HS&E. Quarterly year through other processes such as we continue to see positive changes in calls are held with platform business our risk control surveys and supplier many of our sites which had previously presidents and responsible business audits. Last year we introduced a been underperforming. champions from across the Group in web-based system for the collection IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 29 Responsible business 1. Health and safety (continued) Examples of best practice included: 쐍 Our employees at the Webber, Utilising the ‘IMI Safety First, Safety 쐍 During 2010 the Group mandated Fluid Power site in Bristol, UK have Always’ slogan, we are committed a safety stand down procedure initiated and organised regular to effective communication and across all sites worldwide; where mock disaster incidents to enable consultation on HS&E matters with any greater than 3-day lost time first aiders to get simulated all relevant stakeholders, particularly incident occurs the site is required experience of having to deal with a to stop operations in the area major incident on site. Emergency, with employees. IMI requires impacted for a period of time and evacuation and chemical spill those working for us directly, or formally review the incident and procedures are all audited and have on our behalf as contractors, to how it can be avoided in future. resulted in operational controls comply with our HS&E standards being improved. This ensures that valuable lessons and procedures. are learnt from any accident that During 2010 the Chief Executive In support of these general takes place. again presented awards for health commitments, IMI and each 쐍 Our Severe Service business has and safety excellence recognising subsidiary manages its activities to taken on the leadership role in significant achievements by individuals, ensure that improvement in these implementing a global HS&E strategy teams and whole sites across all of areas is cumulative and constant. and action plan to reduce overall IMI’s operations. In addition, health In 2010, Group-wide HS&E forums accidents, including a global and safety targets were again used were again held in the UK, the framework approach being as one of the main benchmarks for Americas and in Continental Europe. developed and implemented to determining the responsible business Two of our platform businesses, manage health and safety risks element of annual bonuses for senior Fluid Power and Indoor Climate, for our field service personnel. managers in 2010 and will also apply held their own individual HS&E This included new training, a new risk in 2011. forums and there were other manual, risk assessment tools and arrangements for sharing best near miss reporting requirements 2. Supporting our customers’ practice throughout the year. which have helped materially to responsible business priorities reduce the number of accidents. Our continued success lies in creating superior long-term value for our customers and inspiring their trust. We place significant emphasis on helping our customers to meet their own responsible business commitments from diversity targets to carbon emissions recognising the opportunities for sustainability and developing our respective businesses. Global concerns relating to energy issues and climate change, whether driven by legislation or not, have a positive impact on customer demand for our products and services many of which are clearly dedicated to energy efficient operation. Our customers also value the high standard ethical and business practices set out in the IMI Way which is particularly relevant in emerging markets where responsible business risks can be higher. IMI Global Graduates transformed a drab stairwell at a primary school in Birmingham into a colourful display of geometric shapes designed by local pupils. 30 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW There are a wide range of excellent All of these examples demonstrate 4. Energy efficiency and carbon examples across the Group, many of how, by engaging closely with our key management GROUP OPERATING REVIEW which are highlighted elsewhere in this customers on their responsible IMI has an ongoing commitment to Annual Report, which demonstrate business agendas and initiatives, reduce its CO2 emissions and become how we are helping our customers to we can generate end market more energy efficient in both our meet their own responsible business opportunities which create real products and processes. This has commitments. Each year our Indoor commercial advantage for IMI. both environmental and cost saving Climate business holds a number 3. Supply chain and manufacturing in benefits. All of our major factories of customer insight councils in its lower cost economies have local energy savings targets main markets where customers’ and initiatives in place and regular responsible business agendas are IMI’s manufacturing plants in emerging economies such as Mexico, China, the teleconferences help to ensure that a regular topic of discussion. It is ideas and best practice are shared increasingly evident that greater Czech Republic and India have all been developed with full attention to HS&E around IMI’s operations worldwide. energy efficiency has a direct, positive IMI measures its CO2 emissions by impact on building occupancy rates risks and energy efficient, lean manufacturing techniques. looking at tonnes of CO2 emitted per and valuations and our customers 1,000 hours worked. are looking for IMI to assist them in We hold annual supplier days in China achieving their goals in this area. In 2010 our sites implemented a RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS for each platform business, focusing on ensuring that regional suppliers range of initiatives aimed at reducing Our Severe Service business has been energy consumption and costs and at developing a variety of new products fully understand and can meet IMI’s demanding legal compliance, quality being more environmentally friendly. to help customers reduce emissions These included: of carbon and other gases. This has assurance and responsible business included its new ‘CoolMist’ solution requirements, including adherence to 쐍 In the UK, our manufacturing sites which has helped a major customer the UN Global Compact. at Lichfield (Fluid Power) and reduce CO2 emissions by around 20% Loughborough (Merchandising) We operate a supplier evaluation in the interstage attemperation implemented a range of new lighting process and as part of this, suppliers management initiatives including application of a combined cycle plant are subject to rigorous and ongoing the use of zonal control, motion in North America. Similarly, our Fluid audits by our procurement teams, sensors, daylight roof panels and Power business has a number of new including a substantial team based the replacement of light fittings products being developed with a in China. This process follows a riskwith newer more energy efficient green agenda including a proportional based methodology for assessment alternatives. control valve solution for a new and audit against our global 쐍 In the USA, our Severe Service combined heat and power (CHP) responsible business measures. business invested in a new system aimed at the domestic market. In addition, IMI’s risk control team BOARD REPORTS compressed air generation unit Both our Beverage Dispense and conducts regular supplier visits and to replace two older inefficient Merchandising businesses continue to training of our procurement compressors. This not only delivered develop more sustainable solutions for personnel. a significant improvement in global brand owners and retailers, who In 2010, over 140 supplier audits took energy usage but also increased themselves have set very demanding place and this process continues to be air capacity by over 50% and was targets aimed at reducing their reviewed and enhanced. As a result supported by rebates from the local carbon footprints. Our new energy electricity company. of these audits we have required efficient coolers for both carbonated improvement plans and, where 쐍 In our Beverage Dispense facility in soft drinks and beer continue to make appropriate, we have also terminated Reynosa, Mexico the business good progress. We also launched the our relationships with a number of invested in a new water filtration ‘Freedom Barrel’ for merchandising suppliers who were not able to meet and reverse osmosis system which cold drinks. This is the first truly our strict responsible business enables the site to recycle waste portable knock-down barrel, water and is saving over 250,000 requirements. In 2011 we will be FINANCIAL STATEMENTS manufactured from reprocessed gallons of water usage per annum. refining this audit process to reflect materials, which delivers significant the latest profile of risks and we will reductions in packaging materials, be providing further training and transportation requirements and development for our supply chain warehousing space. employees to ensure excellence in this important area. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 31 Responsible business 4. Energy efficiency and carbon safety performance report that will Community engagement management (continued) be posted to the IMI plc website, IMI has benefited greatly from the Importantly, in July 2010 IMI’s UK www.imiplc.com, in due course. communities in which we operate. facilities became certified to In 2011, we have a clear priority to We have a duty to be a responsible The Carbon Trust Standard (CTS). improve this performance through business citizen and to meet our This represents a great endorsement more regular reporting and closer commitments to these communities. for all the work we have been doing monitoring efforts. In particular, we We want to show appreciation to on our energy efficiency and carbon will be focusing our efforts on our top these neighbours for their support. management initiatives. The CTS twenty energy consuming locations To this end, IMI continues to certifies that an organisation which are responsible for around 70% demonstrate high economic, social and has genuinely reduced its carbon of the Group’s energy usage. We will environmental standards, remains footprint, and is committed to making be targeting a number of common key respectful of human rights and further reductions year on year. initiatives in these locations including assists our local communities through Despite all these efforts, in 2010 lighting, compressed air management, charitable activities and community our key performance indicator rose equipment upgrades, induction motor volunteering. We also make sure that slightly from 3.5 to 3.6 CO2 tonnes per controllers and also opportunities to we communicate appropriately with 1,000 hours worked. This primarily take advantage of local government all of our stakeholders. One way that reflected the adverse impact of the support schemes. These efforts we support our local communities abnormally cold weather experienced should assist the Group to meet its is through responsibly sponsoring in Europe and North America at emissions target set last year to recognised national and local charities different points in the year. Total CO2 reduce normalised CO2 emissions by and causes, generally with auditable emissions rose from 90,000 tonnes 10% over a three year period to no accounts, that are most aligned to 97,000 tonnes reflecting the more than 3.2 CO2 tonnes/1,000 hours with IMI or its companies regarding significant increase in activity levels. worked in 2012. Regular updates on location, supported cause or Further information will be provided in our achievement against this target relevance. the 2010 environmental and health and are given on the Group’s website. Across all our businesses, we actively encourage positive contributions to local communities and environments, whilst still delivering the necessary business performance. For IMI people, responsibility and business performance are directly and intimately connected. During 2010, IMI continued to provide support for many charities with its two main corporate charities being: 쐍 Care for Children, a charity that exists to relieve hardship, distress and sickness in abandoned and orphaned children in China by placing them with foster and adoptive families. 쐍 DebRA, a charity working on behalf of people with the genetic skin blistering condition, Epidermolysis Bullosa. Team 469 from the Detroit area, sponsored by Norgren, won the Michigan state championship and a silver medal at the World Championships in an annual high school robotics competition. 32 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Severe Service employees in California worked in teams to build bicycles for a charity that provides food and gifts to local families over the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. Elsewhere, employees right across our businesses have been involved in a GROUP OPERATING REVIEW wide range of fund raising activities for local charities and other good causes. For example our Severe Service employees in Japan are collecting drinks bottle caps which can be exchanged for polio and other important vaccinations for children in developing countries through the Ecocap Movement. Our Fluid Power business, Norgren, sponsored a team of local high school students in Detroit, USA in a robotics competition where they won the Michigan state championship and then went on to win a silver medal at the World Championships. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Employee investment and talent development The geographical distribution of our IMI encourages its operating units The IMI graduate programme operations and activities across the to train and develop employees at continues to provide a pipeline of world enables us to draw upon a broad all levels through a wide range of engineering talent into the business. spectrum of talented people from business-related education and The programme is now aligned with diverse ethnic, cultural and business training. At the operational level each our business footprint and with our backgrounds. In recent years, we have IMI facility ensures that employees growth markets. The programme accelerated the development of receive suitable and continuing continues to be a rich source of talent programmes and disciplines that on-the-job training and support, for senior roles in the Company. will deliver the human resources with health and safety and IMI continued to invest heavily in necessary to maintain and grow our environmental matters being a health and safety resources, tools business. Ensuring that the Company particularly important focus. and training to drive improvements has the appropriate expertise and In 2010, IMI launched the Leadership in accident prevention and safe BOARD REPORTS skills at all levels is a fundamental Blueprint which defines the critical working conditions. Similar investment management responsibility. skills and characteristics of continued with The IMI Way, with During 2010 the businesses worked on successful business leaders at IMI. ongoing education about the IMI the actions arising from the first all The Blueprint includes the core confidential hotline, and continued employee engagement survey. requirements for an IMI Leader and rigour with ethics and compliance Employees reported high levels of underpins the new suite of Leadership training. commitment and engagement with programmes (the Leaders Boot Camp We again invested in training in two their business and with the IMI Group and Management Fundamentals) that core competency areas Key Account and this has been built upon with began in 2010. A diverse group of top Management (KAM) and Engineering greater investment in local managers and high potential business Advantage. KAM training concentrated communication forums. The survey will people are experiencing challenging on developing customer insight and be repeated in 2011, progress tracked personal development through this customer driven value propositions. and further actions developed to drive considerable investment. Engineering Advantage training, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS excellence. particularly in our Fluid Power business, has reinforced the strong product and technology understanding that our engineers, sales and customer facing employees need to help deliver more added value customer solutions. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 33 Board reports PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES In common with all businesses, there are a described on pages 28 to 33. In addition to number of risks and uncertainties which the risks described here, the Group is also could have a material impact on the Group’s exposed to a number of financial market long-term performance. The Group has risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, in place an established risk management counterparty risk, fluctuations in foreign structure and internal controls framework exchange rates, interest rates and which together are designed to identify, commodity prices. A description of these manage and mitigate business risk. risks and the Group’s centralised approach A summary of the Group’s risk management to managing them is described in note 18 processes is given on page 46 and the to the financial statements. Further Group’s approach to corporate social information about pension liabilities is given responsibility and associated risks is in note 19 to the financial statements. KEY RISKS Risk Description of risk and Examples of mitigating actions potential impact Legal and The Group’s worldwide operations and expansion 쐍 Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in regulatory in emerging markets expose it to different legal The IMI Way providing a guiding set of values that exemplify how and regulatory requirements and standards in IMI employees should behave each of the jurisdictions in which it operates 쐍 Policies, training, business processes and monitoring of key including those for financial reporting, taxation, compliance and legal risks environmental, operational, anti-corruption and 쐍 Increase in resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance competition matters. The Group is also exposed to 쐍 Training of employees on The IMI Way and key risk areas such as the potential for litigation from third parties which competition law and anti-corruption may arise in the ordinary course of business. 쐍 Availability and promotion of the IMI Hotline to anonymously report concerns 쐍 Maintenance of insurance programmes Compliance The Company operates various corporate 쐍 The IMI Way provides a guiding set of values that exemplify how and internal governance, compliance and internal control IMI employees should behave and is supplemented by annual controls frameworks which are essential for the effective face-to-face training for all employees management of such geographically diverse 쐍 Detailed manuals set out internal controls and procedures businesses. Failures in these controls might have 쐍 Concerns regarding compliance matters or breaches in internal a material impact on the Group. controls can be reported in confidence via the IMI Hotline 쐍 Regular business reviews to monitor financial performance 쐍 Bi-annual finance conference which includes training and reinforcement of key accountabilities 쐍 Internal financial control audits by IMI Group Assurance Health, The Group recognises that it has a duty of care 쐍 Established systems in place under the ‘IMI Safety First, Safety safety and to all of its employees and to others that the Always’ slogan, to ensure that health, safety and environmental environmental Group interacts with through its products and matters are appropriately addressed and any such risks are operations. In the event of any failure in the minimised including monthly reporting to, and review at, the Group’s health, safety and environmental Executive and quarterly review at the IMI Board procedures, there is a potential risk of injury 쐍 Increase of full-time health, safety and environmental officers or death to IMI’s employees or others; or across the Group to ensure policies are embedded and measured environmental damage, with the consequential 쐍 Provision of travel risk advice appropriate to the nature and impact on the operations and the risk of extent of travel regulatory action against the Group. 쐍 Regular review of Group safety performance 쐍 Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses including the conduct of regular risk control surveys 쐍 Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with any employers’ liability, workers compensation or equivalent claims and also certain environmental incidents (in common with all classes of insurance, the policies do not cover fines or penalties which could, in the event of a significant failure, be material to the Group) Pension The Group’s defined benefit pension arrangements 쐍 Alternative funding and deficit reduction plans implemented funding are exposed to the risk of changes in interest where appropriate rates and the market values of investments as 쐍 Closure of UK defined benefit scheme to future accrual well as inflation, increased longevity of members 쐍 Closure of overseas defined benefit plans to new members and and statutory requirements. This may result in future accrual where permissible the cost of funding defined benefit pension 쐍 Active management of pension scheme assets and long term view arrangements becoming an increasingly significant of liability assumptions burden on the Group’s financial resources. 34 BOARD REPORTS KEY RISKS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Risk Description of risk and Examples of mitigating actions potential impact Products and The Group is exposed to risks associated with 쐍 Continued focus on quality and safety technology the commercial failure of products, projects and 쐍 Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of technologies such as product liability and warranty any failure claims. The quality and safety of our products is of the 쐍 Maintenance of insurance cover for product liability claims highest importance and there is an associated risk 쐍 Contract management resources for both sales and purchases if they are below standard. For product claims not covered by insurance, the costs that cannot otherwise be recovered may be material to the Group. Economic and The status of the global economy and the levels of 쐍 Diverse business portfolio serving different customers market activity in the markets in which the Group operates and markets 쐍 Monitoring of customer and supplier financial security GROUP OPERATING REVIEW environment could adversely affect the Group’s revenues. The Group’s cost base includes many costs that 쐍 Cost base reduction initiatives cannot be reduced in the short-term in line with 쐍 Regular updating of contingency plans reductions in profitability. The Group may also be 쐍 Effective cash management required to reassess the carrying value of acquired 쐍 Investment in new product development goodwill and other assets if certain end markets deteriorate further or for longer, which may result 쐍 Allocation of resource to more resilient customers, markets and in impairment charges. geographies Key customers Certain of the Group’s businesses benefit from 쐍 Collaborative development of bespoke new products close commercial relationships with key customers. 쐍 Development of strong relationships with new accounts to The loss of certain of these key relationships maintain a diverse portfolio across business sectors and whether through competition, consolidation or geographic regions insolvency could have a material impact on the 쐍 Monitoring of markets for advance warning of negative Group’s results. The Group’s top ten customers commercial developments represent approximately 15% of total 쐍 Further investment in and development of Key Account Group revenues. Management and Engineering Advantage RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Supply chain The Group has a significant number of contracts 쐍 Monitoring of risk and development of contingency plans to with a broad base of suppliers. In the current mitigate the impact of any supplier failure or increased prices economic environment there is a risk that their 쐍 Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers access to credit or adverse trading conditions 쐍 Moves to new lower cost manufacturing facilities, ongoing review could lead to an inability to meet their contractual of alternative low cost economy based suppliers and, where commitments to the Group. In addition, upward appropriate, supplier consolidation price pressure from the supply chain could erode 쐍 Training and audit programme to validate suppliers’ business profits. The increasing use of suppliers in low cost processes, quality and standards economies could introduce risks related to quality or responsible business practices. All this could have a material impact on the Group’s results. Competitive The Group operates in highly competitive markets. 쐍 Initiatives and investment in research and development targeted markets Significant product innovations, technical advances to sustain the Group’s Engineering Advantage or the intensification of price competition could all 쐍 Monitoring of competing markets and products, including adjacent adversely affect the Group’s results. The Group’s technologies, to facilitate early identification of potential threats continued success depends upon its ability to and development of contingency plans BOARD REPORTS continue to develop and produce new and enhanced 쐍 Cost base reduction initiatives, including supplier rationalisation products and services on a cost effective and and value engineering timely basis in accordance with customer demands. 쐍 Processes for managing investment in research and development including appropriate stage gates for reviewing progress against clearly defined, often customer driven, technical and commercial objectives M&A activity IMI’s growth strategy is in part dependent on 쐍 Rigorous due diligence process with clear financial targets acquisitions. The execution and integration of 쐍 Formal internal approval requirements acquisitions involves a number of risks, including 쐍 Appropriate business integration processes to ensure that the diversion of management’s attention, failure to Group’s policies, values, compliance and control framework are retain key personnel of the acquired business adopted and embedded and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. The Group may also be subject to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS liabilities as a result of past or future disposals. Talent A loss of key personnel or the inability of the Group 쐍 Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed acquisition to recruit and retain high calibre managers and 쐍 Group-wide training and development programmes and retention engineering talent may lead to the Group not being 쐍 Regular employee wide surveys and action plans targeted by able to effectively implement its business plans company or geography and strategy and experiencing delays, or increased difficulty, in the strategic development of the Group, including in developing and selling its products and services. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 35 Board reports BOARD OF DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NORMAN B M ASKEW Chairman Age 68; non-executive; joined the IMI Board in 2005. Norman Askew has extensive international experience in industry including previous positions as Chief Executive of Virginia Power in the USA and BNFL and the chairmanship of both Taylor Wimpey plc and the Board of Governors of Manchester University. Norman chairs the Nominations Committee. TERRY M GATELEY KEVIN S BEESTON ANITA M FREW BOB J STACK Age 57; non-executive; Age 48; non-executive; Age 53; non-executive; Age 60; non-executive; joined the IMI Board joined the IMI Board joined the IMI Board joined the IMI Board in 2003. in 2005. in 2006. in 2008. Terry Gateley began his Kevin Beeston is Chairman Anita Frew is Chairman Bob Stack is a noncareer as a chartered of Taylor Wimpey plc and of Victrex plc, senior executive director of also chairs two private independent director J Sainsbury plc where accountant and was in businesses which are of Aberdeen Asset he is Chairman of the private practice with Partnerships in Care Management PLC, and a Remuneration Committee. KPMG until moving into non-executive director of He is a Trustee of Limited and Domestic and investment management Lloyds Banking Group plc. Earthwatch Europe and on General Limited and is an in 1999. Terry chairs the She was previously an the Board of Earthwatch Operating Partner with Audit Committee and is the global private equity executive director of International. His recent the senior independent firm Advent International. Abbott Mead Vickers PLC past directorships director. and Director of Corporate include executive director Development at of Cadbury plc where he WPP Group Plc. served for 12 years. Bob chairs the Remuneration Committee. 36 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GROUP OPERATING REVIEW MARTIN J LAMB Chief Executive Age 51; joined IMI in 1986. Martin Lamb has been Chief Executive of IMI since 2001 having been appointed to the Board in 1996. Martin, who has an engineering background, has worked for IMI for over 25 years and has held a number of senior management roles across the Group during this time. He is also a non-executive director of Severn Trent Water plc. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS DOUGLAS M HURT ROY M TWITE IAN W WHITING Finance Director Executive Director Executive Director Age 54; joined IMI and the Board Age 43; joined IMI in 1988. Age 47; joined IMI in 2005. in 2006. Roy Twite was appointed to the Board Ian Whiting was appointed to the Board Douglas Hurt was previously with in February 2007. During his career in 2010. He joined Control Components GlaxoSmithKline, where he held with IMI, Roy has held a number of Inc in 2005 from Novar plc where he both financial and operational senior roles; in 2010 Roy retained was President of Novar Systems roles including a number of US responsibility for Fluid Power whilst Americas. Ian is President of IMI’s and European senior management accepting the additional management Severe Service division with additional positions. He is a member of the accountability for the Retail Dispense responsibilities for developing IMI’s Institute of Chartered Accountants. businesses. interests in the emerging markets and He is also a non-executive director for the Group procurement function. of Tate & Lyle PLC. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 37 Board reports DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors present their report, together with Share capital the audited financial statements for the year ended As at 31 December 2010, the Company’s share capital 31 December 2010. comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into Business review ordinary shares of 25p each. Details of the share capital The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present of the Company are set out in note 22 to the financial a business review in this report. The information that fulfils statements on pages 114 and 115. The ordinary shares are the business review requirements can be found on pages listed on the London Stock Exchange. 4 to 35 and page 46, which are incorporated into this report With effect from 16 February 2011, a Level 1 American by reference. This includes a review of the development and Depository Receipt (‘ADR’) programme was established in performance of the business of the IMI group of companies the USA for which Citibank, N.A acts as Depository. The ADR (the ‘Group’), including the financial performance during the programme is a convenient way for certain US investors to financial year ended 31 December 2010, key performance invest in IMI plc shares through American Depository Shares indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the which are evidenced by ADRs and are traded on the USA Group and our risk management processes. over-the-counter market, where each ADR represents two Principal activities ordinary shares. IMI plc is a global engineering solutions group focused on As at 31 December 2010, 4,198,166 shares are held in an the precise control and movement of fluids in critical employee trust for use in relation to certain executive applications. IMI plc is the holding company of the Group. incentive plans representing 1.3% of the issued share capital The Group’s businesses comprise five platforms organised (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The voting rights into two principal activities: Fluid Controls, comprising attached to shares held in the employee trust were not Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate; and Retail exercised during the year. Dispense, comprising Beverage Dispense and Merchandising. During the year, 406,063 new ordinary shares were issued The main subsidiary companies operating within these under employee share schemes: 189,823 under the all two principal activities are listed on pages 126 and 127. employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn The segmental revenue, profit, assets and liabilities plans and 216,240 under executive share plans. Shares attributable to each of these businesses is shown in acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank note 2 on pages 81 to 83. equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights. Results and dividend The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s The Group consolidated income statement is shown on ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s articles page 66. Segmental operating profit amounted to £319.7m of association, copies of which can be obtained from (2009: £234.2m) and profit before taxation amounted to Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company £306.1m (2009: £186.2m). Secretary. Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company The directors recommend a final dividend of 17.0p per share may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such (2009: 13.2p per share) on the ordinary share capital resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision) payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 23 May 2011 as the Board may decide. to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 April 2011. Together with the interim dividend of 9.0p Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the per share paid on 15 October 2010, this final dividend will Company’s report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote bring the total distribution for the year to 26.0p per share at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies (2009: 21.2p per share). to exercise their rights. Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in Research and development the assets of the Company. Subject to meeting certain Expenditure on research and development in the year was thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a £41.9m (2009: £39.1m): of this amount £5.0m (2009: £4.9m) general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at has been capitalised. annual general meetings. Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the treasury shares Shareholders’ funds carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions Shareholders’ funds increased from £399.8m at the end of of assets. 2009 to £525.7m at 31 December 2010. 38 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Statement on corporate governance in the Company other than: The required disclosures are contained in the corporate 쐍 certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed governance report on pages 42 to 47 and are incorporated by laws and regulations (for example insider trading laws); into this report by reference. and Employment policies 쐍 pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code whereby The Group continues to support employee involvement at all the directors and certain employees of the Company levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each of require approval to deal in the Company’s shares. its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The Company is not aware of any arrangements between individual business developments and to make its employees shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the of ordinary shares or on voting rights. None of the ordinary performance of the business in which they work, using their shares carries any special rights with regard to control of own consultation and communication methods. A European the Company. The only restrictions on voting rights are Works Council has been in operation since 2003 and meets those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as at least once a year to exchange views on pan-European described above. Electronic and paper proxy appointments issues facing the Group. At the date of this annual report, and voting instructions must be received by the Company’s there are 14 members of the European Works Council registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting, comprising 10 employee representatives nominated from or any adjournment thereof. among employees from each of our European businesses with the balance being Company appointees. The Group’s Own shares acquired by the Company financial results and important initiatives are communicated At the annual general meeting of the Company held through a number of mechanisms including newsletters on 7 May 2010 authority was given for the Company to and intranets for the individual businesses and the purchase up to 48,000,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p Company’s website. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS each. The Company did not use this authority to make any Share schemes are a long established and successful part purchases of its own shares during the period. At the of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting next annual general meeting of the Company, shareholders employee share ownership. Full details of employee share will be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages contained in the separate circular. 52 to 55 and in note 20 to the financial statements on pages As at 31 December 2010, 19,124,700 ordinary shares 111 to 113. (nominal value £4,781,175) were held in treasury representing A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated 6% of the issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) across the Group, including the IMI graduate programme at that time. and the Leadership Blueprint. These initiatives and the Substantial shareholdings Company’s approach to employee investment and talent Information provided to the Company pursuant to the development are explained on page 33. FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in regulatory information service. As at 2 March 2011, the employment consistent with the requirements of the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the countries in which the Group operates. The policy applies to BOARD REPORTS Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency both employees and applicants for employment. Companies Rules, have been notified to the Company: in the Group are required to eliminate discrimination and BlackRock, Inc. 9.98% communicate and promote the policy to all employees. Managing Directors of operating units have responsibility Standard Life Investments Limited 9.02% for compliance and each employee is required to abide by AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% the policy. Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled persons are fully and Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal Legal and General Group plc 3.95% opportunity in training and promotion. BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 3.01% Health, safety and the environment So far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with than those noted above. regard to the environment. Information on our key FINANCIAL STATEMENTS performance indicators in this area is given on page 7 and further information is available on our website www.imiplc.com. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 39 Board reports DIRECTORS’ REPORT Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors Directors’ powers Operating units are responsible for setting terms of The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation payment when agreeing the terms of each business and the articles of association of the Company in force from transaction, ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the time to time. The directors have been authorised to allot terms of payment and abiding by such terms, subject to the and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of supplier performing to its obligations. IMI plc is a holding the Company’s ordinary shares. These powers are exercised company and has no trade creditors. under the authority of resolutions of the Company passed Donations at its annual general meeting. Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and £180,000 was given during 2010 (2009: £233,000) for purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate community and similar purposes including £180,000 (2009: circular containing the notice of the annual general meeting. £224,000) for charitable purposes. The Group supports a range of selected national charities and smaller charitable Directors’ interests organisations operating in communities where the Group has The interests of the persons (including the interests of any a presence. Our approach to charitable and other donations connected persons) who were directors at the end of the is explained on pages 32 and 33. No political donations were year, in the share capital of the Company, and their interests made during the year. under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on Directors pages 60 to 62. The membership of the Board and biographical details of Essential contracts and change of control the directors are given on pages 36 and 37 and are The Group does not have any single contract or other incorporated into this report by reference. Ian Whiting arrangement which is essential to its business taken as was appointed to the Board as an executive director with a whole. effect from 1 September 2010. Norman Askew has informed The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number the Board of his intention to retire when a successor has of agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter been appointed, which is expected to be during the course or terminate the arrangements on a change of control of of 2011. the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors contracts and employee share plans. Other than as referred are set out in the Company’s articles of association to in the next paragraph, none of these is considered by the which provide for regular retirement as well as for the Company to be significant in terms of its likely impact on the appointment and removal of directors by the Board and Group as a whole. general meetings of the Company. Each new appointee to In the event of a change of control of the Company, the the Board is required to stand for election at the next Group’s main funding agreements allow the lenders to annual general meeting following their appointment and renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all Ian Whiting will seek election having been appointed to the outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities. In the Board during the year. In addition, the Company’s articles of current economic climate this could have a significant effect association require each director to stand for re-election at on the liquidity of the business. least once every three years. However, in accordance with the new provision contained in the UK Corporate Governance The Company does not have agreements with any director Code, all continuing directors will submit themselves for or employee that would provide compensation for loss re-election at the next annual general meeting and are of office or employment specifically resulting from a recommended for re-election. Changes to the articles of takeover, although provisions of the Company’s share association must be approved by a special resolution of the schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to shareholders (75% majority required) in accordance with the directors and employees under such schemes to vest in legislation in force at the time. those circumstances. The Company maintains directors and officers liability Going concern insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from A statement in relation to the adoption of the going concern qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in basis in preparing the financial statements appears on page place during the financial year. At the date of this Annual 27 and is incorporated into this report by reference. Report there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance and subject always to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006. 40 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Disclosure of information to auditor Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Cautionary statements The business review and other content of this Annual Report have been prepared for and only for the members of the Company as a body and no other persons. Neither the Company nor its directors or officers accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual Report pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation. Sections of this Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements about the Group, including, for example, statements relating to: future demand and markets for the Group’s products and services, research and development relating to new products and services, tax RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS rates, liquidity and capital resources and implementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies. Any forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements depending on a variety of factors, including, for example, those described in this Annual Report under the heading ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’. IMI undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, BOARD REPORTS Birmingham on Friday 6 May 2011, commencing at noon. Auditor Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next annual general meeting. By order of the Board John O’Shea Company Secretary 2 March 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 41 Board reports CHAIRMAN’S GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION As Chairman I have taken a leading role in shaping the governance agenda and wanted to take this opportunity to address shareholders on what I believe are the important governance developments at IMI over the last year. First, following the publication in June 2010 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council, the Board reflected on how it operates and prepared for the new Code coming into effect in 2011. As a result the Board put together a new core document, the IMI Corporate Governance Framework, to restate and update the various statements of roles and responsibilities at Board level which were previously in place. The framework was agreed by the Board in December 2010 and is on the Company’s website. For me the most significant features are the increased emphases on strategy and risk, which are already reflected in the focus of the Board during meetings. Secondly, I am encouraged that the Company is continuing to develop senior talent in-house and one of the great strengths of the successful management team at IMI is their length of service, experience of the businesses and long-term perspective in planning and operational decisions. Recent promotions include the appointment of a fourth executive director, Ian Whiting, adding to the depth and breadth of management representation on the Board and this, in conjunction with other changes in operational management responsibilities, allows the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb, to increase his focus on the delivery of the Company’s strategic objectives. The other changes include the addition of Sean Toomes, President of Indoor Climate, to the Executive Committee. On the non-executive side of the Board, we have a strong team of four independent directors with varied backgrounds and experience. They have all been IMI directors for several years and all are familiar with the businesses and enjoy opportunities for contact with the wider management group at formal Board meetings, management conferences and visits to IMI facilities. In 2010 the non-executives and I have each visited a number of facilities around the Group individually and four of us attended the official opening of a major new IMI factory in the Czech Republic. In January 2011 the non-executive team again joined the top senior managers at IMI’s annual senior management conference, which was held in Shanghai and combined with visits to IMI operations in China. Norman B M Askew Chairman 2 March 2011 42 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Set out below is the Board’s formal report on corporate governance. Combined Code compliance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Board’s report on corporate governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63. The Board is able to report compliance with the Combined Code throughout 2010. The new UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘new Code’) was issued in June 2010 and applies to the Company from the start of 2011. Thanks to the preparations made in 2010, the Board envisages that the Company can comply with the new Code GROUP OPERATING REVIEW during 2011. The Board At the end of the year the Board comprised nine directors: the Chairman; Chief Executive; four independent non-executive directors; the Finance Director and two operational executive directors. Changes in the composition of the Board during the year are noted below and in the Directors’ Report. The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Combined Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Group’s executive management. The Chairman, Norman Askew, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment in May 2005. Terry Gateley is the senior independent director. The non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry. Biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 36 and 37. In line with the new Code, all continuing directors will submit themselves for re-election at annual general meetings from 2011. The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and oversees business and management RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS performance. In December 2010, the Board adopted a Corporate Governance Framework which defines Board roles and includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive management. Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group. The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis. Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group, as well as tracking changes in risk assessment and controls. Senior executives from around the Group are regularly invited by the Board to attend meetings to make presentations and join in discussion. The Company’s articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the Company’s website. These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conflicts of interest. These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Board’s view that they operated effectively during the year under review. There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in the written Corporate Governance Framework approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the BOARD REPORTS executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board. The four executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb; Finance Director, Douglas Hurt; and two operational executives, Roy Twite and Ian Whiting. Changes in executive responsibilities were announced in August 2010 along with Ian Whiting’s appointment to the Board effective from 1 September 2010. Roy Twite, in addition to continuing in his role as President of Fluid Power, assumed responsibility for the Retail Dispense businesses. Ian Whiting, President of Severe Service, joined the Board with additional responsibilities for developing IMI’s interests in the emerging markets and for the Group procurement function. The Finance Director has Board level responsibility for environmental, health and safety and Sean Toomes, a member of the Executive Committee, has group functional responsibility for these matters. Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings and events like the annual management conference. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration. He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the new Code and relevant regulatory requirements. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board. The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 43 Board reports THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board (continued) The Board met on eleven occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the meetings held during their tenure save that Anita Frew and Kevin Beeston missed one meeting and Bob Stack missed two meetings but none of them missed a quarterly or strategy meeting. The non-executive directors met individually and as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year. The senior independent director, Terry Gateley, met with the other non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman, inter alia, to review the Chairman’s performance as contemplated by the Combined Code. Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been well established for several years and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director. During and after induction directors are expected to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff. Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year. The Chairman will be formulating personal development plans with each of the directors during 2011. In line with the new Code the Board has agreed that the Chairman should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process at least once every three years starting from 2011. An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was carried out in 2010, the results of which the Chairman reported to the Board. This process included questionnaires and appropriate faceto-face discussions including individual meetings between the Chairman and the non-executive directors. In addition, the other directors met with the senior independent director regarding the performance of the Chairman. The Board received the findings of the evaluation in March 2011 and the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately. Actions agreed as a result include further developing succession planning at Board and senior executive levels. The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each director demonstrated a valuable contribution. The contribution and performance of the non-executive directors, all of whom are standing for election or re-election at the 2011 annual general meeting, is further commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting. Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee. Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities. The full terms of reference of these committees were updated in December 2010 and are part of the Corporate Governance Framework which appears on the Company website. The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective Chairman, at quarterly or more frequent intervals as appropriate. Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Terry Gateley. All of the other independent non-executive directors were also members of the Audit Committee. Terry Gateley is a qualified Chartered Accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience. The committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the financial statements and reports that are prepared by executive management. The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so. The committee’s work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies, significant issues of judgement (including contingent liabilities, fair values and impairments), and, as described below under the section headed ‘Internal Control’ starting on page 47, it looked at the effectiveness of internal financial controls. The committee approved the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme. The committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity. The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee and requires approval by the Chairman of the committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work. The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the ‘IMI Group Assurance Department’, and reviews the operation of the Group whistle blowing policy and the independent hotline (www.imihotline.com). The committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and believes the work has been satisfactory since Ernst & Young was first appointed in June 2009. The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting. 44 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance. Minutes and papers are normally circulated to all members of the Board. The committee normally calls upon the Chairman, all of the executive directors, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend meetings but holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with the auditor. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bob Stack and Norman Askew, Kevin Beeston, Anita Frew and Terry Gateley were members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year. The committee’s main responsibilities are to determine the GROUP OPERATING REVIEW remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors, including new appointments and to set the Chairman’s remuneration. As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of the performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benefits. The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management and has regard to pay for employees across the Group when determining executive remuneration. The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance. External consultants are engaged by the committee to provide independent advice and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing summary report on its work. More details in respect of remuneration matters are given in the Remuneration Report. Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman, Norman Askew, who chairs the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive. During the year the committee reviewed the Board composition and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its committees. External consultants are normally engaged by the committee in relation to any search for successor non-executives. Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS standard form of appointment letter. Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee. The committee considers that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient. The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and during the year it made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the appointment of an additional executive director. The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance. During the year the committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive talent development and succession planning. The senior independent non-executive director, Terry Gateley, is leading the search for a new Company Chairman along with the other members of the committee excluding the incumbent Company Chairman. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Executive Committee The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors, the President of Indoor Climate and the Group Human Resources Director. The secretary to the committee is the Company Secretary. Senior executives and line managers from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee. It meets monthly and more often as may be required in order to monitor performance, review progress against strategic objectives, consider business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy BOARD REPORTS and resource allocation for consideration by the Board. It also acts as the risk committee of the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and legal and corporate affairs. Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board. The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors. The 2010 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors. The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards. Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2010 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors’ report for 2009. A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting. Notice of the 2010 annual general meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Company’s website. The Board values its good relations with shareholders and resolutions proposed at the 2010 annual general meeting received great support. In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements in March and August, respectively, as well as, interim management statements in May and November. The Company website includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses. The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with J.P. Morgan Cazenove (details are shown on page 130). A sponsored Level 1 American Depository Receipt programme was established on 16 February 2011 for which Citibank, N.A. acts as Depository. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 45 Board reports THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Investor relations (continued) The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments. Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors. The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report thereon to the Board at least quarterly. They are supported by the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw. In addition, financial analysts’ notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Company’s brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors’ views. The Chairman, senior independent director and other non-executives do meet with major shareholders upon request, and will do so if any of them considers it appropriate: some informal meetings of this type did take place in 2010 and there were also consultations with the larger shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of remuneration matters. Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 38 to 41. Risk management processes The Board has assigned specific responsibility to the Executive Committee to act as the risk committee of the Board. This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, which was updated by the Board in December 2010 and is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework. The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management systems in respect of which the Board has oversight. The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the annual forecasting and business planning requirements of the Group and monitoring and updates are carried out between annual reviews. Each operating unit and corporate function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk assessment and reporting. The President of each business division has appointed a Risk Champion with responsibility for embedding the Group risk assessment process in their business. During 2010 the Risk Champions received training on their role and responsibilities from the Head of Group Risk Management and external specialists. The businesses’ risk reports, including mitigation action plans for significant risks, are reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and then considered by the Head of Group Risk Management, who puts reports to the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a full annual risk review and at least two updates to the Board. The other corporate functions go through a similar process and their input is reflected in these reports. The Group Risk Management function reports to the Finance Director. Terry Gateley, the senior independent non-executive and chair of the Audit Committee, attended the Executive Committee’s annual risk review meeting. The divisional business Presidents present their strategic risks to the Board as part of the annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers the risks associated with the Company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business and other risks involved in specific investment decisions including acquisitions. During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control. The Audit Committee also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department. The Remuneration Committee conducted a review of incentive arrangements with reference to their alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking. Through these processes significant risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks. Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 34 and 35. Financial reporting processes The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Group’s accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements. 46 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Internal control The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Combined Code and relevant guidance as updated in 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council (the ‘Turnbull Guidance’). In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Executive Committee. The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines. Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations. All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board. Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board. Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group. Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group financial reporting requirements. There is also a central internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews. These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department. Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel. These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the external auditor. Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board, and to the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored. Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control system. More information in relation to risk is given above under the heading ‘Risk management processes’. Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2010 and up to the date of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Responsible business A major ethics and compliance programe, known as The IMI Way, has been adopted across the Group and is led by the Chief Compliance Officer, Jo Morgan. Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at every regular meeting of the Board and the Executive Committee. BOARD REPORTS The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and The IMI Way Code of Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group. At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group chaired by an Executive Committee member and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed through the Group’s general business processes and risk management framework. The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index. In addition, in 2010 IMI retained its membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and IMI is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the Company’s website. By order of the Board John O’Shea FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Secretary 2 March 2011 IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 47 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Overview In 2010 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration policy with particular emphasis on alignment with the creation of shareholder value, providing balance between long-term and short-term reward and compatibility with the Company’s approach to risk. The main conclusions of the review were that the remuneration policy supports the corporate strategy, financial performance is reflected in executive reward and the incentive arrangements are appropriate. The committee is encouraged by the outstanding results achieved by the business and regards performance pay as an important element of remuneration and a driver of success. A review of remuneration decisions and proposals is set out below: 쐍 Base salaries: reflecting the wider initiatives to control fixed costs across the Group, no base salary increases were awarded to the executive directors and the other most senior executives in 2009 or 2010. Taking into account in particular the financial performance and internal relativities within the senior management team highlighted by recruitments made in the previous two years, salary increases have been awarded in 2011. 쐍 Closure of the IMI Pension Fund: the main UK defined benefit fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010. 쐍 Executive pension provision: the committee’s policy approach has been to provide a long term savings opportunity for UK executives which is both tax efficient and cost neutral to the Company. During 2010 an executive retirement plan, which is an unregistered defined contribution pension plan, was established for UK senior managers. At the 2010 annual general meeting shareholder approval was given to amend the Share Matching Plan and the Performance Share Plan so that the awards could, at the committee’s discretion, be settled as employer contributions into this executive retirement plan. In response to changes announced by the UK Treasury in December 2010 the executive retirement plan will have to be reviewed again in 2011. 쐍 Annual bonus: in 2010 the bonus metrics were profit before tax and exceptional items, return on sales, cash conversion percentage (to ensure that cash is managed effectively across the Group) and some non-financial measures (based on health and safety, ethics and compliance and personal objectives). This worked well in 2010 and the same approach has been taken for 2011 bonuses. 쐍 Claw-back: power to seek recovery of bonuses in certain circumstances where they ought not to have been paid has been attached to bonuses since 2009. This claw-back power has been applied to the Share Matching Plan since 2009 and in 2010 the committee decided to extend claw-back power to the Performance Share Plan. 쐍 Share Matching Plan: the committee reverted to the normal three year economic value added targets for 2010 matching awards and this policy will continue in 2011 (save that targets will be based on segmental operating profit with no charge for acquired intangible amortisation). 쐍 Share Matching Plan awards for 2011 and subsequent years will be subject to percentage targets for improvement in economic value added (EVA). The percentage targets are designed to be more transparent than the absolute internal targets used for previous awards. Subject to these targets remaining appropriate in the conditions prevailing at the time awards are made, the vesting scale for 2011 and future awards would be: 10% of maximum for positive EVA, 25% for 6% EVA growth and 100% for 17% or more EVA growth. EVA will be measured as a compound annual growth rate over a three year period calculated by reference to EVA over the previous three year period with vesting in each band being on a linear scale. 쐍 Performance Share Plan: awards made in 2010 were subject to a combination of earnings per share (50% weighting), relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) (25% weighting) and a new performance measure, return on operating capital (25% weighting). The same metrics will be used for 2011 (save that the latter element will be targeted excluding all intangible assets). 쐍 A risk review of the remuneration policy and its implementation was undertaken. Overall the committee was satisfied that risk is appropriately managed, but three actions resulting from this review were: (1) introducing a claw-back power to future Performance Share Plan awards so that claw-back extended to all equity incentive plans for which executive directors are eligible, (2) having a process whereby all long term incentive targets are reviewed at the time of any material corporate transactions, and (3) continuing the improvement in the communication and understanding of the incentive schemes. 쐍 Reflecting the international nature of the Group, close to 200 IMI senior managers were granted market-value share options in 2010. At the 2011 annual general meeting we will be seeking shareholder approval for this plan in order to introduce the flexibility to use new issue and treasury shares to satisfy awards under it. 쐍 New all-employee global share plans: at the forthcoming annual general meeting we will be seeking shareholder approval for new share plans that will enable employees outside the UK to choose to make regular savings that can be used to buy IMI plc shares. This is an exciting project and the committee fully endorses the principle of employee share ownership. It will reinforce the IMI culture across our businesses and emphasise the Group’s combined value. Initially, the intention is to operate the new plans, if approved, in the USA and Germany and to extend that over time to other countries. 48 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Remuneration Committee’s composition The members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year were Bob Stack (Chairman), Kevin Beeston, Terry Gateley, Anita Frew and Norman Askew, the Company’s non-executive Chairman. In accordance with the Combined Code, all of the foregoing non-executive directors were regarded by the Board as independent and Norman Askew was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman of the Company. Remuneration Committee’s role The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards for the executive directors and, in his absence, the Chairman. The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW management and has regard to levels of pay across the Group. A copy of the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference is available from the corporate governance section of the IMI website, where it appears as part of IMI’s Corporate Governance Framework. New terms of reference were adopted in December 2010 which explicitly recognise the committee’s responsibility for considering the risk implications of incentives and the remuneration structure and for reviewing its compatibility with the Group’s risk policies and systems. Advice received by the Remuneration Committee The committee consulted the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb, regarding the remuneration policy and the packages of the other executive directors and senior managers. It also received the advice and services of the Finance Director, Douglas Hurt, the Group Human Resources Director, Matt Huckin and the Company Secretary, John O’Shea, who is secretary to the committee. None of these executives was involved in determining their own remuneration. Independent remuneration advisors, Hewitt New Bridge Street have been appointed by the committee to provide advice on directors’ remuneration to the committee. These advisors also attended certain meetings at the request of the committee. During the year Hewitt New Bridge Street also provided advice to the Group Human Resources Director in relation to the implementation of the committee’s decisions. The terms of engagement with the committee’s advisors are available on request from the Company Secretary. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Chairman’s remuneration The Chairman’s sole remuneration consists of fees of £195,000 per annum inclusive of all committee and other work. The level of fees was last revised in 2007 and has remained fixed since that time. The Chairman is non-executive. Non-executive directors’ remuneration The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined, after reference to external benchmarks, by the Chairman and the executive directors. The policy on non-executive remuneration is to pay an appropriate level on a comparative basis for their time and work on the Board and its committees. They do not participate in any bonus or employee share schemes of the Company and no part of their remuneration is conditional upon the performance of the Company. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is shown in the table on page 58. Annual remuneration in 2010 was as follows: Non-executive director’s fee £45,000. Additional remuneration for chairing a committee £10,000. Additional remuneration for the senior non-executive director £5,000. BOARD REPORTS Following the first review since 2007, the basic non-executive directors’ fee has been increased from £45,000 to £52,500 with effect from January 2011. Terms of appointment of the Chairman and the non-executive directors Letters of appointment set out the key duties and expectations for the non-executive Chairman and the independent non-executive directors. They include appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior management team and require approval for other directorships and potential conflicts of interest. The Board has established a shareholding guideline for non-executive directors, each of whom is encouraged to build up a holding of at least 7,500 shares, or 10,000 shares in the case of the Chairman, within a reasonable period of appointment. All of the non-executives held the relevant number of shares at the year end (see table of directors’ interests on page 62). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 49 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT The dates and unexpired terms of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors, which are available for inspection at the annual general meeting and at the Company’s registered office, are as follows: Date of letter Unexpired term Date of appointment of appointment at 01.01.11 as a director N B M Askew 01.03.11 1 year 14.05.05 K S Beeston 05.01.11 1 year 2 months 08.03.05 A M Frew 05.01.11 2 years 2 months 02.03.06 T M Gateley 05.01.11 1 year 10 months 01.11.03 R J Stack 05.01.11 3 years 5 months 13.06.08 The normal period for initial appointment and first renewal is three years. After six years, renewal is usually considered on an annual basis and this currently applies to Kevin Beeston. However, in January 2011 Terry Gateley’s term was extended until October 2012, at which time he will have been a non-executive director for nine years, to ensure he continues to be available as senior independent director to support the transition to a new Chairman. Appointments are made under a letter of agreement subject to removal under the Company’s articles of association, and with effect from 2011, all directors will be submitting themselves for annual re-election at the annual general meeting in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code. There are no provisions for the Company to give notice or pay compensation in relation to the early termination of the appointment of the Chairman or any non-executive director. There is a provision in the appointment letters to the effect that a non-executive director is normally expected to give at least one month’s prior notice of termination to the Company. Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment Statement of policy The Company aims to ensure that remuneration generally and incentives in particular provide strong links between individual performance and shareholder interests. The remuneration policy also recognises that the Company operates in global and highly competitive markets with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK. The policy is to provide competitive remuneration packages to attract, motivate, reward and retain executives of the calibre required, and to align their interests with those of shareholders by relating a significant element of the remuneration package to specific short and long term performance measures. During 2010 the committee reviewed the structure and metrics of the incentive arrangements for the executive directors from a risk perspective and concluded that they were aligned with appropriate risk-taking and shareholders’ interests. The Remuneration Committee considers it to be important to maintain the flexibility to respond to individual circumstances. However, its normal approach has been to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges, combined with realistic potential for above market total compensation if performance is outstanding. Remuneration comprises basic salaries, annual performance bonuses, benefits in kind, pension arrangements or a cash allowance and participation in a share matching plan and a performance share plan. In the case of the new operational executive director, Ian Whiting, relocation assistance has and will be provided to support his move in 2011 to new divisional head offices in Switzerland. In setting the remuneration of each executive director, the Remuneration Committee takes into account their role and responsibilities, skills and individual performance and makes reference to market rates as evidenced by published studies and comparisons with international UK-based groups of a similar size and complexity. In connection with this the committee considered benchmarking data prepared by Hewitt New Bridge Street. The committee uses such data with caution in view of the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels. It also has received information about and had regard to pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group. The committee has the discretion to take account of environmental, social and corporate governance matters when setting the remuneration of the executive directors. The policy of the committee is to set performance conditions for incentives which are both stretching but also reasonably attainable in the environment in which the Company is then operating. The following charts show the fixed and performance related elements of the Chief Executive’s remuneration at both target and maximum based on the proposed 2011 incentive arrangements (assuming maximum personal investment in the Share Matching Plan and excluding the impact of changes in share price). This supports the committee’s policy that a significant proportion of remuneration should be performance related. The mix of remuneration for the other executive directors is broadly comparable, although their maximum bonus potential and maximum matching plan awards are lower. 50 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Chief Executive Chief Executive Target remuneration Maximum remuneration 25% Fixed pay 15% Fixed pay (salary) (salary) 75% Variable pay 85% Variable pay (annual bonus and (annual bonus and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW long-term long-term incentive incentive awards) awards) Consistent with the policy on service contracts, the executive directors’ service contracts are subject to termination on one year’s notice by the Company or the executive. Contractual retirement age for UK based executive directors is 65 but none applies to Ian Whiting who is employed in the USA. These contracts do not include any specific provision for compensation payable upon early termination save that, as a consequence of the closure of the IMI Pension Fund on 31 December 2010, the Company has made alternative contractual arrangements in lieu of certain contractual entitlements to pension benefits, which, but for the closure, would have been provided through the IMI Pension Fund to all members in the same membership category as the Chief Executive. The alternative contractual arrangements for all these members include augmentation of Fund benefits (to the level that would have been provided save for the closure) or payment in lieu in respect of benefits arising on early retirement by reason of redundancy or other termination at the Company’s instance. Had such benefits arisen for the Chief Executive as at 31 December 2010, the estimated cash cost to the Company would have been approximately £4.7m. The payment in lieu computation is designed to be neutral to the Company on a net of tax basis and compared with the cash contributions that would otherwise have been expected to provide the benefits through the Fund. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee to limit any compensation which might be paid in the event of early termination of an executive director’s contract to the legal minimum, taking into account mitigation and other relevant factors. The dates of the contracts and period to normal retirement age for those serving as executive directors during the year are as follows: Period to normal Date of retirement age as Date joined appointment Date of service at 31 December Group to Board contract Notice period 2010 M J Lamb 31.10.86 18.07.96 01.01.11 12 months 14 years 1 month D M Hurt 01.05.06 01.07.06 01.10.06 12 months 10 years 6 months R M Twite 26.09.88 01.02.07 01.02.07 12 months 22 years 5 months I W Whiting 18.07.05 01.09.10 01.01.10 12 months N/A* * I W Whiting is a US employee and is not subject to a normal retirement age BOARD REPORTS Base salary Salary reviews for the executive directors are conducted annually with any increases effective from 1 January. Salaries are set by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the executive’s role, responsibilities and individual performance and pay conditions elsewhere in the Company and external benchmark data (looking at UK listed companies of similar size, complexity and international presence). The normal policy is to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges for each role. Reflecting the wider initiative to control fixed costs across the Group, the executive directors salaries were not increased in the annual reviews conducted in either December 2008 or December 2009. The salaries for the 2011 financial year were reviewed in December 2010 and the committee decided that it was no longer appropriate to freeze salaries. The two most compelling reasons for awarding an increase were the outstanding financial performance of the Group and addressing concerns arising from internal relativities. During the past two years recruitments have been made into the senior management group, both in terms of direct replacements and expansion, and this has caused unacceptable internal differences. Accordingly, a thorough salary analysis was undertaken by the committee. These inputs resulted in the committee making the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS following changes to take effect from 1 January 2011: M J Lamb £720,000 (2008, 2009 and 2010: £656,000). D M Hurt £395,000 (2008, 2009 and 2010: £360,000). R M Twite £373,000 (2008, 2009 and 2010: £340,000). I W Whiting £345,000 (£330,000 at appointment on 1 September 2010). In making these decisions the committee took account of the salary increases that have been and will be awarded to staff, as well as the salary multiple of the directors’ salaries to that of the average UK staff salary. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 51 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Annual bonus Executive directors participate in an annual performance bonus plan. Maximum bonus is only payable if the stretching targets set by the Remuneration Committee are met and for both 2010 and 2011 the maxima are: Maximum bonus as a % of salary Chief Executive 150% Finance Director 125% Operational executive directors 115% All the bonus metrics have a sliding scale calibration and in 2011 on-target bonus will pay 50% of the maximum bonus. Details of the bonus metrics are given on page 48 in the section headed ‘Overview’. The executive directors and senior executives are subject to share ownership guidelines. To the extent that an individual does not meet their shareholding guideline, then up to 50% of the annual bonus award is required to be invested in shares and a matching award will be made under the Share Matching Plan (at a lower level of maximum match). If the individual meets the shareholding guideline, then investment of bonus in shares is encouraged through participation in the SMP with matching at a higher level. The Remuneration Committee always reserves the right to apply discretion in awarding bonuses and performance shares and may exercise this freedom should an executive not achieve their share ownership guideline within a reasonable period. The committee retains power to reduce or withhold annual bonus payments in exceptional circumstances and in 2009 following best practice it introduced the power to seek claw-back of bonuses in certain cases where the bonus should not have been paid in the first place. Under the rules of the executive retirement plan (ERP), UK based directors and senior managers may waive their bonus entitlement. The Remuneration Committee may then choose, at its discretion, to make a contribution into the ERP on their behalf. Long term incentive arrangements The Company operates two share incentive plans for executive directors: 1. the Share Matching Plan (formerly the Deferred Bonus Plan) which is a co-investment arrangement; and 2. the Performance Share Plan which is a conventional long term incentive plan. Share Matching Plan The Share Matching Plan (SMP) runs in conjunction with the annual incentive plan and is linked to the achievement of the share ownership guidelines for executive directors and senior executives. Under the SMP individuals may invest up to 100% of their maximum annual bonus potential into shares; the limit being set on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee. The committee intends to allow such a level of investment in 2011. By investing in the SMP, matching shares may be earned, which vest after three years, subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions. Current policy is that awards made under the share matching arrangements, where settled in shares, will be satisfied through shares purchased in the market but the committee retains the flexibility to use new issue and treasury shares. Since 2009, matching awards have allowed for a higher level of match (up to 2:1) for shares that are purchased through the voluntary investment of bonus or other monies. The lower levels of match (up to 1.25:1 for the Chief Executive and 1:1 for other executive directors) apply to annual bonus that is to be compulsorily paid in shares, being up to 50% of the bonus according to whether, and, if so, the extent to which, an executive has not met their share ownership guideline. The matching share awards are usually subject to EVA performance over a three year period. The calculation of EVA is based on segmental operating profit after tax with appropriate adjustments, less a capital charge on the invested capital in the business reflecting IMI’s cost of capital. Further details of the performance conditions attaching to existing awards are set out in the notes to the table on page 61 (including details of the change made to the targets attached to 2010 SMP awards following the acquisition of Z&J). The EVA targets for intended 2011 awards are described in the section above headed ‘Overview’. For 2011 and subsequent awards there will be no charge to NOPAT for acquired intangible amortisation, which will reduce the volatility in the measure caused by the valuation and amortisation of intangible assets following an acquisition. The 2007 SMP awards vested in 2010 at 63.5% of maximum and the 2008 SMP awards will vest in 2011 at 97% of maximum. Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan (PSP) allows for share-based awards worth up to the maximum of 100% of annual salary. Details of the awards made under the PSP are contained in the table of directors’ awards on page 60. The vesting of awards is subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions over a three year period. The current policy is for PSP awards, where settled in shares, to be satisfied through shares purchased in the market but the committee retains the flexibility to use new issue and treasury shares. 52 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW The 2007 awards vested in 2010 at 44.7% of maximum. The 2008 PSP awards will vest in 2011 at maximum. For awards made up to and including 2008, one half of the award is subject to an earnings per share (EPS) performance condition and the other half to a comparative total shareholder return (TSR) target. EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings and because the Remuneration Committee believed it worked well in combination with TSR which is a comparative measure. TSR is well understood and accepted as a performance measure for long-term incentives and links rewards to shareholder value. Details of the performance conditions attached to awards granted under the PSP are shown in the notes to the table on page 60. PSP awards granted under the plan in 2009 were subject to a single performance condition in respect of relative TSR GROUP OPERATING REVIEW because economic uncertainties made it difficult to set a realistic three year EPS target. Measures applied to awards made in 2010 are described under the ‘Overview’ section above along with the metrics to be used for intended 2011 PSP awards. The TSR comparator group for awards made in 2008 and 2009 and for awards made in 2010 are shown below: Name Country* Name Country* Amada Japan Johnson Matthey United Kingdom Atlas Copco A Sweden Manitowoc United States BBA Aviation United Kingdom Meggitt United Kingdom Bodycote International United Kingdom Metso Corporation Finland Borgwarner United States NSK Japan RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Charter United Kingdom Parker-Hannifin United States Cobham United Kingdom Pentair United States Cookson Group United Kingdom Rotork United Kingdom Eaton United States Sandvik Sweden Emerson Electric United States Seco Tools B Sweden Fanuc Japan SKF B Sweden Flowserve Corp United States SMC Japan GKN United Kingdom Spectris United Kingdom Halma United Kingdom Spirax-Sarco Engineering United Kingdom BOARD REPORTS Heidelberg Druck Germany Sulzer AG Switzerland Honeywell United States THK Japan IDEX Corp United States Tyco International United States Illinois Tool Works United States Weir Group United Kingdom Ingersoll-Rand United States Yaskawa Electric Japan Invensys United Kingdom * Country is shown as country of primary listing. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note: Enodis, Tomkins and FKI had been included in the comparator group but delisted. The 2011 comparator group will be the same as it was in 2010 subject to any delistings. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 53 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Long term incentive arrangements (continued) Performance Share Plan (continued) 25% of the 2010 and intended 2011 PSP awards are subject to a TSR performance condition. TSR is defined as the movement in the share price during the performance period on a local currency basis with adjustments to take into account changes in capital structure and dividends (which are assumed to be reinvested in shares on the ex-dividend date). The vesting schedule for the element of awards subject to the TSR performance condition is as follows: Ranking Vesting Upper quartile (top 25%) or above 100% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 25% and 100% Median 25% Below median 0% To ensure that TSR reflects improvement in the underlying performance of the Company the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the financial performance of the Company over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as calculated under the TSR condition. In the event that the Remuneration Committee is not satisfied in this respect on the vesting of a PSP award it has committed to disclose the factors that it reviewed and give a commentary on the exercise of its overriding discretion. The performance condition for one half of the 2010 PSP awards and the intended 2011 PSP awards will be based on the Company’s compound annual EPS growth over a three-year period. The Remuneration Committee sets the EPS targets in respect of each annual award at the level it considers appropriately stretching given the conditions in which the Company is operating. The vesting schedule for the awards subject to the EPS performance condition proposed to be granted in 2011, which is the same as for the 2010 awards, is as follows: Compound EPS growth Vesting 15% per annum 100% Between 6% and 15% per annum Pro-rata between 25% and 100% 6% per annum 25% Less than 6% per annum 0% As for 2010 awards, the EPS measure for 2011 PSP awards will be based on EPS subject to certain adjustments including the elimination of the after tax cost of restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation and impairment, and financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses. The vesting of the other 25% of the 2010 and the intended 2011 PSP awards will depend on IMI’s average return on operating capital employed (RoOCE) over the three years from the year of grant. Operating capital used for the calculation of RoOCE for the 2011 PSP awards will exclude intangible assets. This is considered appropriate as it will reduce the volatility in the measure caused by the valuation and amortisation of acquired intangible assets under IFRS3 following acquisitions. Following the acquisition of Z&J, the RoOCE targets attached to 2010 PSP awards were adjusted to allow 25% vesting at 24% RoOCE (originally 25%) and between 25% and 100% vesting for RoOCE in the range from 24% to 30% (originally 25% to 32%). For the intended 2011 and subsequent awards, RoOCE will not include intangible assets and the 2011 awards will be calibrated as follows: Average RoOCE Vesting 85% 100% Between 65% and 85% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% 65% 25% Less than 65% 0% 54 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW UK SAYE plan The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved savings-related share option scheme which is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the UK-based executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase shares in their employer’s business or group. UK All Employee Share Ownership Plan UK executive directors also participate in an All Employee Share Ownership Plan which is open to the majority of the GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Group’s UK employees. In 2011 shares to a value equal to the lesser of £3,000 and 0.6% of each participant’s basic salary will be acquired at market value by the trustee of the plan in respect of their participation during 2010. The plan is not operated subject to specific performance conditions but the level of shares awarded to participating employees is set taking into account performance, in particular that of the UK operations of the Group. Eligible employees are also able to invest up to £1,500 annually in a tax-efficient manner in purchasing partnership shares under the plan. Each of the UK executive directors makes the maximum contribution from their salary towards partnership shares under the plan. Matching shares may be awarded in respect of partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching shares. Global All Employee Share Plans As mentioned above, proposals for the establishment of two new ‘all-employee’ share plans to encourage employee investment in IMI shares are to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2011 annual general meeting. Further details are contained in the notice of annual general meeting. Share Option Plan RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS A share option plan for senior employees was established in 2009 but awards under it are not made to executive directors or others who receive PSP awards. As explained in the ‘Overview’ section above, shareholder approval of this plan will be sought at the forthcoming annual general meeting in order to introduce the flexibility to satisfy awards using new issue and treasury shares and further details are given in the notice of meeting. Share ownership guidelines The shareholding guidelines were increased in 2009 to 125% of salary for all the executive directors to be achieved by 30 June 2011 or, for new appointments, within a five year period after joining the Board. All of the executive directors met the guidelines at the year end. The levels of holdings at the end of 2010 relative to basic salaries (calculated using the average share price in December 2010) were as follows: Executive director Level of share ownership M J Lamb 581% BOARD REPORTS D M Hurt 479% R M Twite 399% I W Whiting 596% Share dilution The Association of British Insurers has set recommended guidelines on the number of new issue and treasury shares that can be used under a company’s share plans. The guidelines are 10% of the issued share capital in any 10 year period for all share plans, with an inner limit of 5% in 10 years for executive schemes. IMI operates within these limits and its standing as at 31 December 2010 was 3.59% and 2.33% respectively. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 55 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Pension entitlement During 2010 the Board with appropriate support from the Remuneration Committee undertook a comprehensive review of pension provision at IMI. This was prompted by the Board’s desire to manage pension risks. With regard to the pension provision for executive directors the main principle adopted when undertaking this review was that any new arrangements should be cost neutral for IMI. The IMI Pension Fund was closed to all employees in respect of future service from 31 December 2010 and alternative pension arrangements were established including an executive retirement plan (ERP), which is intended to be a tax efficient long term savings vehicle for UK senior managers to save for retirement outside the registered pensions regime. Pension benefits provided for 2010 service In respect of 2010 the executive directors were entitled to and waived the following pension benefits: Value of pension allowance Value of allowance waived Martin Lamb £229,600 (35% of salary) £82,000 Douglas Hurt £126,000 (35% of salary) £105,000 Roy Twite £119,000 (35% of salary) £99,000 Ian Whiting £38,500 (35% of salary since appointment) N/A Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash allowance instead of pension benefits. UK executive directors may waive some or all of this cash allowance, and any annual bonus award, and the Remuneration Committee may then choose, at its discretion, to make a contribution into the ERP, which is an unregistered defined contribution arrangement structured as an offshore trust. Such contributions to the ERP in respect of executive directors are determined on a basis that is intended to be cost neutral to the Company. At the 2010 AGM shareholders approved changes to the rules of the SMP and PSP that permit these awards to be settled in the form of employer contributions to the ERP. Martin Lamb waived part of his cash allowance payable in lieu of future accrual in the IMI Pension Fund and all of his 2010 bonus, and the Company exercised its discretion to make contributions to the ERP totalling £979,000. He also waived his 2009 bonus entitlement, and the Company exercised its discretion to make contributions to the ERP totalling £747,000. Douglas Hurt waived part of his cash allowance payable in lieu of pension benefits and all of his 2010 bonus, and the Company exercised its discretion to make contributions to the ERP totalling £513,000. Roy Twite waived part of his cash allowance payable in lieu of pension benefits and 2010 bonus, and the Company exercised its discretion to make contributions to the ERP totalling £313,000. Ian Whiting is eligible for benefits under three arrangements in the USA. The first is a defined contribution arrangement, the IMI 401(k) Plan. In the period from 1 September 2010, when he was appointed as an executive director, to 31 December 2010, no contributions were made to this plan. The second is a defined benefit arrangement, the Control Components Inc Employees’ Pension Plan. His pension from this plan is payable from age 65 without further increase. The third is also a defined benefit arrangement, the IMI Americas Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. His pension from this plan is payable from age 65, subject to completion of 10 years service with the Group, without further increase. On retirement Ian Whiting has the option of exchanging part of his pension to provide for a spouse’s pension payable on his death after retirement. 56 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Pension benefits for past service Martin Lamb and Roy Twite were previously active members of the defined benefit IMI Pension Fund. Martin Lamb opted out with effect from 6 April 2006 and Roy Twite opted out with effect from 1 February 2007. As a result they retain past pensionable service up to these dates and the value of this is shown in the table on page 59. The nature of these benefits are more complicated than the pension benefits provided in respect of 2010, but the key elements are summarised below: 쐍 The normal retirement age under the Fund is 60 for Martin Lamb and 62 for Roy Twite. Martin Lamb may elect to retire from employment with IMI and receive a pension at any time after age 57 without any actuarial discount and GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Roy Twite may retire from employment with IMI any time after age 60 without actuarial discount. 쐍 On death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided equal to two-thirds of the member’s pension for Martin Lamb and 50% of the member’s pension for Roy Twite. 쐍 Should Martin Lamb die within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is also paid equal to the balance of five years’ pension payments. For Roy Twite, the dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the member’s pension for the remainder of the five year period. 쐍 Pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum pension, are increased each year in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5% in respect of pension built up before 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension built up after 1 January 2006. 쐍 Martin Lamb’s past pension benefits generally continue to be linked to final salary inflation (averaged over the past three years) and equivalent benefits to those provided for under the Fund rules immediately prior to closure are preserved in relation to ill-health retirement, death-in-service and early retirement at the Company’s instance. The difference between these benefits and those automatically provided under the Fund will be assessed as at RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 31 December of 2011 and each subsequent year end until death in service, retirement on ill-health grounds or retirement at the Company’s instance and there will be a payment to the Fund (to augment Fund benefits) or a payment in lieu to Martin Lamb (or his estate) or by way of contribution to the ERP or another pension arrangement shortly after each year end until a final augmentation or payment is made following death in service or relevant early retirement event. The policy regarding pension arrangements for new executive director appointments will be flexible to take account of the individual position, the cost of pension arrangements to the Company, including in particular the cost of defined benefits, and the alternative forms of pension provision. However, the norm would be not to offer defined benefits to new executive directors. Save as indicated below, the remainder of this report has been audited. The auditor’s report is on page 65. External appointments Executive directors may accept one external appointment with the consent of the Board, and are normally allowed to retain fees from external non-executive directorships. Martin Lamb was appointed a non-executive director of Severn Trent Water plc on 29 February 2008 and received fees in the year to 31 December 2010 of £42,500 BOARD REPORTS (2009: £35,351). Douglas Hurt was appointed as a non-executive director of Tate & Lyle PLC on 10 March 2010 and received fees in the year to 31 December 2010 of £39,682. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 57 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Summary of directors’ remuneration Bonus and Bonus and Sums by pension pension Salary way of allowance Restated allowance and Non-cash taxable Total waived 1 Total 1 waived 1 fees benefits allowances Bonus 2010 2010 2009 2009 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Non-executive N B M Askew 195 195 195 K S Beeston 45 45 49 A M Frew 45 45 45 T M Gateley 60 60 60 R J Stack 55 55 51 Executive D M Hurt 1 360 5 38 403 534 887 1 M J Lamb 656 5 169 830 1,020 911 777 1 R M Twite 340 5 37 148 530 325 795 2 D C Nicholas 638 3 I W Whiting 110 4 71 119 304 Total 1,866 19 315 267 2,467 1,879 3,631 777 1 M J Lamb, D M Hurt and R M Twite waived all or part of their 2010 bonus entitlement and pension allowance. The Company made discretionary contributions into the executive retirement plan as disclosed on page 56. In 2010 M J Lamb waived his 2009 bonus entitlement of £777,000 and the Company made discretionary contributions into the executive retirement plan as disclosed on page 56. The 2009 comparative total has been restated to exclude this amount. 2 D C Nicholas retired as a director on 1 September 2009 and retired as an employee on 11 December 2009. 3 I W Whiting became a director on 1 September 2010. Remuneration shown above as salaries for non-executive directors includes fees of £205,000 (2009: £205,000). No compensation for loss of office was paid to or receivable by any director in 2010. Benefits in kind provided to executive directors consist of the provision of private health care arrangements and all employee share ownership plan awards. All executive directors elected for a cash alternative, instead of a company car. Sums paid by way of taxable allowances in the above table include cash allowances in lieu of company car and certain pension benefits. Relocation assistance was provided to Ian Whiting in respect of his move from the USA to Switzerland which is expected to take place in 2011. 58 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Summary of directors’ pension arrangements Details of the pension benefits earned in the IMI Pension Fund or, in relation to Ian Whiting, the Control Components Inc Employees’ Pension Plan and the IMI Americas Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan are summarised in the following table: Difference Increase Value of Transfer Transfer between in accrued increase value of value of transfer Increase pension in accrued Accrued accrued accrued values at in accrued over the pension at GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Pensionable pension pension pension 31.12.093 pension year 31.12.10 service to at at at and over the (net of (net of Age at 31.12.101 31.12.102 31.12.10 31.12.093 31.12.10 year 2 inflation) inflation) Director 31.12.10 Years £000 pa £000 £000 £000 £000 pa £000 pa £000 M J Lamb 50 20 295 5,290 4,938 352 13 13 233 R M Twite 43 18 58 650 630 20 I W Whiting 4 46 5 37 137 148 (11) n/a n/a 1 Pensionable service ceased with effect from 6 April 2006 for M J Lamb, 1 February 2007 for R M Twite and 1 September 2010 for I W Whiting. 2 The increase in the accrued pension during the year reflects the increase in pensionable earnings to 31 December 2010 for M J Lamb. Under the IMI Pension Fund deferred pensions generally increase with inflation so the increase in the accrued pension over the year RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS (net of inflation) represents the additional pension built up. No allowance is made for the value of benefits that may be derived by the payment of additional voluntary contributions. 3 Or as at date of appointment as a director if later. 4 I W Whiting was appointed as a director on 1 September 2010 and the figures shown in the table relate to the period from 1 September 2010 to 31 December 2010. Figures have been converted using exchange rates of £1: $1.55 as at 1 September 2010 and £1: $1.57 as at 31 December 2010. As I W Whiting has been a director for less than a year, the increase in accrued pension net of (annual) inflation and the value of the increase in accrued pension net of (annual) inflation are not applicable. The transfer values that would be payable from the IMI Pension Fund at the relevant date are also shown in the table, together with the transfer value (at the end of the year) of the increase in the accrued pension over the year (net of inflation). A transfer value shown is the estimated capital value of the future pension payments in retirement, determined by the Fund’s Trustee in accordance with the appropriate statutory requirements. In respect of I W Whiting’s benefits under US pension arrangements, the transfer value quoted is based on the method and assumptions used by the Company to account for the costs associated with its US defined benefit pension schemes (see note 19 to the financial statements on pages 104 to 110). Under the method and assumptions used by the Company to account for the costs associated with its defined benefit pension schemes, BOARD REPORTS the aggregate value of the accrued benefits as at 31 December 2010 for the executive directors was £8.96m (2009: £8.42m). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 59 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Directors’ share awards Share awards/options are outstanding under the following schemes: SAYE IMI Savings-Related Share Option Scheme PSP Performance Share Plan SMP Share Matching Plan (formerly DBP) SOP Share Option Plan As permitted by the rules of the relevant share plans, equity awards that were due to be released in April 2010 and 2011 were amended to allow for release in March of the relevant year. Table of SAYE, PSP and SOP awards PerfAs at As at Mid orm01.01.10(or During the year 31.12.10 Date market ance Date of dateofapp(or date of from which price at Notional condgrant/ Award ointment Exercised retirement exercisable/ Expiry Date of date of gain Director Scheme ition award price* if later) Granted / vested Lapsed if earlier) vesting date date exercise exercise (£)** M J Lamb SAYE a) 08.04.03 201.00p 4,980 4,980 Nil 01.08.10 31.01.11 11.08.10 700.00p 24,850 06.04.04 289.00p 1,335 1,335 Nil 01.08.09 31.01.10 03.02.10 561.50p 3,638 04.04.06 494.55p 378 378 Nil 01.08.09 31.01.10 03.02.10 561.50p 253 09.04.09 201.36p 4,544 4,544 01.08.12 31.01.13 PSP b) 05.04.07 592.00p 104,000 53,447+ 57,512 Nil 29.03.10 05.04.17 29.03.10 669.00p 357,560 c) 04.04.08 473.58p 138,500 138,500 28.03.11 04.04.18 d) 11.03.09 229.50p 285,800 285,800 11.03.12 11.03.19 e) 07.05.10 679.00p Nil 96,600 96,600 22.03.13 22.03.20 D M Hurt SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 7,772 7,772 01.08.14 31.01.15 PSP b) 05.04.07 592.00p 55,600 28,573+ 30,747 Nil 29.03.10 05.04.17 29.03.10 669.00p 191,153 c) 04.04.08 473.58p 76,000 76,000 28.03.11 04.04.18 d) 11.03.09 229.50p 156,800 156,800 11.03.12 11.03.19 e) 07.05.10 679.00p Nil 53,000 53,000 22.03.13 22.03.20 R M Twite SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 4,544 4,544 01.08.12 31.01.13 PSP b) 05.04.07 592.00p 50,600 26,002+ 27,982 Nil 29.03.10 05.04.17 29.03.10 669.00p 173,953 c) 04.04.08 473.58p 71,500 71,500 28.03.11 04.04.18 d) 11.03.09 229.50p 148,100 148,100 11.03.12 11.03.19 e) 07.05.10 679.00p Nil 50,100 50,100 22.03.13 22.03.20 I W Whiting PSP c) 04.04.08 473.58p 30,000 30,000 28.03.11 04.04.18 c) 03.10.08 376.25p 9,900 9,900 03.10.11 03.10.18 SOP f) 03.09.09 440.93p 120,000 120,000 03.09.12 03.09.19 f) 22.03.10 645.00p 75,000 75,000 22.03.13 22.03.20 + This includes dividends paid in shares on the vested portion over the three year period. a) No performance conditions are attached to the SAYE options. b) 50% of award based on comparative TSR (with an EPS underpin) with vesting at median (30% vests) to upper quartile (full vesting) and 50% based on real annual EPS growth of between 3% (30% vests) to 12% (full vesting) per annum for 2007 awards. For details of the TSR comparator group used for awards made in 2007 please refer to the 2007 remuneration report. 2007 PSP awards vested in 2010 at 44.7% of maximum. c) 50% of the 2008 awards were based on comparative TSR (subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that the relative TSR position reflects underlying performance) with vesting at median (25% vests) to upper quartile (full vesting), and the remaining 50% on EPS growth of between 6% per annum (25% vests) to 15% per annum (full vesting) over the three-year performance period. 2008 PSP awards will vest in March 2011 at maximum. d) 2009 awards were entirely based on comparative TSR with the vesting scale as described in c) above. 60 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW e) 2010 awards were based on TSR and EPS measures with the vesting scales as described in c) above for 25% and 50% of awards, respectively, and, as to the other 25%, upon RoOCE with vesting on a linear scale from 24% (originally 25% before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) of maximum to maximum for RoOCE of between 24% and 30% (originally 25% and 32% before adjustments made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J). f) SOP awards shown were made to I W Whiting prior to his appointment as an executive director and are not subject to performance conditions. Executive directors are not eligible to participate in the SOP. * The award price is the exercise price for awards structured as options and the price used to calculate the number of shares for PSP awards to UK participants in the PSP which are structured as deferred share awards or nil cost options and, in each case, is determined by reference to an average middle market quotation without discount. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW ** Notional gains on share options exercised shown above are based on the closing mid-market price at the date of exercise. The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 945.00p per share and the price range during the year was 530.50p to 948.00p. Table of SMP awards Mid As at During the year As at Mid market 01.01.10 31.12.10 Date market PerformDate of price at (or date of (or date of from which Date of price at ance grant/ date of appointment Exercised retirement exercisable/ exercise/ date of Director condition award award if later) Granted / vested Lapsed if earlier) vesting date vesting exercise M J Lamb a) 05.04.07 593.50p 105,914 77,324† 38,659 Nil 29.03.10 29.03.10 669.00p b) 04.04.08 461.75p 66,100 66,100 28.03.11 c) 01.06.09 357.75p 690,359 690,359 26.03.12 d) 07.05.10 640.50p Nil 330,090 330,090 22.03.13 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS D M Hurt a) 05.04.07 593.50p 30,869 22,535† 11,267 Nil 29.03.10 29.03.10 669.00p b) 04.04.08 461.75p 28,300 28,300 28.03.11 c) 01.06.09 357.75p 174,917 174,917 26.03.12 d) 07.05.10 640.50p Nil 160,246 160,246 22.03.13 R M Twite a) 05.04.07 593.50p 21,331 15,570† 7,786 Nil 29.03.10 29.03.10 669.00p b) 04.04.08 461.75p 49,702 49,702 28.03.11 c) 01.06.09 357.75p 146,645 146,645 26.03.12 d) 07.05.10 640.50p Nil 131,602 131,602 22.03.13 I W Whiting b) 04.04.08 461.75p 24,446 24,446 28.03.11 c) 01.06.09 357.75p 122,370 122,370 26.03.12 d) 07.05.10 640.50p 63,729 63,729 22.03.13 †This includes dividends paid in shares on the vested portion over the three-year period. BOARD REPORTS a) The applicable performance measure was economic value added over the years 2007-2009. Vesting was tiered (with linear progression in each band) as follows: 0% to 20% of maximum (maximum being a 125% match for the Chief Executive and 100% match for other executive directors) for positive economic value added up to £185m, 20% to 50% for £185m to £275m, 50% to 85% for £275m to £365m and 85% to 100% for £365m to £385m economic value added. 2007 SMP awards vested in 2010 at 63.5% of maximum. b) The applicable performance measure is economic value added over the years 2008-2010. Vesting is tiered (with linear progression in each band) as follows: 0% to 20% of maximum (maximum being a 125% match for the Chief Executive and a 100% match for other executive directors) for positive economic value added of up to £200m, 20% to 50% for £200m to £290m, 50% to 85% for £290m to £380m and 85% to 100% for £380m to £400m economic value added. 2008 SMP awards will vest in March 2011 at 97% of maximum. c) Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards were exceptional, and included 1/3 TSR (on the same basis as for the 2009 PSP awards), 1/3 profit before tax (measured annually) and 1/3 annual priority targets (measured annually). The annual priority targets were weighted equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and profit drop through and, in 2010, between cash conversion and return on sales. d) The performance measure for 2010 SMP awards was economic value added over the years 2010 to 2012. Vesting is tiered (with linear FINANCIAL STATEMENTS progression in each band) as follows: 0% to 25% of maximum for positive economic value added of up to £235m, 25% to 50% for £235m to £335m, 50% to 75% for £335m to £369m (originally £395m before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) and 75% to 100% for between £369m (originally £395m before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) and £475m. IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 61 Board reports REMUNERATION REPORT Awards under the legacy IMI Deferred Share Plan 2002 Potential 1 for 4 matching award if initial shares Purchase price Number of held for three Date of DSP for initial shares initial shares years after Director award (per share) purchased acquisition* Release date M J Lamb 04.04.08 465.3716p 37,225 9,306 28.03.11 R M Twite 04.04.08 465.3716p 16,872 4,218 28.03.11 * No performance conditions were attached to DSP awards which were made following mandatory reinvestments into the DSP of cash payments under a defunct long term incentive scheme under which no other awards remain outstanding. Directors’ interests This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited. The interests (all being beneficial) of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Director during Interest as at 31.12.10 Interest as at 01.01.10 2010 Shares held or date of retirement if earlier or date of appointment if later N B M Askew Ordinary shares 10,000 10,000 K S Beeston Ordinary shares 20,000 20,000 A M Frew Ordinary shares 7,500 7,500 T M Gateley Ordinary shares 7,500 7,500 D M Hurt Ordinary shares+ 186,243 153,310 M J Lamb Ordinary shares+ 411,574 401,166 R J Stack Ordinary shares 15,000 7,500 R M Twite Ordinary shares+ 146,605 121,072 I W Whiting* Ordinary shares+ 214,651 214,651 + Including shares held within company share plans. * I W Whiting became a director on 1 September 2010. During the period 31 December 2010 to 2 March 2011 there were no changes in the interests of any current director from those shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 11 January 2011 of 13 shares on behalf of each of Martin Lamb and Roy Twite and 14 shares on behalf of Douglas Hurt at 916.83p per share and on 8 February 2011 of 15 shares on behalf of Martin Lamb and Roy Twite and 14 shares on behalf of Douglas Hurt at 878.00p per share. 62 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Total shareholder return performance graph This section of the Remuneration Report is not audited. The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return over the five years ended 31 December 2010 with that of the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index and the FTSE All Share Index. The FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index was chosen as a comparator index because it is the industry share index in which the Company is classified and provides a reasonable benchmark for assessment of its relative performance. The FTSE All Share Index was chosen as it is a relevant broad equity market index. Over the past five years the total shareholder return has underperformed the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Sector Index by 13% and outperformed the FTSE All Share Index by 123%. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 250 200 150 100 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 50 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 IMI PLC FTSE All Share /Industrial Engineering SEC FTSE All Share Approved by the Board on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by BOARD REPORTS Bob J Stack Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 63 Board reports STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those Group financial statements, the directors are required to: 쐍 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and then apply them consistently; 쐍 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 쐍 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 쐍 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial performance; and 쐍 state that the Company has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. The directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the Parent Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: 쐍 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 쐍 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 쐍 state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 쐍 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that the Group and Parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors listed on pages 36 and 37 confirms that: 쐍 the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and 쐍 the management report (which comprises the Directors’ Report and the business review) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. By order of the Board John O’Shea Company Secretary 2 March 2011 64 BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 27. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s GROUP OPERATING REVIEW members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. Opinion on financial statements RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS In our opinion the Group financial statements: 쐍 Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended; 쐍 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 쐍 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Opinions on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 쐍 Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 쐍 We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. BOARD REPORTS Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 쐍 The directors’ statement, set out on page 40, in relation to going concern; and 쐍 The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and 쐍 Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration. Other matters We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS John C Flaherty (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 2 March 2011 IMI ANNUAL REPORT 2010 65 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2010 Restated (note 1) Notes 2010 2009 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2,3,4 1,917 (6) 1,911 1,785 7 1,792 Segmental operating profit 2 319.7 319.7 234.2 234.2 Restructuring costs (16.0) (16.0) (34.9) (34.9) Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 19 15.1 15.1 Acquired intangible amortisation 11 (7.0) (7.0) (7.2) (7.2) Reversal of economic hedge contract (gains)/losses 2 (2.7) (2.7) 8.9 8.9 Operating profit 2,3,4 319.7 (10.6) 309.1 234.2 (33.2) 201.0 Financial income 6 5.2 20.5 25.7 3.7 37.2 40.9 Financial expense 6 (20.5) (8.2) (28.7) (22.2) (29.5) (51.7) Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes 19 (4.0) (4.0) Net financial (expense)/income 6 (15.3) 12.3 (3.0) (22.5) 7.7 (14.8) Profit before tax 7 304.4 1.7 306.1 211.7 (25.5)186.2 Taxation 8 (91.3) (1.2) (92.5) (63.6) 9.8 (53.8) Profit for the year from continuing operations 213.1 0.5 213.6 148.1 (15.7) 132.4 Profit from operations discontinued in prior years 5 12.8 12.8 Total profit for the year 213.1 13.3 226.4 148.1 (15.7) 132.4 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 224.7 130.2 Non-controlling interests 1.7 2.2 Profit for the year 226.4 132.4 Earnings per share 9 Basic from profit for the year 70.4p 40.8p Diluted from profit for the year 69.4p 40.6p Basic from continuing operations 66.4p 40.8p Diluted from continuing operations 65.4p 40.6p 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m Profit for the year 226.4 132.4 Other comprehensive income Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives (6.5) 13.3 Income tax effect on above 1.8 (3.7) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedge settlements and funding revaluations 16.9 (28.1) Income tax effect on above (0.9) 3.0 11.3 (15.5) Fair value (loss)/gain on available for sale financial assets (2.5) 1.2 Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (22.2) (153.3) Income tax effect 3.4 44.0 (18.8) (109.3) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (10.0) (123.6) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 216.4 8.8 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 214.4 7.0 Non-controlling interests 2.0 1.8 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 216.4 8.8 BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 67 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET at 31 December 2010 Restated (note 1) Notes 2010 2009 £m £m Assets Intangible assets 11 517.1 386.4 Property, plant and equipment 12 241.3 233.0 Employee benefit assets 19 1.6 0.6 Deferred tax assets 13 56.3 89.6 Other receivables 4.9 5.4 Other financial assets 18 7.0 3.6 Total non-current assets 828.2 718.6 Inventories 14 288.0 249.9 Trade and other receivables 15 344.8 306.0 Other current financial assets 18 15.1 13.3 Current tax 4.8 4.2 Investments 18 19.2 17.7 Cash and cash equivalents 18 122.9 81.0 Total current assets 794.8 672.1 Total assets 1,623.0 1,390.7 Liabilities Bank overdraft 18 (2.5) (5.3) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16,18 (13.2) (1.2) Provisions 21 (13.9) (22.4) Current tax (36.8) (25.8) Trade and other payables 17 (423.2) (340.6) Other current financial liabilities 18 (4.6) (4.0) Total current liabilities (494.2) (399.3) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16,18 (252.6) (246.9) Employee benefit obligations 19 (201.0) (258.1) Provisions 21 (47.4) (44.5) Deferred tax liabilities 13 (20.3) (15.0) Other payables (31.7) (24.9) Total non-current liabilities (553.0) (589.4) Total liabilities (1,047.2) (988.7) Net assets 575.8 402.0 Equity Share capital 22 85.0 84.9 Share premium 168.1 166.6 Other reserves 67.4 56.4 Retained earnings 205.2 91.9 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 525.7 399.8 Non-controlling interests 50.1 2.2 Total equity 575.8 402.0 Approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by Norman B M Askew Chairman 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2010 Share Capital Total NonShare premium redemption Hedging Translation Retained parent controlling Total capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2009 84.7 165.1 7.9 (2.2) 65.4 131.5 452.4 9.3 461.7 Profit for the year 130.2 130.2 2.2 132.4 Other comprehensive income 9.6 (24.3) (108.5) (123.2) (0.4) (123.6) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Total comprehensive income 9.6 (24.3) 21.7 7.0 1.8 8.8 Issue of share capital 0.2 1.5 1.7 1.7 Dividends paid (66.0) (66.0) (1.6) (67.6) Cancellation of unclaimed dividends 0.2 0.2 0.2 Share based payments (net of tax) 4.8 4.8 4.8 Shares acquired for employee share scheme trust (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) Acquisition of non-controlling interests (7.3) (7.3) At 31 December 2009 84.9 166.6 7.9 7.4 41.1 91.9 399.8 2.2 402.0 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Changes in equity in 2010 Profit for the year 224.7 224.7 1.7 226.4 Other comprehensive income (4.7) 15.7 (21.3) (10.3) 0.3 (10.0) Total comprehensive income (4.7) 15.7 203.4 214.4 2.0 216.4 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.5 1.6 1.6 Dividends paid (70.9) (70.9) (0.5) (71.4) Share based payments (net of tax) 10.3 10.3 10.3 Shares acquired for employee share scheme trust (29.5) (29.5) (29.5) Investment in partnership by UK Pension Fund 48.6 48.6 BOARD REPORTS Income earned by partnership (2.2) (2.2) At 31 December 2010 85.0 168.1 7.9 2.7 56.8 205.2 525.7 50.1 575.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 69 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended 31 December 2010 Restated (note 1) 2010 2009 £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year from continuing operations 213.6 132.4 Adjustments for: Depreciation 47.2 48.7 Amortisation and impairment 12.8 12.8 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (2.9) Loss on disposal of investments 0.1 Financial income (25.7) (40.9) Financial expense 28.7 51.7 Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes 4.0 Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 5.5 4.1 Income tax expense 92.5 53.8 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (13.3) 48.0 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (7.8) 57.5 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 53.3 (44.8) Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (26.0) (8.4) Cash generated from the operations 378.0 318.9 Income taxes paid (56.3) (52.6) 321.7 266.3 CCI investigation costs and fine (4.3) (13.5) Refund of EU fine * 5.4 Additional pension scheme funding (16.8) (16.8) Special contribution to the UK Pension Fund (48.6) Net cash from operating activities 257.4 236.0 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 5.2 3.7 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7.1 1.8 Sale of investments 0.8 0.5 Purchase of investments (0.3) (1.0) Settlement of derivatives 4.0 (7.5) Income from discontinued business (Polypipe) * 7.4 Acquisitions of controlling interests (117.4) (1.3) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (45.8) (37.3) Capitalised development expenditure (5.0) (4.9) Net cash from investing activities (144.0) (46.0) Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid (20.7) (23.5) Investment in partnership by UK Pension Fund 48.6 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (12.4) (18.1) Purchase of own shares (29.5) (0.3) Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes 1.6 1.7 Net drawdown/(repayment) of borrowings 14.2 (125.2) Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (0.5) (1.6) Dividends paid to equity shareholders (70.9) (66.0) Net cash from financing activities (69.6) (233.0) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 43.8 (43.0) Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 75.7 119.3 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 0.9 (0.6) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ** 120.4 75.7 * Representing profit from operations discontinued in prior years (2009: £nil) ** Net of bank overdrafts of £2.5m (2009: £5.3m) Notes to the cash flow appear in note 23 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Significant accounting policies IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law (IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 119 to 125. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2011. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The following relevant standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group during 2010:  Amendment to IFRS2 ‘Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Arrangements’ The amendment clarifies the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, where a subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but the parent or another entity in the group pays for those goods or services. This amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.  IFRS3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ The revised standard broadens the definition of a business, which may result in more acquisitions being treated as business combinations. IFRS3 (revised) introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations such as valuation of non-controlling interests, business combinations achieved in stages, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of contingent consideration and the accounting for transaction costs. These changes will have a significant impact on profit or loss reported in the period of an acquisition, the amount of goodwill recognised RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS in a business combination and profit or loss reported in future periods. Revised IFRS3 is applied prospectively and therefore there is no impact on prior periods. The acquisition of Zimmermann & Jansen during 2010 has been accounted for under the revised standard.  IAS27 (Amended) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ The amended standard requires that a change in the ownership interest by the Group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, is accounted for as an equity transaction and these transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill or gains and losses. When the Group loses control of a subsidiary any retained interest is remeasured to fair value with gains or losses recognised in profit or loss. During 2010 the cash flow from acquisition of non-controlling interests has been reclassified from investing to financing activities in line with the requirements of the amended standard.  Amendment to IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ – Eligible hedged items The amendment clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item. This also covers the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations. The Group has concluded that the amendment did not have any impact on the financial BOARD REPORTS position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not entered into any such hedges. The following relevant standards and interpretations were issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2010:  IAS24 (Revised 2009) ‘Related Party Disclosures’ The definition of a related party has been clarified to simplify the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to significant influence and joint control. The revised standard, which becomes mandatory on 1 January 2011, is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s related party disclosures.  IFRIC14 (Amended) ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ IFRIC14 provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset. The amendment permits treatment of the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset. The amendment becomes mandatory on FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 January 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Significant accounting policies (continued)  IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments’ Classification and Measurement (effective 1 January 2013) IFRS9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS39 and applies to the classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS39. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition. The completion of this project is expected in early 2011. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial assets. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture. Improvements to IFRSs The annual improvements project to IFRSs provides a vehicle for making non-urgent but necessary amendments to IFRSs. The 2010 annual improvements project made amendments to a number of standards; these amendments were issued but not effective for the year ended 31 December 2010. These amendments are not expected to have a material impact on the Group financial statements. The cash flow statement has been restated in line with the requirements of IAS27 as described above. Restatement Net financial expense has been restated to show net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes separately on the face of the income statement. The directors believe that this presentation provides a more meaningful analysis of net financial expense. In accordance with the amendment to IAS27 the aggregate cash flows to acquire a non-controlling interest are now classified as financing activities within the consolidated statement of cash flows. Previously these had been classified as investing activities. This revision has been applied retrospectively. The consolidated balance sheet has been restated to show other receivables and other financial assets due within more than one year as non-current assets. a) Basis of accounting The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (which is the Company’s functional currency), rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except revenues which are rounded to the nearest whole million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments; available-for-sale financial assets; and financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged items; and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, where applicable, are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these consolidated financial statements. b) Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The nature of the markets in which the Group operates leads, from time to time, to a variety of possible legal and other claims from customers. Whenever such matters are notified to the Group, they are investigated and any liability which results is recognised in the accounts as soon as a reliable estimate can be made. Where it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of any future liability, a contingent liability is disclosed. The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses. The sale agreements contained various warranties and indemnities. In some cases, the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events. At the time of disposal, the accounts reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements. Estimates are updated at each reporting date to reflect the latest information available. 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Information about other areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the financial statements are described in the notes which follow, on Revenue; Acquisitions; Intangible assets; Deferred tax assets and liabilities; Financial risk management; Employee benefits; Share-based payments; Provisions for liabilities and charges and Contingencies. c) Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; (ii) derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; (iii) derecognises the cumulative RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS translation differences recorded in equity; (iv) recognises the fair value of the consideration received; (v) recognises the fair value of any investment retained; (vi) recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; (vii) reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Fund interest in the IMI Scottish Limited partnership (‘the partnership’). Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. Basis of consolidation prior to 1 January 2010 Certain of the above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis. The non-controlling interests have not been restated at 1 January 2010 in respect of the previously applied basis of consolidation in the following BOARD REPORTS respects:  Acquisition of non-controlling interests, prior to 1 January 2010, was accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby, the difference between the consideration and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognised in goodwill.  Losses incurred by the subsidiary were proportionally attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil. Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these. Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not reallocated between non-controlling interests and the parent shareholders.  Upon loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control was lost. The carrying value of such investments at 1 January 2010 has not been restated. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) d) Foreign currencies i) Foreign currency transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in profit before taxation in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. ii) Foreign operations The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to year end rates is taken directly to reserves. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly as a separate component of equity. Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss. e) Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39:  Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other financial institutions are classified as available for sale assets under IAS39, and held at fair value. Short term borrowings and overdrafts are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost.  Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are classified as ‘fair value through profit or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated as hedges. Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition changes in fair value of such derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net financial income or expense.  Long term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Where the long term loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying value of the long term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the hedge.  Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.  Trade payables are stated at cost.  Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.  Available for sale assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement. f) Other hedging i) Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or forecast transactions Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, or financial commitment or a forecast transaction, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense. 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. ii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value GROUP OPERATING REVIEW changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument. g) Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses. When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in contracts held RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS by the acquiree. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity. Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are BOARD REPORTS recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably. If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash generating units) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is FINANCIAL STATEMENTS monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs. The minority interest was accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the share in net assets acquired was recognised in goodwill. Goodwill was initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. If the net fair value of the acquired entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities was greater than the cost of the investment, the difference was recognised in profit and loss. Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 December 2003 was recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and not amortised. Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities. After initial recognition, goodwill was stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying amount being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash generating units was taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it. Contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable. Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill. h) Intangible assets i) Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). ii) Other acquired intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. iii) Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets. Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use. The estimated maximum useful lives are as follows:  Capitalised development costs 5 years  Customer relationships Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years)  Order book Period of the outstanding order book  Other intangible assets Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW i) Property, plant and equipment Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment. Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) so as to write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives within the following ranges:  Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years  Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years  Tooling Shorter of the life of tooling or 10 years j) Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. The majority of leasing transactions entered into by the Group are operating leases. k) Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In respect of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads. l) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. m)Impairment The carrying values of the Group’s non-financial assets other than inventories (see accounting policy ‘Inventories’) BOARD REPORTS and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets within its cash generating unit is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date. i) Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than financial assets held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) m)Impairments (continued) The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use an individual assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash generating unit (based upon the latest Group three year plan and extrapolated using an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity consistent with long term GDP growth) are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Management believe that this approach, including the use of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate based upon historical experience and as this is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. ii) Reversals of impairment As required by IAS36: ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is non-reversible. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. n) Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders or by the subsidiary’s shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. o) Employee benefits i) Defined contribution pension plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. ii) Defined benefit pension plans The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in profit or loss in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income. iii) Long-term service benefits The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations. 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW iv) Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in note 20. For options granted on or after 7 November 2002, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. p) Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. q) Revenue RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS i) Sale of products Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods. Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale. Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2000, are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms. Sales made outside of Incoterms 2000 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer. ii) Services Revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the BOARD REPORTS balance sheet date. The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer. Installation fees are recognised as revenue by reference to the stage of completion on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which case they are recognised when the goods are sold. iii) Construction contracts Revenue from significant machinery or valve contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specific contract terms unless the contract contains discrete components separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. Where separate components are present revenue is recognised on each component in accordance with the policy on the sale of products. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Significant accounting policies (continued) r) Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately where either the quantum, the one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance. The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements:  Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities;  The employee benefit curtailment gain on the closure of the UK scheme to future accrual;  The amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible fixed assets;  Gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative financial instruments excluding the reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses within segmental profit. The tax impact of the above items is also shown within Exceptional items. s) Financial income and expense Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared. Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement. The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the difference between the assumed interest on employee benefit plan liabilities and the assumed returns on employee benefit plan assets. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. t) Income tax Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in respect of prior years. Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. u) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Where applicable, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale. 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 2. Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Group’s operating segments. The operating segment reporting format reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures. Intersegment revenue is insignificant. The Group includes the following five operating segments and activities: Fluid Controls Severe Service GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Design, manufacture, supply and service of high performance critical control valves and associated equipment for power generation plants, oil & gas producers and other process industries. Fluid Power Design, manufacture and supply of motion and fluid control systems, principally pneumatic devices, for original equipment manufacturers in commercial vehicle, life science, rail, energy, food and beverage and other industries. Indoor Climate Design, manufacture and supply of indoor climate control systems, principally balancing valves for large commercial buildings and thermostatic radiator valves for residential buildings. Retail Dispense Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners and retailers. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers. Information regarding the operations of each reporting segment is included below. Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the businesses, stated before exceptional items including restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses and the employee benefit curtailment on the UK scheme. Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins. Segmental operating profits are therefore charged/credited with the impact of these contracts. In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the statutory consolidated income statement. Segmental Segmental revenue operating profit 2010 2009 2010 2009 BOARD REPORTS £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls 1,433 1,324 262.4 194.9 Severe Service 452 512 78.4 101.4 Fluid Power 685 520 113.7 32.8 Indoor Climate 296 292 70.3 60.7 Retail Dispense 484 461 57.3 39.3 Beverage Dispense 315 297 32.0 21.1 Merchandising 169 164 25.3 18.2 Total 1,917 1,785 319.7 234.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. Segmental information (continued) Reconciliation of reported segmental revenue and operating profit Revenue Profit 2010 2009 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m Segmental result 1,917 1,785 319.7 234.2 Restructuring costs (16.0) (34.9) Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 15.1 Acquired intangible amortisation (7.0) (7.2) Reversal of economic hedge contract (gains)/losses (6) 7 (2.7) 8.9 Total revenue/operating profit reported 1,911 1,792 309.1 201.0 Net financial expense (3.0) (14.8) Profit before tax continuing operations 306.1 186.2 Balance Sheet Segment Segment assets liabilities 2010 2009 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls 1,128.3 888.5 337.5 251.2 Severe Service 554.0 328.0 168.0 110.0 Fluid Power 426.5 420.0 106.1 89.4 Indoor Climate 147.8 140.5 63.4 51.8 Retail Dispense 275.0 284.0 80.9 71.7 Beverage Dispense 137.1 145.9 53.0 49.5 Merchandising 137.9 138.1 27.9 22.2 Total 1,403.3 1,172.5 418.4 322.9 Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to Group balance sheet Assets Liabilities 2010 2009 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m Segment assets and liabilities 1,403.3 1,172.5 418.4 322.9 Corporate items 14.9 25.1 77.7 96.2 Employee benefits 1.6 0.6 201.0 258.1 Investments 19.2 17.7 Funds/borrowings 122.9 81.0 268.3 253.4 Net taxation and others 61.1 93.8 81.8 58.1 Per Group balance sheet 1,623.0 1,390.7 1,047.2 988.7 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Other information Restructuring Capital Depreciation & costs expenditure amortisation 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls 10.7 26.8 41.9 34.5 46.8 47.3 Severe Service 4.8 2.7 20.0 13.5 11.2 10.8 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Fluid Power 3.1 21.0 15.0 15.7 28.3 28.4 Indoor Climate 2.8 3.1 6.9 5.3 7.3 8.1 Retail Dispense 5.3 8.1 8.7 7.7 11.3 12.0 Beverage Dispense 5.0 7.1 4.9 5.8 8.3 8.3 Merchandising 0.3 1.0 3.8 1.9 3.0 3.7 Subtotal 16.0 34.9 50.6 42.2 58.1 59.3 Corporate 0.2 0.5 0.7 Total 16.0 34.9 50.8 42.2 58.6 60.0 Revenue by geographical destination 2010 2009 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS £m £m UK 141 132 Germany 261 234 Rest of Europe 542 524 USA 543 491 Asia/Pacific 285 278 Rest of World 145 126 Total segmental revenue 1,917 1,785 Reversal of economic hedge contract (gains)/losses (6) 7 Total 1,911 1,792 BOARD REPORTS No individual customer, or group of customers, represents more than 10% of Group revenue (2009: none). Segmental analysis of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax, employee benefit assets, other receivables and other financial assets) by geographical origin Non-current assets 2010 2009 £m £m UK 99.4 108.6 Germany 178.8 77.1 Rest of Europe 186.5 179.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USA 232.5210.7 Asia/Pacific 47.2 36.3 Rest of World 14.0 7.6 Total 758.4 619.4 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. Acquisitions 3.1 Controlling interests The Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Zimmermann & Jansen Technologies GmbH (Z&J) on 31 December 2010 for consideration (net of cash acquired) of £109.5m. This includes £6.3m due from the vendor, which is subject to agreement through the completion accounts process. The results of this acquisition will be reported within Severe Service, however there is no impact on the Group’s 2010 results. Z&J manufactures critical process valve solutions for severe applications, primarily focused in the Refining and Petrochemical and Iron and Steel markets. Approximately 40% of revenue is generated from emerging markets, including Russia, India and China and Z&J has manufacturing facilities in Germany, USA and South Africa. The Group completed this acquisition as Z&J’s activities in these markets open up a number of opportunities for the combined business. Assuming that the acquisition of Z&J had been completed on 1 January 2010, it is estimated that the Group segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been £2,000m and £333.7m respectively. The methodology for arriving at fair value, intangible asset values and residual goodwill is described in the accounting policies in note 1 to these financial statements. The goodwill of £49.4m recognised on acquisition principally relates to skills present within the assembled workforce, customer service capability and the synergies available to the combined business from its geographical and sector presence. The fair value adjustments relate principally to the harmonisation with Group IFRS compliant accounting policies, recognition of intangible assets (which principally comprise the value of non-contractual customer relationships and the order book at acquisition) and adjustments to move the carrying value of the identifiable net assets from cost to fair value. Transaction costs of £1.9m have been expensed and are included within administrative expenses. Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are summarised below: Fair value of net assets acquired £m Customer relationships 54.5 Order book 18.5 Capitalised development cost 2.8 Patents and licences 1.5 Property, plant and equipment 11.5 Inventories 20.9 Trade and other receivables 15.9 Cash and short-term deposits 14.9 Trade and other payables (32.8) Current tax (5.4) Retirement benefit obligations (5.2) Deferred tax (22.1) Total identifiable net assets 75.0 Goodwill arising on acquisition 49.4 Total purchase consideration 124.4 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash flows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: BUSINESS OVERVIEW Cash flows from acquisition of controlling interests £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Purchase consideration: Cash 130.7 Receivable from vendor (6.3) Total purchase consideration for Z&J 124.4 Less cash acquired (14.9) Receivable from vendor 6.3 Net cash paid on acquisition of Z&J 115.8 Deferred consideration in respect of previous acquisitions 1.6 Included in cash flow from investing activities 117.4 Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) 1.9 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Total cash flow on acquisition of controlling interests 119.3 Trade and other receivables of £15.9m are stated after a provision for bad debts of £1.3m. The net amount is all expected to be collected within 12 months. Given the proximity of the acquisition to the year end, the fair values of all assets acquired and consideration for Z&J have been provisionally determined at 31 December 2010. Completion accounts have been prepared and adjustments to both consideration and the fair value of assets acquired may arise when these are finalised. During the year the Group paid £1.6m deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of 70% of Pneumatex AG originally completed on 28 December 2007. On 17 December 2009 the Company acquired the assets of NASS Parts and Service for a cash consideration of £1.4m. The fair value of the net assets acquired was £0.4m resulting in goodwill of £1.0m. The result of this acquisition is reported within Beverage Dispense; however there was no impact on the 2009 results. Had NASS Parts and Service been acquired at the beginning of 2009 Group segmental revenue in that year would have been £1,788m and the impact on segmental operating BOARD REPORTS profit would not have been material. 3.2 Non-controlling interests The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (‘the partnership’) was established during the year ended 31 December 2010. The IMI Pension Fund agreed to invest a special contribution of £48.6m made by the Group during the year into the partnership, giving them rights to receive income of £4.4m per year for twenty years. The partnership is fully consolidated in these accounts with the pension fund’s interest presented within equity in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the parent. The investment valuation at 31 December 2010 was provided by the Trustee, based on an independent valuation prepared for the Trustee in June 2010. In December 2009 the Group exercised its option to purchase the remaining 30% non-controlling interest in Pneumatex AG, the controlling interest in which was originally acquired on 28 December 2007. The exercise of the purchase option in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December was unconditional and the whole controlling interest accordingly passed to IMI at that date. Consideration of £12.2m was accrued at 31 December 2009 resulting in goodwill of £6.1m. The transaction was finalised on 26 April 2010 and final consideration of £12.4m was transferred. This was prior to the adoption of the amended IAS27: ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’. On 1 January 2009 the remaining 19.1% non-controlling interest in Display Technologies LLC, part of the Merchandising group, was acquired by the Group under the terms of the original purchase agreement. At that date the net assets of the company were £6.3m. Based on the contracted pricing mechanism the cash consideration paid was £18.1m, resulting in goodwill of £16.9m. Display Technologies LLC was originally acquired in June 2001. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. Operating profit 2010 2009 £m £m Revenue (i) 1,911.3 1,791.8 Cost of sales (ii) (1,097.4) (1,058.4) Gross profit 813.9 733.4 Selling and distribution costs (iii) (234.0) (235.7) Administrative expenses (iv) (270.8) (296.7) Operating profit 309.1 201.0 i) includes reversal of £5.8m economic hedge contract gains (2009: loss £6.9m) ii) includes £1.9m restructuring costs (2009: £7.3m) and a reversal of £3.1m economic hedge contract gains (2009: £2.0m) iii) includes £2.7m restructuring costs (2009: £3.8m) iv) includes £11.4m restructuring costs (2009: £23.8m), £7.0m of acquired intangible amortisation (2009: £7.2m) and and a curtailment gain of £15.1m on the closure of the UK pension scheme to future accrual 5. Discontinued operations During the year the General Court of the European Union issued its judgement on the Group’s appeal against the fine levied in 2005 in respect of allegations of anti-competitive behaviour among certain manufacturers of copper tube. The result of the appeal was a reduction in the fine of £5.4m. This income has been shown as discontinued operations as it relates to a business that was sold in 2002. Consideration of £7.4m received during the second half of the year in relation to the disposal of Polypipe during 2005 has also been credited within profit from discontinued operations. In previous years a financial asset of £4.2m was recognised in respect of the estimated deferred contingent consideration payable in respect of Polypipe. This was derecognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within the fair value loss on available for sale financial instruments of £2.5m on receipt of this payment. No tax is chargeable on the discontinued items in 2010. The basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations was 4.0p (2009: nil). 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6. Net financial income and expense restated (note 1) 2010 2009 Financial Financial Interest Instruments Total Interest Instruments Total Recognised in the income statement £m £m £m £m £m £m Interest income on bank deposits 5.2 5.2 3.7 3.7 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.5 0.5 2.0 2.0 Other economic hedges current year trading 9.6 9.6 11.6 11.6 future year transactions 10.4 10.4 23.6 23.6 Financial income 5.2 20.5 25.7 3.7 37.2 40.9 Interest expense on interest bearing loans and borrowings (20.7) (20.7) (22.2) (22.2) Interest cost capitalised 0.2 0.2 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Designated hedges (0.4) (0.4) (1.9) (1.9) Other economic hedges current year trading (7.3) (7.3) (20.1) (20.1) future year transactions (0.5) (0.5) (7.5) (7.5) Financial expense (20.5) (8.2) (28.7) (22.2) (29.5) (51.7) Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes (4.0) (4.0) Net financial (expense)/income (15.3) 12.3 (3.0) (22.5) 7.7 (14.8) Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes (see note 2) are included in segmental operating profit. For statutory purposes BOARD REPORTS these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above. Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash flows. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6. Net financial income and expense (continued) Recognised in other comprehensive income 2010 2009 £m £m Foreign currency translation differences 16.9 (28.1) Change in fair value of other financial assets (2.5) 1.2 Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges (6.5) 13.3 Income tax on financial income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 0.9 (0.7) Financial income/(expense) recognised directly in equity (net of tax) 8.8 (14.3) Recognised in: Hedging reserve (4.7) 9.6 Translation reserve 15.7 (24.3) Retained earnings (2.5) 1.2 Non-controlling interests 0.3 (0.8) 8.8 (14.3) 7. The following have been charged in arriving at profit before tax 2010 2009 £m £m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 47.2 48.7 Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 11.4 11.3 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 1.4 1.5 Loss on disposal of investments 0.1 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.4 2.3 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Tax services 0.1 0.4 Other services 0.2 0.3 Rentals under operating leases: Property rents 20.7 21.2 Hire of plant and machinery 8.0 7.7 Research and development * 36.9 34.2 Exchange losses on operating activities net of hedging arrangements 1.0 2.3 * In addition to the above, £5.0m (2009: £4.9m) has been capitalised. See note 11. 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 8. Taxation 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m a) Recognised in the income statement: Current tax expense UK corporation tax: Current tax on income for the year 9.3 5.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 (0.2) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 9.5 4.8 Overseas tax: Current tax on income for the year 58.2 45.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 (2.2) 58.3 43.2 Total current tax 67.8 48.0 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 24.7 5.8 Total income tax expense 92.5 53.8 b) Total current and deferred tax recognised directly in equity: On equity-settled transactions (4.8) (0.7) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS On gains and losses of financial instruments (1.8) 3.7 On actuarial gains and losses (3.4) (44.0) On foreign currency translation differences 0.9 (3.0) (9.1) (44.0) c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2010 2009 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptionals items Total exceptionals Items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit before tax from continuing operations 304.4 1.7 306.1 211.7 (25.5) 186.2 Income tax using the Company’s domestic rate of tax of 28.0% (2009: 28.0%) 85.2 0.5 85.7 59.3 (7.1) 52.2 Effects of: BOARD REPORTS (Non-taxable)/non-deductible items 0.1 1.7 1.8 1.2 (2.2) (1.0) Utilisation of tax losses (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1.8 1.8 1.0 1.0 Differing tax rates in different jurisdictions 4.7 (1.0) 3.7 2.7 (0.5) 2.2 Over provided in prior years (0.4) (0.4) (0.5) (0.5) Total tax in income statement on continuing operations 91.3 1.2 92.5 63.6 (9.8) 53.8 The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is 28%. The effective tax rate before exceptional items is 30% (2009: 30%). The effective tax rate on profit before tax is 30% after taking account of exceptional items (2009: 28.9%). As the Group operates worldwide it is subject to several factors which may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and mix of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS profitability in different jurisdictions in which the Group may or may not have offsetting tax losses and the various tax rates imposed in those jurisdictions. The Finance (No 2) Act 2010 reduced the main rate of UK Corporation Tax from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011. Additional changes to the main rate of UK Corporation Tax are proposed, to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 24% by 1 April 2014. These changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and consequently are not included in these financial statements. Further UK tax changes, subject to enactment, apply to reduction in the rates of tax depreciation from 1 April 2011, which will impact deferred tax. No tax is chargeable on the discontinued operations in 2010. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. Earnings per ordinary share The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, net of shares held as treasury shares or held in trust to satisfy employee share schemes, was 319.0m, 323.8m diluted for the effect of outstanding share options (2009: 318.8m, 321.0m diluted). Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of £224.7m (2009: £130.2m). On continuing operations the basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of £211.9m (2009: £130.2m). The directors consider that adjusted earnings per share figures, using earnings as calculated below, give a more meaningful indication of the underlying performance because either the quantum, the one off nature, or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying performance. 2010 2009 £m £m Profit for the year from continuing operations 213.6 132.4 Non-controlling interests (1.7) (2.2) 211.9 130.2 Charges/(credits) included in profit for the year: Restructuring costs 16.0 34.9 Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme (15.1) Acquired intangible amortisation 7.0 7.2 Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses (9.6) (16.6) 210.2 155.7 Taxation on charges/(credits) included in profit before tax 1.2 (9.8) Earnings for adjusted EPS 211.4 145.9 Weighted average number of shares 319.0m 318.8m Adjusted EPS 66.3p 45.8p Diluted adjusted EPS 65.3p 45.5p 10. Employee information The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 2010 2009 Fluid Controls 9,992 10,413 Retail Dispense 2,988 3,093 Corporate 184 183 Total 13,164 13,689 The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. As Z&J was acquired on 31 December 2010, these employees are also excluded. The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: £m £m Wages and salaries 456.3 436.7 Share-based payments (see note 20) 5.5 4.1 Social security costs 70.9 67.2 Pension costs 0.8* 10.5 Total 533.5 518.5 * Includes curtailment benefit of £15.1m from the closure of the UK pension scheme. The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report. 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 11. Intangible assets Capitalised Acquired customer Other Goodwill development cost relationships acquired intangibles Total Carrying Cost AmortCarrying Cost AmortCarrying Cost AmortCarrying Carrying amount isation amount isation amount isation amount amount £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2009 342.8 38.9 20.6 18.3 47.7 16.2 31.5 42.0 34.8 7.2 399.8 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Exchange adjustments (25.5) (2.8) (1.5) (1.3) (3.1) (1.1) (2.0) (3.7) (3.0) (0.7) (29.5) Acquisitions 24.0 24.0 Additions 4.9 4.9 4.9 Impairment 1.5 (1.5) (1.5) Amortisation for year 4.1 (4.1) 5.9 (5.9) 1.3 (1.3) (11.3) At 31 December 2009 341.3 41.0 24.7 16.3 44.6 21.0 23.6 38.3 33.1 5.2 386.4 Exchange adjustments 9.9 1.3 0.7 0.6 0.1 0.1 1.9 1.7 0.2 10.8 Acquisitions 49.4 2.8 2.8 54.5 54.5 20.0 20.0 126.7 Additions 5.0 5.0 5.0 Impairment 0.4 (0.4) (0.4) Amortisation for year 4.4 (4.4) 5.8 (5.8) 1.2 (1.2) (11.4) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS At 31 December 2010 400.6 50.1 30.2 19.9 99.2 26.8 72.4 60.2 36.0 24.2 517.1 Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £6m (2009: £6m). Goodwill is tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount based on value in use. Value in use is calculated based on the discounted cash flows of the cash generating unit being tested for impairment. The key assumptions in the discounted cash flow calculations are the growth rate and the discount rate. The growth rate is based on the 3 year long term forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity at 2.25%, which is consistent with the long term growth rates of the industry in which the Group operates. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units based on the synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition on which the goodwill arose. The Group has approximately 40 cash generating units to which goodwill is attached and no single cash generating unit represents a significant proportion of the total goodwill. Pre-tax discount rates of between 10% and 15% are applied in determining the recoverable amounts of cash generating units. The discount rates are estimated based on the Group’s cost of capital, risk adjusted for individual unit’s circumstances. BOARD REPORTS The Group’s estimates of impairments of goodwill are most sensitive to increases in the discount rate used and the long term growth rates used in the forecast cash flows. These growth rates vary significantly depending on the circumstances of each cash generating unit and have been based on the business reviews carried out in the year. There is significant headroom between value in use and carrying value for all cash generating units to which goodwill is attached and therefore no impairment would arise from a reasonably possible change in the assumptions. The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 amounted to £364m. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12. Property, plant and equipment Assets in course of constLand & buildings Plant & machinery ruction Total Gross book DepreNet book Gross book DepreNet book Net book Net book value ciation value value ciation value value value £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2009 199.4 92.5 106.9 710.3 565.6 144.7 14.8 266.4 Exchange adjustments (16.4) (6.6) (9.8) (49.9) (40.3) (9.6) (0.8) (20.2) Additions 3.0 3.0 24.1 24.1 10.2 37.3 Disposals (1.2) (0.7) (0.5) (20.9) (19.6) (1.3) (1.8) Transfers 1.7 1.7 7.6 7.6 (9.3) Depreciation for year 4.9 (4.9) 43.8 (43.8) (48.7) At 31 December 2009 186.5 90.1 96.4 671.2 549.5 121.7 14.9 233.0 Exchange adjustments 2.0 1.0 1.0 11.3 8.8 2.5 3.5 Acquisitions 6.0 6.0 5.2 5.2 0.3 11.5 Additions 3.3 3.3 28.2 28.2 14.3 45.8 Disposals (9.2) (6.3) (2.9) (35.6) (34.2) (1.4) (4.3) Transfers 1.0 1.0 8.9 8.9 (9.9) Impairment for year 0.9 (0.9) (0.1) (1.0) Depreciation for year 5.1 (5.1) 42.1 (42.1) (47.2) At 31 December 2010 189.6 89.9 99.7 689.2 567.1 122.1 19.5 241.3 Included in the total net book value of plant and machinery is £1.0m (2009: £1.2m) in respect of assets acquired under finance leases. Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.6m (2009: £0.6m). 13. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets 9.5 10.1 (63.1) (38.1) (53.6) (28.0) Inventories 6.5 6.7 (5.5) (5.4) 1.0 1.3 Revaluation of derivatives 1.1 0.6 (2.7) (1.6) (1.6) (1.0) Employee benefits and provisions 92.3 97.5 (5.0) (2.7) 87.3 94.8 Tax assets 2.9 7.5 2.9 7.5 112.3 122.4 (76.3) (47.8) 36.0 74.6 Set off of tax (56.0) (32.8) 56.0 32.8 56.3 89.6 (20.3) (15.0) 36.0 74.6 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of £25.7m (2009: £26.2m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £97.5m (2009: £95.2m). The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, and the assets have not been recognised due to uncertainty over their recoverability. It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption. However £48.7m (2009: £35.5m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed £5.2m (2009: £3.0m) of which only £1.0m has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of GROUP OPERATING REVIEW the dividends. It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future. Movement in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year Recognised Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions/ Balance at at 1 Jan 10 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 10 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (28.0) (0.6) (0.5) (24.5) (53.6) Inventories 1.3 (0.6) 0.3 1.0 Revaluation of derivatives (1.0) (0.3) (0.3) (1.6) Employee benefits and provisions 94.8 (18.5) 8.5 0.4 2.1 87.3 Tax assets 7.5 (4.7) 0.1 2.9 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 74.6 (24.7) 8.5 (0.3) (22.1) 36.0 Recognised Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions/ Balance at at 1 Jan 09 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 09 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (23.7) (6.2) 1.9 (28.0) Inventories 1.3 (0.6) 0.6 1.3 Revaluation of derivatives 4.6 (4.8) (0.8) (1.0) Employee benefits 48.6 5.1 43.4 (2.3) 94.8 Tax assets 7.0 0.7 (0.2) 7.5 37.8 (5.8) 43.4 (0.8) 74.6 BOARD REPORTS All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve. Of the £8.5m (2009: £43.4m) recognised directly in equity £4.3m (2009: £43.3m) was charged in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and £4.2m (2009: £0.1m) was charged directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 14. Inventories 2010 2009 £m £m Raw materials and consumables 101.4 85.7 Work in progress 94.0 72.8 Finished goods 92.6 91.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 288.0 249.9 In 2010 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to £1,091.1m (2009: £1,042.2m). In 2010 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £5.1m (2009: £9.4m). The reversal of writedowns amounted to £0.7m (2009: £0.5m). The write-down and reversal are included in cost of sales. Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Group’s businesses. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15. Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 Falling due for payment within one year £m £m Trade receivables 314.9 276.1 Other receivables 15.8 18.0 Prepayments and accrued income 14.1 11.9 344.8 306.0 Receivables are stated after: Allowance for impairment 17.4 17.8 The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 18. 16. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18. 2010 2009 £m £m Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 12.9 0.7 Secured other loans 0.2 Current portion of finance lease obligations 0.3 0.3 13.2 1.2 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 252.2 246.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.6 252.6 246.9 17. Trade and other payables 2010 2009 Current £m £m Trade payables 231.7 157.6 Bills of exchange payable 5.1 2.9 Other taxation 15.5 12.6 Social security 4.5 5.5 Other payables 1.5 0.5 Accruals and deferred income 164.9 161.5 423.2 340.6 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 18. Financial risk management Overview The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42, this responsibility has been assigned to the Executive Committee with support and feedback from the Audit Committee and the IMI Group Assurance Department as described below. The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The IMI Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. The Group’s funding and liquidity as well as its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements are managed centrally by IMI’s treasury function. Treasury uses a combination of derivatives and conventional financial instruments to manage the underlying risks. These derivatives and financial instruments themselves introduce exposure to the following risks;  Credit risk  Market risk  Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks, including each of the above risks, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents held by the Group’s banks and other financial assets. At the end of 2010 these totalled £479.1m (2009: £391.7m). Trade and other receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, have less of an influence on credit risk. Approximately 4% (2009: 3%) of the Group’s revenue is attributable to sales transactions with our largest single customer. Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk. The Group’s contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk profile of the contract, including potential credit risks, is reviewed. Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash flow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate. Counterparty risk BOARD REPORTS A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution. Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the counterparties. At the end of 2010 credit exposure including cash deposited did not exceed £22m with any single institution (2009: £8m). Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holding of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters. Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also manages financial liabilities, in order to mitigate market risks. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. Financial risk management (continued) Currency risk The Group publishes consolidated accounts in Pound Sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies. As a result it is subject to the risks associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs (‘transactions’), translation of foreign profits (‘profit translation’) and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations (‘asset translation’). Transactions The Group’s wide geographic spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures. It is the Group’s policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts). A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging is topped up following regular reviews. On this basis up to 50% of the Group’s annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Group’s net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time. Profit translation The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign currencies into the Pound Sterling based income statement. The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this exposure. Short term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited protection against Pound Sterling strength on an opportunistic basis. The translation of US Dollar and Euro based profits remain the primary risk to the Group. Asset translation The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and currency forward contracts. The intention is to manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates. To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly in reserves. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Detail of the quantum and management of this exposure is provided in note 18.2. Interest rate risk As a result of the Group’s management of its asset translation risks, it is exposed to a number of global interest rates the most important of which are US, Eurozone and UK rates. The analysis of this exposure is shown in note 18.3 of these financial statements. The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at fixed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s income statement is manageable. The Group has raised US Dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long term fixed rate Loan Notes. In order to manage its exposure to interest rates, US$30m of this fixed rate exposure was hedged back to floating through the use of interest rate swaps in 1999 covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014. The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the Loan Notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the financial statements. The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at £3.8m (2009: £4.0m). The hedged item is included in the value of the debt as an increase in liability of £3.8m (2009: increase £4.0m). Exposure to other interest rate volatility is managed through a combination of fixed rate debt and derivative instruments where appropriate. Commodity risk The Group’s operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of approximately £26m (2009: £20m). It manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, zinc and aluminium designed to protect short term margins. The exposure is managed using a combination of financial contracts and local supply agreements in order to minimise the short term impact of metal price volatility. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions. This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis. 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series of US Loan Note issues. The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions and organic growth plans. At the end of 2010 the Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling £213m (2009: £277m) and was holding cash and cash equivalents of £123m (2009: £81m). There are no significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group. Capital management GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business including acquisitions. The Board monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company. The underlying capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt. Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax assets form part of the extended capital base. Management of this element of the capital base is discussed further in note 19 to the financial statements. Undrawn committed funding facilities are maintained as described above to provide additional capital for growth (including acquisitions and organic investments) and liquidity requirements as discussed above. 18.1 Capital Base 2010 2009 £m £m Total equity 576 402 Gross Debt 268 253 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Cash (123) (81) Capital base 721 574 Employee benefits and deferred tax assets 143 168 Extended capital base 864 742 Undrawn funding facilities 213 277 Available capital base 1,077 1,019 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base of the assets being funded as described in the paragraph on asset translation earlier in this section. The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Company is considered regularly by the Board in the light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. Funding covenants BOARD REPORTS currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3 times EBITDA. The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of up to 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA as long as prevailing market conditions and outlook for our existing businesses supported such a move. It is expected that at these levels our debt would still be perceived as investment grade. The potential benefits to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding. As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder dividends. The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend should be covered by at least 2 times earnings. In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient growth opportunities through organic investment and acquisitions, the return of funds to shareholders through share buy backs or special dividends will be considered. It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS hedge the exposure under certain management incentive plans. Details of these purchases are shown in note 22 to the financial statements. The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group. The Group currently uses a post tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of 8% as a benchmark for investment returns. This is reviewed regularly in the light of changes in market rates. The Board tracks the Group’s return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers returns in excess of the WACC. Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added (EVA) is used as a metric in the Group’s long term incentive programmes. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. Financial risk management (continued) 18.2 Currency profile of assets and liabilities Assets excluding Exchange Net Net cash and debt Cash Debt contracts assets assets 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m Sterling (28) 23 341 336 303 US Dollar 268 12 (254) 6 32 (7) Euro 266 24 (13) (222) 55 (1) Other 215 64 (1) (125) 153 107 Total 721 123 (268) 576 402 Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets. 18.3 Interest rate risk profile Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2010 2010 2010 2010 rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 364 364 US Dollar (254) 18 (7) (229) 6.8 7.1 Euro (235) 24 (168) (43) 2.4 1.1 Other (126) 64 (62) Total (615) 470 127 (272) Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2009 2009 2009 2009 rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling (2) 309 307 US Dollar (261) 7 (26) (228) 6.8 8.1 Euro (188) 17 (127) (44) 2.4 2.1 Other (108) 54 (54) Total (559) 387 100 (272) Interest rates are managed using fixed and floating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps. Floating rate liabilities comprise short term debt which bears interest at short term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter bank rates. All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are considered as floating rate investments. Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the above two analyses. 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 18.4 Undrawn committed facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met were as follows: 2010 2009 £m £m Expiring within one year 112 50 Expiring between one and two years 101 125 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Expiring after more than two years 102 213 277 The weighted average life of these facilities is 0.7 years (2009: 1.5 years). 18.5 Terms and debt repayments schedule The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows: Effective 5 years interest Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to and rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2010 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 122.9 122.9 122.9 US loan notes 2012 2022 6.93-7.17% (22.3) (32.2) (1.6) (14.2) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (14.3) US loan notes 2014 floating Floating (22.9) (24.0) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (23.1) US loan notes 2016 7.26% (47.8) (67.3) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (3.5) (49.8) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (95.5) (136.2) (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) (107.7) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (63.7) (105.0) (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) (81.0) Finance leases Various (0.7) (0.7) (0.3) (0.2) (0.2) Bank overdrafts Floating (2.5) (2.5) (2.5) Unsecured bank loans Floating (12.9) (12.9) (12.9) Total (145.4) (257.9) 91.3 (28.7) (15.2) (37.8) (14.7) (252.8) Effective 5 years BOARD REPORTS interest Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to and rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 2009 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 81.0 81.0 81.0 US loan notes 2012-2022 6.93-7.17% (21.7) (32.8) (1.5) (1.5) (13.9) (0.7) (0.7) (14.5) US loan notes 2014 floating Floating (22.7) (24.1) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (22.9) US loan notes 2016 7.26% (46.6) (69.0) (3.4) (3.4) (3.4) (3.4) (3.4) (52.0) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (93.2) (138.7) (5.6) (5.6) (5.6) (5.6) (5.6) (110.7) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (62.1) (107.2) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (83.7) Finance leases Various (0.9) (0.9) (0.3) (0.5) (0.1) Bank overdrafts Floating (5.3) (5.3) (5.3) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unsecured bank loans Floating (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) Other loans Floating (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) Total (172.4) (297.9) 59.0 (16.0) (28.0) (14.7) (37.3) (260.9) Contractual cash flows include undiscounted committed interest cash flows and, where the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. Financial risk management (continued) 18.6 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets Cost value Fair value £m £m £m £m £m £m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 122.9 122.9 122.9 Bank overdrafts (2.5) (2.5) (2.5) Borrowings due within one year (13.2) (13.2) (13.2) Borrowings due after one year (22.9) (229.7) (252.6) (277.8) Trade payables (231.7) (231.7) (231.7) Trade receivables 314.9 314.9 314.9 Investments 19.2 19.2 19.2 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets * 3.8 12.0 6.3 22.1 22.1 Derivative liabilities ** (2.1) (2.5) (4.6) (4.6) Total (21.2) 9.5 148.4 (162.2) (25.5) (50.7) * Includes £7.0m falling due after more than one year (2009: £3.6m). ** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.6m falling due in more than one year (£0.2m in 1-2 yrs, £0.2m in 2-3 yrs and £0.2m in 3-4 yrs). Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives. The reduction in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of £6.5m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Trade payables are all due within one year. Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets Cost value Fair value £m £m £m £m £m £m 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 81.0 81.0 81.0 Bank overdrafts (5.3) (5.3) (5.3) Borrowings due within one year (1.2) (1.2) (1.2) Borrowings due after one year (22.7) (224.2) (246.9) (247.1) Trade payables (157.6) (157.6) (157.6) Trade receivables 276.1 276.1 276.1 Investments 17.7 17.7 17.7 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets * 8.4 4.3 4.2 16.9 16.9 Derivative liabilities ** (0.4) (3.6) (4.0) (4.0) Total (14.7) 0.7 102.9 (112.2) (23.3) (23.5) * Includes £3.6m falling due after more than one year. Derivative assets designated at fair value includes the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives of £4.4m. ** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £1.8m falling due in more than one year (£0.6m in 1-2 yrs, £0.4m in 2-3 yrs, £0.4m in 34 yrs and £0.4m in 4-5 yrs). Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the income statement. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties. All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities. Trade payables are all due within one year. 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Valuations Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, short term borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short term nature of the instruments. Long term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity. The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads. Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash flows. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal commodity hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities. Investments are primarily in publically quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas unfunded pension liabilities. The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date. Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements of £22.9m (2009: £22.7m) and derivative assets of £22.1m (2009: £16.9m) and liabilities of £4.6m (2009: £4.0m) are valued by Level 2 techniques. Investments are valued by Level 1 techniques. 18.7 Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was £164.2m (2009: £115.6m). Carrying amount 2010 2009 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents 122.9 81.0 Investments 19.2 17.7 Other available for sale financial assets 6.3 4.2 Interest rate swaps 3.8 4.0 BOARD REPORTS Forward exchange contracts 11.7 8.4 Metals contracts 0.3 0.3 164.2 115.6 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December 2010 by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2010 2009 £m £m UK 25.7 23.0 Germany 29.9 19.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Rest of Europe 101.9 99.1 USA 75.5 68.2 Asia/Pacific 59.8 48.8 Rest of World 22.1 17.5 314.9 276.1 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. Financial risk management (continued) 18.7 Exposure to credit risk (continued) The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by business sector was: Carrying amount 2010 2009 £m £m Severe Service 115.8 92.3 Fluid Power 99.8 83.9 Indoor Climate 39.3 38.0 Beverage Dispense 40.6 42.0 Merchandising 19.4 19.9 314.9 276.1 The Group’s most significant customer, a food and beverage company, accounts for 1.5% of trade receivables carrying amount at 31 December 2010 (2009: 2.5%). Impairments The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2010 2009 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment £m £m £m £m Not past due 275.3 (1.1) 232.8 (1.4) Past due 1-30 days 31.7 (0.8) 26.0 (0.8) Past due 31-90 days 9.0 (1.0) 14.5 (1.4) Past due over 90 days 16.3 (14.5) 20.6 (14.2) Total 332.3 (17.4) 293.9 (17.8) The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 £m £m Net balance at 1 January 17.8 12.9 Charged to the income statement 3.7 10.2 Utilised during the year (2.6) (2.9) Released (1.7) (1.4) Exchange 0.2 (1.0) Net balance at 31 December 17.4 17.8 The impairment gain recognised of £0.1m (2009: loss £5.9m) relates to the movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk of non-recovery from a range of customers across all of its businesses. 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 18.8 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments As described elsewhere in this note 18, the Group uses financial instruments including debt and derivatives to reduce its underlying balance sheet and income statement exposure to volatility in interest rates, currency rates and base metal commodity prices. In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in interest rates, currency rates or metal prices. The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets. As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments. Financial instruments sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial instruments and do not reflect the opposite movement from the impact of the specific change on the underlying business. 1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% 10% increase 10% decrease in interest in interest weakening strengthening in base metal in base metal rates rates in Sterling in Sterling costs costs £m £m £m £m £m £m RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS At 31 December 2010 Impact on income statement: (loss)/gain (0.4) 0.4 (5.0) 5.0 0.2 (0.2) Impact on equity: (loss)/gain (49.0) 49.0 At 31 December 2009 Impact on income statement: (loss)/gain (0.9) 0.9 (4.9) 4.9 0.2 (0.2) Impact on equity: (loss)/gain (46.1) 46.1 The above sensitivities are estimates of the impact of market risk on financial instruments only. As noted, it is the Group’s policy to use financial instruments to manage its underlying exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements. In accordance with this policy, the Group is confident that the underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction. To the extent that the underlying currency, interest rate or metals price exposure is not fully hedged, the Group will remain exposed to movements in these variables. BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. Employee benefits Pension arrangements, other post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements are accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS19. As at 31 December 2010 the Group continues to provide pension benefits through a mixture of defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements. Contributions to defined contribution arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred. The Group has 79 different defined benefit arrangements worldwide. The major pension and other post-employment benefit arrangements are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. Assessments of the obligations for funded and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method. Pension costs primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected benefits based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on the assets. Movements in the pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions are recognised through equity. The Group also provides a number of other long-term arrangements to our employees, with benefits payable more than 12 months after the related services are rendered. These plans are generally not funded and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. The Group’s strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined contribution arrangements wherever possible and to minimise the liability of the Group. During 2010 six defined benefit arrangements were closed to new entrants and five to future accrual. The largest defined benefit arrangement is the IMI Pension Fund in the UK (‘the Fund’). This constitutes 83% of the total defined benefit liabilities and 88% of the total assets. The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2008 and this was the first valuation undertaken in accordance with the Scheme Specific Funding provisions of the Pensions Act 2004. The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee resulted in an actuarial deficit of £118m. The Group agreed to pay special contributions of £16.8m in December 2008 and July 2009, 2010 and 2011 as part of the recovery plan to close the deficit by 2016. The valuation as at 31 March 2011 will determine an updated funding position and the Group will agree with the Trustee an appropriate recovery plan to meet any deficit. The Group recognises there is a risk inherent within defined benefit arrangements that the assets do not match the liabilities at any given point in time. In advance of the IMI Pension Fund 2011 triennial actuarial valuation, the Group has worked with the Trustee to mitigate the risk of a volatile funding position. A number of important initiatives were implemented in 2010 in line with this objective. The Fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of £15.1m which has been recognised as an exceptional credit in the income statement. The Trustee also purchased approximately £325m of annuities to match certain benefit payments due from the Fund. The purchase price of these annuities was greater than the value, measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, of the insured benefits. The Trustee also rearranged the remaining Fund assets with the objective of preserving the expected return on the total Fund assets (including the annuity policies). This was achieved, with a reduction in the funding volatility of the Fund, as measured by the Trustee’s value at risk model, of approximately 25%. The purchase of the annuities also reduced the mortality risk by around 20%. The difference between the cost of the annuities and the underlying IAS19 liability was financed by a special contribution to the Pension Fund of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in a special purpose vehicle giving them rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded. The Group expects to agree a revised recovery plan with the Trustee in late 2011 or early 2012, but in any event by 30 June 2012. 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Reconciliation to the balance sheet as at 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Funded schemes in surplus: Fair value of assets 21.8 21.8 36.9 36.9 Present value of defined benefit obligation (19.1) (19.1) (35.2) (35.2) 2.7 2.7 1.7 1.7 Restriction due to asset ceiling (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) Recognised assets for defined benefit funded schemes 1.6 1.6 0.6 0.6 Funded schemes in deficit: Fair value of assets 981.5 112.7 1,094.2 926.6 81.3 1,007.9 Present value of defined benefit obligation (1,088.4) (134.3) (1,222.7) (1,101.4) (97.3) (1,198.7) Recognised liabilities for defined RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS benefit funded schemes (106.9) (21.6) (128.5) (174.8) (16.0) (190.8) Present value of obligation for unfunded schemes (3.5) (54.6) (14.4) (72.5) (53.8) (13.5) (67.3) Recognised liabilities for defined benefit obligations (110.4) (76.2) (14.4) (201.0) (174.8) (69.8) (13.5) (258.1) Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations (110.4) (74.6) (14.4) (199.4) (174.8) (69.2) (13.5) (257.5) Total fair value of assets 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 Total present value of defined benefit obligations (1,091.9) (208.0) (14.4) (1,314.3) (1,101.4) (186.3) (13.5) (1,301.2) Asset ceiling (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations (110.4) (74.6) (14.4) (199.4) (174.8) (69.2) (13.5) (257.5) BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. Employee benefits (continued) a) Summary of assumptions Weighted averages 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Inflation rate 3.5 2.0 3.7 2.0 2.8 2.2 Discount rate 5.5 4.1 5.7 4.4 6.5 4.9 Expected rate of salary increases 1 2.8 4.9 2.8 4.0 2.8 Rate of pension increases 2 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 2.8 0.5 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 2 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 2.8 0.5 Medical cost trend rate 3 n/a 5.0 n/a 5.0 n/a 5.0 Expected return on equities 7.4 7.3 8.1 7.6 7.9 7.0 Expected return on bonds 4.8 3.1 5.3 3.5 5.8 3.9 Expected return on property 6.7 5.1 7.0 5.6 7.0 4.9 Expected return on other assets 4 8.4 2.4 4.4 2.5 3.8 2.5 Overall expected return on assets 5 7.1 4.4 6.9 4.6 6.9 4.7 1 For 2009 and earlier, includes 0.2% pa as the average effect of the age-by-age promotional scale for UK. 2 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) for UK. 3 Initial rate of 7.5% pa (8.0% pa in 2009, 8.5% pa in 2008) reducing by 0.5% pa each year to 5.0% pa. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement. 4 There has been a material change in the assumed return on ‘other’ assets in the UK which reflects changes in the IMI Pension Fund’s investment strategy during the year. See note (e) below for further details. 5 Based on the distribution of assets set out in (e) below. The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund reflect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time. The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2008, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2010 reflect the results of this review. The table below shows the implied life expectancy from age 65 for the Fund’s current and future pensioners based on the assumptions adopted. The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2008 is in line with the published ‘medium cohort’ rates, with a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1%. Implied life expectancy (years) from age 65 for: 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 Males Females Males Females Males Females Current pensioners 20.7 22.4 20.6 22.3 20.5 22.2 Future pensioners 22.7 24.3 22.6 24.2 22.5 24.1 The sensitivity of the balance sheet liability in respect of the IMI Pension Fund to changes in the key assumptions is shown in ( j) below. 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW b) Components of the pension expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Defined benefit schemes operating costs Current service cost 4.7 4.2 0.6 9.5 4.4 4.7 0.9 10.0 Past service cost (0.8) (0.8) 0.6 0.6 Recognition of losses/(gains) 0.9 0.9 (0.3) (0.3) Settlement/curtailment (15.1) (1.0) (16.1) (3.0) (3.3) (6.3) Total (10.4) 2.4 1.5 (6.5) 1.4 1.4 1.2 4.0 Defined benefit schemes financial costs Interest cost 61.2 8.0 0.7 69.9 55.7 8.2 0.8 64.7 Expected return on assets (64.2) (5.7) (69.9) (56.1) (4.6) (60.7) Total (3.0) 2.3 0.7 (0.4) 3.6 0.8 4.0 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Total defined benefit schemes pension expense (13.4) 4.7 2.2 (6.5) 1.0 5.0 2.0 8.0 Pension expense from defined contribution schemes 1.0 6.3 7.3 1.0 5.5 6.5 Total pension expense (12.4) 11.0 2.2 0.8 2.0 10.5 2.0 14.5 c) Income and expense recognised through equity for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total BOARD REPORTS £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Actuarial losses during the year (18.6) (3.5) (22.1) (151.6) (2.1) (153.7) Change in the effect of the asset ceiling (0.1) (0.1) 0.4 0.4 Exchange (loss)/gain 1 (1.5) (0.2) (1.7) 6.2 1.4 7.6 Total (losses)/gains recognised during the year (18.6) (5.1) (0.2) (23.9) (151.6) 4.5 1.4 (145.7) Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the beginning of the year (197.4) (25.7) (5.7) (228.8) (45.8) (30.2) (7.1) (83.1) Cumulative amount of actuarial FINANCIAL STATEMENTS losses at the end of the year (216.0) (30.8) (5.9) (252.7) (197.4) (25.7) (5.7) (228.8) 1 2010 figure includes £0.1m as gain on asset ceiling due to exchange rate movements. Equivalent figure for 2009 was £0.1m loss. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. Employee benefits (continued) d) Reconciliation of present value of Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post employemployemployemployUK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Present value of DBO at the beginning of the year 1,101.4 186.3 13.5 1,301.2 881.4 197.0 15.3 1,093.7 Company service cost 4.7 4.2 0.6 9.5 4.4 4.7 0.9 10.0 Interest cost 61.2 8.0 0.7 69.9 55.7 8.2 0.8 64.7 Employee contributions 1.4 2.4 3.8 1.5 2.4 3.9 Past service cost (0.8) (0.8) 0.6 0.6 Actuarial (gain)/loss: from experience (11.8) (1.6) 0.7 (12.7) (21.1) (1.8) (0.2) (23.1) from changes in assumptions 10.1 5.8 0.2 16.1 242.7 7.9 (0.1) 250.5 Actual benefit payments (60.0) (11.9) (2.3) (74.2) (60.2) (12.1) (2.4) (74.7) Settlement/curtailment (15.1) (3.1) (18.2) (3.0) (3.3) (6.3) Purchase of business 4.4 0.8 5.2 Exchange 14.3 0.2 14.5 (16.7) (1.4) (18.1) Present value of DBO at the end of the year 1,091.9 208.0 14.4 1,314.3 1,101.4 186.3 13.5 1,301.2 e) Market value by category of assets as at 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Equities 41.5 40.4 81.9 521.0 33.6 554.6 Bonds 335.5 71.5 407.0 365.1 62.3 427.4 Property 36.5 6.3 42.8 34.8 5.6 40.4 Other 568.0 16.3 584.3 5.7 16.7 22.4 Total 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 During 2010 the UK IMI Pension Fund’s assets were restructured. As at 31 December 2010 ‘Other’ assets now include:  Total return equity swaps with a current market value of £41m. These contracts were executed in June 2010 and provide the IMI Pension Fund with a return equal to the difference between equity returns and LIBOR on a notional initial investment of £324m.  £318m in respect of insurance (annuity) policies and the IMI Pension Fund’s interest in a special purpose vehicle.  £146m in fund of hedge funds investments. There are no assets that may be counted against the liabilities for overseas non-post employment arrangements. 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW f) Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Fair value of assets at the beginning of the year 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 837.8 120.4 958.2 Expected return on assets 64.2 5.7 69.9 56.1 4.6 60.7 Actuarial (loss)/gain on assets (20.3) 0.7 (19.6) 70.0 4.0 74.0 Actual company contributions: normal 4.2 5.5 9.7 4.6 5.3 9.9 additional as agreed under current funding plans 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.8 additional other 48.6 48.6 Employee contributions 1.4 2.4 3.8 1.5 2.4 3.9 Actual benefit payments (60.0) (8.6) (68.6) (60.2) (7.9) (68.1) Settlements (2.1) (2.1) Exchange 12.7 12.7 (10.6) (10.6) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Fair value of assets at the end of the year 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 The other additional Company contribution made to UK arrangements during 2010 was in connection with facilitating investment by the IMI Pension Fund in the IMI Scottish Partnership. g) Reconciliation of actual return on assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Expected return on assets 64.2 5.7 69.9 56.1 4.6 60.7 Actuarial (loss)/gain on assets (20.3) 0.7 (19.6) 70.0 4.0 74.0 BOARD REPORTS Actual return on assets 43.9 6.4 50.3 126.1 8.6 134.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 109 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. Employee benefits (continued) h) Additional information UK Overseas Total £m £m £m Expected employer contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2011 normal 5.9 5.9 additional 16.8 16.8 Expected employee contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2011 2.6 2.6 Expected benefits to be paid by the Company for the year ending 31 December 2011 6.0 6.0 The IMI Pension Fund closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2010. i) Historical information 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 £m £m £m £m £m Present value of the defined benefit obligation (1,314.3) (1,301.2) (1,093.7) (1,184.1) (1,176.6) Fair value of assets 1,116.0 1,044.8 958.2 1,124.0 1,056.0 Deficit (198.3) (256.4) (135.5) (60.1) (120.6) Impact of the asset ceiling (1.1) (1.1) (1.6) (3.5) Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations (199.4) (257.5) (137.1) (63.6) (120.6) Experience (gain)/loss arising on plan liabilities (12.7) (23.1) (13.0) 0.8 10.3 Experience loss/(gain) arising on plan assets 19.6 (74.0) 245.6 11.3 (20.2) j) Sensitivities The balance sheet liability is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used to place a value on the defined benefit obligation, in particular to the discount rate and implied life expectancy, and to changes in the assets, in particular to equity market movements. The IMI Pension Fund constitutes 83% of the total liabilities and 88% of the total assets for the Group’s long-term employee benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2010. It is therefore appropriate to consider the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions in respect of the Fund and these are illustrated below (net defined benefit liability as at 31 December 2010 for the IMI Pension Fund is £106.9m). Increase in net defined benefit liability as at 31 December 2010 1 £m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower 15 Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher 11 Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 25 10% fall in non-bond-like 2 assets 60 1 in each case all other assumptions are unchanged. 2 bond-like assets include cash, bonds, insurance (annuity) policies and IMI Pension Fund’s interest in a special purpose vehicle. 110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 20. Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based payment schemes: SAYE savings-related share option scheme This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase shares in the business. SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the exercise date and otherwise expire. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Performance Share Plan (PSP) These are open to the executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group. For awards granted prior to April 2009, 50% of these PSP shares vest subject to EPS growth, based on internal financial performance conditions. The plan uses TSR (total shareholder return) as a performance condition for the other 50% of shares granted. For awards granted in 2009, 100% of the shares granted vest subject to TSR as the performance condition. For awards granted in 2010 onwards, 50% of these PSP shares vest subject to EPS growth, based on internal financial performance conditions, 25% vest subject to TSR, and 25% vest subject to RoOCE (Return on Operating Capital Employed). Share Matching Plan (SMP) In 2009, the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) was amended and renamed, to become the SMP. Under this plan, executive directors and selected senior managers’ cash incentive payments are governed by their achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline (SOG). The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary as IMI shares, and if achieved, any incentive payment is made in cash. If not achieved, a proportion of earned annual bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in shares RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS in the Company. Qualifying employees may also elect to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% of incentive opportunity. Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned (to a maximum of 200% of the investment made) if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period. Share Option Plan (SOP) Share Option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the Share Option Plan, adopted in 2009. These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period. The following share-based plans are no longer operated, but awards are outstanding under them: Executive Share Option Scheme Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and to certain other employees in 2005 under the Executive Share Option (1995) Scheme which expired in May 2005. All outstanding options granted under this scheme were BOARD REPORTS granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions related to growth in earnings per share above inflation over a fixed period of three financial years. Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the periods shown below. Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The LTIP awards were made in 2005 as part of the transition to new long term incentive arrangements introduced in 2005. The LTIP allows cash awards to executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group subject to certain performance conditions. At the end of the performance period, the net of tax value of any LTIP payments can (or in the case of executive directors, must) normally be invested in market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares pursuant to a deferred share plan. Such share purchases are to be made through an employee trust and held for a further three year period. After that period, matching shares are awarded with one additional share for every four invested with no further performance conditions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) Under the DBP, for executive directors and selected senior managers, a proportion of earned annual bonus was mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in shares in the Company. Qualifying employees also elected to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus. Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned (to a maximum of 100%, or 125% for the Chief Executive, of the deferred bonus at the entry share price level) if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period. IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20. Share-based payments (continued) Analysis of options granted Currently operated share-based payment schemes Performance Share Employee SAYE options Share Plan 1 Matching Plan 1 Share Option Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal Number of Weighted Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable awards awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date thousand option price date 2003 976 201p 2006-2010 2004 801 289p 2007-2009 2005 464 380p 2008-2010 706 2008 2006 251 495p 2009-2011 716 2009 2007 204 517p 2010-2012 734 2010 2008 342 391p 2011-2013 995 2011 2009 832 201p 2012-2014 673 2012 1,783 2012 2,532 441p 2012 2010 190 511p 2013-2015 228 2013 1,145 2013 1,565 645p 2013 Legacy share-based payment schemes Long Term Deferred Executive Option Scheme Incentive Plan 1 Bonus Plan1 Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date 2003 2,258 257p 2006-2013 2004 2,199 358p 2007-2014 2005 484 421p 2008-2015 53 2008 2006 44 2009 117 2009 2007 61 2010 184 2010 2008 82 2011 183 2011 1. These options were granted at an option price of £nil. The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options outstanding are as follows: Options without Options with performance conditions performance conditions Weighted Number of Range of average options option prices option price Number of options Outstanding at 1 January 2009 1,753,800 201-517p 375p 2,834,177 Exercisable at 1 January 2009 935,267 201-517p 352p 17,700 Granted 3,363,078 201-441p 382p 2,456,289 Exercised 324,469 201-495p 313p 507,251 Lapsed 419,881 201-517p 390p 403,567 Outstanding at 31 December 2009 4,372,528 201-517p 383p 4,379,648 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 715,618 201-517p 361p 15,389 Granted 1,754,639 511-645p 631p 1,372,302 Exercised 362,498 201-517p 359p 412,652 Lapsed 417,664 201-517p 411p 538,422 Outstanding at 31 December 2010 5,347,005 201-645p 464p 4,800,876 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 344,142 201-517p 364p 18,905 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Share options previously reported as Employee SAYE options and Executive options have been combined within options without performance conditions. The options previously reported as Long Term Incentive Plan options, Performance Share Plan options and Deferred Bonus Plan options have been combined within options with performance conditions. In both cases these schemes have substantially similar arrangements. Options with performance conditions were granted with an option price of £nil. The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2010 is 7.42 years (2009: 7.46 years). GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Included in these balances are share options that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS2. The number of these share options outstanding was as follows: 1 January 2009: 258,131 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010: 78,772 31 December 2010: 10,022 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was £6.91 (2009: £3.94). The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for grants in 2010 included a dividend yield of 3.7% (2009: 7.6%), expected share price volatility of 30% (2009: 30%), a weighted average expected life of 3.6 years (2009: 3.7 years) and a weighted average interest rate of RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2.0% (2009: 4.0%). The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. The total expense recognised for the period arising from share-based payments is as follows: 2010 2009 £m £m Equity settled share-based payment expense in employee cost in the income statement 5.5 4.1 The share-based payment expense of £5.5m (2009: £4.1m) comprises a charge of £7.7m for the year offset by a credit of £2.2m (2009: £1.7m) in respect of lapses. £2.8m (2009: £2.5m) of the total charge is in respect of directors. BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21. Provisions for liabilities and charges Due inside one year Due outside one year Investigation Trade Investigation Restructuring costs Total warranties costs Other Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2010 17.9 4.5 22.4 27.6 3.5 13.4 44.5 Exchange adjustment (0.1) (0.1) 0.7 0.7 Acquisitions 2.6 0.3 2.9 Utilised during the year (21.9) (4.3) (26.2) (8.6) (0.1) (8.7) Transfers 1.8 1.8 (1.8) (1.8) Charge to income statement 16.0 16.0 9.8 9.8 At 31 December 2010 11.9 2.0 13.9 32.1 1.7 13.6 47.4 The restructuring provision is expected to be fully utilised within one year. The provision balance reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects to reorganise operations and facilities. CCI is subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice. Provision has been made for the costs associated with the monitor over the three year monitor appointment period which runs until June 2012. Related to this same matter CCI continues to liaise with customers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions outside the US and the cost of resolving certain investigation related legal matters has been provided for. Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically of 1-2 years but can be longer, with the expected amounts falling due less than one year included in creditors. Other provisions are mainly environmental provisions, recognising the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites. Because of the long term nature of the liability, the timescales are uncertain and the provision represents management’s best estimates of these costs. 22. Share capital Number of ordinary shares of 25p each 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m £m £m Authorised 480.0 480.0 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid: In issue at the start of the year 339.5 338.9 84.9 84.7 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.4 0.6 0.1 0.2 In issue at the end of the year 339.9 339.5 85.0 84.9 Of which held within retained earnings 23.3 20.2 Shares issued and purchased during the year are shown in the table below: Employee Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total m m m m In issue at 31 December 2009 1.1 19.1 319.3 339.5 New issues 0.4 0.4 Market purchases 3.6 (3.6) Allocations (0.5) 0.5 At 31 December 2010 4.2 19.1 316.6 339.9 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW During the year 0.4m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.6m. The Company made market purchases of a total of 3.6m (2009: 0.1m) of its own shares with an aggregate market value of £29.5m (2009: £0.3m) and a nominal value of £0.9m (2009: £nil) including dealing costs of £0.2m (2009: £nil). Of the 23.3m (2009: 20.2m) shares held within retained earnings, 4.2m (2009: 1.1m) shares with an aggregate market value of £39.7m (2009: £5.4m) are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting. Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 2010 2009 £m £m 17.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2009: 13.2p) 53.9 42.1 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2010 2009 £m £m 13.2p per qualifying ordinary share (2009: 12.7p) 42.2 40.5 9.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2009: 8.0p) 28.7 25.5 70.9 66.0 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Share options The majority of UK employees may participate in the IMI Sharesave Plan (SAYE scheme) and selected senior executives within the Group participate in the IMI Executive Share Option (1995) Scheme, the IMI Performance Share Plan and the IMI Share Option Plan. At 31 December 2010, options to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to and not exercised by participants of IMI share option schemes as follows: Date of Number grant of shares Price Date of exercise IMI Sharesave Plan 05.04.05 1,476 380.0p 01.08.10 04.04.06 42,047 494.55p 01.08.09 or 01.08.11 16.04.07 39,201 517.18p 01.08.10 or 01.08.12 14.04.08 149,442 391.41p 01.08.11 or 01.08.13 09.04.09 740,576 201.36p 01.08.12 or 01.08.14 BOARD REPORTS 06.04.10 181,671 510.92p 01.08.13 or 01.08.15 IMI Executive Share 03.04.02 10,022 309.1p 03.04.05 to 03.04.12 Option (1995) Scheme 02.04.03 72,000 256.9p 02.04.06 to 02.04.13 24.03.04 98,110 358.0p 24.03.07 to 24.03.14 23.03.05 153,960 420.5p 23.03.08 to 23.03.15 IMI 2005 Long Term 13.05.05 3,050 13.05.08 to 13.05.15 Incentive Plan (also known as 03.04.06 6,534 03.04.09 to 03.04.16 IMI Performance Share Plan) 05.04.07 9,321 29.03.10 to 05.04.17 04.04.08 774,764 04.04.11 to 04.04.18 03.10.08 32,461 03.10.11 to 03.10.18 05.11.08 14,360 05.11.11 to 05.11.18 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.03.09 673,400 10.03.12 to 10.03.19 07.05.10 227,700 07.05.13 to 07.05.20 IMI Share Option Plan (2009) 03.09.09 2,311,000 440.93p 03.09.12 to 03.09.19 22.03.10 1,547,500 645.0p 22.03.13 to 22.03.20 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 115 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. Cash flow notes a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 122.9 81.0 Bank overdraft in current liabilities (2.5) (5.3) Cash and cash equivalents 120.4 75.7 b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 43.8 (43.0) Net (drawdown)/repayment of borrowings * (14.2) 125.2 Cash inflow 29.6 82.2 Currency translation differences (2.6) 44.1 Movement in net borrowings in the year 27.0 126.3 Net borrowings at the start of the year (172.4) (298.7) Net borrowings at the end of the year (145.4) (172.4) c) Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within one after more Total equivalent year than one year net debt £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2010 75.7 (1.2) (246.9) (172.4) Cash flow 43.8 (12.0) (2.2) 29.6 Currency translation differences 0.9 (3.5) (2.6) At 31 December 2010 120.4 (13.2) (252.6) (145.4) * This includes drawings for settlement of exchange on net investment hedge derivatives of £2.7m (2009: receipts of £4.6m). 24. Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2010 2009 Land and Land and buildings Others buildings Others £m £m £m £m Within one year 16.1 4.9 13.0 5.8 In the second to fifth year 30.7 9.9 35.6 9.5 After five years 26.7 1.5 18.9 0.4 73.5 16.3 67.5 15.7 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group primarily for certain of its office properties. 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW 25. Commitments Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date amounted to £6.1m (2009: £13.9m). 26. Contingencies Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £86m (2009: £76m). GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 27. Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Directors are considered to be the key management personnel. Remuneration is as follows: 2010 2009 £m £m Short term employee benefits 2.1 3.2 Contributions to executive retirement plan 1.8 0.8 Share-based payment 3.1 2.5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Total 7.0 6.5 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. There are no other related party transactions. BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet, and the related notes C1 to C11. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements:  give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010;  have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion:  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements. Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 required us to report to you if, in our opinion:  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2010. John C Flaherty (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 2 March 2011 118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW COMPANY BALANCE SHEET at 31 December 2010 2010 2009 Note £m £m Fixed assets Investments C6 574.0 574.0 Current assets Debtors (including £9.2m due after more than one year (2009: £3.2m)) C7 31.2 15.5 Cash at bank and in hand 0.8 1.0 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 32.0 16.5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Borrowings C8 (0.5) Other creditors C9 (48.6) (137.3) (48.6) (137.8) Net current liabilities (16.6) (121.3) Total assets less current liabilities 557.4 452.7 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings C8 (22.9) (22.7) Net assets 534.5 430.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C10 85.0 84.9 Share premium account C10 168.1 166.6 Capital redemption reserve C10 7.9 7.9 Profit and loss account C10 273.5 170.6 Equity shareholders’ funds 534.5 430.0 BOARD REPORTS Approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by Norman B M Askew Chairman FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 119 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1. Significant accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except as noted below: Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards except for certain financial instruments as defined by FRS26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’ which are stated at fair value. The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. Under FRS1 ‘Cash flow statements’, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Company is included in its own published consolidated financial statements. The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 ‘Related party disclosures’ and has not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group. Related party transactions with the Company’s key management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63. The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and has taken the exemption under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group financial statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation included in the profit and loss account. Investments The Company’s cost of investment in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and either (b) the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration when Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, or (c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s shares on the date they were issued as consideration. Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19. Financial instruments The principal financial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate swaps. These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the Group’s risk management policy. Interest differentials are taken to net interest in the profit and loss account. If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time. Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Company operates a number of equity and equity related compensation benefits as set out in note 20 to the Group financial statements. For options granted on or after 7 November 2002, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options are recharged to the principal employing company. 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, UITF41 ‘Scope of FRS20’ and UITF44 ‘Group and Treasury Share Transactions’ state that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through its subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary by the parent. Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary as this recharge is considered to form part of the determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the share-based payment arrangement. Accordingly, there is no overall increase in the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Company’s financial statements. The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options at the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. Treasury shares The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase. If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares is RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. Dividends or shares presented within shareholders’ funds Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. C2. Remuneration of directors The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 62. C3. Remuneration of auditors The detailed information concerning auditor’s remuneration is shown in note 7 of the Group financial statements. BOARD REPORTS C4. Staff numbers and costs With the exception of the directors, the number of people employed by the Company during the year was nil (2009: nil). The Company participates in the IMI Pension Fund, which is a defined benefit scheme in which the assets are held independently. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme and consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b) the Company is required to account for pension costs as if the scheme were a defined contribution scheme. Note 19 to the Group financial statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit scheme. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 121 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C5. Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2010 2009 £m £m Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year 42.2 40.5 Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 28.7 25.5 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 70.9 66.0 Dividends paid in the year of £70.9m represent 22.2p per share (2009: 20.7p). After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2010 2009 £m £m 17.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2009: 13.2p) 53.9 42.1 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid. This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividend differing from those proposed at the balance sheet date. C6. Fixed assets investments Subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 at cost and net book value 170.1 403.9 574.0 Details of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2010 are shown on pages 126 and 127. 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW C7. Debtors restated 2010 2009 £m £m Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings* 17.3 10.9 Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.4 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Deferred tax 3.3 0.2 Other financial assets* 1.0 0.8 22.0 12.3 Falling due for payment after one year: Deferred tax 6.4 Other financial assets* 2.8 3.2 9.2 3.2 31.2 15.5 * The 2009 comparatives for amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings and other financial assets have been reclassified. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Group relief debtors and corporation tax receivable from subsidiary undertakings of £6.8m have been reclassified to be shown within amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings. Other financial assets of £4.0m have been reclassified to reflect the split between amounts falling due within one year and after one year. This better reflects the true nature of the balances. C8. Borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18 in the Group financial statements. 2010 2009 £m £m Due within one year: Unsecured US overdrafts 0.5 BOARD REPORTS Due after more than one year: Unsecured US loan notes 2014 22.9 22.7 Terms and debt repayment schedule 2010 2009 £m £m Debt can be analysed as falling due: In one year or less, or on demand 0.5 Between one and two years Between two and three years FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Between three and four years 22.9 Between four and five years 22.7 In five years or more 22.9 23.2 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 123 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C9. Other creditors falling due within one year 2010 2009 £m £m Amounts owed to other subsidiary undertakings 46.9 135.6 Other payables 0.8 0.7 Accruals and deferred income 0.9 1.0 48.6 137.3 C10. Share capital and reserves Share Premium Redemption Retained Parent capital account reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2009 84.7 165.1 7.9 246.2 503.9 Retained loss for the year (13.6) (13.6) Issued in the year 0.2 1.5 1.7 Dividends paid* (66.0) (66.0) Cancellation of unclaimed dividends 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 4.1 4.1 Shares held in trust for employee share schemes* (0.3) (0.3) At December 2009 84.9 166.6 7.9 170.6 430.0 Retained profit for the year 197.8 197.8 Issued in the year 0.1 1.5 1.6 Dividends paid* (70.9) (70.9) Share-based payments 5.5 5.5 Shares held in trust for employee share schemes* (29.5) (29.5) At 31 December 2010 85.0 168.1 7.9 273.5 534.5 Share capital 2010 2009 £m £m Authorised 480m (2009: 480m) ordinary shares of 25p each 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid 339.9m (2009: 339.5m) ordinary shares of 25p each 85.0 84.9 During the year 0.4m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.6m. * Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in note 22 to the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C5. 124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW C11. Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £64.8m (2009: £56.9m). There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW The Company, as parent of the IMI Group, has contingent liabilities in respect of contingencies within the Group as described in note 26 to the Group financial statements. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 125 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The principal subsidiary undertakings listed are those which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Annual Return of IMI plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies during 2011. Except where indicated, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held directly by IMI plc. The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group financial statements. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these financial statements. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House. Fluid Controls Aero Dynamiek BV Netherlands IMI Norgren Herion Pvt Ltd India Norgren SpA Italy Asterm SAS France IMI Norgren Oy Finland Norgren Sweden AB Sweden Buschjost GmbH Germany IMI Norgren SA Spain Orton srl Italy CCI AG Switzerland IMI Norgren SA de CV Mexico Pneumatex & CIE NV Belgium CCI America du Sol Comerico de IMI Scott Ltd Pneumatex AG Switzerland Equipamentos Industrials Ltda Brazil IMI Webber Ltd Pneumatex BV Netherlands CCI Czech Republic sro Czech Republic Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SAS Pneumatex GmbH Germany CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China France Pneumatex Manufacture SA France CCI Italy srl Italy Kloehn Inc USA Pneumatex SARL France CCI KK Japan Newman Hattersley Ltd Canada Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment CCI Ltd Korea Norgren A/S Denmark Co Ltd China (70%) CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden Norgren AG Switzerland Stainless Steel Fasteners Ltd CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria Norgren AS Norway STI srl Italy Commtech Ltd Norgren Automation Solutions Inc USA TA Isitma ve Havalandirma Sanayi Ticaret ve Control Components Inc USA Norgren Automotive GmbH Germany Servis Limited Sirketi Turkey Control Components India Pty Ltd India Norgren BV Netherlands TA Regulator d.o.o Slovenia Eley Ltd Norgren Co Ltd China Theodor Heimeier Metallwerk GmbH Engineering Appliances Ltd Norgren European Logistics Company Ltd Germany Flow Design Inc USA Norgren GesmbH Austria Thompson Valves Ltd Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Germany Norgren GmbH Germany Tour & Andersson A/S Denmark Fluid Automation Systems SA Switzerland Norgren GT Development Corporation Inc Tour & Andersson AB Sweden Fluid Automation Systems Technologies SA USA Tour & Andersson AS Norway Switzerland Norgren Inc USA Tour & Andersson BV Netherlands Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany Norgren Ltd Tour & Andersson GesmbH Austria Hochdruck-Reduziertechnik GmbH Norgren Ltd Hong Kong Tour & Andersson Ltd Germany Norgren Ltd New Zealand Tour & Andersson NV/SA Belgium IMI Components Inc USA Norgren Ltda Brazil Tour & Andersson Oy Finland IMI Components Ltd Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China Tour & Andersson SA France IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai) Norgren Manufacturing de Mexico SA Tour & Andersson SA Spain Co Ltd China de CV Mexico Truflo Marine Ltd IMI International Kft Hungary Norgren NV Belgium Truflo Rona SA Belgium IMI International LLC Russia Norgren Pte Ltd Singapore Z&J Technologies GmbH Germany IMI International sro Czech Republic Norgren Pty Ltd Australia Zimmermann & Jansen Inc USA IMI International sp zoo Poland Norgren SAS France 126 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS BUSINESS OVERVIEW Retail Dispense 3Wire Group Inc USA IMI Cornelius (Pacific) Ltd Hong Kong IMI Cornelius Italia srl Italy Artform International Inc USA IMI Cornelius (Tianjin) Co Ltd China IMI Cornelius Österreich GesmbH Austria Artform International Ltd IMI Cornelius (UK) Ltd IMI Cornelius (Singapore) Pte Ltd Cannon Equipment Co USA IMI Cornelius Australia Pty Ltd Australia Singapore DCI Marketing Inc USA IMI Cornelius de Mexico SA de CV Mexico IMI Cornelius Ukraine LLC Ukraine Display Technologies LLC USA IMI Cornelius Deutschland GmbH Germany IMI Manufacturing de Mexico SA de CV GROUP OPERATING REVIEW IMI Cornelius España SA Spain IMI Cornelius Hellas SA Greece Mexico IMI Cornelius Europe SA Belgium IMI Cornelius Inc USA Corporate IMI Group Ltd IMI Property Investments Ltd IMI Holdings GmbH Germany IMI Kynoch Ltd IMI Americas Inc USA Brookvale International Insurance Ltd IMI Overseas Investments Ltd IMI Overseas Holdings Inc USA Bermuda GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees at 31 December 2010 and is not required to be audited. United Kingdom 2,287 Continental Europe 6,173 Americas 4,402 Asia Pacific 1,704 Others 87 Total 14,653 BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 127 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY Continuing operations 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 £m £m £m £m £m Revenue £m 1,911 Income statement 1,901 1,792 Revenue 1,505 1,599 1,901 1,792 1,911 1,505 1,599 Segmental revenue* 1,505 1,599 1,897 1,785 1,917 Segmental operating profit* 189.4 207.8 266.3 234.2 319.7 Adjusted profit before tax* 190.2 205.5 254.7 211.7 304.4 Restructuring costs (19.7) (22.0) (19.6) (34.9) (16.0) Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 15.1 Investigation costs and fines (4.9) (26.3) -06 07 08 09 10 Acquired intangible amortisation Profit before tax* £m and impairment (14.6) (10.9) (13.2) (7.2) (7.0) Other income 1.7 304 Financial instruments and 255 economic hedge contracts 2.3 1.6 (19.6) 16.6 9.6 205 212 190 Profit before tax from continuing operations 158.2 171.0 176.0 186.2 306.1 EBITDA† 211 220 269 262 369 * before exceptional items. † earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and other 06 07 08 09 10 income. 2010 Sales by Group sales by destination geographical destination** 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 RoW UK 8% 7% £m £m £m £m £m Asia/ Pacific Germany 15% 14% UK 173 188 183 132 141 Germany 194 209 266 234 261 Rest of Europe 376 423 533 524 542 USA 490 460 517 491 543 Asia/Pacific 183 202 249 278 285 Rest of World 89 117 149 126 145 1,505 1,599 1,897 1,785 1,917 Reversal of economic hedge contract USA Rest of Europe losses/(gains) 4 7 (6) 28% 28% ** before reversal of economic hedge 1,505 1,599 1,901 1,792 1,911 contract gains and losses. 128 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY BUSINESS OVERVIEW Earnings and dividends 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Adjusted earnings per share (pre-restructuring) 37.8p 41.9p 54.1p 45.8p 66.3p Earnings per share 21.4p 35.4p 35.4p 40.8p 70.4p Ordinary dividend per share 18.7p 20.2p 20.7p 21.2p 26.0p GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Balance sheet 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 £m £m £m £m £m Segmental net assets 690 771 973 850 985 Other non-operating liabilities (excluding borrowings) (193) (125) (212) (276) (264) Net borrowings (80) (233) (299) (172) (145) Net assets 417 413 462 402 576 Statistics 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental revenue 12.6% 13.0% 14.0% 13.1% 16.7% Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental net assets 27.4% 27.0% 27.4% 27.6% 32.5% Net assets per share (excluding treasury shares) 123.7p 128.1p 144.4p 126.1p 180.5p Net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders’ funds 19.5% 57.3% 66.0% 43.0% 27.7% BOARD REPORTS Net debt: EBITDA 0.4 1.1 1.1 0.7 0.4 EBITDA: Interest 28 17 17 14 24 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 129 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Announcement of trading results The trading results for the Group for the first half of 2011 will be announced on 25 August 2011. Interim management statements will be issued before the AGM on 6 May 2011 and in November 2011. The trading results for the full year ending 31 December 2011 will be announced in March 2012. Dividend payment Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid as follows: Interim: mid October Final: mid May Share prices and capital gains tax The closing price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2010 was 945.00p (2009: 518.50p). The market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares on 31 March 1982, as calculated for capital gains tax purposes, was 53.5p per share. The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443. Enquiries about shareholdings For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone 0871 384 2916.* Corporate Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) By arrangement with Equiniti Financial Services Limited, an IMI single company ISA is now being operated. A brochure, application form and further information can be obtained by contacting the Equiniti ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244.* Share Dealing Service Managed by J.P. Morgan Cazenove, the Company’s stockbrokers, the IMI plc Share Dealing Service provides shareholders with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary shares. Full written details can be obtained from the Secretary’s Department, IMI plc, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ. Telephone 0121 717 3700. Ordinary shareholders Range Number of Balance as at Holdings % 31 December 2010 % 1-500 shares 5,846 34.26 1,585,799 0.49 501-1,000 shares 4,694 27.51 3,454,534 1.08 1,001-10,000 shares 5,816 34.09 13,444,898 4.19 10,001-100,000 shares 410 2.40 14,911,137 4.65 100,001-Highest 297 1.74 287,362,122 89.59 Total 17,063 100.00 320,758,490 100.00 19,124,700 treasury shares are excluded from the above totals. *Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephone provider costs may vary. 130 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BUSINESS OVERVIEW GENERAL INFORMATION Headquarters and registered office Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ Telephone: 0121 717 3700 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW Website address www.imiplc.com Secretary John O’Shea Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2916* RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Solicitors Pinsent Masons LLP Allen & Overy LLP 3 Colmore Circus One Bishops Square Birmingham London B4 6BH E1 6AO Stockbrokers J.P. Morgan Cazenove Citigroup Global Markets Ltd 10 Aldermanbury Citigroup Centre London 33 Canada Square EC2V 7RF London E14 5LB BOARD REPORTS Auditor Ernst & Young LLP No. 1 Colmore Square Birmingham B4 6HQ IMI plc is registered in England No.714275 *Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephone provider costs may vary. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 131 INDEX Accounting policies 71-80 Inventories 93 Annual general meeting 41 Key performance indicators 6-7 Audit Committee 44 Key themes Auditor’s remuneration 88 Cleaner energy production 14-15 Auditor’s reports 65, 118 Energy efficiency 16-17 Balance sheet 68 Healthier lifestyle 18-19 Board of Directors 36-37 Investing in our core competancies 20-21 Borrowing facilities 94, 98-99 Nominations Committee 45 Business review 12-13 Outlook 11 Cash flow statement 70 Chairman’s statement 8-9 Pensions 105-110 Chief Executive’s review 10-11 People 32-33 Corporate governance report 43-47 Principal risks and uncertainties 34-35 Property, plant and equipment 92 Deferred tax 92-93 Directors Registrars 130, 131 Interests 62 Remuneration Committee 45 Remuneration summary 58 Remuneration report 48-63 Report 38-41 Research and development 38 Responsibility statement 64 Responsible business report 28-33 Dividends 38, 115 Donations 40 Segmental information 81-83 Share capital 38-39, 114 Earnings per share 90 Shareholder information 130 Employees 90 Strategy 4-5 Environment 7, 31-32 Statement of changes in equity 69 Executive Committee 45 Statement of comprehensive income 67 Subsidiary undertakings 126-127 Financial review 22-27 Substantial shareholdings 39 Five year summary 128-129 Taxation 89 General information 130-131 The IMI Way 28 Geographic distribution of employees 127 Treasury policy 26-27 Going concern 27 Total Shareholder Return 63 Goodwill 91 Website 131 Health and safety 7, 29-30, 39 IMI at a glance 2-3 Income statement 66 Intangible assets 91 Interest income and expense 87-88 Internal control 47 132 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 By printing this document on revive pure white silk 100% recycled paper the environmental impact was reduced by*: 8,179 kg of landfill 239,257 litres of water 22,101 kWh of electricity 2,065 kg CO2 of greenhouse gases 13,292 kg of wood Source: European BREF (data on virgin fibre paper). Carbon footprint data audited by the CarbonNeutral Company. *compared to a non recycled paper Results are obtained according to technical information and are subject to modification. Printed on revive Pure White Silk a recycled paper produced using 100% recycled waste at a mill that has been awarded the ISO140001 certificate for environmental management. The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free (TCF) process. Designed and produced by Design Principles SY8 1AA. Printed by Greenshires Group LE4 9LF IMI plc Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ United Kingdom www.imiplc.com
