2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Vol.2 M Story Leading Solution, Leading Sustainability 2 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report M Story 03 Report Overview LS Mtron opens up a sustainable future to grow and develop along with all stakeholders by 04 M Story consistently raising customer and social values M Story 04 CEO Message 06 based on innovative products and services. LS Mtron-Company Profile 08 LS Mtron’s M Story continues on that opens a new world dreamed by all through transparent 10 Sustainability Management Summary Overview of Sustainability Management Initiatives 10 and genuine sustainable management. Sustainability Management Achievements in 2010 10 Sustainability Management Goals Set for 2011 16 21 Achievements in Each Focus Area 01 Integrated Sustainability Management 22 02 Economic and Social Value Creation 02-1 Innovation Initiative Activity 31 02-2 Win-Win Partnership Activity 35 02-3 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 41 03 Social Contribution Activity 46 04 Green Management 52 05 Employee Value Enhancement 60 06 Integrated Risk Management 70 75 Summary Annual Report Corporate Governance 76 Ethical Management 77 Business Activities Highlight 2010 78 Business Profile 79 Financial Performance 83 Condensed Financial Statements 84 86 Appendix Sustainability Management Guidelines 86 Global Network 89 Major Quantitative Indicators 92 Awards / Membership 93 Cover Story Assurance Statement 94 Just like a cube where planes form space and different spaces form a structure, COP Report 96 M Story embodies LS Mtron’s strong will GRI and ISO 26000 Index 97 in pursuit of mutual development and prosperity based on organic cooperation benefiting all stakeholders. M Story Report Overview 3 This is LS Mtron’s 2nd Sustainability Report for 2010 At LS Mtron, we recognize sustainability management as an integral part of our management strategy and thus operate the Integrated Sustainability Management System to meet needs and expectations of various stakeholders from economic, social and environmental aspects. As LS Mtron’s 2nd Sustainability Report, this report is to look at achievements in 2010 as measured against the targets set in 2009 and present sustainability management goals for 2011. We aim to publish our Sustainability Report every year. Reporting Principles We use the following 5 principles in reporting our Sustainability Management activities. · Contents (including appropriate items for disclosure document) · Commitment (presenting clear statements to stakeholders) · Comparability (offering quantifiable and thus comparable results) · Credibility (setting a reporting framework to manage quantitative data) · Communication (enhancing the ease of access for stakeholders) Report Content This report focuses on the 6 Sustainability Management Focus Areas, which were identified based on stakeholder interest and business impact. Each Focus Area contains achievements for the past one year, mid-term strategic directions and plans for the following year. Reporting Period and Scope This report covers the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 (fiscal year 2010) and its quantitative data span two years from 2009 when our 1st Sustainability Report was issued to 2010. With qualitative data, the report partially includes activities up to March of 2011. This report contains our activities at the head office and four business sites in Korea and partially covers overseas subsidiaries and branch offices. We are to further expand the reporting scope to include all the overseas sites according to our integrated Sustainability Management policy. Contact Information Writing and Assurance Process For additional information or inquiries on this report, please contact us. This report was written under the supervision of the Sustainability ReLS Mtron Ltd. Sustainability Management port Editorial Meeting made up of the Sustainability Management SteerExecutive Office ing Group and the Sustainability Management Executive Office in accor11F, LS Tower, 1026-6, Hogye-dong, dance with our Sustainability reporting framework and the G3 Guidelines Dongan-gu, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, Korea of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). This report was assured by an TEL. 82-31-689-8232 independent external assurance provider in order to ensure reliability of FAX. 82-31-689-8279 report data and content. The third-party assurance statement is included E-mail. sm@lsmtron.com in this report. Sustainability Report Publishing Schedule Previous report: June 1, 2010 This report: April 20, 2011 Next report: April, 2012 4 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report LS Mtron offers top-notch leading solutions to customers based on the world’s best-in-class technologies secured in the field of machinery and components. Our products and services will enrich the life of the mankind, enabling convenient and pleasant experiences. Look Forward VISION 01 Green and Comfortable World Green and Comfortable World Technology A world created with the products and services of LS Mtron Creating a world with endless technology development Innovative Partner Continuously pursuing the most effective solution A true global partner for customers CORE VALUES CORE CAPABILITIES GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES Core Trust Technology Professional Passion Challenge Market Leading Open Dynamic Intelligence Change Beyond Technology BUSINESS PROFILE 02 LS Mtron believes in the power of machinery that makes people happier. Our belief as such drives the world to be a better place as we offer easy-to-use and high-efficiency machinery. ion I n je c t D ivis io n M io ni ng old in g n dit Di v Co isi A ir on Sp ec i io n v is al B 트랙터 r Di u si nes Trac to s Div isio n Machinery Division Electronic 강력한 파워! 세계적인 농기계 Component Division isio n p Com L Div one FCC nt D i vis ion Ele ct ro ic on si i vi n Ci rcu it M o rD ate a cit p ria ls D Ca ra ivis ion Ult Autom n o tive Component Divisio LS Mtron pushes the world forward with smaller, lighter and more convenient eco-friendly components. You will find the abundance of key components of LS Mtron in your daily living. TV 애칭성, 밴딩성을 갖춘 High Grade 제품, FCCL 카메라 영상, 음성, 데이터 등 Trustful PartneR 정보전달을 위한 교량, 커넥터 휴대폰 무선 송수신시스템, 안테나 BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY 03 Our new business philosophy is in place for us to brace for a dynamic future of LS as a young enterprise. New values to be shared and relished by all LS people Greater performance by harmoniously working together Creating outstanding performance and growing further where talents with entrepreneurship join hands together heart-to-heart based on respect, consideration and trust LS is... “a strong and reliable partner” LS people are... “those creating greater performance by harmoniously working together” M Story 5 6 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report We will seek for win-win growth under accountability for sustainable management as well as long-term perspectives on corporate growth. Chairman Message Expectations and demand for CSR and sustainable development are will expand our roles and responsibilities as a corporate citizen so that recognized by many companies as a new initiative and a challenge. All social and environmental value could lead to economic value while of us at LS Mtron will jump on this bandwagon as we view the chalwin-win development of the community and partner companies could lenge as an opportunity and strive to leap into a world-class company serve as the top priority in our management activities. through sustainable management. Our sustainability report is not only a communication channel with Under our management mission to become “a company that is togethstakeholders but also a window of opportunity to exude our efforts as er with customers,” we have made outstanding growth in 2010 despite they are. I hope that this report could enable you to check out our sushardships in the market and the rapidly changing management envitainable management performance and you could extend active parronment. We were driven by sustainable management we initiated from ticipation for further improvement in various activities through honest 2009, and especially in 2010, we strived to align activities among varifeedback. ous stakeholders, while specifying sustainable management activities for major functions. As such, the 2010 was a year for us to take one step Thank you. closer to establishing a performance system where social and environmental value leads to economic growth. I and the management believe that long-term views on growth and responsibility on sustainable management is the top prerequisite to the most active response to the fundamental changes in the global management paradigm. Therefore, sustainable management of LS Mtron is home to systematic efforts to maximize the value for various expectations and demands, and also the key and opportunities to expand our business which will enable our sustainable economic growth as well as the answer to social, environmental and ethical risks. We established an environmentally-friendly product development process in 2010 according to the 2009 definition and development guideline on environmentally-friendly products. We will continue to expand the scope of green products in line with specific development objects from 2011. Not only that, we pour all-out efforts to build LS partnerships with various stakeholders by holding the Partnership Day with Cha-Yol Koo | Chairman Partner Companies and conducting social contribution activities. We CEO Message 7 Transparent and genuine sustainable management is the key to continued corporate growth and creation of opportunities. President Message The 2010 was a significant year to further facilitate our sustainable This second Sustainability Report has a more easily readable format management and root down function-specific roles and activities. We where the plans promised in the previous report and specific plans especially strived to establish and improve management systems for thereof are placed at the beginning for you to get a glimpse of our percommunication channels to continue to focus on ‘communication’ in/ formance plans for sustainable management. Moreover, we included outside the Company, actively reflect your voice as stakeholders and a summarized annual report of LS Mtron based on your various feedreflect them throughout management activities. back, and the UN Global Compact Performance Report, and utilized ISO 26000, the international specification on socially responsible manWe held meetings of the Sustainable Management Steering Group evagement. Thus, it is full of all the content you as stakeholders are interery two months so that the management and employees could be aware ested in so that its reporting structure and systems could be more effiof the importance of sustainable management, and all managerial iscient. sues could be constantly managed, monitored and improved in daily operation. Our five Subcommittees (i.e. Green Management, EnvironI believe that transparent and genuine sustainable management is the mentally-Friendly Product, Quality Management and Customer Satiskey to gaining your trust and creating sustainable growth and other opfaction, Social Contribution Activity and Win-Win Partnership) were in portunities. operation to ensure the support for business in related teams, manage related issues and strengthen the competency to execute them. Moreover, we will ensure to establish more solid sustainable management systems and carry out more pioneering activities as our future We have begun to reflect sustainable management to the companysurvival strategies, thus striving to enhance our competitiveness in wide assessment system and make KPIs for key managerial issues. As global business. These efforts, furthermore, will drive us to achieve our such, we have formed and operated a preemptive sustainable managemid-term goal of achieving revenues of KRW 4 trillion and operating ment system to ensure fulfillment of roles and responsibilities and sysincome of 10% by 2015. tematic performance management. Thank you. In order to achieve our mid-and long-term goal to establish a sustainable value chain and expand environmentally-friendly products, we strengthened activities to systematically improve 22 key managerial issues as well as six Focus Areas (i.e., Integrated Sustainable Management, Economic and Social Value Creation, Social Contribution Activity, Green Management, Employee Value Enhancement and Integrated Risk Management). Not only that, we ensured that expectations and demand found through stakeholder dialogue and surveys to be reflectJae-Seol Shim | President and CEO ed in 22 managerial issues according to their priority. 8 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report LS Mtron-Company Profile LS Mtron was established in July 2008 with an aim to enhance its global competitiveness and core competencies in the fields of industrial machinery and cutting-edge components. [ Company Overview ] [ Vision ] “Green and Comfortable World Company Name LS Mtron Ltd. CEO Cha-Yol Koo, Jae-Seol Shim INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY PARTNER” Type of Business Manufacturing Date of Establishment July 1, 2008 We declared our new vision in March 2009. “Green and Comfortable No. of Employees 1,669/4,167 (LS Mtron Ltd./including subsidiaries) World” embodies our strong will to create a richer life for customers Credit Rating NICE Investors Service A0 / Korea Investors Service A0 through our products and services and “INNOVATIVE TECHNOLTurnover KRW 926.3 billion / KRW 1. 392 trillion OGY PARTNER” contains our desire to grow together with customers (LS Mtron Ltd./including subsidiaries) and contribute to society through continued technology innovation. Asset KRW 871.9 billion Capital KRW 466.7 billion, capital adequacy ratio: 53.5% Debt KRW 405.2 billion, debt to equity ratio: 86.8% Main Exporting Markets USA, China, Europe, South East Asia, Middle East and etc Business Machinery Division (Tractor/Air-Conditioning/ Divisions(Business Areas) Injection Molding/Special Business) Component Division (Electronic Component/ Electronic Circuit Materials/Automotive Component/ Ultra Capacitor/FCCL) * As of December 31, 2010. [ Management Philosophy ] [ 2015 Goals ] “Company that Grows Together with Customers” KRW 4 Trillion in Sales and 10% Increase in Operating Profit [ Management Policy ] Expanding major markets in North America/Middle East, discovering big global customers Expanding • Accelerating growth in the global market Competing in the Chinese market, expanding overseas sites including subsidiaries and branches Global Boosting production capacity to promptly respond to global market demands Market Securing customer-leading top-quality products and technology and readiness for green growth Nurturing global talents •G enerating performance through Focusing on performance-generating tasks and increasing their contributions to business profits Generating sustained business structure improvement Internalizing innovation activities customized for business and task specificities ‘Soaring-Off’ Innovation Building innovation infrastructure including MBWA promotion and expert development Performance Management Establishing performance-oriented culture by building performance management process Collecting and communicating information on market trends and customer needs Establishing • Facilitating swift decision-making and execution Making proactive responses via swift decision-making Speed Being a first mover in securing business opportunities by outpacing competitors Management Leading progressive thinking and change LS Mtron-Company Profile 9 [ Global Network ] LS Mtron Co. Ltd. LS Mtron •Anyang: Head Office, Electronic Component, R&D Center Overseas subsidiary/branch Affiliate •Jeonju: Tractor, Air-Conditioning, Injection Molding, Special Business •Indong: Automotive Components, Ultra Capacitor Russian Branch •Jeongeup: Electronic Circuit Materials, FCCL Korea: Daesung Electronic Co. Ltd. Slovak Branch Casco Co., Ltd., Ace R&A Co., Ltd. Dalian Casco China (Yantai) YTLS China (Qingdao): LSAE, LSEQ, LSAS China (Wuxi) LSMW Japan Branch USA: LSTA China (Shenzhen)branch Qingdao Daesung Electronics Wuxi Daesung Electronics Daesung Electric India [ Organizational Chart ] CEO Business Division Staff Division Machinery Division CFO CSO CHO CTO CPO Tractor Air-Conditioning Injection Molding Special Business Internal Audit & Innovation Quality Management China Region Division Division Division Division Consulting Team Team Team Component Division Electronic Electronic Circuit Automotive Ultra Capacitor FCCL Division Component Division Materials Division Component Division Division * As of January 2011. 10 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Our Sustainability Management Initiatives As a global provider of industrial machinery and cutting-edge components, we are fully aware that we should be moving towards Sustainability Management. This is why we strive to promote environmental protection for future generations as well as sustainable economic growth and selfinitiated social development in everything we do at LS Mtron including important decisions made by top management. Our company-wide framework to set Sustainability Management goals and manage relevant performance is up and running in order to ensure consistency of our Sustainability Management initiatives. In particular, all the participating departments in the Sustainability Management Steering Group meet bi-monthly to establish Sustainability Management strategy directions and share progress made so far. Such activities are communicated to our stakeholders through our Sustainability Reports. This report, our 2nd Sustainability Report, primarily focuses on Sustainability Management achievements in 2010 and goals for 2011. Sustainability Management Achievements in 2010 Our top priority for the year 2010 was to build the overall framework to push ahead with sustainability management initiatives. We focused on laying the foundation to manage our Sustainability Management activities on a company-wide level including establishment of Sustainability Management policy and system, operation of the Sustainability Management Steering Group, designation of Sustainability Management personnel and department-level leaders, and installation of performance monitoring system. In particular, we identified the 6 Focus Areas of Integrated Sustainability Management, Economic and Social Value Creation(detailed activity domains: Innovation Initiatives Activity, Win-Win Partnership Activity, Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Activity), Social Contribution Activity, Green Management, Employee Value Enhancement, and Integrated Risk Management. We also selected 22 managerial issues including establishment of action framework in each of these Focus Areas. They are represented in the Sustainability Management Steering Wheel 2010, which shows our Sustainability Management Focus Areas and managerial issues and defines performance assessment criteria for the concerned year, and participating departments carried out activities according to the plans set in 2010. Achievements in Each Focus Area In 2010, we selected a total of 40 quantitative indicators in each of the 6 Focus Areas and regularly monitored progress in 22 managerial issues as measured against plans set initially through bi-monthly Sustainability Management Steering Group meetings. Sustainability managerial issues refer to establishment of policies and systems and deployment of regular programs and their progress is classified into achieved, partially achieved and not achieved. We also have ‘continuous activity’ category for those issues that require sustained initiatives due to their inherent characteristics such as capacity building, monitoring and communication. As for performance evaluation, each department makes their own assessment first of items suggested in the ‘2009 Sustainability Report’ and then the Sustainability Management Executive Office determines their completion level based on performance data. Out of 2010’s 53 plans, 37 were completed except for 7 continuous activity items and 8 were partially achieved and 1 not achieved yet. Those partially achieved and not achieved yet plans are part of our 2011 plans and we will endeavor to ensure their completion. Sustainability Management Summary 11 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel 2010 06 ent Integrat anagem ed S sk M us ta d Ri ina grate bil 05 Int e it y Ma t na en Building Sustai ge ployees em Iden m nc e 01 d Training Em tif nability Manag a I ntr Ide Each ying Ro Foc les & nt Educating an nh and odu us A Resp ement Pr re a isks eE ons re om g Risk Cultu ibilit d R e wo r k Framework Em an Va o t ies in rate lu pl d B in g and Creatin oy m uil te g Fra ee S u din 1. g I n onse sta plo elf gE i I nn yin W ye p mp nabi ntif ar o Res Em e ati lth e, plo l oy l i t y ov g ye e Sa cin ea Pa fe ee M Em rt ty Co a n a n In dH icip ns g ed en em tive ati rat o r k an on an su en t eg nt mew i t ia dT rus s g I tin Fra vit tB Acti uil e ra i o n Emplo din g O p ovat ye e C I nn n atio y omp n ov etenc y Dev ed In elopm u s t omiz ent C ities Ac tiv 2. Win-Win Partnership Ac Operating Win-Win Partnership Advanced HR Management Systems Framework Supp ite or tin ess S in Bu g Bu sin ildin sin S H Bu g Infr ess Par tn ed E astru e c t u re r vanc Co 04 ent tion o f Ad ien dly Bu mm sin unic tivity O p e ra -Fr ucts ess at gem lly d Pa ion w nta Pr o r tn me t ers ith on en e vir ns em na n po gE ag Ma in es op eR am an ve l Qu yM De ion lit Commun ng o gr n ha ua gQ ontribut Strategi eC y Pr Gree im at ivit es er in at or k duc t w Pr o Op me ication w Cl Ac t ed a tain eness tion Social C Fr Sus v ing petiti 3. tain m Cu ribu O b i t y Co om ith Custom al hment of ont st er ial C t is Sa Soc fa c t io Establis on ers na Qu nd Ec y Ma alit om it y ment A ctivity n ag e ic a u ti o nd nA re S oc 03 c ti v alu e C Social Cont rib ation ia l V 02 Achievements in Each Focus Area Page Achievements in Each Focus Area Page 01. Integrated Sustainability Management 22 03. Social Contribution Activity 46 02. Economic and Social Value Creation 04. Green Management 52 1. Innovation Initiative Activity 31 05. Employee Value Enhancement 60 2. Win-Win Partnership Activity 35 06. Integrated Risk Management 70 3. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 41 12 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Key Performance Indicators and 2010 Major Activities in Each Focus Area 01 Integrated Sustainability Management Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Managerial issues selected in each Focus Area 22 22 23 in 2011 No. of SM Steering Group meetings and participants 3 meetings/22 participants 5 meetings/22 participants No. of external/internal stakeholders participating in surveys 65/offline surveys 104/94 New Indicators Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Building Sustainability ·D  efining SM principles and operation · Operating SM framework · Holding 5 SM Steering Group meetings Management Framework regulations · Setting up 5 subcommittees/ holding 5 subcommittee meetings · Building company-wide SM framework ·Implementing 2010 and materiality test and · Taking action in 6 Focus Areas and addressing 22 managerial issues ·C  onducting 2009 materiality test and creating SM revising the SM Steering Wheel · Holding off-line dialogue by stakeholder group Steering Wheel · Conducting common surveys of 198 stakeholders ·D  eveloping SM diagnosis model and setting up ·C  onducting SM diagnostic evaluations · Completing self-initiated SM diagnostic assessments monitoring system (using ISO 26000) · Analyzing 7 core subjects/ 35 issues in ISO 26000 · Reviewing company-wide operation regulations · Company-wide SM regulations to be listed in the 1st half of 2011 Identifying Roles & ·D  esignating managers and SM personnel by · P erforming R&R and reporting outcomes by ·D  epartment heads’ regular reporting in each Focus Area 5 times Responsibilities in Each department department Incorporating SM into Strategic Indicators Focus Area · Identifying roles and responsibilities · SM training (timed with company-wide ethical management training) Promoting SM and Building · O  ne round of group training for the SM Steering · Offering company-wide SM training · Receiving 4 outside awards in recognition of SM initiatives Employee Consensus Group ·Adding more channels to make public SM achieve· SM achievements covered by various media outlets ments · Postings in intranet pop-up · Reports in company newsletters / corporate website reorganize * SM: Sustainability Management : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity 02-1 Economic and Social Value Creation_ Innovation Initiative Activity Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Financial values created by innovation activities KRW16.8 billion KRW 21.3 billion No. of innovation tasks1 performed 98 235 No. of innovative talents secured 78 178 No. of innovation activities suggested 16 per head 30 per head No. of theme tasks completed by quality circles 113 171 1. Big Y, 6 Sigma, LPS, VE and etc. Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Operating Integrated ·E stablishing Mtron 6, the in-house customized ·C  ontinuously developing innovation retention ·Developing 7 innovation processes Innovation Framework management innovation model methodology ·Opening Ullimteo, innovation training center, in May ·Securing 78 key talents by innovation area ·E nhancing organizational operation and ·Quarterly CEO MBWA(Management By Wandering Around)(4 in total) ·E nhancing organizational operation and communication ·Sharing performance and awarding excellent tasks in December communication · Innovation ideas suggested(30.2 per head, participation rate 100%) · Winning  bronze award in National Quality Management Contest (Quality Circle Contest_ Injection Molding Division Heavy Quality Circle) · Nurturing innovative talents ·Securing 178 key talents by innovation theme Customized Innovation ·Carrying out customized innovation initiatives ·E xpanding innovation activity scope: sales and · Initiating sales innovation, implemented in 5 business divisions Activities LPS 2 marketing ·Building sales training system and educating 180 employees 6 Sigma ·F ocusing on supporting financial ·C arrying out innovation activities customized for different business Cost innovation performance-related tasks: customized divisions (KRW 29.93 billion of annual financial achievement, Site innovation innovation activities KRW 21.3 billion of contribution to operating profit) Big Y: KRW 5.99 billion LPS: KRW 1.00 billion 6 Sigma: KRW1.99 billion Cost Innovation : KRW 20.95 billion · Improving progress verification and monitoring · Building annual verification framework 2. LPS: LS Mtron Production System : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Sustainability Management Summary 13 02-2 Economic and Social Value Creation_ Win-Win Partnership Activity Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Dialogue with business partners 1 15 15 Investing in win-win partnership programs with business partners 2 KRW 0.94 billion KRW 1.63 billion No. of projects to support innovation activities of business partners 17 33 No. of business partners whose level of LS Mtron ethical management was examined 183 210 No. of Q-Partners selected among business partners 18 32 New Indicators No. of Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee meetings 1 New Indicators 1. Regular discussion meetings, business presentations and etc. 2. Management support consultation, training, purchase-conditional projects, public-private joint investment in technology development and etc. Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Operating Win-Win · E stablishing fair-trade agreements with · Integrating SM evaluation factors in business · Building framework to integrate Q-Partner evaluation indicators Partnership Framework subcontractors partner assessment and management rules · Matching Q-Partner evaluation cycle and certification period · Creating a new department in charge · Selecting 32 Q-Partners and ensuring 100 percent cash payments · Selecting 18 Q-Partner · Creating and operating the Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee Supporting Business · Conducting  win-win partnership activities · R unning win-win partnership programs · Initiating 3 purchase-conditional projects to develop new products Partner in Building -Supporting training and consulting · Initiating 3 R&D fund tasks Infrastructure -Carrying out joint R&D · Quality and production training for 105 employees at 67 business partners -Expanding innovation activities · Completing 15 business partners in management consulting -Creating Win-Win Partnership Fund ·O  ffering KRW 500 million in direct loans (3 business partners) and KRW 4.2 billion in win-win partnership fund (14 business partners) · Making bi-weekly payments to 83 major business partners Communication with ·C reating channels to collect opinions within · B uilding and operating regular communication · Holding 15 rounds of regular dialogue Business Partners integrated purchase system channels · Hosting a performance-sharing event with business partners in December ·B uilding channels to communicate business ·C  onstantly collecting opinions and improving ·O  perating win-win partnership bulletin board within integrated purchase partner-related policies responses management system : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity 02-3 Economic and Social Value Creation_ Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Business sites with certified quality management system (including overseas sites) 88% 100% No. of customer participation and dialogue events 1 18 18 No. of quality improvement support events for business partners 49 New Indicators No. of customer and quality management subcommittee meetings 1 New Indicators 1. Customer interviews, surveys and major product-related events and etc. Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Operating Quality · Declaring QM guidelines · B uilding QMS2 evaluation framework · Processes selected for different evaluation targets Management Framework · Operating ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 system · Evaluation framework being set up (to be completed by August, 2011) · QM certified in overseas subsidiaries · LSAE (Chinese subsidiary, tractor division) ISO 9001-certified · Nurturing QM talents · Talent promotion system being constructed (to be completed by September, 2011) · Running 4 training programs for QM talents · QM for business partners ·D  iagnose of QM cooperation framework completed of 17 business partners (KSA) Obtaining Sustained · Failure  cost-goal setting and monitoring · Goal-setting and monitoring of failure cost · Failure cost goal-setting completed Product Quality · Holding  quality innovation festival · Performance monitoring (monthly) Competitiveness · Quality  management with business partners· Building global QM framework · Creating and operating customer and QM Subcommittees discussion meetings / assessing improvements · Participating in QM-related outside seminars: 4 made · Product quality improvement activities: 14 · Diagnosing quality management framework: 22 ·Q  uality diagnosis and improvement guidance-32 business partners, 49 times · Aligning overseas subsidiary/in-house QMS: 3/1 Communication with ·M anaging CRM system and VOC · Customized customer satisfaction activities by · Division-specific CS activities/related training: 13 Customers ·13 product-related events business division · Participating in and hosting product exhibitions/seminars: 16 ·Online training on customer care · VOC collection by business division · Conducting CS surveys and sharing results 2. Quality Management System : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity 14 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 03 Social Contribution Activity Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Investments in social contribution activities KRW 0.23 billion KRW 0.29 billion No. of the Social Contribution Subcommittee meetings 1 New Indicators * The amount of investment for 2009 social contribution activities: Including other costs for social contribution activities e.g. culture and art Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Establishment of Social · E stablishing a management system for social · E stablishing social contribution activities for each · Creating and operating the Social Contribution Subcommittee Contribution Strategies contribution activities business site · Designating coordinators for volunteering teams for each business site · Designating strategies and managers for the sites · Facilitating  performance and releasing it internally · Establishing the company-wide performance management system · Planning channels to connect with the community and externally · Establishing and promoting various performance releasing channels · S haring the pending community agenda and social · Opening communication channels for stakeholders for each business site contribution activities Centered around the Jeonju site (communication channels for other sites in the pipeline) Social Contribution Activity · D  omestic social contribution activities · Sustaining domestic social contribution activities ·C  onducting 23 activities e.g. managing and sponsoring programs Program Enhancing social community welfare (KRW 0.29 billion) Developing culture/art/sports ·Facilitating new social contribution activities abroad · Starting LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign (in Vietnam) Volunteering of employees and executives Fostering future talents, etc. : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity 04 Green Management Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Investment to improve green processes1 KRW 0.65 billion KRW 0.76 billion Greenhouse gas emissions (CO 2 tons) 89,250 CO2 tons 98,875 CO2 tons Amount of energy usage Direct energy 119 TJ 134 TJ Indirect energy 1,586 TJ 1,775 TJ Total 1,705 TJ 1,909 TJ Waste water recycling rate 54.8% 65.4% Waste recycling rate 80.8% 83.3% No. of the Green Management Subcommittee meetings 1 New Indicator Sales of environmentally-friendly products (portion of ) KRW 221.1 billion (24%) New Indicator No. of the Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommittee meetings 1 New Indicator 1. Investment in facilities and infrastructure for air/waste and climate change response Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Climate Change Response · Identifying the status quo of CO2 emissions · E stablishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory / · Establishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory ·A  cquiring the Carbon Footprint Certification Label Setting goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissionss · Identifying potential reduction amounts through energy analysis · Setting climate change response strategies and emission targets ·D  eveloping products with Carbon Footprint · Reviewing the selection of products for each business site Certification Label Developing · S etting standards to design environmentally · I ntroducing the environmentally-friendly ·D  efining the scope of environmentally-friendly products and selecting Environmentally-Friendly friendly products product design process 23 design factors Products · P aving the way to expand the launch of · Verifying whether or not green design factors have been reflected in environmentally-friendly products product development · R eflecting the mid-term technology development road map for the Business Division ·C  reating and operating the Environmentally-friendly Product Subcommittee ·A  chieving the green product sales of KRW 221.1 billion in 2010 Operation of Advanced ·C ertification for integrated ESH corporate manage· Building the ESH management system for over· S upporting the establishment of the ESH management system and conESH Business Site ment seas subsidiaries ducting diagnosis for overseas subsidiaries ·Designated as a Green Company (Jeonju site) · R einforcing activities for reduction of pollutant · C  reating and operating the Green Management Subcommittee ·R eduction of pollutant emission and activities for emission · S etting company-wide common goal management indicators local environmental preservation · E stablishing a environment safety evaluation system for facility investment : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Sustainability Management Summary 15 05 Employee Value Enhancement Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Total No. of executives and employees (LS Mtron / including subsidiaries) 1,472/3,618 1,669/4,167 No. of newly hired employees (male/female) 167 (145/22) 296 (255/41) Female executives and employees 48 (3.3%) 71 (4.2%) Handicapped employees 35 (2.4%) 36 (2.1%) No. of locally hired employees 833 1,305 Overseas subsidiaries No. of hours spent on competency development by executives and employees (per year) 145 hours/head 132 hours/head No. of participants in ethical management training 916 1,610 No. of industrial accidents 2 cases (0.127%) 2 cases (0.118%) No. of unionized employees 611 (39.9%) 616 (41.1%) Communication with employees 1 24 New Indicators No. of collaborative meetings held for improvement of labor-management relations 2 53 55 * As of the end of 2010 in Korea, excluding part-time and expatriate workers 1. CEO/business division director meetings, meetings within business sites, etc. 2. Committee meetings to improve participation and collaboration, labor-management working-level meetings, and occupational safety and health committee, etc. Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Advanced HR Management · Improving the HR Management Systems (e.g. hold· Securing and retaining overseas high performers · 296 recruited including the new and experienced Systems ers of strong competency) · Managing a scheme to retain experienced employees ·A  ppointing locals for heads of overseas subsidiar·H  R Management System regulation establishment · E stablishing the LSAE (LS Agricultural Equipment) recruitment regulations ies/Employing competent foreign employees for overseas subsidiaries/branches and evaluation systems · Improving the work systems (strengthening the · Achieved the LSAE, LSMW (LS Machinery) rank systems, wage system on-site competency) · Retirement system adoption · Holding the executive/employee seminar (approval rate of 92%) · Conducting the partial retirement pension system from Jan. 2011 Employee Competency · R einforcing advanced education course for the · Mid-term and global education program · 7 employees managing five mid-term courses Development promoted · 19 employees managing two global courses · Reinforcing employees’ foreign language capability · Advanced education course reinforcement · 143 employees managing four rank-specific courses · E mployee foreign language capability · Managing 22 courses (130 attendees) reinforcement Employee Participation and · R egularly operating the Joint Labor-Management ·D  irect communication channel development · Holding CEO/Business Division Head/CHO meetings 24 times Trust Building Committee/holding events to encourage joint between management and employees ·H  olding the labor-management relationship improvement meetings 55 labor-management activities times, etc. · Periodic review of policies, regular monitoring · Problem response reinforcement · Setting a counseling room at Jeonju and Jeongeup sites · Recruiting professional counselors · E stablishment of process to report and resolve · Appointing Ombudsman commissioners on business sites violations of international labor standards Employee Welfare, Safety · Health management program · Improvement of safety management at overseas · Safety education and training support in overseas subsidiaries and Health · R egular work place co-monitoring and improvesubsidiaries ment activity · E nhancement of safety training for employees at · Conducting company-wide courses for employees at all levels all levels ·C  hemical materials management system · GHS response to single chemicals improvement : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity 06 Integrated Risk Management Major Performance Indicators 2009 Performance 2010 Performance Note Selecting company-wide risk scenarios (risk issues) 8 14 Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Identifying Integrated Risks · Identifying integrated risk issues · Identifying and examining integrated risk issues · Managing major issues based on company-wide SM framework and Introducing Response · Setting policies and systems · S upplementing and regularly reviewing policies and · Company-wide risk management and operation framework being set up Framework · Introducing integrated risk management framework systems · Reviewing and improving policies in a regular manner and process · Exploring risk scenarios · E xploring job-related risk scenarios by department-1st phase completed · Identifying responsibilities of departments and (more than 2 per team) high-level managers in charge · Analyzing scenario feasibility · 1st phase risk scenarios being analyzed · Creating risk scenario response manual · Developing issue-specific manual after feasibility analysis Educating and Training ·C  arrying out risk-response activities on a daily basis · C onducting risk-response activities on a daily and · Managing issues according to SM framework Employees and Creating mid-term basis · R isk scenarios being explored and manuals being developed by Risk Culture department · S etting plans for employee training and · Creating employee training plans according to manual communication : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity 16 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Goals Set for 2011 We set Sustainability Management goals for the following year in advance in order to ensure consistency of Sustainability Management strategies and strengthened engagement of employees. The most outstanding change in setting goals for 2011 is that Sustainability Management achievements are integrated into annual strategic indicators. As for indicator weights, 5 sectors that belong to our head office (Staff sector) [CFO (Chief Financial Officer), CHO (Chief Human-resource Officer), CTO (Chief Technology Officer), CSO (Chief Strategy Planning Officer), and CPO (Chief Procurement Officer)] and 2 teams under direct CEO control are given 10 percent each and 9 business divisions 5 percent respectively. This completes the framework to systemically evaluate Sustainability Management activities and will offer an opportunity to encourage employees to consider Sustainability Management as part of their daily operations as well as to enhance corporate executive capabilities. We carried out the 3-phase materiality test (1st phase-internal/external Sustainability Management environment analysis, 2nd phase-stakeholder interest analysis, 3rd phase-business impact analysis) in setting up detailed plans for 2011 Sustainability Management activities and the result was utilized to build the Sustainability Management Steering Wheel 2011. The reason why this year’s materiality test process is more streamlined than the previous year is that we believe we have a basic management framework in place to practice Sustainability Management including basic data collection system, newly created Sustainability Management organizations, improved operation system and company-wide Sustainability Management framework. These initial steps, though not included in managerial issues, will be managed and supplemented continuously to appropriately respond to various issues that will be found in future materiality analysis. [Phase 1: Internal/External Sustainability Management Environment Analysis] Internal Issues External Issuest · LS Mtron vision and mid-term strategy · Reviewing Sustainability Management-related guidelines and standards · Decisions by the Sustainability Management Steering Group : GRI (G3), ISO 26000, UNGC 10 principles and etc. · Setting future directions according to Sustainability Management principles and regulations · Researching media coverage of Sustainability Management in the same line of business · Progress on 2010 Sustainability Management managerial issues · Opinions from Sustainability Management advisory group · Finding improvements to be made through in-house Sustainability Management diagnosis · Sustainability Management trends in competitors and industry leaders · Stakeholder interest in website · Sustainability Management-related evaluation indicators used overseas [Phase 2: Stakeholder Interest Analysis] Sustainability Management Implementation Process _ The 2nd phase of materiality test (stakeholder interest analysis) is part of our corporate Sustainability Management implementation process. Stakeholder Interest The Sustainability Management implementation process is a yearAnalysis long process that is composed of identifying stakeholders, collectManaging achievements and ① Identifying stakeholders and ing opinions from stakeholders through various communication reporting to stakeholders etting regular communication (Sustainability Report) channels channels, integrating them into business operations and reporting progress back to stakeholders. In particular, stakeholder interest analysis is the foundation upon which we set our Sustainability Management strategies. ② Engaging stakeholder Stakeholder interest analysis is divided into ①identifying stakeholders and setting regular communication channels and ②engagSetting and conducting Building Sustainability Management ing stakeholders. (For detailed information, you can refer to [manaSustainability Management plans Steering Wheel gerial issue: Building Sustainability Management Framework _(page26)].) Sustainability Management Summary 17 [Phase 3: Business Impact Analysis] high Our business impact analysis included issues likely to happen in the mid 02-2 and long term in the overall management environment in addition to 02-1 02-3 Sustainability Management issues identified through stakeholder interest analysis. It looked at external factors such as SRI (Socially Responsible 06 Stakeholder Interest Investment) landscape at home and abroad and business trends of com01 petitors and industry leaders and internal factors such as improvement 05 04 03 tasks found through in-house diagnostic evaluations, division-specific Sustainability Management evaluation indicators, employee surveys, department meetings and top management reviews. In particular, our 2010 in-house diagnostic evaluation items are based upon the result of our analysis of 7 core subjects and 35 issues in ISO 260000 which took effect last November. low Business Impact high [Managerial Issue Comparison between 2010 and 2011] Managerial Issue Focus Area 2010 2011 • Building Sustainability Management Framework • Settling up Sustainability Management Framework 01. Integrated Sustainability Management • Identifying Roles & Responsibilities in Each Focus Area • Improving Sustainability Management Capabilities and Awareness • Promoting Sustainability Management and Building Employee Consensus • Promoting Stakeholder Engagement • Operating Integrated Innovation Framework • Establishing Communication Culture 02-1. Innovation Initiative • Customized Innovation Activities • Producing Substantial Outcomes 02. Economic • Operating Win-Win Partnership Framework • Establishing Grow Together with Business Partners Culture and 02-2. Win-Win Partnership • Supporting Business Partner in Building Infrastructure • Supporting Business Partners in Securing Competitiveness Social Value • Communication with Business Partners • Engaging and Communicating with Business Partners Creation • Operating Quality Management Framework • Operating Product Quality Performance Improvement Framework 02-3. Customer Satisfaction • Obtaining Sustained Product Quality Competitiveness • Enhancing Quality Management Capabilities and Quality Management • Communication with Customers • Engaging and Communication with Customers • Management of Representative Social Contribution Programs • Establishment of Social Contribution Strategies 03. Social Contribution Activity • Consistent Involvement in and Support for Community • Social Contribution Activity Program • Systematic Management of Volunteering Teams • Climate Change Response • Climate Change Response 04. Green Management • Developing Environmentally-Friendly Products • Expansion of Environmentally-Friendly Products • Operation of Advanced ESH Business Site • Operation of the Advanced ESH Business Sites • Advanced HR Management Systems • Advanced Human Resources Management System • Employee Competency Development • Employee Competency Development 05. Employee Value Enhancement • Employee Participation and Trust Building • Employee Participation and Respect for Human Rights • Employee Welfare, Safety and Health • Employee Welfare, Safety and Health • Identifying Integrated Risks and Introducing Response Framework • Operating Integrated Risk Management and Response Framework 06. Integrated Risk Management • Educating and Training Employees and Creating Risk Culture • Educating and Training Employees and Creating Risk Culture * F or further information on changes in managerial issues, you can refer to respective Focus Area implementation framework. This Sustainability Report 2010 is based on managerial issues in 2010 and also contains our plans for managerial issues for 2011. 18 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2011 Major Plans in Each Focus Area 01 Integrated Sustainability Management Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Settling up SM Framework ·O  perating SM framework · Operating the SM Steering Group (bi-monthly, 6 in total) Year-round · Running 5 Subcommittees (on a quarterly basis) · P erforming R&R by department and organizing systemic · Constantly managing R & R of 23 managerial issues Year-round performance management · Managing and reporting progress regularly (reporting to the SM Steering Group) ·C  onducting SM diagnostic evaluations(using ISO 26000) · Conducting in-house SM diagnostic assessments(including overseas sites) Jun. · Analyzing and diagnosing 7 core subjects and 35 issues of ISO 26000 Dec. · Setting SM plans for 2012 Dec. · R eviewing and improving SM principles and operation · Reviewing and improving SM principles and operation regulations in a regular manner May regulations in a regular manner · Setting relevant company-wide regulations and making system registrations Improving SM Capabilities and · Enhancing company-wide SM executive capabilities · Training all employees to enhance their practical SM capabilities Mar. Awareness · Offering customized and job-specific SM training Sep. · Promoting SM consensus and sharing progress · Increasing channels to release SM achievements Year-round · Utilizing intranet and company newsletters / supplementing website continuously Promoting Stakeholder · Conducting 2011 materiality test · Updating SM Steering Wheel according to Focus Area and managerial issue identification Nov. Engagement · Holding dialogue with core stakeholders · Conducting common surveys of stakeholders * SM: Sustainability Management 02-1 Economic and Social Value Creation_ Innovation Initiative Activity Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Establishing Communication · Expanding scope of innovation activities · Initiating innovation activities of office workers Year-round Culture · Vitalizing communication · Supporting innovation activities of affiliates/subsidiaries/business partners · Meetings with CEO · CEO MBWA (Management By Wandering Around) · Communication and PR using SNS1 and news letters Producing Substantial · Streamlining operation framework · Building company-wide KPI management framework Mar. Outcomes · Enhancing VE activities · Enhancing VE activities Year-round Carrying out process VE activities Promoting CDM2 activities of business partners · Improving productivity management framework of financial values Year-round 1. SNS (Social Network Service) : services to create and strengthen personal connections online. Ex) facebook and twitter 2. CDM (Cost Down Method) : initiatives to reduce costs together with business partners and jointly distribute the savings 02-2 Economic and Social Value Creation_ Win-Win Partnership Activity Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Establishing Grow Together · Establishing fair trade culture · R econcluding win-win partnership agreements with SMEs and fair trade agreements with subcontractors/surpassing Year-round with Business Partners Culture · Supporting business partners in securing financial stability the 85-evaluation mark in implementing these agreements · Setting business partner assessment system ·M aintaining the existing system to support financial stability of business partners (100% cash payments to Q-Partners, 100% cash equivalent payments to business partners) · Building online business partner assessment system · Operating the Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee Supporting Business Partners in · Win-win partnership initiatives · Training on capability enhancement-150 business partner employees Year-round Securing Competitiveness Supporting capability improvement · Consulting on capability improvement-20 business partners -O ffering technology support, quality improvement · Exploring 10 project themes for public-private joint investments in technology development support and etc. · Building production management system of business partners Building production management system Engaging and Communicating · Setting and running regular communication channels · Holding discussions once or twice per quarter by business division Year-round with Business Partners · Hosting performance-sharing events with business partners at the end of year Dec. · Constantly collecting opinions and improving responses · Launching Q-Partner Consultative Meeting Year-round · Operating win-win partnership bulletin board within integrated purchase management system Sustainability Management Summary 19 02-3 Economic and Social Value Creation_ Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Operating Product Quality · Cutting quality costs · Setting quality failure cost targets by business division and directly-invested company Jan. Performance Improvement · Performance monitoring Monthly Framework · Continuous quality improvement · 10 improvements and optimizations of critical/vulnerable systems in each business division Year-round · Product quality improvement activities · Diagnosing quality management framework · Performing quality diagnosis of business partners and offering improvement guidance · Operating customer and QM Subcommittees Enhancing QM Capabilities · Enhancing quality innovation framework · Building QMS (Quality Management System) evaluation system Aug. · Setting QM talent promotion system Sep. · Nurturing QM talents · Growing quality innovation leaders: 15 Jun. · QM training programs: 9 Year-round Engaging and Communication · Communication with customers · Setting regular communication channels with customers by business division Oct. with Customers · Performing CS activities continuously by business division Year-round · Gathering VOC by business division · Conducting CS surveys and sharing results Nov. 03 Social Contribution Activity Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Management of Representative · Managing representative programs at home and abroad ·A broad: Conducting the LS Mtron Global Happy Village Campaign Jun. Social Contribution Programs (constructing an elementary school in Vietnam, dispatching the employee volunteering team to Vietnam) · Domestic: Organizing representative programs Dec. Consistent Involvement in and · C  ontinuously supporting and expanding social contribution · Supporting the low-income class and the elderly living alone Monthly Support for Community activities · Sponsoring the Jeonju International Film Festival, Jeonju World Sori Festival and Korea Cycle Federation Oct. ·C ontinuously conducting the One Company One Village (Chudong Village), One Company One School Year-round (Bong Dong Elementary School) · Volunteering in conjunction with community welfare organizations Year-round Systematic Management of · Establishing volunteering teams for each business site · Establishing a scheme for the company-wide volunteering teams Apr. Volunteering Teams · Facilitating employee volunteering activities · Conducting regular volunteering on each site Dec. · Operating the Social Contribution Subcommittee Dec. 04 Green Management Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Climate Change Response · Verifying and managing the company-wide Greenhouse · Conducting the third-party verification for the company-wide Greenhouse Gas Inventory Year-round Gas Inventory · Responding to the greenhouse gas/energy target management system · E stablishing plans to reduce greenhouse gas · Establishing the monitoring infrastructure · Establishing mid-term reduction targets and plans for each business site/division · Fostering specialists on Climate Change Expansion of Environmentally · Expanding environmentally-friendly products · Strengthening reviews upon the R&D PJT Gate Review1 Year-round Friendly Products · Reviewing the mid-term green technology development roadmap in business divisions · Exploring major green products and technologies and applying for external certifications and awards · Evaluating performance vis-à-vis green product sales targets · Setting plans in green products R&D investment (KRW 14.1 billion, 48%)/-sales (KRW 382.5 billion, 41%) · Operating the Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommittee Operation of the Advanced · E nhanced improvement activities regarding intensity unit of · Setting ways to cut/reduce the total amount company-wide for environmental indicators Year-round ESH Business Sites common company-wide environmental indicators · Setting improvement activity plans through environmental impact evaluations and monitoring these plans · S upporting the ESH management systems for overseas · Conducting ex-post measures for analysis results in 2010 for overseas subsidiaries subsidiaries · Supporting the establishment of management systems for and conducting reviews for overseas subsidiaries · Operating the Green Management Subcommittee 1. Meetings where whether or not it is essential to move onto the next stage is decided as the last activity in all stages 20 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 05 Employee Value Enhancement Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Advanced Human Resources · Securing and retaining overseas high performers · Securing competent talents by expanding cooperation with universities Year-round Management System · Improving the rank/reward system for overseas subsidiaries · Improving the support system for industrial scholarship students Mar. · Securing and expanding the number of overseas talents Sep. · Introducing the job-based pay through the evaluation of job value for overseas subsidiaries Year-round Employee Competency · Strengthening leadership competency · Conducting offline training for sustainable management for all employees Year-round Development · Strengthening global competency for employees · Managing the leadership course for team directors company-wide Mar. · Strengthening job competency · Providing leadership learning materials (for team directors and above) Year-round · Running mid-long and global foreign language course Sep. · Continuously supporting in-house foreign language courses Year-round · Managing two sales service course per sales staff in 2011 Sep. · Establishing the education system for company-wide production associates in 2011 Dec. Employee Participation and · Facilitating the employee participation/communication · P ermanently opening direct communication channels between the management and employees (CEO Seminar, Year-round Respect for Human Rights · Strengthening the respect for human rights CHO Seminar, communication with heads of business divisions) · Enhancing conveniences for employees · Reflecting the ILO labor standards Dec. · Publishing and distributing guidebooks on HR and welfare benefits Dec. Employee Welfare, Safety · Precisely managing risk factors · Developing materials for special safety and welfare, and conducting training Jun. and Health · Strengthening procedures to respond to fire breakout · Analyzing process-specific risk factors Year-round · Revising the fire response manual and diagnosing business sites Dec. 06 Integrated Risk Management Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Operating Integrated Risk · Building Year-round risk issue management system · Year-round management of major issues according to company-wide SM framework Year-round Management and Response · Running company-wide integrated risk management framework (SM Steering Group) Framework · Supplementing and regularly reviewing policies and systems · Supplementing company-wide integrated risk management policies and systems Jun. · Reviewing and improving relevant policies and systems · Identifying job-related risk scenarios by department · Exploring job-related risk scenarios and identifying core risks by department Jul. · Analyzing scenario feasibility · Analyzing impact and opportunity factors by risk scenario Aug. · Creating response manuals according to risk scenarios · Creating response manuals of core risk scenarios by department Nov. Educating and Training · Promoting risk culture on a daily basis · Monitoring risk response activities on a daily basis Year-round Employees and Creating Risk ·O ffering employees practical education and regular training · Educating employees according to manual and setting drill plans Dec. Culture on risk response 21 Achievements 01 Integrated Sustainability Management 22 02 Economic and Social Value Creation in Each 02-1 02-2 Innovation Initiative Activity Win-Win Partnership Activity 31 35 02-3 Customer Satisfaction and Focus Area 03 Quality Management Activity Social Contribution Activity 41 46 04 Green Management 52 05 Employee Value Enhancement 60 06 Integrated Risk Management 70 22 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 01. Integrated Sustainability Management Though looking different, all come from the same roots. The roots release branches, and from branches bloom flowers and leaves. LS Mtron manages all management activities for flourishing leaves by integrating sustainable management into single branches. 01. Integrated Sustainability Management 23 01 IS [ Declaration ] [ Management System ] In operating our integrated sustainability management framework, we aim to stra• Manager in charge: CSO, tegically incorporate the framework into overall management practices and put in -Department in charge: B  usiness Management & Planning Team place integrated performance management system. We will strive to fully meet our (Sustainability Management Executive Office) social responsibilities as a company by providing the greatest-possible values to our core stakeholders including customers. [ Mid-term Management Directions ] • To operate integrated Sustainability Management framework and managing mid/ long-term execution strategies • To encourage changes in awareness and enhanced executive capabilities amongst employees • To incorporate stakeholder opinions into business operations 2010 achievement is 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Building Sustainability ·D  efining SM principles and operation · Operating SM framework · Holding 5 SM Steering Group meetings Management Framework regulations · Setting up 5 Subcommittees/ holding 5 Subcommittee meetings · Building company-wide SM framework ·Implementing 2010 and materiality test and · Taking action in 6 Focus Areas and addressing 22 managerial issues ·C  onducting 2009 materiality test and creating SM revising the SM Steering Wheel · Holding off-line dialogue by stakeholder group Steering Wheel · Conducting common surveys of 198 stakeholders ·D  eveloping SM diagnosis model and setting up ·C  onducting SM diagnostic evaluations · Completing self-initiated SM diagnostic assessments monitoring system (using ISO 26000) · Analyzing 7 core subjects/ 35 issues in ISO 26000 · Reviewing company-wide operation regulations · Company-wide SM regulations to be listed in the 1st half of 2011 Identifying Roles & Respon· D  esignating managers and SM personnel by de· P erforming R&R and reporting outcomes by de·D epartment heads’ regular reporting in each Focus Area 5 times sibilities in Each Focus Area partment partment Incorporating SM into Strategic Indicators · Identifying roles and responsibilities · SM training(timed with company-wide ethical management training) Promoting SM and Building · O  ne round of group training for the SM Steering · Offering company-wide SM training · Receiving 4 outside awards in recognition of SM initiatives Employee Consensus Group ·Adding more channels to make public SM achieve· SM achievements covered by various media outlets ments · Postings in intranet pop-up · Reports in company newsletters / corporate website reorganize 2011 plan is 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Settling up SM Framework · Operating SM framework · Operating the SM Steering Group (bi-monthly, 6 in total) Year-round · Running 5 Subcommittees (on a quarterly basis) · P erforming R&R by department and organizing systemic · Constantly managing R & R of 23 managerial issues Year-round performance management · Managing and reporting progress regularly (reporting to the SM Steering Group) · Conducting SM diagnostic evaluations(using ISO 26000) · Conducting in-house SM diagnostic assessments (including overseas sites) Jun. · Analyzing and diagnosing 7 core subjects and 35 issues of ISO 26000 Dec. · Setting SM plans for 2012 Dec. · R eviewing and improving SM principles and operation · Reviewing and improving SM principles and operation regulations in a regular manner May regulations in a regular manner · Setting relevant company-wide regulations and making system registrations Improving SM Capabilities · Enhancing company-wide SM executive capabilities · Training all employees to enhance their practical SM capabilities Mar. and Awareness · Offering customized and job-specific SM training Sep. · Promoting SM consensus and sharing progress · Increasing channels to release SM achievements Year-round · Utilizing intranet and company newsletters / supplementing website continuously Promoting Stakeholder · Conducting 2011 materiality test · Updating SM Steering Wheel according to Focus Area and managerial issue identification Nov. Engagement · Holding dialogue with core stakeholders · Conducting common surveys of stakeholders * SM: Sustainability Management * We completed identifying R & R in each Focus Area and they will be continuously revised and managed. * Modifications in managerial issues in 2011: Promoting stakeholder engagement(building framework to respond to demands and expectations of stakeholders 24 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Company-wide Sustainability Management Steering Group Our Sustainability Management Steering Group is up and running, composed of Sustainability Management managers, 11 department heads and the Sustainability Management Executive Office. The Sustainability Management Steering Group meets bi-monthly to share Sustainability Management practices and explore future Sustainability Management directions. In addition, group members exchange each other’s opinions about Sustainability Management activities to put in place a cooperation framework to find weaknesses and make improvements. The group met five times in 2010 and primarily discussed how to settle the Sustainability Management framework and expand Sustainability Management departments as well as environmentally-friendly product development. LS Mtron’s Sustainability Management Steering Group meeting Responding to ISO 26000 _ We are responding to ISO 26000, an international standard released in November of 2010 to offer guidance on social responsibility, and plan to strategically utilize it in setting our Sustainability Management initiatives for the future. We internally analyzed 7 core subjects and 35 issues presented in ISO 26000 and intend to address those issues that are likely to have major impact compared to on-going managerial issues in a step-by-step manner. 2010 Sustainability Management Steering Group-Main Discussion Items and Actions Meeting Supervisor/Participants Main Discussion Items Decisions and Actions Completion 1st CFO / · Building SM management process ·SM Steering Group meeting schedules finalized (bi-monthly, every odd month) (Apr.) Business Management & Planning · Reviewing Sustainability Reports ·Selecting SM personnel at head office/business sites May 3 Team chief and 11 others ·Examining 2009 achievements and 2010 plans by Head office: team chief and 1 working-level employee department Divisions: planning team chief and 1 working-level employee 2nd CFO / ·Enhancing SM executive capabilities and ·Creating Subcommittees within the SM Steering Group May 19 (May) Business Management & Planning encouraging division engagement 5 Subcommittees set up Team chief and 12 others ·Setting plans for stakeholder dialogue ·Building channels for stakeholder dialogue / holding dialogue Ongoing Carrying out direct dialogue and surveys (198) · Utilizing and publicizing Sustainability Reports ·1st distribution of 919 Korean copies and 586 English copies completed Jun. 2 ·Internal·external PR activities timed with report publication Jun. 14 Press releases, intranet pop-ups, newsletters and etc. 3rd CFO / · Sharing first-half progress and second-half plans as ·Unifying performance reporting format of the SM Steering Group Jul. 30 (Jul.) Business Management & Planning well as Subcommittee operation plans Team chief and 11 others · Exploring risk scenarios by department ·1st meeting to explore risk scenarios and set up manuals (8 teams and each team Sep. 6 through 10 leader participated) · Setting environmentally-friendly product criteria ·Running the Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommittee Sep. 3 and mid-term strategic directions Deploying divisional mid/long-term technology development roadmap 4th CFO / · Strengthening linkages between SM and business ·Discussing plans to incorporate CM (Consensus Meeting) index of the review and Dec. 16 (Sep.) Business Management & Planning operations support divisions in the 2011 Business Planning Guide Team chief and 11 others ·Signing UNGC and F/U plans according to ISO ·Actively considered in setting 2011 SM strategies Dec. 27 26000 release schedule ·Writing UNGC (COP) report ·Expanding and establishing environmentally·Understanding technology developer Gate Review manual to estimate Ongoing friendly products performance for 2010 5th CFO / · S haring methodology to plan and write ·Sustainability Report publication schedules finalized Dec.10 (Nov.) Business Management & Planning Sustainability Reports Team chief and 12 others ·Regularizing SM principles ·Being listed according to company-wide standardization process 2011 · Offering SM training ·Company-wide general training and function-specific specialized training 2011 · Setting target indicators by SM division ·Accounting for 10% for 5 division heads at the main office and 5% for Dec. 16 business division heads Dec. 27 ·SM target indicators selected · Reorganizing roles & responsibilities ·Identifying potentially critical issues and allotting work after reviewing IS0 26000 2011 * SM: Sustainability Management 01. Integrated Sustainability Management 25 1. Building Sustainability We believe that Sustainability Management should be able to lay the groundwork to produce Management substantial achievements and present long-term directions for a company to pursue. This is why we have our own Integrated Sustainability Management Framework up and running Framework and we are to further settle down the framework by engaging more stakeholders from 2011. Integrated Sustainability Management Framework The Sustainability Management Steering Group, Sustainability ManRoles and Duties of Sustainability Management agement Subcommittees and the Sustainability Management Executive Framework Organizations Office have their respective roles and duties in operating the IntegratSustainability Management Steering Group ed Sustainability Management Framework and enhancing their link· Structure: M  anagers in charge, Business Management & Planning Team and ages with employees’ business operations. In particular, 5 Sustainability 10 department heads, Sustainability Management Executive Office Management Subcommittees, set up in the 2nd half of 2010, aim to en· Role: S ustainability Management-related decision-making and directionsetting hance business divisions’ Sustainability Management executive capabili· Operation: Bi-monthly ties which form the bedrock of stakeholder satisfaction and better performance and they function as an Sustainability Management-related Sustainability Management Executive Office communication channel. Under this overall framework, we operate de· Structure: B  usiness Management & Planning Team chief and 2 dedicated employees partments in charge of the 6 Focus Areas of Integrated Sustainability · Role: Practical Sustainability Management operations Management, Economic and Social Value Creation, Social Contribution · Operation: Year-round Activities, Green Management, Employee Value Enhancement and Integrated Risk Management and the 2 general areas of Ethical ManageSustainability Management Subcommittees(department in charge) ment and Corporate Governance. · Structure: G  reen Management (Green Management Team), EnvironmentallyFriendly Product (Technology Management Team), Social Contribution Activity (Business Support Team), Win-Win Partnership (Win-Win Partnership Team), QM and Customer Satisfaction (QM Team) · Role: M anaging and supporting business divisions in enhancing their Sustainability Management executive capabilities · Operation: Quarterly (increased frequency if necessary) [ Sustainability Management Framework ]  Board of Directors CEO Managing Directors in charge of Sustainability Management Integrated Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Steering Group Business Management & Planning Team (Sustainability Management Executive Office) Social Employee Integrated Economic and Social Green Ethical Corporate Contribution Value Risk Value Creation Management Management Governance Activity Enhancement Management · Innovation Team · Green Management Team · Human Resources · Business Management & Planning Team · Internal Audit & · Win-Win Partnership Team · Business Support Team · Technology Management Team Development Team · Finance Team (Sustainability Management Consulting Team · Quality Management Team · Production Technology Group · Green Management Team Executive Office) Sustainability Management Subcommittees Environmentally-Friendly QM and Customer Social Contribution Green Management Win-Win Partnership Product Satisfaction Activity Business Divisions (Teams), Research Center and Overseas Subsidiaries Central AirInjection Special Electronic Electronic Automotive Ultra Overseas Tractor FCCL Research Conditioning Molding Business Component Circuit Materials Component Capacitor Subsidiaries Center 26 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Analysis of Stakeholder Interest Surveying Expectations and Requirements of Stakeholders(period: Aug. 9, Analysis of stakeholder interest is an integral part of our Sustainability 2010~Sep. 30, 2010) _ We carried out surveys of 198 stakeholders includManagement implementation process and it also plays a core role in coning customers, employees, business partners, earth/ecology and communiducting materiality tests. The purpose of stakeholder interest analysis is to ties and industry experts in order to find out their expectations and requireincorporate expectations and requirements of stakeholders into decisions ments of ongoing Sustainability Management issues that we are working on and activities that are made of management directions. Accordingly, our and a variety of new issues to be addressed in the future. managerial issues are adjusted through stakeholder engagement and their detailed plans and activities are also reported to stakeholders through various communication channels such as Sustainability Reports. [ Sustainability Management Implementation Process ] 1. Identifying Stakeholders and Setting Regular Communication Channels _ Our definition of stakeholders includes all of those people who are Stakeholder Interest Analysis related with LS Mtron in terms of management activities both directly and indirectly. We classify them into core and general stakeholder groups to Managing achievements and 1. Identifying stakeholders and reporting to stakeholders etting regular communication ensure more strategic approaches according to their specificities. Our core (Sustainability Report) channels stakeholders are customers, employees, business partners, communities and earth/ecology and general stakeholders are investors, NGOs, and central/local governments. We are setting a wide range of dialogue channels to make 2. Engaging stakeholder their voices heard and we aim to explore and establish effective channels to actively integrate their opinions into our business operations. 2. Stakeholder Engagement _ We performed a wide range of activities to Setting and conducting Building Sustainability Management increase stakeholder engagement such as discussions, consultations, surSustainability Management plans Steering Wheel veys, affiliations and website initiatives during the year 2010. In doing so, we learned that direct dialogue formats including discussions and consultations are not without their own shortcomings as most of these communication channels have Sustainability Management elements only as an add-on with their previous features staying unchanged. We aim to create separate and regular direct dialogue channels to ensure more comprehensive communication. [ LS Mtron Stakeholders ] [ Stakeholder Engagement Process ] vestors Cust rs/I n o ld e me ho rs are Sh Setting plans to engage stakeholders Os Em (incorporating adjustments in existing managerial issues) NG yees p lo Stakeholder engagement by Focus Area Common stakeholder survey (direct dialogue, consultative meeting, (customer, business partner, employee, e r n m ents information disclosure and etc.) community and etc.) l g ov B usin e s s pa oc a l/L r tn tra ers Organizing stakeholder opinions Ce n (considering business impact, managerial issue performance and etc.) c Lo y l og om /Eco al c E ar t h ities mun Core Stakeholders 01. Integrated Sustainability Management 27 [ Stakeholder Dialogue Channel and Type 2010 ] Stakeholder Channel Name Type Stakeholder Channel Name Type Consultation Customer satisfaction survey Survey Business Partner Common stakeholder survey Survey Voice of Customers (VOC) collection Website Performance sharing event with business partner Sharing event Holding product presentation/participating in exhibition Presentation Regular discussion meeting with business partner Discussion meeting Employee Consultative meeting to promote participation and Consultative Business partner VOC collection Website cooperation meeting Community Local government (Anyang City, Wanju County Office) Consultation (random) CEO MBWA Open dialogue One company One school, One company One Village (Jeonju) Affiliation Discussion meeting to boost employee communication Discussion meeting Supporting local cultural and sports event Donation Complaint resolution committee Committee Earth/Ecology Central and local government environmental policy sessions Presentation Labor-management discussion meeting (Anyang/Jeongeup/ Discussion meeting Green Growth Committee(Jeongeup) Visit Indong) The Urban Environment Committee of Local Agenda21 Committee Organizational capability evaluation Survey for Anyang City Working-level labor-management consultation and meeting Consultative Information about green business Report (company-wide/Jeonju) meeting Environment-related NGOs meetings and environmental Committee Cyber OmbudSustainability Managementan Website technology conferences Industrial health and safety committee and relevant meeting Committee ESH System Internal Common Common stakeholder survey Survey communication * The place names refer to locations of our business sites. [ Surveying Expectations and Requirements of Stakeholders (on a scale of 5, N=198) ] Stakeholder Integration By Core Stakeholder Group: Top 3 Issues Expectations and Requirements Score Expectations and Requirements Score Stakehold Expectations and Requirements Score 1. Securing sustained product quality competitiveness 4.50 13. Integrated management of financial and 4.19 Customer 1. Securing sustained product quality competitiveness 4.80 2. Supporting business partners in building 4.46 non-financial risks 2. Promoting stakeholder engagement 4.45 infrastructure 14.Transparent and sound corporate governance 4.16 3. Customer engagement and dialogue 4.40 3. Performing customized management innovation 4.44 15. Employee capacity-building 4.14 Employee 1. Employee engagement and dialogue 4.50 4. Promoting stakeholder engagement 4.40 16. Responding to climate change 4.11 2. Integrated management of financial and non-financial risks 4.47 5. Increasing environmentally-friendly products 4.39 17. Advancing HR system 4.10 3. Employee capacity-building 4.30 6. Fair trade with business partners 4.37 18. Employee health, safety and well-being 4.05 Business Partner 1. Supporting business partners in building infrastructure 4.87 7. Supporting business partners with SM 4.31 19. Promoting SM and creating consensus 4.01 2. Fair trade with business partners 4.63 8. Customer engagement and dialogue 4.26 20. Operating advanced ESH sites 3.98 3. Securing sustained product quality competitiveness 4.60 9. Top management’s monitoring SM 4.24 21. Employees’ social-giving activities 3.55 Earth/ 1. Responding to climate change 4.63 10. Employee engagement and dialogue 4.24 22. Increasing donations to address local community’s 3.49 Ecology and 2. Increasing environmentally-friendly products 4.60 11. Ethical management(enhancing employee ethics) 4.23 current issues Community 3. Performing customized management innovation 4.53 12. Legal compliance at home and abroad 4.19 * SM: Sustainability Management 1 2 3 [Customer] 1. International Exhibition of Machinery, Equipment, Science and Technology for Agriculture 2. Event for customers in the Injection Molding Division [Business Partner] 3. Discussion meeting to diagnose supply chain QM 4. Discussion meeting 4 5 6 [Employee] 5.Consultative meeting to promote participation and cooperation 6. Discussion meeting to boost employee communication [Earth/Ecology] 7 8 9 7. Green Growth Committee [Community] 8. Consultative meeting with village heads in Boseong 9. Partnership for Jeonju International Sori Festival 28 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2. Identifying Roles & Under the integrated Sustainability Management framework, we set mid-term plans in each Responsibilities in Focus Area and put them into practice. In 2010, we selected departments in charge with full consideration of different characteristics of managerial issues in each Focus Area and made Each Focus Area sure that the Sustainability Management Steering Group is briefed on progress according to specific R & R defined. Company-Wide Sustainability Management Directions Incorporating Sustainability Management into Strategic Indicators We have long-term perspectives on where we’re headed in pursuing SusWe decided to incorporate Sustainability Management into our strategic tainability Management initiatives on an company-wide level. We believe indicators to fully meet our Sustainability Management responsibilities that the we should be moving towards fully meeting our social responand encourage voluntary participation of employees. These Sustainabilsibilities as a corporate citizen and building a business framework with ity Management-related indicators are to assess performance of managsustained growth capabilities, ultimately realizing our LS Mtron vision. ers and division heads in each division, the highest-level domain of our While we focused on creating the overall framework for integrated Susperformance evaluation scheme. The Sustainability Management issues tainability Management in 2010, our top priority in 2011 will be to build that are given top priority in divisions and business divisions during 2011 assessment framework to produce substantial outcomes and enhance exare reflected in these indicators and detailed evaluation items include ecutive capabilities and to expand consensus on Sustainability Managebuilding framework on concerned issues and improving management cament among business divisions. Our next goal is to increase the scope of pabilities, considering the inherent nature of sustainability management. our Sustainability Management initiatives into overseas subsidiaries and become a globally competitive company. Innovative Technology Partner to Create a Convenient and Comfortable World Building Sustainable Business Framework and Value Chain Leading Solution Leading Sustainability [ Company-Wide Strategic Goals and Sustainability Management Directions by Focus Area ] As for R & R in each Focus Area , you can refer to Overview of SM Initiatives and 2010 Achievements and Plans in each Focus Area [10page]. Focus Area 2010 2011 2012 • Building integrated SM management framework • Enhancing company-wide SM executive capabilities • Solidifying global SM management framework Company-Wide SM Creating SM framework Building company-wide SM evaluation framework Encouraging SM at overseas subsidiaries Strategic Goal Setting SM implementation infrastructure Growing consensus on SM among divisions Promoting SM in sales and marketing • Identifying mid-term SM managerial issues • Institutionalizing SM principles and operation regulations • Initiating SM activities at overseas subsidiaries Integrated • Running the SM Steering Group and Subcommittees • E ncouraging company-wide SM training and awareness • Publishing global Sustainability Reports Sustainability Management • Defining R&R of SM work • Building SM evaluation framework • Increasing support for business partners’ SM activities • Publishing Sustainability Reports (every year) • Diagnosing SM of overseas subsidiaries •C  ontinuously developing innovation retention • Growing scope of innovation activities • Establishing Mtron Way methodology • Streamlining operation framework • Changing the business modus operandi Innovation • Fostering talents and securing capabilities • Encouraging communication • Settling culture of communication Initiatives • Increasing support for financial performance-related tasks • S trengthening performance-oriented innovation • Setting infrastructure for knowledge creation • Enhancing performance verification and monitoring structure Economic and • Establishing fair trade practices • Online evaluation systems • Supporting overseas advancement Social Value Win-Win • Supporting business partners’ infrastructure • Establishing customized win-win partnership systems • Expanding customized win-win partnership systems Creation Partnership • Creating a cycle of win-win partnership • Realigning systems to collect ideas from partner companies • Aligning ideas from partner companies • Improving product quality failure cost • Operating quality performance improvement framework • Building global QM framework Customer Satisfaction •D  iagnosing product quality cooperation framework with • Enhancing QM capabilities • Making continuous quality improvements and Quality business partners • Promoting customer engagement and dialogue • Promoting customer engagement and dialogue Management • R unning Subcommittees on customer satisfaction and QM • L aying the groundwork for business sites to conduct •O  perating social contribution volunteering group • B randing representative social contribution programs at social contribution activities in Korean business sites home and abroad Social Contribution Activity • R unning representative social contribution programs •D  eveloping and launching representative social • Initiating voluntary one employee-one social contribuoverseas contribution programs in Korea tion activity program •M  anaging and establishing company-wide environment • Operating integrated global greenhouse gas system • E stablishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory management indicators • Complete renewal of ESH computer system • S etting mid-term plans for company-wide common goal • E xpanding greenhouse gas inventory to overseas • Introducing green purchasing system Green Management management indicator subsidiaries •D  eveloping the environmentally-friendly product design • Improving the basis for manufacturing eco-friendly process products in each business division • Setting global HR regulations • Introducing job-based pay at overseas subsidiaries • Introducing job-oriented HR system at overseas •N  urturing key talents (focused on mid/long-term • Internalizing values among all employees subsidiaries periods) • Enhancing task capabilities of employees • Improving leadership capabilities of top management Employee Value Enhancement • Increasing direct communication channels between • S etting various channels for engagement and and team leaders management and employees communication • E stablishing framework for employee engagement and communication • Building integrated risk framework • Establishing risk scenario manuals •O  ffering regular risk response training and expanding Integrated Risk Management • Exploring risk scenarios • Increasing education and training according to risk the scope of training into overseas subsidiaries scenarios * SM: Sustainability Management 01. Integrated Sustainability Management 29 3. Promoting Sustainability The most critical prerequisite for practicing Sustainability Management is employees’ apManagement and propriate awareness of sustainability management. We make sure that all of our employees share clear definitions and directions of Sustainability Management so that they can develop Building Employee capabilities to respond to stakeholders and increase their satisfaction on their own initiative. Consensus Our Sustainability Management 3T System Sustainability Management Training Roadmap Our Sustainability Management 3T System is made up of those elements We set Sustainability Management training roadmap in order to improve that are required for our employees to carry out Sustainability Manageemployee capacity and build consensus on sustainability management. ment initiatives. We offer continuous training, evaluation, diagnosis and The roadmap is categorized into different stages of building awareness, monitoring so that they can incorporate Sustainability Management into promoting implementation and establishing corporate culture to ensure their daily operations. systemic education starting from consensus building to job-specific capacity improvement and expansion of Sustainability Management into Building Sustainability Management Awareness overseas subsidiaries, thereby assisting mid-term Sustainability ManageWe are engaged in a wide range of activities to increase employees’ inment plans effectively. Our education programs to build the foundation terest in Sustainability Management initiatives. To this end, we add popto put Sustainability Management into practice are underway in 2010 ups on our intranet to time with publication of Sustainability Reports and 2011. Our 2010 Sustainability Management training targeted general and continue to offer information on green management activities in office workers and technical staff, which was timed with company-wide company newsletters. We created a new section of Sustainability Manethical management training. agement at our corporate website to provide Sustainability Management relevant information to outside stakeholders in addition to our SustainOutside Sustainability Management Awards ability Reports. We declared our company-wide Sustainability Management initiatives by publishing our own Sustainability Report ‘The First M Story’ in 2009. We received 4 outside Sustainability Management awards in 2010 that recognize our efforts in putting Sustainability Management initiatives into practice. Feedback information that we collected from stakeholders such as outside experts and NGOs were reflected in Sustainability Management implementation strategies for 2011. [ Sustainability Management 3T System ] [ Sustainability Management Training Roadmap ] 1. Training (education) Building Sustainability Management implementation Building infrastructure (2010~2011) (1) Company-wide general training Awareness • Building Sustainability Management awareness and consensus (2) Team-specific customized training (3) Training support for overseas subsidiaries 3 1 2. Testing (evaluation) Sustainability Maximizing performance by department (2012~2013) (1) Employees’ completion of training courses Promoting • Maximizing performance of major managerial issues by department Management (2) Employees’ understanding and immersion Implementation • Support overseas subsidiaries in Sustainability Management training (3) Diagnostic evaluations of overseas subsidiaries 3T System 3. Tracking (diagnosis and monitoring) (1) Building process to diagnose implementation by issue Establishing Sustainability Management corporate culture 2 Establishing (2014~2015) (2) Developing integrated SM diagnosis model Corporate Culture • Specialized training by Sustainability Management Focus Area (3) Should be considered in individual and team goals • Mind-set training to build Sustainability Management corporate culture • Training and supporting major business partners in practicing Sustainability Management [Outside Sustainability Management Awards] Event Supervisor Awards 1 2 The 5th Sustainability Awards 1 Ministry of Knowledge and Economy, • Award of excellence, 1st Sustainability Report publication Small & Medium Business Administration The 7th LOHAS Management Awards 2 Korea Green Foundation • A  ward of excellence In the telecommunication, electronics manufacturing sector 2010 Korea Sustainability Conference Korean Standards Association • Korea  Sustainability Index (KSI) 1st prize in the electrical, electronics manufacturing sector • K orea Readers’ Choice Awards (KRCA) award of excellence, 1st Sustainability Report publication in the manufacturing sector 30 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 02. Economic and Social Value Creation 02-1. Innovation Initiative Activity 02-2. Win-Win Partnership Activity 02-3. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity Trees with vitality offer joy by bearing rich fruits. LS Mtron is poised to become a vital tree in harmony with rain, sunlight and fertilizer while making self innovation, thus enhancing the stakeholder value with abundant fruits. 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _1. Innovation Initiative Activity 31 02-1. Innovation Initiative Activity 02-1 IA [ Declaration ] [ Management System ] We pursue customized innovation activities that are focused on enhancing customer • CEO– Department in charge: Innovation Team satisfaction and producing substantial outcomes through innovative ‘think-out-ofthe-box’ mindset. To this end, we are to share innovative ways of thinking to usher in [ Mid-term Management Directions ] a new future and establish an innovation culture to become a key driver in creating • To build culture of communication and change management through innovation economic and social values at LS Mtron. • To generate substantial economic values through customized innovation activities 2010 achievement is 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Operating Integrated ·E stablishing Mtron 6, the in-house customized ·C ontinuously developing innovation retention ·D  eveloping 7 innovation processes Innovation Framework management innovation model methodology ·Opening Ullimteo, innovation training center, in May ·Securing 78 key talents by innovation area ·E nhancing organizational operation and ·Quarterly CEO MBWA(Management By Wandering Around)(4 in total) · E nhancing organizational operation and communication ·Sharing performance and awarding excellent tasks in December communication · Innovation ideas suggested(30.2 per head, participation rate 100%) · Winning  bronze award in National Quality Management Contest (Quality Circle Contest_ Injection Molding Division Heavy Quality Circle) · Nurturing innovative talents ·Securing 178 key talents by innovation theme Customized Innovation ·C  arrying out customized innovation initiatives ·E xpanding innovation activity scope: sales and · Initiating sales innovation, implemented in 5 business divisions Activities LPS 2 marketing ·Building sales training system and educating 180 employees 6 Sigma ·F ocusing on supporting financial ·C arrying out innovation activities customized for different business Cost innovation performance-related tasks: customized innovation divisions (KRW 29.93 billion of annual financial achievement, Site innovation activities KRW 21.3 billion of contribution to operating profit) Big Y: KRW 5.99 billion LPS: KRW 1.00 billion 6 Sigma: KRW1.99 billion Cost Innovation : KRW 20.95 billion · Improving progress verification and monitoring · Building annual verification framework of financial values * SM: Sustainability Management 2011 plan is 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Establishing Communication · Expanding scope of innovation activities · Initiating innovation activities of office workers Year-round Culture · Vitalizing communication · Supporting innovation activities of affiliates/subsidiaries/business partners · Meetings with CEO · CEO MBWA (Management By Wandering Around) · Communication and PR using SNS2 and news letters Producing Substantial · Streamlining operation framework · Building company-wide KPI management framework Mar. Outcomes · Enhancing VE activities · Enhancing VE activities Year-round Carrying out process VE activities Promoting CDM3 activities of business partners · Improving productivity management framework Year-round 1. LPS: LS Mtron Production System * Implementation framework is up and running and will be supplemented and managed continuously. 2. SNS (Social Network Service) : services to create and strengthen personal connections online. Ex) facebook and twitter * Modifications in managerial issues in 2011: 3. CDM (Cost Down Method) : initiatives to reduce costs together with business partners and jointly distribute the savings Establishing culture of communication (facilitating innovation framework) Producing substantial outcomes (advancing customized innovation activities) 32 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Operating Integrated We chose ‘generating performance of innovation activities’ as one of our 3 overarching Innovation Framework management policies for 2010 and addressed operation of integrated innovation framework as a managerial issue in order to offer sustainable values to all stakeholders. Our efforts to present company-wide directions for innovation activities and launch division-specific and customized initiatives formed the basis upon which we generate substantial outcomes. Setting Innovation Initiative Directions and Main Innovation Offering VE Training _ We provided VE (Value Engineering) training Tasks for 2010 to our ultra capacitor business team and central research institute. VE We set 3 directions and 6 tasks in carrying out innovation initiatives with is about outside experts, who are not initial developers, taking part in an aim of establishing the foundation to produce substantial outcomes of designing work, analyzing and reviewing economic feasibility of design innovation activities in 2010. Those employees responsible for innovation content and presenting alternatives. VE education and training enabled initiatives are now working under the control of company CEO since the us to reduce material costs by finding and eliminating unnecessary funcstart of 2011 to make sure that company-wide innovation activities are tions in the designing stage. well organized and advanced. [ Number of Problem-solving Experts Trained by Area ] (unit: No. of people) Developing Innovation Activity Retention Methodology We put in place our own innovation retention methodologies to promote (6 Sigma) (LPS) sustained innovative mind-set. We developed a total of 7 innovation 95 courses for spreading our innovation philosophy to new recruits and em74 65 ployees and expanding VE activities. We also opened ‘Ullimteo’, on May GB 1: 50 22, our own innovation center intended to nurture talents equipped with BB 2: 37 KE 4: 25 LS Mtron’s innovative thinking and executive capabilities. MBB 3: 8 0 KL 5: 40 Nurturing Innovative Talents and Securing Capabilities 2009 2010 2009 2010 Nurturing innovative talents play a key role in carrying out innovation (VE) (Quality Circle) initiatives to generate substantial outcomes. We trained 178 innovative 12 talents in each area during 2010 to support various innovation activities, GB: 3 5 solidifying in-house innovation capabilities. In particular, we produced 8 4 BB: 9 0 Coaches MBBs in each division as a basis for division-led innovation activities. We 2009 2010 2009 2010 also fostered quality circle coaches and quality masters, which brought about participation and change by divisions. 1. GB: Green Belt 4. KE: Kaizen Expert 2. BB: Black Belt 5. KL: Kaizen Leader 3. MBB: Master Black Belt [ Suggestions Made per Head ] (unit: No. of cases) 30.2 15.7 10.2 2008 2009 2010 [ Innovation Initiative Directions for 2010 ] [ Innovation Courses Developed in 2010 ] Activity Development Process Target Implementation Innovation Basics Immediate Action by all All employees 31st round of training completed Substantial Detailed Innovation Tasks outcomes employees 1.Focusing support on financial LSM Innovation Basics New employees Experienced employees performance-related tasks 2. Developing innovation activity (including overseas subsidiaries) New employees retention methodology LSMW (China, Injection Molding 3. Vitalizing communication of System) Generating Performance innovation activities LPS 1 LSMW Immediate Action by Subsidiary Offering 6-day training of Innovation Activities 4. Improving performance verification team chief team chiefs Spreading and monitoring of innovation activities 6 Sigma Easy Sigma Improvement experts GB training in the 2nd half Continuous 5. Fostering innovative talents and customized VE 2 VE Introduction Research center, UC Offering 2-day training development securing their capabilities innovation of infrastructure activities 6. Expanding the scope of innovation 1. LPS: LS Mtron Production System activities 2. VE: Value Engineering 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _1. Innovation Initiative Activity 33 Vitalizing Communication of Innovation Activities Winning Bronze Prize at the 36th National QM Contest _ We took part in We are operating various communication channels to build companythe 36th National Quality Management Contest organized by the Miniswide consensus and executive capabilities on innovation activities. With try of Knowledge and Economy to wrap up QM performance of various CEO MBWA (Management By Wandering Around) run as an innovaindustries for the past year and our Heavy Quality Circle in the injection initiative meeting, our CEO visits every business site himself once tion molding system team won the presidential bronze prize for ‘reducevery quarter to encourage innovation leaders and examine on-site innoing processing lead time by improving wind power bedplate technique’ vation activities. As part of our business division innovation activity diin the machinery and metal sector of the Quality Circle Competition agnosis initiatives, six modules including site management and improvesection. In addition, Ahn, Hyo-beom from the injection molding system ment, facility maintenance and production quality were diagnosed of the team won the quality master prize and Lee, Young-joon from the tractor Tractor, Injection Molding and Electronic Component Divisions. The requality guarantee team received the Minister of Knowledge and Econsults were shared in November and were considered in selecting innovaomy Citation. We will take these achievements as an opportunity to extion tasks for 2011. pand on-site QM innovation practices more actively and continue with quality improvement activities down the road. Innovation Activity Kick-off Meeting and Innovation Discussion Meeting _ We hosted an innovation activity kick-off event presenting manHolding Mtron 6 Festival 2010 _ We held Mtron 6 Festival 2010 in LS agement policies for 2010 as part of our efforts to facilitate innovation Miraewon in December, 2010. Our directly-invested companies, business initiatives. The event served as a venue to share innovation initiative partners, overseas subsidiaries, affiliated companies and sister companies directions for 2010 and plans to train improvement experts. The innovagathered together to share and promote best innovation practices and tion discussion meeting supervised by division heads offered an opportusee themselves achievements of our customized innovation initiatives for nity to share action plans to make Jeongeup plant a GWP (Great Work the past one year. With 230 participants, guest lecture, task presentations Place). by business division, presentations of best suggestions and finally a dinner party took place during the festival. Company-wide Collection of Innovation Ideas _ We award those who make remarkable innovation suggestions to encourage company-wide innovation practices and make innovation and change part of our employees’ daily operations. Evaluations are made of the past one year’s performance to determine the winner who made the highest number of suggestions including high-quality ideas. The number of suggestions made per head stood at more than 30 on average and the participation rate was 100% in 2010. 1 2 3 1. VE Training 2. Innovation Kick-off and Discussion Meeting in Jeongeup Plant 3. Innovation Center ‘Ullimteo’ 4. Quality Circle Competition Contest 5. 36th National Quality Management Contest 6. Mtron 6 Festival 2010 4 5 6 34 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2. Customized Innovation Innovation activities are intended to contribute to generating business performance directly. Activities We offered ‘Immediate Action’ courses to all employees to firmly establish the groundwork for customized innovation activities in 2010. We recognize these activities as a key driver for LS Mtron’s future growth and plan to take aggressive innovation initiatives to improve our business structure in a sustainable manner. Intensive Support for Financial Outcome-related Tasks 'Immediate Action' Courses for Sales Staff _ We offered ‘Immediate AcWe have innovation experts in each division who carry out a wide range tion’ courses to all of our sales representatives. With 180 sales staff parof innovation tasks to generate substantial performance utilizing customticipating, those courses intended to improve customer satisfaction furized problem-solving methods. Our 2010 innovation activities included ther by enhancing trainees’ sales capabilities and their understanding of 235 tasks per activity category and achieved KRW 29.9 billion-worth task features of B2B marketing as well. performance and KRW 21.3 billionworth financial performance, accounting for 47% of operating profit of KRW 44.6 billion, which proves Expansion of and Support for Innovation Activities of Directly-Invested that innovation activities played a role in sustaining our business operaCompanies and Overseas Subsidiaries _ We supported directly-invested tions. companies and overseas subsidiaries in carrying out innovation activities in order to expand the scope of our innovation initiatives in 2010. Expansion of Innovation Activity Scope We trained employees of our directly-invested companies on such inSales/Marketing _ We expanded the scope of our innovation activities novation methodologies as 3R 5S support, VE training and LPS KL and helped the Chinese subsidiary staff with ‘Immediate Action’ courses for from manufacturing-centered areas such as design, purchase and proteam leaders and training for new comers. duction to sales and marketing in order to engage all divisions in innovation activities on their own initiative. To improve their sales capabilities of tractor, air-conditioning, injection molding, electronic component and Enhancement of Performance Verification and Monitoring on electronic circuit material divisions, we diagnosed their current capaciInnovation Activities ties, selected improvement tasks to be conducted and also focused on We laid the foundation to set appropriate directions for innovation activbuilding basic capabilities to grow into a Global Top Player. ities and generate substantial outcomes in 2010. We put in place a system to measure financial and business restructuring performance regularly so that we can take a second look at our activity outcomes and consider Design Purchase Production Sales/Marketing them in setting innovation plans for the following year. We also designated FEA (Financial Effect Analyst)s who specialize in performance veri6 Sigma, VE 1 LPS 2, 6 Sigma Generating fication in each division and were able to improve accuracy remarkably. strategic tasks Expansion in 2010 1. VE: Value Engineering Increasing scope of 2. LPS: LS Mtron Production System 5 main divisions [ Performance of Customized Innovation Activities by Division ] [ Innovation Activity Financial Performance ] (unit : KRW 100 million) (unit : KRW 100 million) Division (team) Big-Y LPS 6 Sigma Cost Innovation Total Tractor 24.0 0.1 7.1 41.9 73.1 446 Air-Conditioning 7.3 46.4 53.7 299.3 10 Injection Molding 4.8 3.1 34.1 42.0 19.9 Electronic Circuit Material 12.0 38.0 50.0 59.9 LPS Electronic Component 20.6 38.4 59.0 6 Sigma 209.5 213 Automotive component 3.2 4.2 10.7 18.1 Big Y Operating profit Special Business 2.6 0.8 3.4 contributions Cost Innovation (VE) Total 59.9 10.0 19.9 209.5 299.3 Task performance Operating profit 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _2. Win-Win Partnership Activity 35 02-2. Win-Win Partnership Activity 02-2 WP [ Declaration ] [ Management System ] We will strive to create a virtuous cycle of win-win cooperation to seek joint • Manager in charge: CPO Department in charge: Win-Win Partnership Team growth together with business partners via transparent and fair trade and secure competitive capabilities that will ensure our continued survival in the [ Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee Meeting ] global market. • Purpose: To systemically carry out various activities to establish fair trade culture and seek joint growth with business partners on a company-wide level [ Mid-term Management Directions ] • Department in charge (related dapartment): Win-Win Partnership • To forge sustainable partnership by ensuring joint growth Team (Legal Affairs Team, Finance Team) • To expand value chain in order to secure competitiveness in the global •2  010 Records: Setting directions to promote win-win partnership between market big companies and Sustainability ManagementEs and compliance of fair • To promote Sustainability Management engagement and implementation of trade agreements with subcontractors / Attending Fair Trade Commission’s business partners TCP performance measurement presentation, sharing presentation materials and defining R & R accordingly / Discussing development of additional winwin partnership programs / Additionally setting win-win partnership funds with financial institutions 2010 achievement  WP 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Operating Win-Win · E stablishing fair-trade agreements with · Integrating SM evaluation factors in business · Building framework to integrate Q-Partner evaluation indicators Partnership Framework subcontractors partner assessment and management rules · Matching Q-Partner evaluation cycle and certification period · Creating a new department in charge · Selecting 32 Q-Partners and ensuring 100 percent cash payments · Selecting 18 Q-Partner · Creating and operating the Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee Supporting Business · Conducting  win-win partnership activities · R unning win-win partnership programs · Initiating 3 purchase-conditional projects to develop new products Partner in Building Supporting training and consulting · Initiating 3 R&D fund tasks Infrastructure Carrying out joint R&D · Quality and production training for 105 employees at 67 business partners Expanding innovation activities · Completing 15 business partners in management consulting Creating Win-Win Partnership Fund ·O  ffering KRW 500 million in direct loans(3 business partners) and KRW 4.2 billion in win-win partnership fund (14 business partners) · Making bi-weekly payments to 83 major business partners Communication with ·C reating channels to collect opinions within · B uilding and operating regular communication · Holding 15 rounds of regular dialogue Business Partners integrated purchase system channels · Hosting a performance-sharing event with business partners in December ·B uilding channels to communicate business ·C  onstantly collecting opinions and improving ·O  perating win-win partnership bulletin board within integrated purchase partner-related policies responses management system * SM: Sustainability Management 2011 plan WP 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Establishing Grow Together · Establishing fair trade culture · R econcluding win-win partnership agreements with SMEs and fair trade agreements with subcontractors/ Year-round with Business Partners Culture · Supporting business partners in securing financial stability surpassing the 85-evaluation mark in implementing these agreements · Setting business partner assessment system ·Maintaining the existing system to support financial stability of business partners (100% cash payments to Q-Partners, 100% cash equivalent payments to business partners) · Building online business partner assessment system · Operating the Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee Supporting Business Partners · Win-win partnership initiatives · Training on capability enhancement-150 business partner employees Year-round in Securing Competitiveness Supporting capability improvement · Consulting on capability improvement-20 business partners -O  ffering technology support, quality improvement · Exploring 10 project themes for public-private joint investments in technology development support and etc. · Building production management system of business partners Building production management system Engaging and Communicating · Setting and running regular communication channels · Holding discussions once or twice per quarter by business division Year-round with Business Partners · Hosting performance-sharing events with business partners at the end of year Dec. · Constantly collecting opinions and improving responses · Launching Q-Partner Consultative Meeting Year-round · Operating win-win partnership bulletin board within integrated purchase management system * The framework is up and running and will be supplemented and managed continuously. * Modifications in managerial issues in 2011: Establishing grow together with business partners culture (advancing win-win partnership framework) Supporting business partners in securing competitiveness (increasing support for overall management activities) Engaging and communicating with business partners (increasing importance of engaging core stakeholders) 36 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Operating Win-Win We chose operation of win-win partnership framework as a managerial issue to establish Partnership Framework culture of fair trade with business partners and maintain and further develop win-win partnership with them. In particular, our Q-Partner system which is to differentiate our strategic partners to ensure joint growth is taking its firm root in LS Mtron as our own win-win partnership model. Fulfillment of TCP TCP 3 Major Guidelines We signed the TCP (Triangle Cooperation Program) agreement in OcConclusion of agreement tober 2009 in order to establish voluntary fair-trade disciplines and win· Issuing written agreements when they are signed or modified win partnership framework as well as to promote competitiveness and · Determining and adjusting payment amounts based on reasonable growth together with our business partners. There were no fair trade viocalculation and coordination methods lations such as unfair competition or monopolistic activities in 2010. · Prohibiting unfair payment cutbacks Selection (listing) and management of business partners Q-Partner System · Ensuring fairness and transparency in selecting and eliminating business We are fully aware that our own competitiveness comes from our busipartners ness partners’ competitiveness. This is why we are operating the Q-Part· Releasing criteria, procedures and results of business partner selection and ner system to find outstanding performers and nurture strategic partners elimination via fair evaluations of our business partners. We selected 32 Q-Partners · Offering equal opportunities to participate in bidding process in 2010, an increase of 14 companies from last year. In 2010, the Q-Partner certification period was shortened from 2 to 1 year to be matched Installation and operation of the in-house Subcontract Review Committee · Creating the Subcontract Review Committee with business partner evaluation periods in order to make the system · Conducting prior review of agreement conclusions and pricing decisions more effective. We also created two separate certification grades of Platiworth more than KRW 1 billion num and Gold to ensure differentiated support for our business partners. · Reviewing criteria and procedures in selecting, listing and eliminating They are eligible for full cash payments and we also assist their improvebusiness partners ment activities to make up for their weaknesses including first chance to · Operating a center to receive reports on unfair trade practices take part in win-win partnership programs and support for their innovation activities, forming the basis for ‘joint growth’ culture. Our division heads and employees visit those top performers and hold the Q-Partner Signboard-hanging ceremony. Q-Partner Signboard-hanging ceremony [ Basic Win-Win Partnership Model ] [ Win-Win Partnership Directions ] “Seeking Joint Growth through Support for Capability Enhancement Financial Stability of Business Partners Strengthened Partnership with Strategic Partners” · Support for employee education and training · Improvement of subcontract payment terms Offering training to improve job capabilities -M aintaining cash-equivalent payment ratios and cash Q-Partners Educating and consulting environment safety payment condition B enchmarking outstanding business partners and etc. Shortening payment deadlines and etc. · Management and other support · Financing(fund) support Increasing consulting support Direct offering of LS Mtron Core business partners -G  iving incentives to outstanding business partners Support in relation with other financial institutions Supporting ethical management and etc. · Expanding bi-weekly payments Specialty/Characteristics Technology Support and Quality Improvement Opinion Collection and Dialogue Channel Operation · P ublic-private joint investments in technology · Performance-sharing event with business partners development ·C ooperation meetings and discussion meetings with Outstanding business partners · P urchase-conditional new product development business partners (by type/function) projects · LS Mtron Win-Win Partnership Center · Q-Partner Definition -Quality (company-level quality), Partner (LS Mtron’s partners) Performance management · Certification Grade: Platinum Partner / Gold Partner · S election Criteria / Targets: Annual transactions worth more than KRW 300 million and transaction number above 10(accounting for 73% of total transaction amount in 2010) / raw material providers, processing outsourcees, product companies and New comers IN Ordinary OUT The thrown-out Q-Partner System facility companies · E valuation Criteria: Quality, cost, deadline, financial performance, innovation tasks, business management, support for secondary business partners, SM performance and etc. Performance sharing Support for competitiveness Establishment of based on mutual trust enhancement open network 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _2. Win-Win Partnership Activity 37 2. Supporting Business We firmly believe that business partners’ competitiveness leads to our own competitiveness Partner in Building at LS Mtron. We provide various support activities to business partners to encourage changes in business structure and their growth as a small but strong global company, which will Infrastructure help us enhance our competitiveness to ensure sustained survival in the global market. Support for Capacity Enhancement Performance in Technology and Quality Improvement Tasks Consulting for Business Partners _ We launched PMS (Productivity Public-Private Joint Investments in Technology Developmentt Management System)·OJT consulting projects supervised by the Minis· Up to KRW 1 billion and 3 years of development period per project try of Knowledge and Economy and Korea Productivity Center and of· Creation of KRW 20 billion-worth LS Mtron fund fered customized consulting services to 13 business partners. Our goal · Government 50%, LS Mtron 25%, and business partners 25% is to set up mid/long-term plans, select phase-specific themes for 3 years, · Performance perform tasks and post management, improving those business partners : 2010 (3 projects, total development cost KRW 2.06 billion, on-going) : 2011 (13 projects, total development cost KRW 8 billion, project diagnosed at 2~3 PMS levels in 2010 into 4~5 PMS levels. development under way) Capacity Building of Business Partner Employees _ We set up QM and Purchase-Conditional New Product Development Projects production management training courses with Korea Politechnics in · Up to KRW 0.5 billion and 2 years per project order to find core issues in manufacturing lines via systemic problem· Government 55%, LS Mtron 20%, and business partners 25% solving techniques in the production and quality fields and to enhance · Project process productivity through waste factor improvement and innovation. These : RFP-making ▶ project support ▶ project implementation ▶ success (purchase) courses were taken by 106 employees at 67 business partners. We also · Performance provide diverse programs to help business partners in increasing their : 2008 (2 projects, total development cost KRW 0.6 billion, success) capacities such as safety training, patent courses, overseas training and : 2009 (2 projects, total development cost KRW 1 billion, on-going) CEO special lectures. We will continue to listen to our business partners : 2010 (3 projects, total development cost KRW 2.04 billion, on-going) and lead their capacity building activities by creating the foundation upon which they can grow on their own. Support for Technology and Quality Improvement Purchase-Conditional New Product Development Projects _ These projWe are carrying out public-private joint investments in technology develects intend to assist SMEs in developing products required by large comopment and purchase-conditional new product development projects to panies. Small & Medium Business Administration offers up to KRW 0.5 improve R&D capabilities of our business partners. billion in development costs and big companies guarantee purchase of these products. [ Performance of Production and Quality Training for Business Partners ] [ Performance Details of Technology and Quality Improvement Tasks in 2010 ] Subject Training Period (hours) Trainees (number) Project Project Theme Total Development Cost (LS's investments) Quality management Aug. 18~Aug. 20 (21) 23 Public-Private Joint ·D evelopment of built-in brake horse fitting KRW 1 billion (KRW 250 million) Production and quality management Sep. 08~Sep. 11 (30) 25 Investment in ·C ompact oil cooler for automobile hydraulic KRW 500 million (KRW 130 million) Production management Sep. 15~Sep. 17 (21) 24 Technology steering gear Quality management Oct. 11~Oct. 13 (21) 19 Development ·C AC duct blower molding technology for KRW 560 million (KRW 140 million) Production management Oct. 20~Oct. 22 (21) 14 turbo engines Total 5 (114) 105 Purchase-Conditional ·D evelopment of multi-mode/multi-band KRW 700 million (KRW 150 million) New Product built-in chip antenna Development · Development of resonators for turbo engines KRW 890 million (KRW 290 million) Projects ·D eveloping domestic high-efficiency green hear KRW 450 million (KRW 90 million) exchanger technology 38 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Public-Private Joint Investments in Technology Development _ Under Financial Stability of Business Partners the supervision of Small & Medium Business Administration, we took We assist our business partners in ensuring their management stability in part in creating public-private joint investment fund for technology devarious ways. Out of the KRW 10 billion-worth LS Win-Win Partnership velopment of SMEs. LS Mtron, Samsung Electro-Mechanics and SamFund created in 2010 to help business partners to benefit from favorable sung Mobile Display established a fund of KRW 20 billion, respectively, interest rates lower than market rates, KRW 4.25 billion was provided to while Korea Aerospace Industries formed a fund of KRW 10 billion. The 14 companies. We also shortened bill payment deadlines for subcontracfund is to be invested in developing those types of technology that are tors from 60 to 45 days and are making 100% cash-equivalent payments not economically feasible for SMEs and if one proves to be successful, it to ensure financial stability of our business partners. can secure customers for more than 2 years. The fund will contribute to forging a virtuous cycle of win-win partnership as it will enable our busiWe made bi-weekly payments to 83 major business partners in addition ness partners to access HR resources, technology and equipment and to Q-Partners in 2010 to improve their cash-flow and are engaged in conalso LS Mtron to obtain a stable supply source of high quality products. tinuous support programs to help our partners with management stability including emergency management fund loan (once, worth KRW 200 Tae-il Machinery: Purchase-conditional new product development million), facility investment and rentals (3 times, worth KRW 1.2 billion), project (development of high-speed, high-precision index unit for two-color injection molding machine) raw material purchasing agent services (KRW 57 billion). R&D Achievements · Developing 150 ton-grade and 250 ton-grade index units for two-color injection molding machines(delivery test completed → up and running as of 2010) [ Trends in Cash-Equivalent Payments Made to Business Partners ] (unit: times) ·D  elivered 3 units to LS Mtron in 2010 (one 150-ton grade unit and two Bill Payments Cash-Equivalent Payments 250-ton grade units) 450 '10.01 · 2 joint patent applications '09.11 '10.03 '10.05 '10.07 '10.10 400 : Injection molding machine with stopper-equipped index rotor '10.04 '10.11 :Injection molding machine with index rotor materials that enable non350 '09.12 '10.06 '10.09 '09.10 contact rotations 300 '10.02 250 '10.08 Expected Benefits 200 ·O  btaining domestic technology to develop 150 ton-grade and 250 ton-grade 150 '10.08 index units '10.04 '10.06 · S ecuring design capabilities for 450 ton and above models and 100 '10.05 '10.07 test/evaluation technology 50 '10.03 '10.09 · Replacing imports of two-color injection molding machine index units 0 1 2 1. Production and Quality Management Training for Business Partners 2. Inauguration ceremony for purchase-conditional R&D cooperation fund for SMEs 3. Performance-sharing event with business partners: presentation by Tae-il Machinery 4. Injection molding machines equipped with high-speed, high-precision index units 3 4 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _2. Win-Win Partnership Activity 39 3. Communication with Our definition of sustainability management includes seeking growth and development toBusiness Partners gether with stakeholders. This is why we are building a wide range of engagement channels to exchange opinions with business partners. We will continue to create opportunities to pursue joint growth with our business partners by establishing a culture of engagement and dialogue. Business Partner Engagement and Dialogue Win-Win Partnership Online Bulletin Board _ We created our own onWe are building various dialogue channels at the main office and busiline bulletin board (http://eproc.lsmatron.com) to communicate with our ness sites respectively to exchange views with business partners and to business partners on win-win partnership issues within the integrated make their voices heard. The number of regular discussion meetings with purchase system in 2010. The general section deals with changes in our business partners stood at 15 in 2010. Discussion meetings address winpolicies and regulations, training courses and consulting services and the win partnership program plans in addition to usual discussion items such business division-specific sections let business partners make suggestions as quality and supply/demand issues. We will make sure that those conregarding process improvement and R&D issues. Our 2011 plan is to sultations and discussions with our business partners serve as a venue to promote the bulletin board and come up with plans to make full use of it. talk about win-win partnership strategies and programs and to contribute to generating practical outcomes. 2010 Performance Sharing Conference _ We hosted the 2010 Performance Sharing Conference with business partners at the Jeonju site. The Sharing Quality Goals _ Our Automotive Component Division held disevent, the 2nd of its kind, is taking a firm root as a regular venue to share cussion meetings with CEOs from 11 business partners who supply main and spread best innovation practices of business partners and forge conmaterials. They shared automobile market prospects, quality goals and sensus of joint growth via Q-Partner certification system. production plans for 2010 and in particular, our report on win-win partnership plans and R&D cooperation fund operation garnered keen atThis year’s conference was attended by 120 employees from LS Mtron tention from participants. and business partners and they shared innovation activities of top-performing business partners and deepened their understanding of SustainEstablishment and Announcement of Win-Win Partnership Plans _ Our ability Management and joint growth. The following Q-Partner certifiTractor Division utilized discussions with business partners in establishcation ceremony awarded certificates and prize money to CEOs of 32 ing and announcing win-win partnership plans. The participants, with Q-Partners selected through internal evaluations. am aim to enhance capacities of business partners and to support them, analyzed performance by reviewing production results between January and April of 2010 and talked about improvements to be made. They also made 2~4 quarter and mid/long-term forecasts to study future business trends. These meetings served to examine our capacity-building support programs, which are being deployed as part of our win-win partnership initiatives, and their relevant difficulties. In addition, plans were discussed to further expand the scope of innovation expert training courses for business partners. [ Business Partner Engagement Channel ] Collection of business partner opinions (Website) Regular discussion meeting (Discussion) Common survey of stakeholders (Survey) Business Division Company-Wide Business presentation (Presentation) Mtron6 Festival (Sharing event) Performance-sharing conference (Sharing event) 40 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Common Survey of Stakeholders _ We carried out surveys of our core [ Survey of Sustainability Management Engagement Method Preference ] stakeholders to find out their demands and expectations of LS Mtron in Engagement Method No. of Votes Gained Percentage the 2nd half of 2010. As for business partner stakeholders, we surveyed Direct suggestions on products and services 27 32 CEOs and officials in charge of business transactions from major busiPresenting opinions on online bulletin board 25 30 ness partners that attend our cooperation and discussion meetings and (corporate website) the results were considered in selecting 2010 Sustainability Management Participating in surveys 19 22 managerial issues. We also found out Sustainability Management enAttending top management/consultative meetings 11 13 Participating in writing and reviewing 2 2 gagement methods and information disclosure channels favored by these Sustainability Reports business partners, which will form the basis to carry out customized diaConstant communication via e-mail 1 1 logue with them. Our future plan is to expand engagement methods and information release channels preferred by business partners and perform detailed surveys to make our dialogue with business partners more effec[ Survey of Information Acquisition Channel Preference ] tive. Information Acquisition Channel No. of Votes Gained Percentage Direct dialogue (discussions) 24 32 Media PR and advertisements 16 22 Website (www.lsmtron.com) 14 19 Sustainability Reports (hard copy) 11 15 Sustainability Reports (e-book) 5 7 Others 4 5 1 2 1. Automotive Component Division’s discussion meeting with business partners 2. Tractor Division’s discussion meeting with business partners 3. 2010 Performance Sharing Conference 4. Awarding Q-Partner certificates 3 4 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _3. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 41 02-3. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 02-3 CS [ Declaration ] [ Management System ] We classify customers as our core stakeholder group and thus aim to provide prod• CEO– Department in charge: Quality Management Team ucts that meet expectations and demands of customers by carrying out continued quality improvement activities. Furthermore, we will do our utmost to offer the best [ CS and QM Subcommittees ] possible services so that we can win their heart and trust. • Purpose: To present company-wide directions, set detailed strategies and share information regarding customer satisfaction and quality management in consider[ Mid-term Management Directions ] ation of business division-specific characteristics • To maximize customer satisfaction with customer-oriented management • Department in charge (related dapartment): Quality Management Team (Quality • To secure quality competitiveness for economic and social value creation Assurance Team) • To increase contact points with customers and improve customer services • 2010 Records: Introducing Sustainability Management activities/Creating and reviewing risk scenarios for CS and QM in each business division and setting directions for improvements/Sharing plans for the 2010 Quality Innovation Festival (schedule, finding failure cases and rewarding achievements) 2010 achievement Cs 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Operating Quality · Declaring  QM guidelines · B uilding QMS 1 evaluation framework · Processes selected for different evaluation targets Management Framework · Operating  ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 system · Evaluation framework being set up (to be completed by August, 2011) · QM certified in overseas subsidiaries · LSAE (Chinese subsidiary, tractor division) ISO 9001-certified · Nurturing QM talents · Talent promotion system being constructed (to be completed by September, 2011) · Running 4 training programs for QM talents · QM for business partners ·D  iagnose of QM cooperation framework completed of 17 business partners (KSA) Obtaining Sustained · Failure  cost-goal setting and monitoring · Goal-setting and monitoring of failure cost · Failure cost goal-setting completed (January) Product Quality · Holding  quality innovation festival · Performance monitoring (monthly) Competitiveness · Quality  management with business partners· Building global QM framework · Creating and operating customer and QM Subcommittees discussion meetings / assessing improvements · Participating in QM-related outside seminars: 4 made · Product quality improvement activities:14 · Diagnosing quality management framework: 22 ·Q  uality diagnosis and improvement guidance-32 business partners, 49 times · Aligning overseas subsidiary/in-house QMS: 3/1 Communication with ·M  anaging CRM system and VOC · Customized customer satisfaction activities by · Division-specific CS activities/related training: 13 Customers ·13 product-related events business division · Participating in and hosting product exhibitions/seminars: 16 ·Online training on customer care · VOC collection by business division · Conducting CS surveys and sharing results 1. Quality Management System 2011 plan Cs 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Operating Product Quality · Cutting quality costs · Setting quality failure cost targets by business division and directly-invested company Jan. Performance Improvement · Performance monitoring Monthly Framework · Continuous quality improvement · 10 improvements and optimizations of critical/vulnerable systems in each business division Year-round · Product quality improvement activities · Diagnosing quality management framework · Performing quality diagnosis of business partners and offering improvement guidance · Operating customer and QM Subcommittees Enhancing QM Capabilities · Enhancing quality innovation framework · Building QMS (Quality Management System) evaluation system Aug. · Setting QM talent promotion system Sep. · Nurturing QM talents · Growing quality innovation leaders: 15 Jun. · QM training programs: 9 Year-round Engaging and Communication · Communication with customers · Setting regular communication channels with customers by business division Oct. with Customers · Performing CS activities continuously by business division Year-round · Gathering VOC by business division · Conducting CS surveys and sharing results Nov. * The framework is up and running and will be supplemented and managed continuously. * Modifications in managerial issues in 2011 Enhancing QM capabilities (strengthening overall competency build-up systems for quality enhancement) Engaging and communicating with customers (increasing importance of engaging core stakeholders) 42 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Operating of We are building our QM system evaluation framework to boost QM performance and every Quality Management LS Mtron business site is constantly improving and optimizing their QM system. In addition, all of our employees are involved in enhancing their QM capabilities to ensure susFramework tained product quality improvement. Building QM System Evaluation Framework Support for Business Partners in Improving QM Capabilities We are building our QM system evaluation framework. We aim to seDiagnosis of SCQM _ Our Tractor Division, Air-Conditioning Division, lect evaluation target process suitable for each business division and apInjection Molding Division and Electronic Component Division, togethply quantitative evaluation criteria under the framework. The overall er with Korean Standards Association, diagnosed SCQM(Supply Chain framework structure is being constructed based on requirements of such Quality Management) of 17 business partners. SCQM is a governmentinternational QM system standards as ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949 and supported project to build a QM cooperation framework between parthe framework will be utilized to measure performance of QM system in ent companies and business partners and it aims to diagnose 7 sectors each business division and address improvement issues found, contributof ‘Malcolm Baldrige’ QM innovation model (leadership, strategic planing to enhancing our quality competitiveness. Evaluation results will be ning, workforce focus, customer focus, process management, measureused in such a way that business divisions can benchmark each others’ ment, analysis and knowledge management and results). The project best practices in operating their QM system and generate synergistic efserved as an opportunity to solidify a cooperative QM framework befects to improve product quality. tween LS Mtron and business partners. LSAE, ISO 9001-certified _ LSAE (LS Agriculture Equipment Co., Ltd.), Operation of Quality Improvement Groups with Business Partners _ Our our Chinese subsidiary in the Tractor Division, was ISO 9001:2008-cerAir-Conditioning Division is running quality improvement groups with 3 tified in October 2010, which proves excellence of its QM system. With of its major business partners. Their goal is to ensure stable product qualthis, all of our business sites including overseas sites now have QM sysity and delivery of defect-free products for business partners via preventem in place. tion of customer complaints, stabilization of product quality, improvement of manufacturing process and guidance support, field inspections Promotion of QM talents and re-establishment of component quality inspection system. The diviIn order to ensure sustained enhancement of quality capabilities, we ofsion and its three business partners held a launching ceremony to share fered two basic and another two professional regular QM courses to directions of quality improvement group activities and signed the quality some forty staff in charge of development, production and quality assuragreements through mutual discussions. We are to initiate field tours and ance in each business division. We also invited outside experts to lecture site-specific activities with each business partner to ensure quality im200 employees at the Jeonju site on ‘changes in QM paradigms and qualprovement in a more concrete manner. ity innovation trends in businesses’. In addition, we trained 3 quality innovation leaders who are qualified as international QM system certification examiners. 1 2 3 1. Special lecture on `changes in QM paradigms and quality innovation trends in businesses’ 2. Injection Molding Division’s C/S Team, training overseas agents 3. LSAE ISO 9001:2008 certificate 4. Tractor Division, training sales and service staff in the 1st half 5. Jeonju site, presentation on SCQM diagnosis results 6. Quality improvement group launching ceremony 4 5 6 with business partners 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _3. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 43 2. Obtaining Sustained We believe that securing quality competitiveness is the fundamental prerequisite in forming Product Quality lasting business partner relationships and the most important responsibility that we bear as a company for our customers. This is why we continue to review directions to improve quality Competitiveness issues and build a management framework to provide quality products. Improvement of Quality Failure Cost Improvement of Product Safety We set targets to cut quality failure costs at the start of every year and Our top priority is customer safety and we do our best to produce and seek improvements by regularly analyzing performance of each business deliver safe products. We consider customer usability to prevent any division. According to 2010 performance results compared to the previphysical or property damages to our customers due to defective products ous year, the Tractor Division posted 31% and 97% improvements in and seek customer safety by complying with safety regulations at home losses from customer complaints and internal failure costs respectively and abroad throughout the entire cycle from product development and and the Automotive Component Division recorded 65% and 87% imdesign and to final disposal. We also take into account customers’ actual provements in losses from customer complaints and internal failure costs conditions of use and continue to assess and eliminate those factors that respectively. could be detrimental to product safety. There were no violations of safety-related legal or corporate regulations or safety claims raised by cusSustained Quality Competitiveness tomers in 2010. To ensure sustained product quality competitiveness, we are proactively carrying out a wide range of activities including quality defect improve2010 Quality Innovation Festival ment, diagnosis and enhancement of QM framework, alignment of QM We held the 2010 Quality Innovation Festival at our Jeonju site. The system and diagnosis of and guidance for QM framework of business event intended to evaluate quality performance for the year comprepartners. hensively and establish our own unique QM culture. We shared QM success stories and failures and customer satisfaction survey results, held a exhibition of defective products and offered a special lecture on quality innovation during the festival. The QM award which recognizes the best [ 2010 Quality Management Activity Achievements ] (unit: No. of cases) QM performance for the year was given to the Tractor Division and topperforming individuals and teams in quality innovation were awarded with achievement awards. In wrapping up the festival, we re-confirmed the importance of respecting the fundamentals and principles as a core element of QM and pledged ourselves to enhance management perfor14(15.7%) mance through quality innovation in 2011. 4(4.5%) 22(24.7%) 49(55.1%) Improvement of product quality defects QM system alignment Diagnosis and enhancement of QM framework Diagnosis of and guidance for QM framework of business partners (32 companies) 2010 Quality Innovation Festival Business Division (team) Improvement aCtivity Electronic Component Addressing filling shortages of semi-finished injection-molded connectors Automotive Component Reducing losses from TCI hose cut-off and decreasing defect rates Ultra Capacitor Improving quality through process audit and suggestions Electronic Circuit Materials Enhancing UCF (Uncoated Copper Coil) yields and switching to environmentally-friendly liquid junctions Tractor Boosting assembly quality via process improvement Increasing component quality via technology guidance for LSAE Air-Conditioning Cutting hidden costs through quality improvement in business partners 44 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 3. Communication with We classify customers as our core stakeholder. We led and participated in various programs Customers to satisfy and engage our customers and constantly deployed a wide range of initiatives for them in 2010. We will further expand contact points with customers and become more proactive in making their voices heard and integrating them into our product and service activities down the road. Customer Satisfaction Survey In particular, our customer information is stored in and managed by In order to evaluate our performance from the perspective of customthe ‘IN4CRM’ computer system and such information is available only ers and identify and improve any shortcomings, we carried out customer through highly strict compliance of relevant internal policies to make satisfaction surveys of internal and external customers. Survey items insure in advance that customer information is not stolen, violated or cluded product quality, due date, marketing and service of the Electronic leaked. There were no violations regarding customer information leakComponent Division, Tractor Division, Injection Molding Division and age or abuse in 2010. FCCL business team. Overall customer satisfaction level turned out to be about average across all survey items and we plan to do more to proTraining Sales and Service Personnel mote customer satisfaction and conduct CS surveys in all business diviWe are constantly training our sales and service personnel to encourage sions in 2011. a customer-oriented mindset as we are well aware of the importance of customer satisfaction in the rapidly changing market environment. We Management of Customer Complaints provided 10 sessions of CS training in 2010, boosting CS-dedicated emWe receive complaints that customers raise regarding our products in ployees’ qualifications and capabilities. In particular, our Injection Moldreal time and make rapid responses. Queries, consultations and coming Division educated overseas agents and employees of its clients as plaints that we gather through our website, call center, fax or offline well as LS Mtron staff on new products and shared their best practices in channels are registered in our ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) swift claims management and customer response services. computer system by concerned business divisions and departments or they are addressed offline so that they can be managed immediately. Product Information Provision and Marketing We built channels to communicate customer’s direct requirements to We offer sufficient information on products that we sell to ensure conemployees and are incorporating improvement issues into CS policies. venience of customers and prevention of misuse. We are producing and When it comes to highly significant customer complaints incurred by distributing instructions and user manuals on various products that each quality defects, they are reported to CEO to ensure swift and appropribusiness division manufactures and posting latest product information ate responses and actions. on our website constantly to give our customers real-time easy access to the information they want. In addition, each business division hosts preCustomer Information Security sentations/exhibitions and demonstrations for customers on new prodOur information security principles and policies are being deployed in ucts in a regular manner. We also perform PR and advertisement activiorder to enhance customer’s trust in our information security activities. ties to enhance consumer awareness of LS Mtron and deliver product We have a dedicated team dealing with information privacy issues and information. In doing so, we fully comply with relevant regulations such perform reviews and diagnosis regularly to make sure that critical cusas the Labeling and Advertising Act and there were no violations regardtomer information is protected in a systemic and thorough manner. We ing advertisements that slander competitors or distribute false or exagalso offer regular training to raise awareness of security issues. gerated information in 2010. [ Customer Complaint Response Process ] [ 2010 Major Product Information Provision Activities ] division Activities Tractor New T-7000 product presentation Information analysis/ New AMT* tractor presentation Customer complaint Customer satisfaction Determine and execute received confirmed Air-Conditioning Turbo 2000RT-grade demonstration response policies Water-source 3000RT-grade heat pump demonstration *AMT : Automatic Manual Transmission 02. Economic and Social Value Creation _3. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 45 Demonstration of Large-Scale Water Source Heat Pump _ Our Air-conThank-You Events for VIP Customers _ Our Injection Molding Division ditioning Division held a demonstration for the large scale 3000RT-grade hosted thank-you events for company CEOs and VIP customers from water-source heat pump with 70 relevant officials present from Korea related businesses in order to enhance customer satisfaction and mainDistrict Heating Corporation, Daelim and etc at the Jeonju site. The detain/develop partnerships with customers. The event replaced the Korea velopment enabled us to enter the domestic market for large-capacity International Plastics & Rubber Show which we had kept attending as heat pumps which was dominated by overseas leaders such as York and a venue for marketing activities and aimed to get closer to customers in Carrier and is expected to replace heat pump imports, laying the foundaincreasing their satisfaction and maintain and further grow partnerships tion for us to take the lead in the domestic new and renewable energy with them. Five such events invited 280 VIPs at our sales offices in Busan, market. Seoul/Gyeonggi Incheon, central region, Gwangju and Daegu and we will take advantage of those thank-you events as a direct CS channel to Customer Engagement bring about positive awareness of and increase interest in our business activities. We are running customer-specific response channels in each business division to engage more customers. We take part in various exhibitions to offer customers information on products and technology in each of our business divisions and host product demonstrations and presentations regularly to encourage customers to share their views on our products. We also conduct customer-led regular audits to meet the level of product and service quality demanded by customers. 1, 2, 3. Injection Molding Division’s thank-you event for VIP customers 1 4 5 4. Tractor Division, ‘Korea International Exhibition of Machinery, Equipment, Science 7 & Technology for Agriculture’ 2 3 6 5. Tractor Division, participating in the 2010 Korea Golf Championship 8 9 6. Electronic Circuit Materials Division, participating in the Internepcon Japan 2010 7. Electronic Circuit Materials Division, ‘International Electronic Circuits Show’ 8. Air-Conditioning Division, holding a demonstration for large-scale water-source heat pump 9. Automotive Component Division, participating in the Component Procurement Seminar of GM Korea in Shanghai 46 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 03. Social Contribution Activity A heart to see things as beautiful – Attitudes to look into tiny details with integrity With such a heart and attitudes, LS Mtron always looks around with care, dreaming of a world to live with our neighbors, society and the nature and practicing sharing-oriented management. A forest imbues beauty and comfort because it is where the heart shelters and imbues energy. 03. Social Contribution Activity 47 03 SC [ Declaration ] [ Management System ] LS Mtron will actively strive for social contribution activities for the development and • Manager in charge: CHO Department in charge: Business Support Team growth of the community, while fulfilling corporate social responsibilities. We will also do the utmost to encourage the voluntary participation of employees in volun[ CS and QM Subcommittees ] teering and make the world a beautiful place. • Purpose: Social Contribution Subcommittee meetings are held to initiate the employee participation in and support for representative social contribution programs as the ground of decision-making on overall social contribution activities, share in[ Mid-term Management Directions ] formation between the head office and business sites and establish specific direc• To raise the corporate prestige by branding representative social contribution tions. activities • Department in charge (related dapartment): Business Support Team (divisions • To promote corporate relationships with the community and build trust related to each business site business-wise) • To raise the CSR mind-set among employees and expand volunteering among • 2010 Records: Conducting social contribution activities in 2010 and sharing the employees 2011 LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign / Establishing a social contribution team at the head office and business sites, and exchanging ideas on boosting teamwork / Exchanging opinions on ways to establish communication channels with the community / Gathering consensus and proposals on the management of a social contribution team 2010 achievement SC 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Establishment of Social · E stablishing a management system for social · E stablishing social contribution activities for each · Creating and operating the Social Contribution Subcommittee Contribution Strategies contribution activities business site · Designating coordinators for volunteering teams for each business site · Designating strategies and managers for the sites · Facilitating  performance and releasing it internally · Establishing the company-wide performance management system · Planning channels to connect with the community and externally · Establishing and promoting various performance releasing channels · S haring the pending community agenda and social · Opening communication channels for stakeholders for each business site contribution activities -Centered around the Jeonju site (communication channels for other sites in the pipeline) Social Contribution Activity · D  omestic social contribution activities · Sustaining domestic social contribution activities ·C onducting 23 activities e.g. managing and sponsoring programs (KRW Program Enhancing social community welfare 0.29 billion) Developing culture/art/sports ·Facilitating new social contribution activities abroad · Starting LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign (in Vietnam) Volunteering of employees and executives Fostering future talents, etc 2011 plan SC 2010 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Management of · Managing representative programs at home and abroad ·A  broad: Conducting the LS Mtron Global Happy Village Campaign Jun. Representative Social (constructing an elementary school in Vietnam, dispatching the employee volunteering team to Vietnam) Contribution Programs · Domestic: Organizing representative programs Dec. Consistent Involvement in and · C  ontinuously supporting and expanding social contribution · Supporting the low-income class and the elderly living alone Monthly Support for Community activities · Sponsoring the Jeonju International Film Festival, Jeonju World Sori Festival and Korea Cycle Federation Oct. ·C ontinuously conducting the One Company One Village (Chudong Village), One Company One School Year-round (Bong Dong Elementary School) · Volunteering in conjunction with community welfare organizations Year-round Systematic Management of · Establishing volunteering teams for each business site · Establishing a scheme for the company-wide volunteering teams Apr. Volunteering Teams · Facilitating employee volunteering activities · Conducting regular volunteering on each site Dec. · Operating the Social Contribution Subcommittee Dec. * The framework is up and running and will be supplemented and managed continuously. * Modifications in managerial issues in 2011: : Categorizing and managing social contribution programs into representative ones, ones for continued participation and support and employee volunteering activities 48 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Establishment of Social We are aware of clear goals and roles to become a global corporate citizen in conducting Contribution Strategies social contribution activities. We will continue to strengthen our relationships with the community near the head office and business sites at home and abroad and grow into a company that imbues warmth to the world through continued participation and interest in overall social issues. Directions for Social Contribution Systematic Management of the Employee Volunteering Team _ We curDirections of our social contribution activities are twofold: managing rently conduct voluntary community work in each site. One of the Manarepresentative programs and community involvement programs. First of gerial Issues for 2011 is systematic management of the employee volunall, we run representative social contribution programs to firm our presteering team to operate and maintain it company-wide. The volunteering ence as our intangible brand of a global player by running a single proteam will contribute to forming close relationships with the community, gram each time. Moreover, we continue to carry out community support while raising efficiency in managing representative social contribution for community development and co-prosperity of the community where activities. the head office and each site belongs. In particular, community involvement activities are to explore and manage social contribution activities Relationships and Communication with Community based on any issues or demand rising from the community. Stakeholders We maintain ethical and transparent relationships with local governments and community organizations. We also share information on pending issues facing each community through negotiating with stakeholders. We secured communication channels with approximately 10 consultative bodies for the head office each site throughout 2010, planning for coprosperity with the community through such communication. [ Layout of Directions for Social Contribution Activities ] Representative Programs Continued Community Involvement/Support Purpose : Strengthening community relationships Purpose: Branding social contribution activities Programs: E conomic development, social promotion, Programs: LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign culture/art/sports promotion, supporting future talents, etc. Voluntary participation and program support Employee Volunteering Team 03. Social Contribution Activity 49 2. Social Contribution We unfold social contribution activities according to the directions we set. In 2010, in parActivity Program ticular, we operated representative social contribution programs, while continuously participating in and developing such programs befitting each community’s expectations and needs. Social Contribution Representative Programs Support to Foster Future Talents LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign _ Our Global Happy VilLS Group Overseas Volunteering Team of University Students _ LS lage Campaign is the global one organized as our representative social Group overseas volunteering team of university students marking the contribution program. In order to fulfill our roles as a corporate citizen 6th year is a program offering opportunities for them to experience and amid the rapid growth in the overseas market, we decided to supply the volunteer in the impoverished environment in least developed countries, cutting-edge educational equipment and materials, while constructing 2 strengthening social responsibilities as a global company. We dispatched buildings with 9 classrooms in ‘Van Phu Elementary School’ in the backour overseas volunteering team of university students near Ho Chi Minh ward region of Tuyen Quang in Vietnam in conjunction with the Good in Vietnam along with major subsidiaries of LS Group and Korea’ Red Neighbors. In 2011, we plan to extend our helping hands on construction Cross. The 27-strong team were involved in volunteering and cultural sites through our volunteering team consisting of our employees and exexchanges including child education, repairing schools and village faciliecutives in Vietnam, and to unfold various programs such as sports conties, Taekwondo demonstrations and samulnori performance (performed test, music class and art class. We will do the utmost so that the global with four traditional Korean percussion instruments) for 11 days from charity program could pave the way for us to be a respected company at July 27 to August 6. Dispatching university student volunteering teams to home and abroad. least developed countries will continue down the road twice a year during their school vacations. Economic Development and Social Welfare Promotion Boseong Village Headmen’s Field Trip to Jeonju Site _ Our Tractor BusiSupport of Culture/Arts/Sports Development ness Division conducted a field trip to the Jeonju site for all village headCommunity Support Programs _ Our annual sponsorship for art and men in Boseong in August. With the presence of the 214-strong team, sports aims to enhance the cultural development and a greater quality of the event was held to bolster bonding with the community and to offer life in the community. Jeollabuk-do’s iconic cultural festivals, that is, the opportunities for first-hand experiences of the tractor production site. It Jeonju International Film Festival and the Jeonju World Sori Festival are deepened our ties with the group of village headmen, enabling us to procontinuous recipients of our support. We strive to raise the brand image mote our technological prowess to the community. by sponsoring community festivals and facilitating co-prosperity with the community. Sweet Potato Digging Event on Jeonju Site _ We held a farm experience event with sweet potato digging with those in Chudong Village, our sisterhood village, under the One Company One Village campaign as well as our 20 employees and executives and their families on the Jeonju site. This event is to experience farming through the One Company One Vil[ LS Mtron Social Contribution Programs ] lage for employees who were transferred to Jeonju so that they could better adapt to their new life and forge bonding among the families. LS Mtron’s Global Employee Happy Village Volunteering Campaign Social Contribution Economic Support of Programs Development Culture/Arts/Sports and Social Welfare Development Promotion Support to Foster Future Talents 50 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Employee Volunteering Kimchi-Making Event _ Following our briquette sharing event in 2008 Sarang Nanumhoe’ Picnicking with Yang Ji House _ 22 members of ‘Saand kimchi-making event in 2009, we conducted a kimchi-making event rang Nanumhoe (love sharing team)’ in our Jeonju site, family of our with our employees at the end of 2010. The plant head at the site and the employees and female volunteers went to the COEX Aquarium in head of the labor union prepared kimchi themselves along with 50 emSamseong-dong with children at Yang Ji House, a welfare agency for ployees at its dormitory at the Jeonju site and offered it to the commuthose with cerebral palsy. ‘Sarang Nanumhoe’ is in sisterhood relationnity. We hope that our small gift with love could warm up the hearts of ships with ‘Da-Ae Community’ in Bongdong-eup, and this trip offered local residents and enjoy holidays at year-end and the New Year’s. a chance to be with children at Yang Ji House with which the sisterhood ties have been underway for 6 years before the team was transferred to the Jeonju site. We will strive to conduct a wide scope of volunteering in various sites beyond the activities of Sarang Nanumhoe. Special Production Team Volunteering at the Sangroksu Volunteer Team _ We strive to enhance the environmental protection of the community. Along with the Jeonju Haebaragi (sunflower) Volunteering Team, 6 members at the Special Production Team as part of the Sangroksu Volunteer Team volunteered by cleaning up a park in and near Samcheon 2-dong. The idea was proposed by the Jeonju Haebaragi Volunteering Team in Samcheon 2-dong, which will continuously take place. [ Economic Development and Social Welfare Promotion ] [ Support to Foster Future Talents ] Region Month Major Activities Region Month Major Activities Head Office Jan. Sponsoring the Community Chest of Korea Head Office Jul. Dispatching LS Group's Overseas Volunteering Team Of University Jeonju Apr. Supporting events for federation of people with disabilities Students Apr. Supporting fields trips to excellent villages in forming sisterhood village Oct. Sponsoring the Global HR Forum relationships Oct. Sponsoring the World Knowledge Forum Aug. Guiding the Boseong Village headmen for Jeonju site Jeonju May Extending sponsorships to Chonbuk National University Continuous Managing the One Company One Village produce and operating May, Sep., Oct. One Company One School support for Bong Dong Elementary School weekend farms China Nov. Extending sponsorships to Qingdao U. Tech Continuous Supporting the low income class (students at Bong Dong Elementary School and the elderly living alone in Chudong Village) [ Support of Culture/Arts/Sports Development ] [ Employee Volunteering ] Region Month Major Activities Region Month Name of Program Major Activities Head Office Mar. Sponsoring the Korea Cycling Federation Jeonju Apr. Sangroksu Volunteer Team Cleaning up areas around Samcheon 2-dong and May Sponsoring the Hi Seoul Cycling Event serving meals for the elderly living alone Jeonju Apr. Sponsoring Jeonju International Film Festival Jun. Trip to Yang Ji House (rehab Picnicking with children at Yang Ji House in Seoul Aug. Swimming lessons for senior citizens in local communities institute for those with cerebral Oct. Sponsoring the Jeonju Int'l Sori Festival palsy) Jun. Sangroksu Volunteer Team Visiting Da-Ae Community and volunteering Dec. Kimchi making event Offering prepared kimchi to the community Anyang Mar. Volunteering at Yang Ji House Volunteering at Yang Ji House 03. Social Contribution Activity 51 1. Donating a Small Fraction of Salary 1 2 3 2, 3. Conducting LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign 4 5 6 7 4, 5. Sponsoring the Hi Seoul Cycling Event 8 9 6,7. Forging Sisterhood Relations with Bong Dong Elementary School (One Company One School) 8. Conducting the Love Sharing Volunteering 9. Guiding the Boseong Village headmen for Jeonju site 10. Volunteering of Sangroksu Volunteer Team 10 11 12 11, 12. Forging Sisterhood Relations with Chudong Village 14 15 16 (One Company One Village ) 13 17 13, 14. Dispatching LS Group's Overseas Volunteering Team Of University Students 15, 16. Picnicking of Those at the Jeonju Site with Those At Yang Ji House 17. Sponsoring the Jeonju Int'l Sori Festival 52 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 04. Green Management LS Mtron preserves a forest that gives energy through environmentally-friendly products and advanced ESH management. LS Mtron seeks for an inherent state of the nature that is with beauty and comfort. 04. Green Management 53 04 GM [ Declaration ] [ Green Management Subcommittee ] We have continued to reduce energy and greenhouse emissions by setting climate • Purpose: Green Management Subcommittee meetings are held to suggest companychange strategies. We will realize our will as a global leading green company in the wide directions to respond to climate change and turn business sites green as key isindustrial machinery and cutting-edge components by expanding the scope of envisues, set specific strategies and discuss related issues. ronmentally-friendly products and the green business. • Department in charge (related dapartment): Green Management Team (Win-Win Partnership Team, Facility Management Team, Technology Management Team the rest) • 2010 Records: Reporting on the Greenhouse Gas Inventory / Discussion on company[ Mid-term Management Directions ] wide common environmental indicators and setting directions / Discussing on green • To respond to Climate Change through greenhouse gas reduction strategies and purchases, etc. • To expand the scope for environmentally-friendly products and green business • To manage safe and sound environmentally-friendly sites [ Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommitte ] • Purpose: The Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommittee spearheads the [ Management System ] green product development company-wide and manage the system to enhance • Manager in charge: CHO the eco-friendliness in the product development process. We seek to lead a global Department in charge: Green Management Team (Climate Change Response, green market in the industrial machinery and cutting-edge products through the Operation of Advanced ESH Business Site) expansion of green products. • Manager in charge: CTO • Department in charge (related dapartment): Technology Management Team (ReDepartment in charge: Technology Management Team search Center of the Business Division, Central Research Center, Green Management (Developing Environmentally-Friendly Products) Team the rest) • 2010 Records: Sharing the company-wide status quo on sustainable management / Proposing tasks on developing green products and reflecting green design factors upon the Gate Review / Setting the classification criteria for green products and establishing development criteria 2010 achievement GM 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Climate Change Response · Identifying the status quo of CO2 emissions · E stablishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory / · Establishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory ·A  cquiring the Carbon Footprint Certification Label Setting goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissionss · Identifying potential reduction amounts through energy analysis · Setting climate change response strategies and emission targets ·D  eveloping products with Carbon Footprint · Reviewing the selection of products for each business site Certification Label Developing · S etting standards to design · I ntroducing the environmentally-friendly ·D  efining the scope of environmentally-friendly products and selecting Environmentally-Friendly environmentally-friendly products product design process 23 design factors Products · P aving the way to expand the launch of · Verifying whether or not green design factors have been reflected in environmentally-friendly products product development · R eflecting the mid-term technology development road map for the Business Division ·C  reating and operating the Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommittee ·A  chieving the green product sales of KRW 221.1 billion in 2010 Operation of Advanced ·C ertification for integrated ESH corporate · Building the ESH management system for · S upporting the establishment of the ESH management system and conESH Business Site management overseas subsidiaries ducting diagnosis for overseas subsidiaries ·Designated as a Green Company (Jeonju site) · R einforcing activities for reduction of pollutant · C  reating and operating the Green Management Subcommittee ·R eduction of pollutant emission and activities for emission · S etting company-wide common goal management indicators local environmental preservation · E stablishing a environment safety evaluation system for facility investment 2011 plan GM 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Climate Change Response · Verifying and managing the company-wide Greenhouse · Conducting the third-party verification for the company-wide Greenhouse Gas Inventory Year-round Gas Inventory · Responding to the greenhouse gas/energy target management system · E stablishing plans to reduce greenhouse gas · Establishing the monitoring infrastructure · Establishing mid-term reduction targets and plans for each business site/division · Fostering specialists on Climate Change Expansion of Environmentally · Expanding environmentally-friendly products · Strengthening reviews upon the R&D PJT Gate Review1 Year-round Friendly Products · Reviewing the mid-term green technology development roadmap in business divisions · Exploring major green products and technologies and applying for external certifications and awards · Evaluating performance vis-à-vis green product sales targets · Setting plans in green products R&D investment (KRW 14.1 billion, 48%)/-sales (KRW 382.5 billion, 41%) · Operating the Environmentally-Friendly Product Subcommittee Operation of the Advanced · E nhanced improvement activities regarding intensity unit of · Setting ways to cut/reduce the total amount company-wide for environmental indicators Year-round ESH Business Sites common company-wide environmental indicators · Setting improvement activity plans through environmental impact evaluations and monitoring these plans · S upporting the ESH management systems for overseas sub· Conducting ex-post measures for analysis results in 2010 for overseas subsidiaries sidiaries · Supporting the establishment of management systems for and conducting reviews for overseas subsidiaries · Operating the Green Management Subcommittee 1. Meetings where whether or not it is essential to move onto the next stage is decided as the last activity in all stages 54 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Climate Change We are fully aware of the severity of climate change resulting from global warming. Thus, Response we have identified the greenhouse emissions by voluntarily establishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory, and set mid-long greenhouse gas targets to practice social responsibilities and strengthen the corporate competitiveness. Establishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory In 2010, we established the Greenhouse Gas Inventory according to [ 2009~2010 Company-Wide Emission/Intensity ] (unit: CO2ton) the international guideline of the 2006 IPCC Guideline as well as the 0.167 2009 2010 0.139 ‘Guideline on GHG and Energy Target Management’ for all our sites nationwide (Jeonju, Jeongeup, Anyang and Indong), research centers Intensity(CO2ton/KRW million) 98,875 and branches. As a result, we put in place the overall standards including the LS Mtron Greenhouse Gas Guideline and QA/QC Regulations for 89,250 continued and effective emission source management while computing 73,405 the past greenhouse gas emissions. We acquired the third-party verification statement from the Korea Energy Management Corporation. 67,319 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our greenhouse emissions increased by 10.8% (9,625 CO2 tons) in 2010 14,845 compared to 2009 according to the business growth such as increases in 12,487 10,625 the number of facilities and the amount of product yield. However, the 9,444 emission intensity against revenues improved by 20% through diverse Anyang/Indong/ Total Jeongeup Jeonju greenhouse gas reduction activities: improving the old steam traps; adOthers (company-wide) justing the operation/management of freezers and air conditioners depending on the load; reducing energy usage by replacing old boilers in company residences; reducing the usage of refrigerants and the amount [ 2010 Each Emission Source ] (unit: CO2ton) of leakage with greater investment in automatic refrigerant recovery 6,043 (6.1%) equipment; and continued light/energy saving campaign. Scope1 Fixed Combustion Mobile Combustion 1,280(1.3%) Emission source-wise, indirect emission sources (Scope2) took up most Scope2 Indirect Emissions of the emissions with 92.6% (91,552 CO2 tons) due to electricity purchases as of 2010, while direct emission sources (Scope1) account for 7.4% (7,323 CO2 tons) consisting of fixed combustion (LNG, etc the fuel source for boilers and gas heat) and mobile combustion. Total Emissions 98,875 (100%) In 2011, we plan to revise and complement the LS Mtron Greenhouse Gas Inventory management guideline according to the National Guideline on Management of Greenhouse Gas and Energy Targets, while keeping tracks of the status of energy management greenhouse gas emissions to building the inventory for overseas subsidiaries. 91,552(92.6%) Holding the Green Management Subcommittee Conducting the third-party reviews for Greenhouse Gas Inventory Conducting the third-party reviews for Greenhouse Gas Inventory 04. Green Management 55 Climate Change Response Strategies and Mid-long Reduction Targets We established mid-long targets and measures to reduce the greenhouse [ Climate Change Response Scheme ] gas and by operating a task force to set climate change response strategies in 2010 in hopes of company-wide systematic and strategic climate • Decision-making change response. Greenhouse gas reduction strategies are divided into Board of Directors production and product categories. We also plan to reduce the Business As Usual (BAU) by 30% by 2020 by minimizing the energy consumpCEO tion, maximizing the supply efficiency and introducing new and renewSustainability able energies. Management Steering Group To this end, we conducted energy analysis for the Jeongeup site in 2009 • Planning and the Jeonju site in 2010 to generate the greenhouse gas reduction • Performance CHO technologies. As for the Jeongeup site taking up 75% (67,319 CO2 tons), evaluation of the total greenhouse gas emissions and 73% of the energy usage Green Management Green Management Subcommittee Team (head office) amount (1,402TJ), it implemented efficient greenhouse gas reduction technologies e.g. improved production process by operating a greenhouse reduction task force and mid-long investment plans in 2011. As • Execution for the Anyang site expected to be constructed in 2011, the energy usage amount will be reduced from the source by designing green energyFacility Management Green Management Technology Production/ saving buildings. In the product category, one of the targets is greenhouse Team Team (sites) Management Team development team etc. gas reduction in green design factors under a goal to raise the product energy efficiency by 30%. We strengthen our investment in development by reflecting energy enhancement targets in the mid-long technology • Deciding on climate change issues: Sustainability Management Steering Group roadmap for each energy usage product category. (executive meetings) • Expanding the scope of climate change tasks Green Management Team (Head Office): Setting company-wide climate change response We regularly report on climate change issues and make decision accordstrategies and reporting the performance ingly through the Sustainability Management Steering Group under the Green Management Team (business sites): Managing and reporting on the Greenhouse Gas measures to achieve climate change strategies. While establishing a cliInventory on business sites Facility Management Team: Establishing energy reduction plans and reporting on the mate change response unit by expanding and bolstering climate change performance (including the management of measuring equipment) response tasks in different departments e.g. Green Management Team, Technology Management Team: Managing the development of environmentally-friendly Facility Management Team and Technology Management Team. We curproducts (for higher efficiency, etc.) rently review the greenhouse gas management system (IT system) for efficient performance management of greenhouse emissions. [ Climate Change Response Targets ] Goal: To Reduce Goal: To reduce the greenhouse gas by 30% Greenhouse Gas To enhance the product energy efficiency by 30% Production Emissions by 30% Product Minimizing the energy consumption Enhancing the product energy efficiency Maximizing the efficiency in energy supply from BAU by 2020 Responding to the climate change market Introducing new and renewable energies Developing the climate change market 56 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2. Developing We introduced a green construction process to expand the development of green products. Environmentally To this end, we defined the scope of green products and selected design factors. Thus, we strive to develop green products and expand sales by reviewing green design factors in the Friendly Products product development stage and reflecting them on the mid-long technology development roadmap. Our Definition of Environmentally-Friendly Product Environmentally-Friendly Product Development Roadmap We categorize environmentally-friendly products into 23 basic design We established mid-term technology development strategies annually. factors: resources saving (reduction in usage of natural resources, imTechnologies in our pipeline include; the electricity operation technolprovement in recycling), reduction of hazardous substances (no use of ogy and Tier 4 engine to secure a pie in the green market and respond to hazardous substances, reduction of pollutants), reduction of greenhouse emissions regulations; the high heat-resistant Charged Air Cooler (CAC) gas emissions (increases in energy efficiency and refrigerant environand low-weight plastic ducts for heat stability, low weight and low noise; ment), other environment impact reduction (reduction in packing mano-cutting techniques to reduce hose cutting losses as a resources-saving terials). Such classification is applied to our green product development technique; and electric energy-saving technology to raise energy effistrategies and green design standards. ciency. We also forge ahead towards the halogen and Be-Cu free technologies to eliminate any usage of environmentally harmful materials. Our Definition of Environmentally-Friendly Product _ We define enviBy checking out the roadmap for environmentally-friendly technological ronmentally-friendly products as those whose core basic design factors development roadmap, we strive to speed up the process of green prodhave improved by applying the internal standards according to the enuct development. vironmentally-friendly product category, and whose category belongs to the green business. Achievements of Environmentally-Friendly Product Development * However, excluded if there is only one item with worse scores among Green Business Expansion _ Our environmentally-friendly products took major design factor up 24% of all revenues in 2010, which will rise to 41% by 2011. More* Categorized into the environmentally-friendly product if the product over, 48% of the total R&D investments throughout 2011 will be on decategory belongs to the green business veloping products with green design factors. Exports (to North America/ * Categorized as a green product in case it has been certified for ecoEurope) of environmentally-friendly tractors with Tier 3 applied will infriendliness by an external institution crease (by 42%) are projected along with higher sales of environmentally-friendly copper foil (by 177%) by removing arsenic in the plating proEnvironmentally-Friendly Product Development Process cess in producing copper foil. Verifying the Reflection of Environmentally-Friendly Design Factors upon GR 1 (Gate Review) _ We generate environmentally-friendly design Awards for Developing Environmentally-Friendly Products factors from the planning stage for product development, and evaluate We were awarded with the IR 52 Jang Yeong Sil Award by developing the development performance by setting the targets for eco-friendliness environmentally-friendly products in 2010, and selected as the Engineer in the implementation stage. of the Month. Senior manager Jeong Jin-hi and three others at the Central Research Center for developing a turbo heat pump, a device that 1. It is a consultative process to verify if it is adequate to move onto the next stage, as the last active of all stages supplies heat sources for cooling and heating large areas, leveraging untapped energies (underground water, sea water and waste heat, etc.) for the first time in Korea and second time in the world, and were awarded [ Environmentally-Friendly Products Factors ] with the IR62 Jang Yeong Sil Award. Senior executive director Shin Hyeon-cheol was awarded as the Engineer of the Month for contributing to the environmentally-friendly engine development to respond to the emissions regulation (Tier 4) which will start to be applied from 2013. Saving Resources Reduction in usage of natural resources Improvement in recycling [ Environmentally-Friendly Design Process ] Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Harmfulness Increases in energy efficiency Environmentally-Friendly Non-use of harmful chemicals Proposal Stage Increases in eco-friendliness of refrigerants Product Reduction of pollutant emissions GR1 Verifying if products belong to the Designating core green design factors environmentally-friendly product category Others Increasing the eco-friendliness of packaging materials Reduction of toxicity in production process GR3/4 GR2 Reviewing on target achievement and Setting green design targets responding to remaining issues 04. Green Management 57 [ 2010 Major Environmentally-Friendly Products ] Scope of EnvironmentallyType Application Model Main Features friendly Products ·Tier3 applied products · Reducing emissions of pollutants Tractor 1 ·Reduced harmfulness (to North America/Europe) ·Increased efficiency of engines ·Leveraging untapped energies like waste water and sea water, etc. Air-Conditioning 2 ·H  eat Pump ·Saving resources ·Reducing CO2 emission due to higher efficiency Injection Molding 3 ·DE/ME/SE-Model ·Reducing greenhouse gas ·Saving energy versus the existing model (25/45/25%) 4 Special Business ·Special Business ·Saving resources · Increased product life span versus the existing model 5 ·C  omplying with the ROHS Electronic Connector ·All products ·Reduced harmfulness · Halogen(F/Cl/Br/I/At), Be Free Component Antenna 6 ·All products · Reduced harmfulness ·Complying with the ROHS Electronic Circuit Materials 7 ·Sold since September 2010 · Reduced harmfulness · Removing arsenic in plating 8 Automotive Component ·CAC (Charged Air Cooler) HOSE ·Reduced harmfulness ·Complying with the EUROⅤ standards Ultra Capacitor 9 ·All products · Environmentally-friendly business · Environmentally-friendly business 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 [ Portion of R&D Investment in Environmentally-Friendly Products in 2011 (unit: KRW 100 million) [ Portion of Environmentally (unit: KRW 100 million) (under the 2010 investment plans) ] Friendly Product Sales ] Total Saving Resources Eco-Friendliness Reduced Harmfulness Greenhouse Reduction 41.4% 16% 10 296 4 23.9% 3,825 14% 2,221 141(48%) Investment No. of Tasks Portion 70% 25 2011 (plans) 2010 (performance) 2011 (plans) 58 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 3. Operation of Advanced We operate the ESH management system for all our sites nationwide to turn them safe, ESH Business Site sound and environmentally-friendly, and also the ISO 14001 we acquired for environmentally-friendly management for our overseas subsidiaries. We also strive to prevent pollution and accidents by introducing environmentally-friendly process management and a review system for environment safety for investors. Company-wide ESH Management System Management Team in each site does so for first-line departments while Following the Anyang site’s acquisition of the ISO 14001 certification in the Green Management Team in the head office does for the Green 1997, all our sites acquired the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Since 2009, Management Team in each site to secure objectivity in internal auditing. we have reviewed environmental safety impact factors and improved any Moreover, we review the status of environmental safety management drawbacks through the certification screening every year, while having in all departments on a monthly basis, while imbuing an environmental integrated the ESH management system for all sites. As for our overseas safety mindset to all employees through awards and prizes. subsidiaries, LSEQ (China, Electronic Component) and LSMW (China, Injection Molding System) acquired the ISO 14001, minimizing risks Green Processing and Management of Pollutant Emissions through the regular ESH management system review on an annual basis. We are engaged in various activities to reduce the emissions of air polWe plan to achieve the ESH system set-up for all our overseas subsidiarlutants, dangerous chemicals and ozone depletion materials by improvies including the new subsidiary of LSAE (China, Tractor). ing the process and prevention facilities and modifying the raw materials used. We continue to increase the waste water recycling rate through ESH Investment and Management _ We strive to minimize the environefficient operation of the waste water recycling system. The waste water mental safety impact resulting from business activities and maximize recycling rate in 2010 increased by over 10% year-on-year, which reimprovement effects. We have expanded investment in environmental duced the usage amount of source water. We strive to reduce the source safety and health, and introduced the ‘Investment Environment Safety of wastes by improving processes, reuse waste scraps, and increase the Review’ in the investment screening stage. We also conduct environmenwaste recycling rate to preserve natural resources. We lead efforts in retal safety risk management through investment in materials and facility duction and reuse of waste by 3 R activities (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) investment by reviewing in advance pollution and risk factors. and implement stricter waste management by improving the waste yard facility and establishing the garbage separation movement. The waste rePre-screening for Environmental Safety _ We conduct environmental safety impact evaluation following the environmental safety pre-screening upon building and transferring facilities and changing materials. We [ ESH Investment and Management Process ] strive to prevent accidents and pollution through an internal management process e.g. identifying if measures were taken based on the preInvestment Execution Management screening results. Consulting • Investment Environment • Pre-screening of the • Environmental impact evaluation/ Internal Audit System _ We conduct thorough evaluations and reviews Safety Review environmental safety Revision and amendment of risk • Business permitted under evaluation for environmental safety management activities and make improvement environmental safety • Environmental safety evaluation (on a monthly basis) after analyzing the status quo and identifying drawbacks. The Green • Internal audit [ Investments in Environmental Safety & Health ] (unit: KRW million) [ Water Usage Amount and Waste / (unit: CO2ton) Waste Water Emissions ] (intensity: emissions /revenues 1) Environment 0.98 2009 2010 Intensity Climate Change 0.84 Safety & Health 598,772 77 453 525,073 239 0.40 0.46 126 330,925 2009 2010 656 765 215,594 163 0.007 0.006 363 3,498 4,559 Water Usage Amount Waste Waste Water 1. Revenues: Based on self-production 04. Green Management 59 cycling rate in 2010 increased by over 83%, and we will meet the target Green Growth Committee’s Visit to the Jeongeup Site of 85% through process improvement and expansion of recycling items The Green Growth Committee formed to implement the low carbon and the scale under the company-wide ‘proposal management system.’ green growth strategy as the national agenda paid visit to the Jeongeup We manage our emitted pollutants under 50% of the legal standards, site on October 25 2010. This paved the way for building up ties between and all our sites were waived of the basic emission fees in 2010. Thanks the stakeholders and the government, while improving the existing systo such internal management and accident prevention systems in all sites, tems e.g. having the formation of a special division for green companies we achieved no violation of the environmental regulations in 2010 again to top the agenda. from 2009. The amount of water usage and waste increased year on year due to increases in production and facilities in all sites in 2010, the inEnvironment Protection Activities for Local Community tensity volume dropped thanks to continued management of emission We promote the “One Company for One River” to protect the local ensources and processing. Moreover, we used ozone-depleting materials vironment regularly on each site. In 2010, we took part in various other (HCFC-22, HCFC-123) for refrigerants for some products in produccampaigns: tree planting in the Iksan Industrial Complex; the National ing freezers and air conditioning equipment. The amount of the materiTerritory Clean-up Campaign; and a campaign to make villages fire-free als was reduced by 54% to 12.8 tons. We increased the number of prodwith stand-alone detectors. We strive to resolve regional environmental ucts using the HFCTotal, so the usage of the former could be dropped. issues by engaging in the community activities e.g. Local Agenda 21. In 2011, we plan to introduce an environmentally-friendly raw and side materials to minimize the usage of harmful chemicals even from the raw No-Disaster Sites Achieved material usage stage. We strive to pour in steady interest and efforts to maintain a sound and safe work environment. The Anyang site and Indong site have been conCopper Recalls _ We continuously conduct activities to reduce pollutants tinuously designated as disaster-free sites since their launch in July 2008. emitted during manufacturing and wastes generated from it. The JeonIn order to achieve our goal of having all our sites disaster-free in the geup site has replaced copper with bronze scraps, thus saving the usage future, we continue to imbue awareness about safety through a disasterof natural resources. In 2011, in particular, we plan to recall copper by infree rally, etc. vesting KRW 1.5 billion, which will save the cost of KRW 800 million per year with the copper recall rate raised from 8% to 90%. The chemical Fire Drills usage rate to treat waste water and the amount of wastes like sludge will Every year, all our sites conduct simulation training to minimize emerplummet due to higher resources recycling rate and reduced waste water gency effects by extinguishing fire or escaping from the zone according (150 tons/day). to our emergency scenarios. For instance, the Jeonju and Jeongeup sites conducted fire drills in conjunction with the fire station in their region in 2010. 1 2 1. Green Growth Committee visiting the Jeongeup site 2. Environment protection activities for local community 3. Disaster-free declaration rally 4. Fire drills at the Jeonju site 3 4 60 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 05. Employee Value Enhancement Buds grow on rich soil into a tree, which, then, fills up a forest. LS Mtron fosters and supports each and every employee to become a tree that fosters opes for the future as if they were fresh young buds. 05. Employee Value Enhancement 61 05 EV [ Declaration ] [ Green Management Subcommittees ] At LS Mtron, we consider our employees as both core stakeholders and leaders in • Manager in Charge: CHO creating corporate values. We respect their individual human rights, advance the corDepartment in Charge: HR Development Team (Advanced HR Management porate HR system, assist in their capacity-building efforts and establish a corporate Systems, Employee Competency Development, Employee culture which ensures participation and dialogue. We also strive to guarantee healthy Participation and Trust Building) and safe working environments in order to provide the best possible working condiDepartment in Charge: Green Management Team tions to our employees. (Employee Welfare, Safety and Health) [ Mid-term Management Directions ] • To advance the HR Management System befitting its global standards • To secure the corporate competitiveness through stronger employee competency • To strengthen the labor-management trust and respect for human rights among employees • To enhance the employee welfare, safety and health 2010 achievement EV 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Advanced HR Management · Improving the HR Management Systems · Securing and retaining overseas high performers · 296 recruited including the new and experienced Systems (e.g. holders of strong competency) · Managing a scheme to retain experienced employees ·A  ppointing locals for heads of overseas subsidiar·H  R Management System regulation establishment · E stablishing the LSAE (LS Agricultural Equipment) recruitment regulations ies/Employing competent foreign employees for overseas subsidiaries/branches and evaluation systems · Improving the work systems (strengthening the · Achieved the LSAE, LSMW (LS Machinery) rank systems, wage system on-site competency) · Retirement system adoption · Holding the executive/employee seminar (approval rate of 92%) · Conducting the partial retirement pension system from Jan. 2011 Employee Competency · R einforcing advanced education course for the · Mid-term and global education program · 7 employees managing five mid-term courses Development promoted · 19 employees managing two global courses · Reinforcing employees’ foreign language capability · Advanced education course reinforcement · 143 employees managing four rank-specific courses · E mployee foreign language capability · Managing 22 courses (130 attendees) reinforcement Employee Participation and · R egularly operating the Joint Labor-Management · D  irect communication channel development · Holding CEO/Business Division Head/CHO meetings 24 times Trust Building Committee/holding events to encourage joint between management and employees ·H  olding the labor-management relationship improvement meetings 55 labor-management activities times, etc. · Periodic review of policies, regular monitoring · Problem response reinforcement · Setting a counseling room at Jeonju and Jeongeup sites · Recruiting professional counselors · E stablishment of process to report and resolve · Appointing Ombudsman commissioners on business sites violations of international labor standards Employee Welfare, Safety · Health management program · Improvement of safety management at overseas · Safety education and training support in overseas subsidiaries and Health · R egular work place co-monitoring and subsidiaries improvement activity · E nhancement of safety training for employees at · Conducting company-wide courses for employees at all levels all levels ·C  hemical materials management system · GHS response to single chemicals improvement 2011 plan EV 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Advanced Human Resources · Securing and retaining overseas high performers · Securing competent talents by expanding cooperation with universities Year-round Management System · Improving the rank/reward system for overseas subsidiaries · Improving the support system for industrial scholarship students Mar. · Securing and expanding the number of overseas talents Sep. · Introducing the job-based pay through the evaluation of job value for overseas subsidiaries Year-round Employee Competency · Strengthening leadership competency · Conducting offline training for sustainable management for all employees Year-round Development · Strengthening global competency for employees · Managing the leadership course for team directors company-wide Mar. · Strengthening job competency · Providing leadership learning materials (for team directors and above) Year-round · Running mid-long and global foreign language course Sep. · Continuously supporting in-house foreign language courses Year-round · Managing two sales service course per sales staff in 2011 Sep. · Establishing the education system for company-wide production associates in 2011 Dec. Employee Participation and · Facilitating the employee participation/communication · P ermanently opening direct communication channels between the management and employees (CEO Seminar, CHO Year-round Respect for Human Rights · Strengthening the respect for human rights Seminar, communication with heads of business divisions) · Enhancing conveniences for employees · Reflecting the ILO labor standards Dec. · Publishing and distributing guidebooks on HR and welfare benefits Dec. Employee Welfare, Safety · Precisely managing risk factors · Developing materials for special safety and welfare, and conducting training Jun. and Health · Strengthening procedures to respond to fire breakout · Analyzing process-specific risk factors Year-round · Revising the fire response manual and diagnosing business sites Dec. * Modifications in managerial issues in 2011 : Employee participation and respect for human rights (ISO 26000, GRI 3.1, etc. with a greater global focus on human rights) 62 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Advanced HR We believe that HR systems play a critical role on an organization’s sustainable developManagement Systems ment and growth. We suggest proper HR requirements to achieve the corporate vision and their individual self-fulfillment, while establishing and managing a fair and rational HR scheme by securing, evaluating, compensating and extending welfare benefits to talents. LS Mtron’s Global Human Resources Employee Evaluation System _ Our employee assessment system (SPCM: Our top priority to realize our vision and fulfill social responsibilities is Strategic Performance & Competency Management) is performed on all our employees. We have advanced HR systems to secure befitting our employees across the company and consists of achievement assessment talent global HR resources and for employees to exert their competency and capacity assessment. First, achievement assessment starts with the to the fullest. Our global HR resources are, first, to secure the top-notch establishment of an index (KPI) for effective accomplishments of busiexpertise in their field, second, to understand others with an open heart, ness strategies, and of continuous communication between assessors and and third, to initiate work actively and continue to improve it. assesses. Competence assessment is to present our core values, define specified job capacities in each job category and thereby induce substanTalents · Evaluation · Reward tial behavior changes. The competency evaluation results serve as basic Securing Talents and Creating Jobs _ We conduct campus recruiting and data to foster individuals as they present their strengths and weaknesses. a job fair every year in highly performing universities to secure comReward _ Our reward system consists of “fixed pay” which is based on petent high performers at home and abroad. The total number of new/ employees’ potential and their expected capacities and “variable pay” experienced employees is 296 with over 30% of master’s and doctoral which is determined by their performance. Fixed salary is applied equally degree holders out of 157 college graduates. In particular, the newly reto every employee in the same level, and those who make outstanding cruited came from major countries in the world including China, the U.S. achievements are additionally rewarded according to their external and and Japan. internal achievements. In 2010, our wage raise was above the industrial wage to boost employee morale, while the wage for new employees is Some of our HR systems to maintain the existing talents and reward above the legal minimum wage regardless of their gender on all our sites. their performance are: ‘new research recruiting’ that evaluates and reMoreover, we paid incentives and performance-based pay for achieving wards highly competent researchers; the ‘wage band system’ that deterstrong performance so that all our employees could take part in and genmines wages regardless of years of experience; the ‘Sign On Bonus’ syserate performance in customized innovative activities. tem that pays extra bonuses upon ad-hoc recruitment; the ‘bonus scheme upon the recommendation of employees/executives’; and ‘corporate scholarship system.’ We will continue to strengthen our HR system to recruit competent high performers, while achieving a higher growth rate. [ Global Human Resources ] [ Employee Status ] (unit: No. of people) (Total No. of Employees) (No. of New Employees) Global Human Resources LS Mtron Male 4,167 Including the Affiliates Female 3,618 296 1,669 Professional Open Dynamic 1,472 167 145 255 22 41 • Business process reengineer• Craftsmanship • Positive acceptance ing/process innovation • Continual self-development • Receptive to change • Prompt decision making and 2009 2010 2009 2010 strong execution 05. Employee Value Enhancement 63 HR Systems for Talents in Overseas Subsidiaries Retirement Pension System We are engaged in numerous activities to advance the HR system in loWith the termination of the existing retirement insurance system at the cal/overseas subsidiaries. We established more advanced HR systems to end of 2010, we adopted a new on January 1, 2011 to prepare ourselves respond to revised global regulations and the management and labor enfor the protection of employees’ welfare recipient rights and extension of vironment abroad amid the linkage between the domestic HR systems a life span amid the aging trends. Unlike the retirement fund system, the and overseas subsidiaries/branches. In particular, we have revised regularetirement pension system allows employees to choose among one-time tions in place to reflect the regulations on employment, evaluation and benefits or pension benefits, and even employees with frequent job transwage of our overseas subsidiaries in China, including, LSAE (LS Agrifers could accumulate their points on end in their individual retirement cultural Equipment) and LSMW (LS Machinery) in our HR systems, accounts. generating common regulations for all our overseas subsidiaries. As a result of multifaceted thorough analysis for three months followExpansion in Local Recruits in Overseas Subsidiaries _ In order to coning the formation of a task force to introduce a labor union and a retiretribute to the regional development in overseas subsidiaries, we ask voment pension system, we designed the most suitable retirement pension cational schools and universities (Qingdao, Shanghai, etc.) in the region system for the current HR systems that can represent interests of various where our business sites lie for recruitment of technicians and general brackets of employees. We conducted seminars on the system for ememployees, or recruit ourselves through promotion of our own. For techployees in all our sites for two months, over 90% of them agreed to the nicians, we conduct interviews with heads of production department and adoption of the system. We also put in place institutional measures to QA to identify their work competency, and the selected start working guarantee the post-retirement lives with the adoption of the retirement after a week-long training on corporate regulations and products. As for pension system, which reaffirmed the trust and cooperation among the general employees, meanwhile, interviews with heads of overseas sublabor and the management. sidiaries/management department/production department and intermediate-level manager at the department in charge are required, and the selected are allocated after a month-long training on corporate regulations and products, and the On the Job Training (OJT). We recruited 1,305 local employees in overseas subsidiaries driven by our business growth (vs. 833 in 2009), among whom include Chinese high-level managers in LSTA (our sales subsidiary in the U.S.) and the Japanese chief director in our Japanese branch office. [ Performance and Competency Raising System ] C&C Competency Knowledge, Study Resources DB Individual Goals Business Feedback & Coaching Competency Business Division’s Talent Business Division Goals Department Goals Plans Fostering Committee Building Performance Creation Competency Development · Work Division/Performance Goal Setting · Competency Development Goal Setting · Goal Adjustment/Intermediate Review · Support/Guidance, Intermediate Review · Performance Measuremeant · Competency Measurement KPI DB C&C * C&C: Communication & Consensus 64 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Sustainable Management Business Evaluation Employee Benefits System We decided to reflect sustainable management in the business evaluation We have various benefit programs for improvement of life and work of in the support sector and business division starting from 2011 in a bid to employees. They include National Pension, health insurance, industrial embody sustainable management to employees’ work and induce stronaccident insurance and unemployment insurance, as well as a wide range ger execution. In other words, the five divisions in the head office orgaof financial support for medical payment, tuition, mortgage loans, famnization (staff sector), namely, [CSO (strategic planning), CFO (finance), ily events and leisure. In 2010, we strived to offer greater benefits to emCHO (support), CTO (technology development) and CPO (win-win ployees through more numbers of celebratory holidays, higher incentives cooperation)] and two teams under the CEO are imposed with annual for those working on public holidays, medical support for employees and target indicator of sustainable management of 10%, and nine business financial housing support. We spent welfare benefits worth approximatedivisions are with the target of 5%. By establishing an evaluation system ly KRW 15.92 billion throughout 2010 mostly for tuition fees, fees for according to the sustainable managerial issues according to the R&R, we celebrations/sorrow and medical support. Specifics on welfare benefits could reinforce an integrated management system that can induce active are available in HR Management>HR Systems>Welfare Benefits on our company-wide participation. website, http://www.lsmtron.co.kr/. Diversity and Equal Opportunities Opening Sports Centers _ We opened a sports center at the Jeongeup We deeply recognize the importance of diversity and equal opportunity site, equipped with facilities, including gym gears, table tennis tables and in enhancing employee values. This is a fundamental factor in building an golf courses to expand the infrastructure for welfare benefits for employadvanced HR Management System and we do not discriminate our emees, which will also turn it into a ground of networking. ployees in recruitment, evaluation and compensation on grounds of gender, nationality, age, religion and physical disabilities. Given the features of the machinery/component manufacturing, the ratio of female employees and handicapped employees is relatively low, but the former amounted to 71 (4.2%), up by 48, that is, 47%. As for the handicapped, the number stays at 36 (2.1%), a similar level with the last year’s of 35. The ratio of the two groups is expected to rise amid active responses to social needs and efforts to improve a working environment. We are to improve our management and business process proactively down the road to ensure diversity and equal opportunity to global standards. 1 2 1. Campus recruitment seminar 2. Training for new local recruits 3. New employee training in subsidiaries in China 4. Opening of sports center at the Jeongeup site 3 4 05. Employee Value Enhancement 65 2. Employee Competency We operate diverse competency development programs to enhance individual growth and Development corporate competency, ensuring to provide equal opportunities for each rank and job type. We figured out shortage in competency through leadership analysis among the leader level, while supporting continued foreign language courses to enhance leadership training and global competency of leaders. HR Promotion System Global Education _ We run rank-specific mandatory courses and variOur promotion system has the following hierarchy: Assistant (IV), Asous global courses to foster global leaders in tandem with the expanding sistant Manager (III), Manager/Deputy General Manager (II), General global market. In 2010, 22 global courses were opened in 2010 to support Manager (I), Executive. The HR Promotion System is operated to urge 130 employees to enhance their foreign language competency anytime. the recruit/deputy to promote to Self Leader, division head/deputy head For potential expatriate employees, intensive foreign language courses, to Emerging Leader, head to team leader and executive to Business and leadership, culture and work training are offered. These activities Leader. In 2010, training for the 143 newly appointed amounting in 4 will continue through 2011. ranks was offered for 132 hours, costing KRW 1,439,920 per head. Work Competency Buildup Program _ We opened four courses (i.e., on Talent Development Program _ We support mid and long-term educasales strategies, branch management, negotiation and proposal) in the tion programs such as MBA and nighttime graduate school for high second half of the year according to the common training system for performers including managers and those in higher positions. In case of sales workforce to enhance marketing competency for sales representaoverseas degree programs, total tuition is funded by LS Mtron. We systives, and 186 of them were to complete one course of the four. We plan tematically foster key talents as planned through mid-term job training to ensure that they could take two per year by opening courses in the and intensive English/Chinese courses, etc. In 2010, 15 took part in 5 midfirst and second half of the 2011. to long-term courses and 19 in two global training courses. [ Mid-Long Education Program ] Type Program Details about Education 2010(No. of Students) Internationa Helsinki MBA Helsinki University of Business and Economics New York State University Seoul School of Integrated Sciences & 2 Techno MBA Techno MBA Technologies+New York State University Korea Graduate Business Graduate schools in Korea 2 Universities in Korea LS MBA LS MBA 3 MOT Metabi Business center researcher Program and New Hampshire University [ HR Promotion System map ] Leadership Duty Position Value Global Others New High Performer Common Specialty Mid-long Course Ⅰ New York State University Organization LS LeadTechno MBA/ New General Manager Experienced Employee Course Development er Graduate Business Program Universities in Korea/ Deputy General Ⅱ LS MBA Manager Global INTENEnvironTVC 1 Course Roadmap for LanSIVE Chinese Quality mental Patent ITC 2 New Manager Each Job guage English/ Camp Course Safety Course Team Building Job Competency Course Chinese Course Course Ⅲ Course Module (12) Assistants Ⅳ Open (New Entry ) 1. TVC: Task Value Creation 2. ITC: Inter Team Cooperation 66 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Company-wide Leadership Buildup Program _ Having recognized the Mentoring System _ Our mentoring system is to offer new employees importance of leadership, we will conduct courses focusing on leadership the best possible start in their new jobs and opportunities to grow capacbuildup for the leader class. In 2010, we conducted company-wide team ities. We offer a basic course on LS Group, a base course on LS Mtron, director leadership buildup courses at training centers in the head ofmentoring, O/A training, training in overseas subsidiaries, Work Smart fice led by the HR Development Team. Courses targeting 71 team direccourse and a vision setting course. The senior-new employee mentoring tors and four chief plant officers focused on awareness of roles for team plays a critical role for working knowledge transfer and new recruits’ directors and leadership competency buildup. They are on LS Mtron’s early adoption to the corporate culture. By doing so, we ensure employperception of leaders, coaching development and CEO courses. In the ee career and expertise management for job competency transfer. courses, participants made commitment to become genuine leaders to achieve the visions of LS Mtron. 2010 company-wide team director leadership buildup course Mentoring ceremony in the first half of 2010 [ Leadership Pipeline ] [ Training Program ] 1 Year Training of 12 Vision Establishment (2days) Establish mid-and long-term visions for the Corporate corporation 11 Work Smart Training (3days) Leader Monitor business capabilities and achievements from each division 10 09 Mentoring Closing (2days) Establish corporate strategies to ensure business Business competitiveness 08 Candidates for Mentor-parings and Leader Promote and monitor business strategies of lower 07 Mentoring (3months) executive positions level business units 06 Office Training (3days) Team Set strategic goals and facilitate their achievements 05 Candidates for Leader to produce results in their respective position Overseas Corporation (1week) team leader positions 04 03 Promote Entry-level Training (1week) Take responsibilities for actual implementations Emerging Leader 02 Correspondence and tasks Learning (3months) 01 LS Group Training (2weeks) Recruiting (New entry) 05. Employee Value Enhancement 67 3. Employee Participation We strive to reflect ideas of our members on our decision-making process. We conducted and Trust Building various activities to establish a culture of communication in 2010. We expanded the CEO/ CHO/Business Division Director seminars for the management-employee communication, accordingly, while conducting cross-department networking and communication campaigns to break down cross-departmental barriers. Labor-Management Relationship Improvement Notification of Changes _ We are mandated by the Collective AgreeWe guarantee the freedom of the labor union’s activities, and comply ment to notify and consult with the labor union or concerned parties with international labor laws including ILO labor standards. Our labor when union members are transferred or moved to other departments or union has 616 members as of December 2010 (i.e., 41.1% of all employmajor changes take place in business sites such as factory relocation or ees), and their election and decision-making rights are protected. We disposal of facilities. Notices are given on the corporate bulletin board, strive to form a win-win labor-management relationship that creates valthrough personal e-mail or written appointments. ues beyond a cooperative one based on mutual respect and trust. Employees’ Human Rights Protection First of all, the management and the presiding council of the labor union We conduct various activities to empower employee rights, recognizing share business strategy directions through collective bargaining and conthe human rights protection of employees as the highest value. We strinferences attended by all employees and cooperation building, and cogently comply with labor-related laws including the Labor Standard Act, operate for stronger corporate competitiveness and greater values for and legislate and run job regulations and collective agreements to guaremployees. The Business Division discusses its pending issues with the antee and enhance employees’ human rights. Employees’ rights of orgaLabor-Management Committee and the Labor-Management Workingnization, collective bargaining and collective action prescribed in Article level Meeting on opening courses on work skills. Lastly, labor-manage33 of the Constitutions are fully guaranteed here, which led to formation ment trust building conferences are held monthly in each department to of a labor union that strives to protect and empower employee rights. share the latest management information, resolve employee grievances and improve the working environment. Such permanent labor-manageHuman Rights Protection and Improvement Channels _ To guarantee ment communication channels and activities enhance their understandand enhance human rights, the Sustainability Management Executive ing of business management, and resolve individual grievances, thus inOffice and the HR Division at each business site conduct constant moniducing advanced win-win labor-management partnership. toring if employee rights are violated. Systems are in place to report and address human rights violations through Cyber Ombudsman, grievance Improving Grievance Resolution System _ We are to publish regulations resolution and counseling services. All-out efforts are on to prevent any and procedures for complaint resolution on our corporate website bullerecurrence of inhumane treatment and violation of laws in sites, if they tin board so that all of our employees could understand the process easoccur, through due punishment and disciplines. ily and make easy use of it. One person from the corporate side and one from the labor union are appointed for each site as complaint resolution Overseas Subsidiaries and Partner Companies’ Human Rights Protecmediators to be open to any related problems or opinions. Recently, a tion _ Not only our domestic business sites but also overseas subsidiaries counseling room has been added to the Jeonju and Jeongeup sites, which thoroughly comply with local laws on human rights and labor and interwill hopefully reduce employees’ complaints through continued counselnational labor regulations. Respect for human rights and the relevant ing and interest, and will be practiced in all sites befitting the demand of guideline are applied to our partner companies, so if they do not fulfill employees. our requirements, penalties are imposed to rectify their action. [ 2010 Employee Participation Activities ] Name of Channel Type 2010 Core Achievements No. of Meetings Participation and Cooperation Promotion Committee Conference Improving the personnel and welfare benefit systems, sharing education plans for all employees, 8 and securing space for leisure in in-house dormitories Labor-Management Working-level Committee (companyConference Expanding the scope of application of occasions of celebration and sorrow and the welfare 22 wide/Jeonju) benefits Labor-Management Meeting (Anyang/Jeongeup/Indong) Meeting Conducting specialized training on managing facilities 5 Employee Communication Meeting Meeting Sharing various ideas of employees and communication through their participation 11 (new/experienced employees, business site staff/assistants) Industrial Safety Manager Meeting Committee Reviewing and improving the work place 20 Grievance Resolution Committee Committee Raising inconveniences and grievances Year-round Executive Dialogue on Sites Open Dialogue CEO/Business division head meetings, meeting at business sites, etc. 24 Corporate Competency Review Survey Employee satisfaction and grievance survey 1 68 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Developing More Direct Channels between Management and Employees Heads of business divisions regularly meet and communicate with their employees to expand the direct management-employee communication channels. For genuine communication and understanding buildup, they not only hold meetings in office but also do movie going, mountain climbing and sea fishing together. As these occasions serve as opportunities to share the management’s visions and directions and allow prompt feedback on grievances and ideas raised, employees are greatly satisfied with them. Participation and cooperation enhancement meeting Employee Satisfaction Survey Our Joint Labor-Management Committee conducts an employee opinion survey (EOS)of workers and organizational capacity survey of office employees and researchers every October in a bid to measure their level of satisfaction(organizational competency and teamwork). By doing so, we aim to find and address any problems or complaints in our business sites and create a vibrant and motivating workplace for our employees. For those items where satisfaction level declined, we strive to enhance it through various company-wide activities (system improvement and events, etc.). Employee meeting CEO’s meeting with new employees 05. Employee Value Enhancement 69 4. Employee Welfare, Safety Our top priority throughout our management activities is the employee safety and health. and Health Accordingly, we unfold various activities, including risk countering training for prevention of safety accidents, improvement of harmful risk factors, rank-specific training and specialist development. We also prioritize customized health management by operating health enhancement programs and counseling services. Ensuring Safety and Health Together In 2011, we plan to develop special safety and health materials to be We continue to reduce potential risks at our sites through disaster-free commonly applied to all sites. Employees that might make critical impact rallies and risk countering drills. The Jeonju and Anyang sites, in particuon environmental safety as they deal with environmental facilities and lar, annually publish a case study booklet with improvements made for dangerous equipment are categorized into environmental safety experts harmful risks, achieving over 200 improvements in 2010. We review safeand are given due qualification through training. ty and health issues in all sites and make improvement by holding quarterly meetings at the Industrial Safety and Health Committee. Rewards Safety and Health Training for Supervisors are given to competent departments by running an environmental safety We conducted site supervisor training for environmental safety and evaluation system that diagnoses environmental safety status in each dehealth at LS Miraewon organized by the Green Management Team twice partment on a monthly basis. We plan to conduct process-specific risk this year. In-house/outside instructors were invited to all our sites for factor analysis and make greater improvement for precision managelectures unlike the past when the training was commissioned to outside ment of risk factors through video taping etc. entities for each site. The training taught site managers about the importance of environmental safety, and paved the way for green management Safety Training and Promotion of Manpower _ We operate the Envito root down in management practices along with consideration of environmental Safety Committee to ensure voluntary environmental safety ronmental safety as well as production and quality. activities in each department. The committee members in the assistant level actively respond to the management of the environmental safety Promotion of Employee Healthcare management system and other environment issues, while attending yearWe perform general and special medical check-ups for employees and ly regular training. As they grow into the heads of their unit, they are comprehensive check-ups for employees over 35 and their spouses. We expected to contribute to sustainable corporate development with full also conduct customized health check-ups to enhance our employee awareness about environmental safety. health in conjunction with various medical health check-up centers and according to diagnosis types (endoscopy, cardiovascular disease, etc.). Safety Training and Character Buildup For those diagnosed with specific medical conditions, we support them We conduct environmental safety training for new and experienced emin managing their health appropriately by offering regular medical conployees. We conduct training to remind of environmental safety for new sultations and internal medical check-ups. We also provide customized employees who are most likely to experience accidents in their first six health management programs and managing personal health informamonths. We also conduct training on local environmental safety laws and tion in the corporate online ESH system. We plan to open ‘Love Heart for new employees in overseas subsidiaries and environmental safety Counseling Room’ in Jeonju and Jeongeup sites in January 2011 not only management measures in overseas subsidiaries in a bid to strengthen to resolve employee grievances but also to prevent accidents. environmental safety management there. We publish a monthly environmental safety booklet to share information on environmental safety with all employees and share the latest training materials via the online ESH system. Various training is also held for different ranks to enhance employees’ awareness about safety in our Chinese subsidiaries. 1 2 3 1. Environmental safety expert training 2. Safety and health training for supervisors 3. In-house health management room 4,5 . Activities to improve environmental safety on business sites 6. Poster of the Love Heart Counseling room 4 5 6 70 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 06. Integrated Risk Management There is a way forward even with obstacles ahead. We make a way even if there is no way before us. This is what we believe in. We realize sustainable management through integrated risk management that enable us to overcome any hurdles. We always ready ourselves with bridging stones. 06. Integrated Risk Management 71 06 RM [ Declaration ] [ Mid-term Management Directions ] Our integrated risk management and response framework is up and running to ad• To operate integrated risk management and response framework dress not only financial risks but also Sustainability Management managerial issues • To identify department-specific and job-specific risk scenarios and set up response with risk management considerations. We will also identify job-specific risk scenarios manuals and set up corresponding response manuals every year to ensure sustained endeav• To train employees and build a company-wide culture of risk response ors to establish an company-wide culture of risk response. We aim to visualize riskrelated loss costs and opportunity values of our stakeholders, doubling our efforts to improve financial performance. [ Management System ] • M  anager in charge: CSO Department in charge: Business Management & Planning Team (Sustainability Management Executive Office) 2010 achievement RM 2009 2010 : Achieved : Partially Achieved : Not Achieved Yet : Continuous Activity Managerial Issue 2009 Major Activities 2010 Plans 2010 Major Activities Assessment Identifying Integrated Risks · Identifying integrated risk issues · Identifying and examining integrated risk issues · Managing major issues based on company-wide SM framework and Introducing Response · Setting policies and systems · S upplementing and regularly reviewing policies and · Company-wide risk management and operation framework being set up Framework · Introducing integrated risk management framework systems · Reviewing and improving policies in a regular manner and process · Exploring risk scenarios · E xploring job-related risk scenarios by department-1st phase completed · Identifying responsibilities of departments and (more than 2 per team) high-level managers in charge · Analyzing scenario feasibility · 1st phase risk scenarios being analyzed · Creating risk scenario response manual · Developing issue-specific manual after feasibility analysis Educating and Training ·C  arrying out risk-response activities on a daily basis · C onducting risk-response activities on a daily and · Managing issues according to SM framework Employees and Creating mid-term basis · R isk scenarios being explored and manuals being developed by Risk Culture department · S etting plans for employee training and · Creating employee training plans according to manual communication 2011 plan RM 2011 Managerial Issue 2011 Plans Details Schedule Operating Integrated Risk · Building Year-round risk issue management system · Year-round management of major issues according to company-wide SM framework Year-round Management and Response · Running company-wide integrated risk management framework (SM Steering Group) Framework · Supplementing and regularly reviewing policies and systems · Supplementing company-wide integrated risk management policies and systems Jun. · Reviewing and improving relevant policies and systems · Identifying job-related risk scenarios by department · Exploring job-related risk scenarios and identifying core risks by department Jul. · Analyzing scenario feasibility · Analyzing impact and opportunity factors by risk scenario Aug. · Creating response manuals according to risk scenarios · Creating response manuals of core risk scenarios by department Nov. Educating and Training · Promoting risk culture on a daily basis · Monitoring risk response activities on a daily basis Year-round Employees and Creating Risk ·O  ffering employees practical education and regular training · Educating employees according to manual and setting drill plans Dec. Culture on risk response 72 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 1. Identifying Integrated Our integrated risk management and response framework is up and running to proactively Risk Management and manage risk factors that interact with each other in business activities and to protect values for our stakeholders. The integrated risk response framework is operated organically with Response Framework our Sustainability Management and in particular, we set up processes within the companywide Sustainability Management framework to carry out segmented risk management activities and to incorporate risk activities in our employees’ daily business operations. Identification and Examination of Risk Issues on an Integrated Improvement and Regular Review of Risk Response Policy and Company-Wide Level System We identified core Sustainability Management managerial issues as core Our Sustainability Management Steering Group serves to carry out risk issues that require strategic management and thus built a framework regular discussions of risk management and response and they are stiputo form seamless connections between Sustainability Management activlated in our Sustainability Management principles and operation frameities and risk management and response activities. We recognize not just work, elevating our risk management activities into policies and systems financial risks but also information/technology leakage, health and safety in their own right. In addition, risk-relate R & R and responsibilities for and business-related legal risks as daily managerial issues and are enperformance management and reporting are allocated to concerned degaged in various initiatives to minimize such risks. We also established an partments according to the integrated risk management framework and integrated risk management framework to ensure a smooth alignment this process structure enables assessment and monitoring of risk manbetween company-wide Sustainability Management activities and nonagement activities, ensuring a constant level of risk response activities financial risk response activities. throughout the year. Our 2011 plan is to enhance visibility of our risk management framework by creating and stipulating proactive manageOur top priority in 2010 was to form the fundamental basis to create rement and response manuals based on risk scenarios found last year and sponse manuals by identifying department-specific and job-specific risks relevant policies, systems and manuals will undergo regular reviews and exploring likely risk scenarios accordingly. Our plan for 2011 is to and make improvements through Sustainability Management Steering develop proactive risk management and response manuals to address Group meetings. each major risk scenario found in 2010 and completed manuals will be utilized as basic risk management guidelines for regular employee trainWe will strive to minimize negative impact on stakeholders and business ing and drills. Such integrated management process will be operated in a and to visualize risk-related loss costs and opportunity values so that our cyclical manner to make sure that new risk-specific scenarios are created risk management initiatives can make continuous contributions to finanand corresponding management and response manuals are developed cial performance. every year. [ Integrated Risk Management Framework ] Financial Risks Daily Management Non-Financial Risks Risks Department-specific Job Risks (HR management, training, labor-management relationship, green management, technology development, production, sales and marketing, financial accounting, business planning, quality management and etc.) Risk-Specific Scenario Identification Proactive Risk Management and Response Manual Creation Employee Education and Training 06. Integrated Risk Management 73 Risk Management and Prevention via Risk Management ComRisk Feasibility Analysis mittee We are building a feasibility analysis framework to identify the most urWe set up risk management committees for each accident and risk catgent risk issues by discovering major management risks and analyzing egory based on event analysis of past risk accidents in order to ensure business impact, opportunity factors and risk history of each risk item proactive response to potential safety and health-related risks and crisis under the integrated risk response process established in 2009. As part in each business site. We are building a management framework to enof our efforts to create the framework, we are to carry out detailed feasiable accident investigations and recovery support in addition to constant bility analysis in 2011 of various job-specific risk scenarios found in 2010 accident prevention, monitoring and training. and determine the top 2 risk scenarios, for which we will create clearly stipulated prevention and management manuals by the end of 2011. Discovering Function-Specific and Business Division-Specific Scenarios Establishment of Risk Scenario Response Manual In order to improve usability of risk management manuals and their inIn 2010, we formed the foundation to prevent risks in advance that can corporation into actual business operations, we aim to develop risk rehappen anytime in our daily business operations and thus to minimize sponse manuals that will enable more proactive risk management by loss costs and maximize opportunity values by discovering departmentclearly stipulating major job flows in each function and ensuring that pospecific and job-specific risk scenarios, moving beyond simply managing tential business-related risks are prevented and managed, rather than foand responding to risks in our Sustainability Management Focus Areas. cusing on responding to crisis situations. We plan to increase the number of job-specific risk scenarios to manage every year and our goal is not just to identify risk scenarios but also to build an organic job risk management framework that will lead to establishment of proactive risk prevention and management manuals and risk education and training. Expected Benefits of Creating Prevention and Management Manuals for [ Risk Area in Charge ] Each Risk Scenario · Establishing a framework to manage non-financial risks as well as financial and business risks in an integrated manner Standardization of risk response activities by setting reporting levels befitDepartment in Charge Major Risk Management Area ting risk levels and response processes 1 Business Management 1. Analysis of business environment · Enhancing organizational competitiveness by discovering unpredictable & Planning Team 2. Increasing demand for information disclosure risks in the changing global business environment and making continued re2 Win-Win Partnership 1. Selecting and evaluating business partners sponses Team 2. Monitoring business partners’ performance in ethical management and SM · Improving business continuity by constantly managing risks regarding regu3 Green Management 1. Contaminant leakages lations, finance, environment, operation and management Team 2. Various disasters 4 Technology 1. Maintaining technology competitiveness Management Team 2. Patent issues 5 Innovation Team 1. Measuring innovation performance 2. Disseminating innovation initiatives 6 HR Development 1. Improving recruitment management process Team 2. Ensuring legality in operation of contractors 7 Each Business Division 1. Product performance and quality 2. Managing customers and business partners 74 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2. Educating and Training We continue to include not just financial risks but also leakages of core technology and inEmployees and Creating formation, document security, contractual risk management, environment safety-related accidents and risk factors in our company-wide daily management risk issues and put variRisk Culture ous efforts into proactively managing and responding to these risk issues. At LS Mtron, we firmly believe that this is a highly critical prerequisite in ensuring business continuity and stakeholder satisfaction. Identification and Examination of Risk Issues on an Integrated rect impact on our business and also incur immediate loss costs. We also Company-wide Level rely on external legal advisors and perform prior reviews of business 1. Financial Risk Management Activities_ We understand factors that contracts to enhance the level of legal compliance and response activities and reduce risks caused by insufficient knowledge of legal operations. have grave impact on our business continuity and financial status and identify financial risk issues through internal/external business envi6. Prevention and Management of EHS Risks _ We are working on comronment analysis. In particular, we categorize foreign exchange and pany-wide targets to prevent and reduce ESH risks according to our liquidity risks, raw material prices, changes in government’s finangreen management guidelines to establish LS Mtron as a company that cial policies including interest rates and increasing demand of busiis respected for its appreciation of mother nature and life and business ness disclosure as core financial risks and manage them constantly management that cares for future generations. To ensure proactive rethroughout the year. In order to minimize these financial risks, we are sponses to overall ESH issues, we operate the 「Environment Safety Reestablishing a framework to enable monitoring and top management review System」which takes into account contaminants and risk factors in view of the financial market on a daily basis and proactive risk responses making facility investment decisions in order to select designs and raw through early warning system. materials with environment safety in mind from the production and in2. Prevention of Core Technology Leakages_ We believe that our core troduction stages. When it comes to modification and disposal of any facility or raw materials, we apply the 「Environment Safety Prior Evalutechnology and relevant information is a critical part of our organizaation System」to promote environmentally-friendly manufacturing protional competitiveness and thus our security management system that cess and raw materials. In the product development stage, we make sure covers all of our employees is up and running under strict business secuthat research and development of new products takes into consideration rity management regulations to ensure security management and monihazardous chemicals, greenhouse gas emissions, recyclability and other toring. Our thorough security policies also address external personnel inenvironmentally-friendly design factors. cluding retirees, business partner employees and visitors. Especially, all of our employees are managed under our security grading system and those Our management and labor union work together in providing a healthy who can possibly leak our core technology and confidential information and safe working environment at business sites by carrying out 「Joint by joining LS Mtron’s competitors or starting his/her own company afSafety Check」activities regularly with an aim to prevent accidents. We ter quitting are managed separately as either a core worker or a critical also offer 「Risk Countering Drills」 and 「Muscloskeletal Disease Preworker. vention Stretching」 programs to raise employee awareness of safety ac3. Prevention of Customer and Personal Information _ We sign confidencident prevention, provide special training to qualify those who work on hazardous equipment, and give separate training to new recruits who are tiality agreements with former employees, business partners and all the most likely to be involved in accidents. In addition, our 「Environment other individuals and organizations who have business relationships with Safety Remind Training System」 is up and running to re-train our emus and make sure that sensitive personal and customer information as ployees of safety issues at regular intervals. well as our core technology and information is not leaked out. Our company-wide ethical norms and SM principles empathize the importance of preventing individual and customer information leakages and we pay a [Employee Education/Training and Increased Communication] great deal of attention to preventing and managing information leakages We define management responsibilities clearly for each risk issue and manthrough online channels. age risks on a daily basis according to the risk management and proactive response framework in order to disseminate an integrated risk manage4. Maintenance of Document Security and Other Business-related Secument framework and incorporate risk management into our corporate culrity _ We classify various documents by importance in using and managture. Bi-monthly SM Steering Group meetings serve to share and monitor ing them according to our corporate security management regulations. the status and progress of risk management activities regularly and a wide We also implement the internet real name verification system, blocking range of training programs are provided to educate our employees on and monitoring external e-mail and messenger services and websites and risk issue-specific management and prevention and to encourage them to the Security Management Department provides security training more practice risk management in their daily business activities. Our Legal Afthan twice per year and performs security diagnosis of all departments. fairs Team takes charge of regular training courses every year on businessrelated contractual and legal risks as well as various financial risks. When it 5. Prevention of Contractual and Business-related Legal Risks _ Our Lecomes to environment, safety and health risks, emergency drills, risk coungal Affairs Team is offering year-round training and consulting services tering drills, fire drills, environment safety committee member training and of legal knowledge required regarding business contracts and activities. other diversified programs are operated. We understand contractual and business-related legal risks can have di75 summary Corporate Governance 76 Ethical Management 77 annual Business Activities Highlight 2010 Business Profile 78 79 Financial Performance 83 report Condensed Financial Statements 84 76 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Corporate LS Group was transformed into a holding company on July 1, 2008 in order to raise management efficiency of increasingly-expanding affiliates and to achieve a more stable responsibility management system of each busiGovernance ness division. LS Cable was split into LS Corporation, the existing holding company, and LS Mtron Ltd. and LS Cable Ltd., the newly created commercial affiliate, which led to strengthened legal and accounting independence and served to establish the right decision-making system and organizational culture for each business. Currently, the holding company possesses 100% of LS Mtron’s shares and LS Mtron is not listed on the stock market. Board of Directorst Stockholder Our Board of Directors is the highest decision-making body within the The number of stocks issued by LS Mtron stands at 9,000,000 as of the end company. The directors fulfill their duty of care and loyalty as a manager of 2010 and LS Corp. holds 100& of LS Mtron’s stocks. in good faith in conformity with commercial laws. The BOD consists of 3 inside directors and 1 auditor and the company CEO serves as the BOD chair. Seven BOD meetings were held in 2010, where 16 matters were de[ List of Stockholders (as of Dec. 31, 2010) ] liberated and approved. The compensation for board members is provided Stockholder Type of Stock No. of Stocks Value (KRW 1 million) Stockholding Ratio within the limits of compensation for directors that were approved by genLS Corp. Registered common stock 9,000,000 45,000 100% eral shareholder meetings. [ Organization of BOD (as of Dec. 31, 2010) ] Sustainability Management Management and Responsibility Our Sustainability Management Steering Group, supervised by top manDuty Classification Name Gender Experiences Duty agement officers, was newly created in 2010 to serve as a top decision-mak(full/part-time) ing body for Sustainability Management activities. Officers in charge are CEO CEO Cha-Yol Koo Male · Business management major at Korea CEO (full-time) (chairman of the University responsible for operating the SM Steering Group and managing Sustainboard) · Former director at LG Corporation ability Management principles and operation regulations. · Former vice president at LG Investment & Securities CEO President Jae-Seol Shim Male · Mechanical engineering major at CEO Significant Changes in Company Management _ (full-time) Hanyang University 1) Conclusion of the contract to supply 2,500 tractors (2010~2011) · Former vice president at LS Cable Director Director Ki-Won Nam Male · Business management major at Korea CFO to CNH in March of 2010 (full-time) University 2) Conclusion of the contract to install large scale turbo heat pump · Former director at JS Cable Auditor Outside Soo-Hong Lee Male · Electrical engineering major at Seoul Auditor products (3000 RT-grade) to combined heat & power plants in (part-time) director National University March of 2010 · Former professor at Hoseo University 3) Acquisition of the anode material business of Carbonix Ltd. In June of 2010 [ BOD Major Activities ] 4) Hand-over of the anode material business to POSCO CHEMTECH in September of 2010 Date of Meeting Agenda Item Approval 5) Approval to purchase remaining shares of Daesung Electric Feb. 3, 2010 2nd quarter financial statement and 5 other items Approved in December of 2010 Mar. 9, 2010 Appointing executive officers and 1 other item Approved May 25, 2010 Purchasing the anode material business of Carbonix Ltd. and 1 other item Approved Jun. 25, 2010 2010 mid-term strategies Approved Aug. 30, 2010 Expanding investment in copper foil business Approved Dec. 8, 2010 Appointing executive officers and 2 other items Approved Dec. 13, 2010 Taking over remaining shares of Daesung Electric Approved [ Process for Internal Stakeholders to Participate in Decision-Making ] Board of Directors Support / check CEO Participation and Cooperation int Appo · Monitoring/check Report Enhancement Council Management Committee ·D eliberation of main rt Repo agenda items General Meeting Quarterly of Stockholders ·D  iscussing and determining ·D  iscussion on managerial issues Audit Repo major company-wide issues for better treating employees and rt CEO strengthened competitiveness Auditor Audit fi  nance, strategy and support Appo int divisions Information sharing each business division · Accounting/audit * For more information on the process for internal stakeholders to participate in decision making, please refer to 67page. Corporate Governance / Ethical Management 77 Ethical We believe that ethical management serves as a foundation for us to meet economic, environmental and social responsibilities under the sustainability management value framework. Fair and ethical relationships with a wide Management range of stakeholders are the critical prerequisite for us to establish our identity as a company that satisfies expectations and requirements of stakeholders. We carried out various activities to improve executive capabilities of ethical management including revision of ethical standard teaching materials and continued operation of the Sinmungo complaint reporting system in 2010. Operation Guidelines of Ethical Management Operation of Reporting System Our Ethical Management Executive Office receives reports on unethical activities including violations of ethical standards from stakeholders constantly and ensures that informant confidentiality is thoroughly protected. Our Sinmungo system serves as a channel for stakeholders to make suggestions and critical comments honestly on overall management activities and 13 such reports were made including 7 on product quality and 6 on process improvement and other issues in 2010. The results were confirmed Innovative Technology Partner and fully communicated via happy calls to concerned parties. We also operate the Clean Company System for voluntarily reporting any kind of bribery activities. In 2010, 3 such reports were made and they were dealt with according to relevant regulations and preventive measures were taken as well. Pursuing joint Building Meeting Seeking growth and corporate corporate social sustainable mutual trust with ethics responsibilities growth Evaluation of Ethical Management Levels stakeholders Our ethical management performance is evaluated by our business partners every year. The outcome is utilized to make and implement plans to Building fair organizational culture and internalizing enhance employees’ awareness of ethical management and their capabiliethical management in employee mindset ties to practice ethical standards. In 2010, 210 business partners were surLS Mtron Code of conduct veyed and the result was posted at our corporate bulletin board, encouraging our employees to understand ethical management and put it into action. Enhancement of Executive Capabilities Ethical Management Education for Employees _ We educate our employees on ethical management every year to improve their executive capabilities. In 2010, we offered introductory courses for new and experienced recruits and company-wide offline training on corporate ethical standards. The introductory courses were attended by 140 and the company-wide off-line training was provided to 1,610 (completion rate 99%) including all employ[ Online Sinmungo ] [ Procedures for Reporting Ethical ees (including overseas affiliate employees and expatriate workers) and partManagement Violations ] time workers, utilizing revised teaching materials. LS Mtron Increase Company-Wide Awareness of Business Ethics _ Our corporate stakeholders intranet is regularly updated with postings on ethical management and variPosting ous efforts to enhance employees’ awareness of ethics are going on including reports LS Mtron Communicating sworn statements to practice ethical management standards signed by emonline Sinmungo results ployees after company-wide offline training on ethical standards. Whenever Taking action ethical managerial issues occur such as ethical management training, relto address reports Ethical Management evant information is communicated via corporate bulletin board and ethical Executive Office management section of the corporate website. * L S Mtron’s Ethical Management website: http://ethics.lsmtron.com 78 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Business Activities Highlight 2010 Our main business is classified into the Machinery Division made up of Tractor, Air-conditioning, Injection Molding and Special Business Divisions and the Component Division composed of Electronic Component, Electronic Circuit Materials, Automotive Component, FCCL, and Ultra Capacitor Divisions. We strive to achieve the highest-level of product quality and technology competitiveness in each business division, realize our Vision 2015, and to become Innovative Technology Partner for a convenient and comfortable world. We are to pursue ‘Soaring-Off Management’ in 2011 to take the level of our business activities a notch higher. 1. February 2010 2. April 2010 We signed a contract to install a co-generation plant in Anyang/Bucheon We signed a contract to supply tractors worth USD 200 million to CNH, and a large-scale turbo heat pump. The latter is a renewable energy facilthe world’s second-largest agro-machinery maker. Under the agreement to ity to recycle the waste heat from frozen water into the heat source for the supply 20,000 units by 2013, the two companies forged ‘strategic partnercommunity, whose construction will be completed in November 2010. Anship,’ paving the way to create synergies in bilateral global marketing. nual source energy reduction of KRW 1.7 billion and CO2 reduction of 9,740 tons will be achieved. 3. August 2010 4. October 2010 Investment of KRW 46 billion was made for electric thin films as the core We completed the construction of a state-of-the-art tractor plant with the material for secondary cells – the first step to pave the way to dominate annual production volume of 20,000 units in Qingdao in China. This will the electric thin film market by 2015 through advance investment amid the enable us to establish a full line-up production system in the Chinese marmarket growth potentials. By expanding the electric thin film production ket capable of absorbing 230,000 units per year, and launch high-function two-fold, we plan to actively respond to higher demand from domestic corproducts, possibly achieving revenues of KRW 300 billion in China by 2015. porate customers and foreign large-scale customers. 5. December 2010 By additionally acquiring Daesung Electric’s Delphi equity worth 49.5%, we now own 100% of the company, enabling us to intensively foster auto components. We plan to extend support for Daesung Electric to leap forwards as the world’s top 100 auto component makers with revenues of KRW 1 trillion by 2015. Agreement to install turbo heat pumps at co-generation plants Signing a CNH tractor supply contract Completed the construction of a tractor plant in Qingdao Business Activities Highlight 2010 / Business Profile 79 Business Profile Tractor Division Growing into a World-Class Brand for Agricultural Machinery Our Tractor Division touts key technologies and expands overseas marketing through continuous R&D as the world-class brand for agricultural machinery. 1 2 Model Main Features [ Business Overview ] ·4  3~53 HS (compact tractor) ·O  ur proprietary patented technology used to combine mechanic efficiency and R-ez shift 1 • Detailed usage: Farming electrical convenience · Equipped with electric motor, going forwards and backwards without clutch operation • Annual production capacity of 20,000-Jeonju plant, Qingdao plant • Rapid growth of more than 30% in overseas markets ·H  igh-efficiency transmission and high fuel efficiency ·W idest steering angle of equivalent models, which minimizes turning radius, and out• Full line-up from compact to large tractors PLUS 2 standing workability • Cutting-edge production facility and world-class design and quality ·R  &D underway to respond to North America’s Tier 4 exhaust gas regulations to be implemented in 2012 • Customer: general farmers and trusted farming companies Air-Conditioning Division Leading the Freezing/Air-Conditioning Industry from Turbo Freezer for Nuclear Power Plants to Individual Heating/Cooling Systems Our Air-Conditioning Division is a leader in the freezing/air-conditioning sector and provides total solutions of air-conditioning systems covering fan coil units, cooling towers, and thermo-hygrostats as well as turbo freezers, absorption chiller-heaters and air conditioners. 1 2 3 [ Business Overview ] Model Main Features • Detailed usage: Cooling/heating for buildings and plants ·H  ighest efficiency among equivalent models (COP 6.38) LTP/LTX 1 · E nergy-saving environmentally-friendly product that uses various energy sources such • Total solutions of air-conditioning systems including freezers and air-conditioners as water heat and ice thermal storage • Leading the development of environmentally-friendly products such as R-140 a ·W orld’s highest efficiency (COP 6.44) GHP LDF-N 2 · S ubminiature size available in the industry, which leads to significant space-savings • Providing 2500 RT-grade turbo freezers to the Motor City Project, the largest of · Using low CO2/NOx burners its kind in the Middle East ·U  sing environmentally-friendly R410A refrigerants • Developing high-pressure double turbo freezer, which boasts the largest capacity LSGP 3 · 50% operation cost cut compared to electric type ·C  ustomized GHP system, which is suitable for air-conditioning, and chiller units among 3000 RT–grade freezers in Korea 80 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Injection Molding Division Providing Highly Productive Environmentally-Friendly Injection Systems in the Plastic Molding Sector Our Injection Molding Division, based on its 40-year history in leading the Korean injection machine industry and technical expertise, is manufacturing 30 to 4,500 ton-grade injection molding machines. 1 2 Model Main Features ·P  recision location control with high-power, high-response AC servomotor · E nergy/operation cost saving: electricity cost cut by two thirds compared to hydraulic [ Business Overview ] LGE-II SERIES type (electromotive type) 1 ·P  roductivity gains with parallel action deployment: 20% reduction in cycle time com• Detailed usage: Plastic molded products pared to hydraulic type • Forty years of history, manufacturing 30 to 4,500 ton injection molding machines ·M  ore than 20% cut in machine space with two-platen, new clamping-unit mechanism • Manufacturing 30 to 550 ton electromotive injection machines, which are · L oad-sensitive P/Q precision control: more than 30% energy saving compared to previhigh-efficiency and environmentally-friendly products LGH-S SERIES ous models (hydraulic type) 2 ·P  roductivity improvement with parallel action deployment: 30% decrease in cycle time • Producing super-large injection machines and hybrid injection machines compared to previous models • Exporting to 50 countries of the world Special Business Division State-of-the Art Technical Expertise that Leads the Advancement of the Global Defense Industry The Special Business Division has been a supplier to the Korean military for more than 30 years with advanced technical expertise, starting with the domestic development of caterpillars in 1975. [ Business Overview ] 1 2 • Detailed usage: Defense industry • Supporting loads of 13~15 tons of tanks, armed vehicles and self-propelled Model Main Features artillery 1 · Caterpillars for tanks primarily used by the Korean military • Developing proprietary caterpillars for all combat vehicles being deployed · Improving intensity, safety and economic feasibility of caterpillars in Korea 2 · Caterpillars for armed vehicles to be used by Korean combat infantry · Ensuring high-speed mobility and water trafficability via light-weight technology • Using design technology for light and highly durable products Business Profile 81 Electronic Component Division Alpha and Omega of the Future Ubiquitous Era Our Electronic Component Division manufactures core components such as connectors and antennas for cutting-edge devices including mobile phone, TFT-LCD/PDP and various electronic devices with our accumulated technology and expertise. 1 2 3 Model Main Features · S ize: 26.25×4.0×1.0 (mm) GT05Q-40S· E MI protection is provided by covering with metal shell [ Business Overview ] H10-M-E3000 1 ·U  sed for MCX cable, and pull-bar structures • Detailed usage: Connector (for mobiles phones and display), antenna (mobile · 0 .4mm Pitch & 1.0mm Height devices, RFID, and DMB) GB042 Series 2 ·D  ual contact point structure, Ni-Barrier used ·U  sed for LG Electronics’ mobile phones • Providing connectors of world-class quality and in conformity with various ·U  sed for LG Electronics’ domestic phone NFC standards · S ecuring the adhesiveness twice as strong as the existing FPCB products • Producing antennas for mobile devices, RFID and DMB KU2800 (domestic) 3 · S ecuring a distance of visibility for SPEC among domestic companys • Offering core components that require advanced technology · Inducing low cost, high functions and high workability Electronic Circuit Materials Division Core Materials to Lead the Electronic Circuit and Secondary Battery Sector With its core technologies including electrodeposited-plating, the Electronic Circuit Materials Division is producing foils and special copper foils, making cutting-edge electronic devices smaller and multi-functional. Model Main Features LSU-STN · General foil / thickness 12 ~ 70㎛ [ Business Overview ] 12um · Used for producing CCL and PCB • Detailed usage: Copper foils for PCB and Secondary Battery Sector ·C  opper foil / thickness 8 and 10㎛ LSB-STN • To be a global top provider of special electrolytic copper foil by 2015 ·U  sed for cathode current collectors of lithium ion batteries • Securing highly functional/highly reliable foil manufacturing technology · S pecial foil / thickness 12, 18, and 35㎛ LSB-FXN ·U  sed for FCCL and FPC • Investing KRW 46 billion in 2010 to tap into the copper foil market 82 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Automotive Component Division Automotive Rubber Hose Products that Ensure Top Quality and Safety 1 2 3 The Automotive Component Division provides automotive rubber hose Model Main Features products such as break hose, power steering hose and general hose. ·U  sed for wiring in brake system Brake Hose 1 · S atisfying SAE and DOT3,4 standards · S ize: 1/8, 3/16 in (hose inside diameter) ·U  sed for automobile steering apparatus Power [ Business Overview ] Steering Hose 2 · E xcellent thermal/pressure resistance ·O  utstanding absorptiveness of pulsatile pressure, which leads to lower interior noise • Detailed usage: Rubber hose for automobiles ·U  sed for connecting various component of intercooler • Developed ultralow expansion break hose Charged Air ·U  sing environmentally-friendly fluorine and silicon • Newly expanded the CAC (Charged Air Cooler) hose line for the 1st time in Korea Cooler Hose 3 ·K  orea’s first-ever environmentally-friendly production line that conforms with EURO V • Supplying to global automobile manufacturers as a Tier 1 supplier standards Ultra Capacitor Ultra Capacitors that Lead the Green Energy Market Ultra capacitors are highly reliable energy storage devices that will take the lead in the future energy market. Our ultra capacitors are used as an energy source for power back-up, auxiliary power and momentary and peak power compensation, where high energy efficiency and power density and long-term reliability are critical requirements. [ Business Overview ] • Detailed usage: Automobiles, electricity facilities, heavy equipment and wind power generation • Main applications: peak power compensation, back-up power, battery substitutes Model Main Features in storing renewable energy LSUC 002R8L • High-power(vs. battery), high-efficiency(vs. capacitor ·R  ated voltage: 2.8V~3.0V (EDLC world’s top-level) 0350F EA · S uperb temperature characteristic(-40~60 degrees), low internal resistance • Maintenance and repair unnecessary (recharge and discharge only after more LSUC 002R8P ·B  alancing and overvoltage protection mechanism in each cell than 1 million cycles or expected life span of more than 10 years) 3000F EA FCCL Core Material that Leads the Display Sector Our FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminate) Division succeeded in massproducing this core component for mobile phones and display devices for the first time in Korea and third in the world. The division, with its diversified line-up in place, is further expanding its business into double-side plated products and semi-additive products. [ Business Overview ] • Detailed usage: Used for wiring among electronic components in the telecommunications sector and equipped in FPD LCD • To be a global top provider of special electrolytic copper foils and sputter type FCCL products by 2015 Model Main Features • Sputter type FCCL for LCD COFs that enable creation of fine patterns · E nabling fine-pitch and light-weight components, using cutting-edge semi-additive • Securing monthly capacity of 117km2 in 2011 due to increased speed of PL film NR_156 ·H  igh-grade products with outstanding reliability, etchability and bendability: LCD COF (Chip On Film), mobile phone COF and HDD plating process and additional investment in construction of the 4th plating machine Business Profile / Financial Performance 83 Financial Performance Our Business Performance The year 2010 was deeply meaningful in that we laid the foundation for nese tractor market. Our connector business doubled its production casoaring off as a company, increasing our revenue by more than 30% from pacity from the previous year and the Injection Molding Division is now the previous year. The Tractor Division achieved 1,000 units of monthly equipped with production capacity worth KRW 13 billion in sales per production for the first time in last October and raised its annual producmonth. We also decided to invest KRW 46 billion in expanding foil production to 11,000 units as well. The division also built its production base in tion facilities, whose market is expected to post rapid growth in the future. Qingdao, China, last October, establishing a foothold to take over the Chi[ Revenue Status ] [ Operating Profit ] (unit: KRW 100 million) 6,237 Domestic Market Exports (Machinery Division) (Component Division) 4,301 4,562 3,026 2009 2010 2,615 3,391 KRW 33.3 KRW 46.6 2,334 billion 2,137 billion 1,675 910 478 692 2009 2010 2009 2010 Revenues and Entry Volumes by Region (unit: KRW 100 million) Economic Value Creation and Distribution (unit: KRW million) Category 2009 2010 Category 2009 2010 Revenues by Region Economic Values Created 104,828 126,485 Korea 5,544 6,895 Revenue 691,514 926,314 China 395 513 Non-operating income 32,492 22,945 North America 325 630 Product and service expenses 2 (524,745) (746,992) Europe 219 419 Other expenses 3 (56,578) (30,771) Asia (excluding China) 210 772 Depreciation expenses 4 (37,855) (45,011) Others 222 34 Economic Values Distributed 104,828 126,485 Total 6,015 9,263 Labor expenses (employees) 5 88,045 109,894 Entry Volumes by Region Taxes and public dues (government) 6 3,824 5,462 Korea 3,044 5,374 Donations (community) 230 297 Japan 366 496 Capital expenses (creditors) 12,729 10,832 China 304 415 1. USA, South East Asia, India, Australia, Middle East and etc. 2. All product and service expenses for business operations Europe 268 236 3. Non-operating expenses excluding interest expenses and donations Others 1 58 4. Total depreciation expenses and amortization expenses of intangible assets included in cost of sales and expenses for sales administration Total 3,952 6,579 5. Combination of salary, retirement payments and benefits 6. Combination of taxes, public charges and corporate taxes *A mount of investment for social contribution activities in 2009: Including other costs for social contribution activities e.g. culture and art 84 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Condensed Financial Statements Short Balance Sheet (unit : KRW ) 3rd period: As of Dec. 31, 2010 2nd period: As of Dec. 31, 2009 Subject 3rd period 2nd period Ⅰ. Liquid Assets 383,449,236,888 329,223,496,469 (1) Quick Assets 269,455,985,975 231,176,871,041 (2) Inventory Assets 113,993,250,913 98,046,625,428 Ⅱ. Non-current Assets 488,508,401,568 461,136,890,170 (1) Investment Assets 143,535,531,840 126,265,135,322 (2) Tangible Assets 288,847,081,796 279,921,046,696 (3) Intangible Assets 35,325,413,769 35,026,744,726 (4) Other Non-current Assetst 20,800,374,163 19,923,963,426 Total Assets 871,957,638,456 790,360,386,639 Ⅰ. Current Liabilities 264,086,701,361 306,309,095,350 Ⅱ. Long-term Liabilities 141,132,212,872 40,837,248,298 Total Liabilities 405,218,914,233 347,146,343,648 Ⅰ. Capital 45,000,000,000 45,000,000,000 Ⅱ. Capital Surplus 426,255,349,484 426,255,349,484 Ⅲ. Other Comprehensive Income 989,085,240 1,079,937,977 Ⅳ. Deficit 5,505,710,501 29,121,244,470 Total Capital 466,738,724,223 443,214,042,991 Total Liabilities and Capital 871,957,638,456 790,360,386,639 Short Profit And Loss Calculation (unit : KRW ) 3rd period: Jan. 1. 2010 – Dec. 31, 2010 Subject 3rd period 2nd period 2nd period: Jan. 1. 2009 – Dec. 31, 2009 Ⅰ. Sales Turnover 926,313,936,453 691,513,670,825 Ⅱ. Cost of Sales 745,378,095,537 557,031,347,577 Ⅲ. Gross Margin 180,935,840,916 134,482,323,248 Ⅳ. Costs for Sales and Administration 136,371,370,941 101,194,668,465 Ⅴ.Operating Profit 44,564,469,975 33,287,654,783 Ⅵ.Non-operating Revenue 22,945,208,441 32,492,181,094 Ⅶ. Non-operating Expenses 41,901,147,547 69,424,823,699 Ⅷ. Net Profits before Corporate Tax(Loss) 25,608,530,869 (3,644,987,822) Ⅸ. Corporate Tax Expenses 1,992,996,900 570,224,441 Ⅹ. Current Net Profits(Loss) 23,615,533,969 (4,215,212,263) ⅩⅠ.Profits and Loss Per Share 2,624 (468) 85 appendix Sustainability Management Guidelines 86 Global Network 89 Major Quantitative Indicators 92 Awards / Membership 93 Assurance Statement 94 COP Report 96 GRI and ISO 26000 Index 97 86 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Guidelines Sustainability Management Principles and Action Guidelines Ⅰ. Purpose 2) Economic and Social Value Creation: Win-Win Partnership Team, Quality Management Team, Innovation Team The SM (Sustainability Management) Principles and Action Guidelines cover basic prin3) Social Contribution : Business Support Team ciples to ensure systemic implementation of our SM initiatives and lay the foundation to 4) Green Management: Green Management Team, Technology Management Team provide stakeholders including customers with the best value as a global leader in the 5) Employee Value Enhancement : HR Development Team machinery and component business. 6) Integrated Risk Management: SM Executive Office Ⅱ. Integrated SM Management System 6. Operation of Subcommittees Subcommittees were created to boost executive capabilities in each SM Focus Area and to 1. Establishment of Policy encourage proactive participation of each business division. They should report progress made and future improvements to the SM Steering Group. 1.1 Integrated SM Framework In order to ensure systemic implementation of sustainability management, the Sustain6.1 SM Sub-Committee and Supervising Department ability Management Steering Group, a Board of Directors and top management level 1) Green Management : Green Management Team body, serves as a top decision-making group and company-wide SM management re2) Environmentally-Friendly Product : Technology Management Team sponsibilities lie with managers in charge within the company. 3) Win-Win Partnership : Win-Win Partnership Team 1) SM Steering Group 4) Social Contribution: Business Support Team This is an company-wide consultative group to deploy SM initiatives and its main roles 5) Customer and Quality Management : Quality Management Team are as follows. (1) Discussing directions and strategies to practice SM Ⅲ. Stakeholder Dialogue and Fulfillment of Promise (2) Identifying company-wide SM issues and discussing ways to improve each SM issue (3) Publishing Sustainability Reports and holding dialogue with stakeholders 1. Stakeholder Dialogue (4) Supplementing SM-related policies and systems Regular and official dialogue opportunities created by building dialogue channels with core 2) Sustainability Management Executive Office stakeholders and setting annual dialogue plans are utilized to review SM Focus Areas, deThe SM Executive Office is the supervising body for SM initiatives and its main roles are as follows. termine future implementation directions, add more Focus Areas and modify existing ones (1) Setting SM directions, strategies and education plans and promote participation in writing Sustainability Reports. (2) Diagnosing and evaluating company-wide SM activities (3) Supervising the SM Steering Group 1.1 Identification of Core Stakeholders and Responsibility to Respond (4) Publishing Sustainability Reports Stakeholders are identified through analysis of social interest and impact on LS Mtron’s busi(5) Creating and managing SM-related policies ness and the following roles and responsibilities to respond to them should be performed. 1) Customers : Customer satisfaction, increased customer responsibilities(product quality, 1.2 Stipulation of Relevant Policy product liability, customer safety and etc.) and etc. SM-related operation policies, systems and issue-specific implementation policies must 2) Business partners : seeking win-win growth through partnership, enhancing fair trade rebe stipulated and actively disseminated to ensure their company-wide application and lationship and etc. deployment. 3) employees : building employee capacity and improving their working conditions, protecting their human rights and complying with labor regulations and etc. 1.3 Regular Review and Improvement 4) Local community : engaging and developing local communities, social philanthropic acPolicies set in relation with SM must be reviewed on a quarterly basis and revised if their tivities and etc. modification and supplementation is needed. 5) Earth/Ecology : managing and reducing impact of products and processes on the environment, promoting environmentally-friendly products and services, responding to climate 2. SM Materiality Test change and controlling GHG emissions and etc. The SM Executive Office, in charge of practical SM matters, performs SM materiality tests every year through stakeholder engagement in order to understand stakeholder interest 1.2 Improvement of Stakeholder Dialogue and business impact, which form the basis for building SM strategies . As for annual plans to hold dialogue with core stakeholders, the first phase is to gather information on expectations and requirements of stakeholders, the second phase to set goals 3. Regular Diagnosis and Monitoring and detailed plans and then stakeholder dialogue is conducted via direct dialogue or surLS Mtron’s in-house SM diagnosis model, which includes all SM-related global standards, veys, which is followed by the results summarized and incorporated in setting next year’s is utilized to conduct regular diagnosis once a year and continued monitoring is carried directions and plans. out by the SM Steering Group. 2. Expansion of SM Disclosure 4. Company-wide Education and Consensus Building In addition to publishing the Sustainability Report every year to fulfill promises with stakeCompany-wide education plans are set and executed every year to promote sustainabilholders and provide critical information, more information is to be disclosed on the comity management and to build consensus among employees. pany’s financial and non-financial performance on the corporate website. 5. Sustainability Reporting Framework Ⅳ. Management of Non-Financial Risks Team leaders and their working-level employees who belong to departments in relation with SM Focus Areas identified through materiality test are obliged to report progress LS Mtron strives to systemically manage and respond to not just financial risks but also made and improvements to be made to the SM Steering Group via business-division levnon-financial risks including SEE (Social, Environmental, Ethical) risks. Every SM Focus Area el cooperation in order to ensure appropriate response to and improvement of SM issues. is considered as a core risk issue and company-wide response is ensured through the integrated risk management framework of the SM Steering Group. 5.1 LS Mtron SM Focus Area and Relevant Departments 1) Integrated SM Management: SM Executive Office Apr. 1, 2010 Sustainability Management Guidelines 87 LS Mtron Code of Conduct Chapter 1. Responsibilities and Obligations You shall make efforts for self-development in order to become good resource in this era of globalization. LS Mtron always respects the customers’ opinions and creates value helpful for winning the You shall make efforts to become the best expert in your job. customer’s trust. Chapter 3. Fair Competition (with Competitors) 1. Respect for Customers You shall hear the customers’ opinions and think that the customers’ demands are always LS Mtron conforms to the relevant laws of the country while performing business activities valid. all over the world and secures advantage in fair competition. You shall set customer satisfaction as the top standard of judgment and action. 1. Obtaining and Using Valid Information 2. Providing Credible Information You shall not obtain information on or a trade secret of competitors in an unjust manner. You shall not spread or provide invalid information to the customers. You shall not leak information on competitors even if the information is obtained justly. You shall not hide information that the customers should know. 2. Securing Advantage in Competition Justly You shall not slander third party products or compare them with without grounds. -You shall not steal or infringe on tangible or intangible assets of any and all fields owned 3. Response to Customers by competitors. You shall keep our promises with the customers. You shall not libel competitors through advertisement. If a customer makes a request for after-sales services or product exchange/refund, you 3. Prohibition of Consultation shall make a response promptly. You shall not consult with competitors on sales prices, conditions, and/or regional 4. Offer of Value to Customers distribution. -You shall provide the best products and services by continuing to develop technologies You shall not organize or join an unjust conference or consultation organization with a and to improve product quality. business contact in the same industry. 5. Protection of Customers’ Interests 4. Conforming to Laws and Commercial Customs -You shall protect the customers’ properties as if they were your own and you shall not In any and all domestic and overseas business activities, you shall conform to the use them indiscriminately. relevant laws of the country and its transactions customs. You shall not use or disseminate without permission any information you may obtain. You shall conform to the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in You shall not engage in unethical actions that may affect the customers’ interest. International Business Transactions of OECD and the Korean law of preventing bribery in international business transactions. Chapter 2. Basic Ethics of Employees Chapter 4: Fair Business Transaction (Subcontractors) If an employee breaks the corporate ethical standard, it could be the cause of a disciplinary measure including but not limited to discharge or filing a suit with the court. Equal opportunities for making any business transactions should be ensured. Joint growth is pursued by creating a relationship based on mutual trust and cooperation through trans1. Prohibition of Unjust Action Using Position or Duty parent transactions. -You shall not accept or demand a promise of recruitment after quitting the job from a person concerned while working. 1. Selecting a Business Contact through Fair Procedure -You shall not make an agreement for personal business nor make transactions (e.g., bor-You shall establish and enforces rules and systems on the procedure of selecting a busirowing property and loans) with the person concerned. ness contact so that a business contact can be selected or registered pursuant to fair apA boss shall not implicitly or explicitly order or demand the team or his or her staff to do praisement criteria. his or her personal business. 2. Fair Business Transactions and Appraisement 2. Valid and Fair Reporting -You shall report fairly the results of business transactions appraised to the business conYou shall not mislead the decision of a boss or a relevant team by fabricating documents tact and apply them to the next transaction. or coefficients or reporting invalid information. You shall apply a sound suggestion for the improvement and innovation of business 3. Ethical Behavior transactions to actual works. You shall not perform unethical or immoral behavior that may hurt the honor of LS If you use the technologies or other properties of a business contact, you must get Mtron. approval from the business contact to do so. You shall not foster distrust in a team or engage in behavior that may affect the sound If the business contact is damaged due to a fault of LS Mtron, LS Mtron shall compensate environment of the team by fabricating or spreading rumors. the damage. 4. Prohibition of Behavior that Negatively Affects Corporate Interests You shall not perform any unjust action prohibited by the regulations relevant to fair You shall not directly operate or finance an company that may negatively affect corpotransactions. rate interests. 3. Clean Transactions You shall not participate in the operation of companies or subcontractors related to the You shall not receive or demand economic profit such as money and other articles, s job nor finance them without prior discussion. ervices, treats, or other benefits. You shall not be employed by a competitor or a subcontractor concomitant to your You shall not solicit by using special relationships such as family, birthplace, or alma period of employment with LS Mtron, consult, or give advice that may do damage to the mater and shall not apply external pressure by using a position at work. interests of LS Mtron. You shall not hinder the business activities of a subcontractor by using information on If you are employed by another company, you shall inform LS Mtron of the fact and and technologies of the subcontractor gained during business transactions without pridiscuss the issue with LS Mtron. or explicit approval. 5. Prohibition of Sexual Harassment 4. Support to Subcontractors You shall not engage in behavior that may do emotional or physical damage to other You shall establish and conform to a guideline for supporting subcontractors in order to people. cultivate them. -You shall not sexually harass another employee regardless of your position; you shall not The said guideline shall set forth the qualifications, rights, and obligations of subcontraccause difficulties in maintaining employment status nor develop a stain on character. tors and include the operation standards for support including but not limited to techni6. Self-Development cal support and management guidance. 88 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Quality Policy Chapter 5: Corporate Responsibilities for Employees It is policy of LS Mtron to recognize customers as fundamental base, and do its best to get an impression from its customer by providing superior LS Mtron respects any and all employees as individuals and treats them fairly depending and customer satisfactory products and services to its customers. on their abilities and performance. LS Mtron also tries to allow employees to show their cre ativity fully. To achieve this, all staffs are committed to performing following responsibilities and obligations: 1. Cultivation of Talent Employees The Quality is our top priority and we will achieve top quality competitiveness by particiYou shall establish, support, and activate the systems required to cultivate employees into pating in consistent innovation. autonomous, original talent. We will fulfill and understand the Quality Management System of the company. A boss shall give advice and guidance to the staff by taking the aptitude and abilities of We will observe the principles and basics and achieve Zero Customer Dissatisfaction by all concerned into consideration under the determination to cultivate the staff into active consistent improvements. and strong talent. 2. Treat Employees Based on Abilities and Performance In order to fulfill Quality Policies smoothly, head of Quality Management and Quality AssurYou shall provide employees with opportunities for improving their abilities fairly and not ance Division will be independent of cost price and deadline for differentiate between them depending on academic background, gender, age, or birthpayment and will maintain and improve quality system by having authority and responsiplace. bility as an agent of Quality Management. -You shall establish, inform, and conform to criteria for evaluating the abilities and performance of employees in order to create an environment of fair competition. Dec. 18, 2008 3. Free Speech -You shall establish systems required for employees to make suggestions and to express difficulties freely. Green Management Policy 4. Responsibilities for Health and Safety -You shall take measures required for the health and safety of employees. We recognize Green Management as a core strategic part of our business, -You shall take safety measures required in places of work where there are hazardous or respecting values of nature, life and future generations. We seek to be a harmful objects. leading SM company respected by the community and the industrial machinery and components sectors. Chapter 6: Responsibilities for Country and Society 1. Continuous Improvement and Information Disclosure LS Mtron shall grow into a sound company through rational business operations to contribWe operate under internally strict standards as well as related domestic and international ute to the rich life of the Korean public and to the growth of society. regulations, develop continuously improvement activities and regularly disclose information therein. 1. Prohibition of Immoral and Antisocial Business Activities 2. Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Developing Environmentally-Friendly -You shall not engage in activities that may negatively affect the national economy or that Products may not be fit for the culture of Korea. We minimize the use of hazardous substances and reduce greenhouse gas emissions as 2. Contribution to the Growth of Korea and Society well as expand development and purchase of environmentally-friendly and safe products. -You shall provide anyone with equal employment opportunities regardless of academic 3. Building Safe and Healthy Environment as well as Preventing Hazards background, gender, or place of birth. We prevent hazards in business activities and make efforts to promote safe and healthy -You shall make a tax return in good faith and pay the tax owed. working environment, as well as employees health conditions. -You shall accept reasonable demands from local residents regardless of their station in life 4. Win-Win Green Management and Corporate Social Responsibility and you will make every effort to satisfy the demand. We support win-win green management for local communities and business partners and -You shall guarantee and encourage participation of employees in sound volunteer services. actively fulfill corporate social responsibility with transparent management activities. 3. Protection of Shareholder Interests -You shall respect the shareholder’s right to know, reasonable demands, suggestions, and formal decisions. (revision) Apr. 1, 2010 -You shall not purchase and sell stocks by using internal information or information on other companies obtained while working. -You shall not do damage to the interests of minority shareholders to protect the interest of majority shareholders. 4. Protection of the Environment -You shall prohibit business activities that run counter to the protection of the environment and make investments for the prevention of pollution and contamination. -You shall actively engage in activities for the protection of the environment and conform to regulations relevant to environmental protection. Sustainability Management Guidelines・Global Network 89 Global Network (Domestic) LS Mtron Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries of the Affiliates HEAD OFFICE Daesung Electric Co., Ltd. 1026-6, Hogye-dong, Dongan-gu, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, 743-5, Wonshi-dong, Danwon-gu, Ansan, Gyeonggi-do, 431-848, Korea Korea Tel : +82-31-689-8288 / Fax : +82-31-689-8279 Tel : +82-31-494-1141 / Fax : +82-31-495-4887 JEONJU SITE Casco Co., Ltd. 778 Jeonju 3 Industrial Complex, Yongnam-ri, Bongdong-eup, 938, Taegok-ri, Buk-myeon, Jeongeup, Jeollabuk-do, Wanju-gun, Jeollabuk-do, 565-904, Korea Korea Tel : +82-63-279-5114 / Fax : +82-63-279-5954 Tel : +82-63-570-6114 / Fax : +82-63-570-6198 JEONGEUP SITE ACE R&A Co., Ltd. 938 Jeongeup 3 Industrial Complex, Taegok-ri, Buk-myeon, 265-7, Suchon-ri, Jangan-myeon, Hwaseong, Jeongeup, Jeollabuk-do, 580-812, Korea Gyeonggi-do, Korea Tel : +82-63-530-4114 / Fax : +82-63-530-4118 Tel : +82-31-359-1860 / Fax : +82-31-359-1899 Anyang: Head office, Electronic Components, R&D center, Sales Departments ANYANG SITE 555 Hogye-dong, Dongan-gu, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, Ansan: Daesung Electric Co., Ltd. 431-831, Korea Tel : +82-31-428-4114 / Fax : +82-31-428-4033 Hwaseong: ACE R&A Co., Ltd. INDONG SITE 643 Jinpyeong-dong, Gumi, Gyeongsangbuk-do, 730-735, Jeonju: Tractor, Air-conditioning, Injection Molding, Special Business Korea Tel : +82-54-710-5702 / Fax : +82-54-710-5890 Jeongeup: Electronic Circuit materials, FCCL R&D CENTER Gumi: Automotive Components, Ultra Capacitor 555 Hogye-dong, Dongan-gu, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, 431-831, Korea Jeongeup: Casco Co., Ltd. Tel : +82-31-688-5303 SALES DEPARTMENTS Jung-san bldg. 5 floor, 1026-8 Sanbon-dong 1, Gunpo, Gyeonggi-do, 435-845, Koera Tel: +82-31-450-3260 LS Mtron Subsidiaries of the Affiliates • Head Office • JEONJU SITE • JEONGEUP SITE • ANYANG SITE • INDONG SITE • R&D CENTER • SALES DEPARTMENTS 90 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Global Network Russia Branch China (Yantai): YTLS Dalian Casco Slovakia Branch China (Qingdao): LSAE, LSEQ, LSAS Japan branch Qingdao Daesung China (Wuxi): LSMW Electronics Wuxi Daesung China (Shenzhen) branch Electronics Daesung Electronic India Overseas subsidiaries/branch Overseas Subsidiaries of the Affiliates Overseas Subsidiaries LSAE (LS Agricultural Equipment (Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) LSTA (LS Tractor USA.LLC) Yu-Huangling Industrial Area, Xiazhuang, Chengyang District, Qingdao, PO BOX 70. 6900 Corporation Parkway, Battlebord, NC 27809 China 266109 Tel: +1-252-984-0700 / Fax: +1-252-984-0701 Tel: +86-532-8096-5618 / Fax: +86-532-8096-5616 YTLS (YanTai Leading Solution Auto Parts Co., Ltd.) LSMW (LS Machinery (Wuxi) Ltd.) No.79 Changjiang Road, Development Zone of YanTai, Shandong Province, China LS Industrial Park, Xin Mei Road, National High-tech Industrial Development Zone. Tel: +86-535-695-5701 / Fax: +86-535-695-5726 Wuxi city, Jiangsu Province, China 214028 Tel: +86-510-8299-3888 / Fax: + 86-510-8299-3889 LSAS (LS Air-Conditioning System (Shandong) Co., Ltd.) Yu-Huangling Industrial Area, Xiazhuang, Chengyang District, Qingdao, China 266109 LSEQ (LS Electronic-Devices (Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) Tel: +86-532-8096-5502 / Fax: +86-532-8096-5577 Yu-Huangling Industrial Area, Xiazhuang, Chengyang District, Qingdao, China 266109 Tel: +86-532-8096-2200 / Fax: +86-532-8096-2288 Global Network 91 USA: LSTA LS Mtron broadens its business scope by operating subsidiaries and branches overseas including China and the USA as well as Korea. We will enrich the lives of customers worldwide as an innovative technology partner that unfolds a convenient and pleasant world. Overseas Branches Overseas Subsidiaries of the Affiliates RUSSIA Qingdao Daesung Electronics Co., Ltd. Leninsky Prospekt 113/1, E711, Moscow, Russia, 117198 No.775, 308 State Road, Li Cang Qu, Qingdao, China Tel : +7-495-662-3811~4 / Fax : +7-495-662-3811 Tel : +86-532-8768-4221/ Fax : +86-532-8769-0776 SLOVAKIA Wuxi Daesung Electronics Co., Ltd. 222 Rybnicna 40, 831 07 Bratislava Slovakia Tuanjie Road, Xishan Economic Development Zone, Tel : +421-2-3359-5213 / Fax : +421-2-3359-5214 Wuxi City, Jiangsu Province 214101, China Tel : +86-510-8826-4001 / Fax : +86-510-8826-4005 CHINA (Shenzhen) Room 501~502, Youse Building, No.6013 Shennan Road, Futian DisDaesung Electric India Private Ltd. trict, Shenzhen City, China 518040 No. 118, Ramancherry Madura, Pudur Village, Tel : +86-755-8204-7830 / Fax : +86-755-8204-7793 Tiruvallur Taruk, Tiruvallur District, Tamil Nadu State, India JAPAN (Branch Offices) Tel : +91-44-2769-3333 DNI-Mita Bldg 11F, 3-43-16 Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-0014, Japan Tel : +81-3-3457-8331 / Fax : +81-3-3457-1560 Dalian Casco Co., Ltd. 35#, Main Street, Gushan, Economic & Technical Development Zone, Dalian, China Tel : +86-411-3922-3161 / Fax : +86-411-3922-3168 92 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Major Quantitative Indicators Green Management Category Unit 2009 2010 Main raw materials 1 Copper ton 12,896 16,617 Carbon and rubber 724 931 Synthetic resin 86 101 Water 2 Consumption Industrial ton 422,385 522,943 Residential 69,864 55,643 Underground 32,824 20,186 Total 525,073 598,772 Contaminant emission Air Dust kg 5,634 4,790 Water COD 4,100 7,378 SS 2,677 4,271 Waste water Volume discharged ton 215,594 330,925 Volume recycled 287,528 391,662 Recycling rate % 54.8 65.4 Waste Volume discharged Industrial ton 3,312 4,225 Hazardous 186 344 Total 3,498 4,569 Recycling rate % 80.8 83.3 Ozone depletion materials HCFC materials v kg 28,050 12,760 1. The data come from combining consumptions of main raw materials at our Jeongeup, Anyang and Indong sites. 2. The water used at our Korean business sites come from the Han River, Mangyeong River and Nakdong River. * No significant leakages of hazardous materials took place during 2010 and we fully comply with the Basel Convention on the Control of Trans-boundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal. Employee Value Creation (unit: No. of people) Employment Type by Region Category Jeonju Jeongeup Anyang Indong Research Center Sales Departments Head Office Total Office staff 324 90 145 40 88 99 86 872 Technical staff 382 90 93 47 1 11 1 625 Part-timer 65 36 28 17 3 5 18 172 Total 771 216 266 104 92 115 105 1,669 Employment Type by Age Category 20's 30's 40's 50's Above 60's Total No. of employees 175 636 451 382 25 1,669 * No. of Retirees: 78 Legal Compliance Category (Domestic) 2009 2010 Penalties and non-financial sanctions imposed due to violations of environmental regulations None None Legal actions taken for unfair competition and monopolistic activities (price fixing and etc.) None None Violations regarding product-related customer health and safety None None Violations regarding product-related information disclosure (labeling and etc.) None None Violations regarding marketing and communication None None Violations regarding customer information security None None Violations regarding supply of other products None None Government Subsidies We are receiving both direct and indirect financial support from the government for performing national research projects, which is translated into KRW 9.01 billion in cash(KRW 3.97 billion for 2010, KRW 1.54 billion for pre-2010 periods and KRW 3.5 billion for technology expenses redemption). Total government subsidies that we got for the year 2010 alone stand at KRW 13.94 billion. Major Quantitative Indicators・Awards / Membership 93 Awards / Membership Awards Category Date Ceremony Host Details (relevant department) Company Apr. 14 Designation of Green Company Ministry of Environment Green company designation document (Jeonju site) May. 19 The 45th Day of Invention Korea Intellectual Property Office Minister of Knowledge and Economy commendation (technology and management team) Jun. 17 North Jeolla Province Quality Management North Jeolla Province Governor Quality Management Award (Innovation Team, Labor-Management Support team) Competition Award for Quality Circle Activity Excellence (Injection Molding Production Team) Sep. 30 Commendation for Corporate Community North Jeolla Province Commendation for corporate community philanthropy (Labor-Management Support Team) Philanthropy Oct. 13 The 5th Sustainability Awards Ministry of Knowledge and Economy, Grand Prize in the 1st Sustainability Report Publication section Small & Medium Business Administration Nov. 05 The 7th LOHAS Management Awards Korea Green Foundation Award of Excellence in the telecommunications, electronics sector Nov. 16 2010 Korea Sustainability Conference Korean Standards Association Korea Sustainability Index 1st Prize in the Electrical, Electronics Manufacturing sector Korea Readers' Choice Awards Award of Excellence in the 1st Sustainability Report Publication of the Manufacturing sector Nov. 23 The 36th National Quality Circle Competition Daejeon Metropolitan City Presidential Bronze Award (Injection Molding Team) Individual Apr. 21 The 43rd Day of Science Ministry of Education, Science and Citation for those contributed to promoting science and technology employee Technology Oct. 21 The 13th MFAFF Science and Technology Awards Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Grand Prize of Science and Technology Fisheries Nov. 23 The 36th National Quality Management Competition Korean Agency for Technology and Standards Citation of the Minister of Knowledge and Economy Quality Master under MKE Dec. 15 Technology CEO Awards Ministry of Education, Science and Prize of the Minister of Education, Science and Technology Technology Membership Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Korea Refrigeration/Air-Conditioning Industry Association, Korea City GAS Association, Korea Agricultural Machinery Industry Cooperative, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Printed Circuit Association, Green Company Council, Korea Industry Safety Association, Korea Synthetic Resin Processing Machinery Industry Cooperative 94 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Independent Assurance Statement SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES Adrian Henriques (the auditor) undertook independent assurance of the LS Mtron 2010 Sustainability Report (the Report). The assurance was guided by AA1000APS. The auditor provided Type 1 assurance, covering evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The level of assurance was moderate. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS OF LS Mtron AND OF THE ASSURANCE PROVIDERS The directors of LS Mtron have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. This statement represents the auditor’s independent opinion and is intended to inform all of LS Mtron’s stakeholders in a balanced way. The auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report. BASIS OF OPINION This statement is based on an analysis of LS Mtron’s 2010 Sustainability Report, supported by: •visits to the Anyang headquarters and the Jeonju site •the review of supporting documents •interviews with management and with those involved in the preparation of the report. FINDINGS REPORT SCOPE & STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT All key areas of sustainability impact are covered to some degree by the main areas of management described in the Report: integrated management, social and economic value, social contribution, green management, employee value enhancement and risk management. It is also welcome to see that the Report describes a corporate governance initiative, including anti-bribery measures. Important policies, such as the Code of Conduct for employees and its Green policy, are set out in the Appendices. Future reports would be enhanced by including information on the sustainability performance of its supply chain, particularly for that part located overseas. It would also be helpful to provide further analyses of performance by business. The material issues covered by the Report have been identified through stakeholder engagement. It is encouraging to see that during 2010 LS Mtron engaged more directly with its stakeholders rather than relying entirely on third parties. Overall there is extensive coverage of activities in all major impact areas and of the related management processes. However while this report provides helpful examples of innovations and environmentally-friendly products, there is a need for greater clarity on what the criteria are for determining what counts as an ‘innovation’ or as an ‘environmentally-friendly product’. In addition, although environmentally-friendly products account for a significant proportion of overall products, it would be helpful to assess the environmental friendliness of the mainstream product portfolio. Independent Assurance Statement 95 PERFORMANCE In most areas reported performance is moving in the right direction. A more balanced workforce by gender has been identified by management as a key area for improvement. While there has been a significant increase in the proportion of female managers, the overall level is low. Furthermore, the proportion of female employees throughout the company is also low. Since LS Mtron operates in industries which make it challenging to address this issue effectively, the commitment to addressing it is welcome. It is also welcome to see that overseas operations deliberately work to ensure that recruitment focuses on local workers, rather than relying entirely on a Korean workforce. It is encouraging to see the improved performance in the area of social contribution or philanthropy. There are also plans to further increase activities in this area. The effective management of the business has led to an overall decrease in carbon dioxide intensity (emissions relative to revenue). Such a company-wide intensity measure is appropriate for a diverse portfolio of businesses. Nevertheless, the absolute amount of carbon dioxide and other wastes discharged into the environment is increasing, as a result of LS Mtron's rapid revenue growth. It would therefore be helpful to develop and report indicators that directly measured the environmental efficiencies of the various manufacturing processes, reflecting the specific characteristics of each business site and division. In general the Report provides a wealth of performance information across all areas of its business and impacts. However while the target-setting process is described in some detail, in some areas, the targets themselves are not reported. It would be useful to report targets alongside achievements for previous years wherever possible. Finally, to fully assess performance, LS Mtron’s achievements will need to be benchmarked against appropriate external companies. CONCLUSION This is LS Mtron’s second sustainability report. It is encouraging that the thoroughness of sustainability management established in its first report has been maintained – and that it has been accompanied by significant commercial success. This report contains a more comprehensive review of its business and records the integration of sustainability ambitions into its core business strategy. It also provides a GRI Index and a UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. To further build successfully on this foundation in the future, consideration should be given to developing and reporting LS Mtron’s overall vision for sustainability and how the company is progressing towards it. In this connection, priority should be given to the major businesses: tractors and copper foil production. This report appears to reflect LS Mtron’s sustainability performance well and that performance is good in most areas. The overall direction of LS Mtron’s journey towards sustainability, however, needs to be better defined both in terms of the vision and of detailed performance targets. Adrian Henriques | www.henriques.info (2009 ~ date) Chair of UK committee on ISO 26000 (2002 ~ date) Visiting Professor of Accountability and CSR, Middlesex University Business School (1999 ~ date) Member of ACCA Social and Environmental Committee (2002 ~ 2011) AccountAbility, Member of Technical Committee on Standards (2000 ~ 2006) AccountAbility, Council Member 96 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Communication on Progress (COP) We joined the UN Global Compact on September 2, 2010 and comply with 10 principles in 4 areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. All employees and executives at LS Mtron will spearhead creating a fair and transparent society by complying with the UN Global Compact on the four areas, and fulfilling duties and actions required for a corporate citizen. The Ten Principles LS Mtron policies LS Mtron activities 2010 Page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of · Code of Conduct, Chapter 2: Basic Ethics of Employees ·Channels for human rights protection and empowerment 67 internationally proclaimed human rights; and · Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract ·Company-wide employee training on ethical management 77 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights ·Designating special terms and conditions to practice ethical acts for Enacted from abuses. partner companies 2011 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and · Collective Agreement · Established a labor union at LS Mtron (2008) 67 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; · Code of Conduct, Chapter 5: Corporate Responsibilities for Employees · Held various cooperative channels for labor-management improvement 67 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; · Appointing managers for grievance resolution for each site 67 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and, · Extending support for HR systems for overseas subsidiaries 63 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to · Green Management Policy · Establishing the Greenhouse Gas Inventory 54 environmental challenges; -Clause 2. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and developing · Setting climate change response strategies and greenhouse gas 54 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmentally-friendly products reduction goals responsibility; and Clause 3. Building safe and healthy environment as well as preventing · Defining the scope of environmentally-friendly products and designating 56 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of hazards) design factors environmentally-friendly technologies. Clause 4. Win-win green management and corporate social · Reflecting environmentally-friendly products to the mid-long technology 56 responsibility) development roadmap for business divisions · Code of Conduct, Chapter 6: Responsibilities for Country and Society · Setting company-wide ESH common goal management indicators 57 · Establishing evaluation systems for safety of facility investment 57 environment Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ·Code of Conduct, · Company-wide employee training on ethical management 77 including extortion and bribery. -Chapter 3: Fair Competition (with Competitors) · Operating reporting systems on ethical management 77 -Chapter 4. Fair Business Transaction (Subcontractors) · Designating special terms and conditions to practice ethical acts for Enacted from -Chapter 6. Responsibilities for Country and Society partner companies 2011 ·Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract Communication on Progress・GRI and ISO 26000 Index 97 GRI and ISO 26000 Index GRI G3 Disclosure Items Responses of LS Mtron Page ISO 26000 Profile Strategy 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of CEO Message 6~7 6.2 Organizational governance and Analysis sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. CEO Message, LS Mtron’s Management Principles, 6~7, 8, Integrated Risk Management 70~74 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. LS Mtron Ltd. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Business Profile 79~82 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, LS Mtron-Company Profile 8~9 6.2 Organizational governance subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. LS Mtron-Company Profile 8~9 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major LS Mtron-Company Profile, Global Network 8~9 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 89~91 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Corporate Governance 76 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ LS Mtron-Company Profile, Financial Performance 8~9, 83 beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization LS Mtron-Company Profile 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Corporate Governance 76 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards 93 Report 3.1 Reporting period. Report Overview 3 Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Report Overview 3 3.3 Reporting cycle. Report Overview 3 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Report Overview 3 3.5 Process for defining report content. Report Overview 3 3.6 Boundary of the report. Report Overview 3 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Report Overview 3 3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or Report Overview 3 between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. Report Overview 3 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 2009 investment amounts for social contribution 83 reasons for such re-statement. activities 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Corporate Governance 76 methods. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI and ISO 26000 Index 97~102 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Assurance Statement 94~95 7.5.3 Verified Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Corporate Governance 76 6.2 Organizational Commitments, body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. governance and Engagement 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Corporate Governance 76 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the Corporate Governance 76 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Corporate Governance 76 highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, Corporate Governance 76 and executives. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Corporate Governance 76 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance Corporate Governance 76 body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Sustainability Management Guidelines 86~88 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and Building Sustainability Management Framework24~25 management of economic, environmental, and social performance. Company-wide SM Steering Group, Framework 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with Building Sustainability Management Framework28, 76 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Incorporating SM into Strategic Indicators, Corporate Governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Green Management Guideline, Climate Change 88, 54~55 organization. Response 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Joining the UN Global Compact 96 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international Membership 93 advocacy organizations in which the organization. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Sustainability Management Goals Set for 2011, 16~17, LS Mtron’s stakeholders 26~27 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Sustainability Management Goals Set for 2011, 16~17, identifying stakeholders, regular access to 26~27 communication channels 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Sustainability Management Goals Set for 2011, 16~17, stakeholder group. Stakeholder Dialogue Channel and Type 2010 26~27 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Building Sustainability Management Framework 26~27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. -stakeholder participation 98 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported N/A Not Applicable AppliGRI G3 Disclosure Items Responses of LS Mtron Page ISO 26000 cation level ECONOMIC Disclosure on Management Approach Economic and Social Value Creation 31, 35, · 6.2 Organizational governance Business Activities Highlight 2010 41, 78 · 6.8 Community involvement and development Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Financial Performance 83 · 6.8 Community involvement and development Performance including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, · 6.8.3 Community involvement donations and other community investments, retained earn· 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation ings, and payments to capital providers and governments. · 6.8.9 Social investment EC2 Financial implications and other risks andopportunities for the Climate Change Response, 54~55, · 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action organization's activities due to climate change. Developing Environmentally-Friendly Products 56~57 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligaAdvanced HR Management Systems-Retirement Pension 63 tions System EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Government Subsidies 92 Market EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to Advanced HR Management Systems-Reward 62 · 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Presence local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. · 6.8 Community involvement and development EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Entry Volumes by Region 83 · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value locally-based suppliers at significant locations of chain operation. · 6.8 Community involvement and development · 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development · 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Advanced HR Management Systems-Expansion in Local Re63 · 6.8 Community involvement and development of senior management hired from the local cruits in Overseas Subsidiaries · 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development community at locations of significant operation. · 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Social Contribution Activity Program-various social contribu46~51, · 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights investments and services provided primarily for tion activities 59 · 6.8 Community involvement and development public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro Operation of Advanced ESH Business Sitecommunity · 6.8.3 Community involvement bono engagement. environmental preservation activities · 6.8.4 Education and culture · 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development · 6.8.6 Technology development and access · 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation · 6.8.9 Social investment EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Supporting Business Partners in Building Infrastructurevari37~38, · 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights economic impacts, including the extent of ous win-win programs 46~51 · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value impacts. Social Contribution Activity Program-various social contribuchain tion activities · 6.6.7 Respect for property rights · 6.7.8 Access to essential services · 6.8 Community involvement and development · 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development · 6.8.6 Technology development and access · 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation · 6.8.9 Social investment GRI and ISO 26000 Index 99 Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported N/A Not Applicable AppliGRI G3 Disclosure Items Responses of LS Mtron Page ISO 26000 cation level ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosure on Management Approach Green Management 53 · 6.2 Organizational governance · 6.5 The Environment Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Major quantitative indicatoramount of major raw materials 92 · 6.5 The Environment EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Operation of Advanced ESH Business Sitereusing waste 59 · 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use input materials. scraps and adoption of a copper recovery system Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Major Performance Indicators for Green Management 14 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Major Performance Indicators for Green Management 14 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Climate Change Responsegreenhouse gas reduction activi54~55 improvements. ties EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Developing Environmentally-Friendly Products2010 Major 56~57 based products and services, and reductions in energy reEnvironmentally-Friendly Products quirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reducClimate Change Responsegreenhouse gas reduction strat54~55 tions achieved. egy setting Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Major quantitative indicatorwater usage 92 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Major quantitative indicatorwater usage 92 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Major quantitative indicatorwaste water recycling 92 Bio Diversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adNot Applicable N/A · 6.5 The Environment jacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value · 6.5.6 P  rotection of the environment & biodiversity, outside protected areas. and restoration of natural habitat EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Not Applicable N/A services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Applicable N/A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing imNot Applicable N/A pacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation Not Applicable N/A list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Climate Change Responsegreenhouse gas emissions 54 · 6.5 The Environment Effluents, EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Climate Change Responsegreenhouse gas emissions 54 · 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action and Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reducClimate Change Responseestablishing the Greenhouse 54 tions achieved. Inventory EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Operation of Advanced ESH Business Sitewaste reduction 58 · 6.5 The Environment EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and Major quantitative indicatoremission of pollutants 92 · 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Major quantitative indicatorwaste water 92 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Major quantitative indicatorwaste 92 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Major quantitative indicatorNo case reported 92 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Major quantitative indicatorNo case dealt 92 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water Lack of direct/indirect impact on the business N/A · 6.5 The Environment bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the re· 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use porting organization's discharges of water and runoff. · 6.5.6 P  rotection of the environment & biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitat Products EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Developing Environmentally-Friendly Products defining en56~57 · 6.5 The Environment and services, and extent of impact mitigation. vironmentally-friendly products and establishing the design · 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Services process, 2010 Major Environmentally-Friendly Products · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value chain · 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Lack of performance measurement · 6.5 The Environment that are reclaimed by category. · 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use · 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonOperation of Advanced ESH Business SiteNo case reported 59 · 6.5 The Environment monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Climate Change Responsegreenhouse gas reduction strat54~55 · 6.5 The Environment and other goods and materials used for the organization's opegy setting · 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use erations, and transporting members of the workforce. · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value chain Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Operation of Advanced ESH Business Siteinvestment 58 ·6.5 The Environment by type. amount in environmental safety and health 100 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported N/A Not Applicable AppliGRI G3 Disclosure Items Responses of LS Mtron Page ISO 26000 cation level LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employee Value Enhancement 61 · 6.2 Organizational governance Disclosure on Management Approach · 6.4 Labour Practices · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Major quantitative indicatorregion-specific employment 92 · 6.4 Labour Practices and region. type · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Major quantitative indicatorretirement status 92 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not proAdvanced HR Management Systems-employee welfare 64 · 6.4 Labour Practices vided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operabenefits · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships tions. · 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Labor/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Employee Participation and Trust Buildingstatus of labor 67 · 6.4 Labour Practices Management agreements. union subscription · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Relations · 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection · 6.4.5 Social dialogue · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Employee Participation and Trust Buildingnotification on 67 · 6.4 Labour Practices changes, including whether it is specified in collective changes · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships agreements. · 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection · 6.4.5 Social dialogue Occupational LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Employee Welfare, Safety and Healthoperating the Indus69 · 6.4 Labour Practices Health and managementâ€“worker health and safety committees that trial Safety and Health Committee in each site · 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Safety help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenMajor performance indicator for Employee Value Enhance15 teeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. ment LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Employee Welfare, Safety and Healthoperating employee 69 · 6.4 Labour Practices programs in place to assist workforce members, their famihealth enhancement programs · 6.4.6 Health and safety at work lies, or community members regarding serious diseases. · 6.8 Community involvement and development · 6.8.3 Community involvement · 6.8.4 Education and culture · 6.8.8 Health LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Employee Welfare, Safety and Healthoperating the Indus69 · 6.4 Labour Practices trade unions. trial Safety and Health Committee in each site · 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Training LA10 Average hours of training per year per head by employee Employee Competency Developmenttraining hours and 65 · 6.4 Labour Practices and category. investment cost per head · 6.4.7 Human development and training in the Education workplace LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Employee Competency Developmentemployee training 65~66 · 6.4 Labour Practices support the continued employability of employees and asprograms: global, job, core talents fostering · 6.4.7 Human development and training in the sist them in managing career endings. workplace · 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Advanced Human Resources Systememployee evaluation 62 · 6.4 Labour Practices career development reviews. system (SPCM system available) · 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplace Diversity and LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of emAdvanced Human Resources Systemdiversity and equal 64 · 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Equal ployees per category according to gender, age group, miopportunities · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work Opportunity nority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. · 6.4 Labour Practices · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee categoAdvanced Human Resources Systemequal application for 62 · 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups ry. the same rank · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work · 6.4 Labour Practices · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships · 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection GRI and ISO 26000 Index 101 Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported N/A Not Applicable AppliGRI G3 Disclosure Items Responses of LS Mtron Page ISO 26000 cation level Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Employee Value Enhancement 61 · 6.2 Organizational governance · 6.3 Human Rights Investment HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreeLack of process to identify related materials · 6.3 Human Rights and ments that include human rights clauses or that have under· 6.3.3 Due diligence Procurement gone human rightsscreening · 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Practices · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value chain HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Q-Partner System 36, · 6.3 Human Rights undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Enacted · 6.3.3 Due diligence from 2011 · 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value chain HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Ethical ManagementCompany-wide Employee Ethical 77 · 6.3 Human Rights concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to opManagement Training · 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity erations, including thepercentage of employees trained. NonHR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Employee Participation and Trust BuildingNo case reported 64, 67 · 6.3 Human Rights Discrimination on discrimination, improvement in grievance resolution re· 6.3.6 Resolving grievances sponses, response channels to human rights protection and · 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups enhancement · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Freedom of HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom Employee Participation and Trust Buildingguaranteeing 67 · 6.3 Human Rights Association of association and collective bargaining may be at significant the freedom of assembly and collective bargaining · 6.3.3 Due diligence and Collective risk, and actions taken to support these rights. · 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Bargaining · 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity · 6.3.8 Civil and political rights · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships · 6.4.5 Social dialogue Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Employee Participation and Trust Buildingimprovement 67 · 6.3 Human Rights child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the eliminain grievance resolution responses, response channels to hu· 6.3.3 Due diligence tion of child labor. man rights protection and enhancement · 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Forced and HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Employee Participation and Trust Buildingimprovement 67 · 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Compulsory of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to in grievance resolution responses, response channels to hu· 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Labor the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. man rights protection and enhancement · 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work Security HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the oganization's Ethical ManagementCompany-wide Employee Ethical 77 · 6.3 Human Rights Practices policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights Management Training · 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity that are relevant to operations. · 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships · 6.6.6 P  romoting social responsibility in the value chain Indigenous HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of inNot Applicable N/A · 6.3 Human Rights Rights digenous people and actions taken. · 6.3.6 Resolving grievances · 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups · 6.3.8 Civil and political rights · 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 102 2010 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported N/A Not Applicable AppliGRI G3 Disclosure Items Responses of LS Mtron Page ISO 26000 cation level Society Disclosure on Management Approach Social Contribution Activity 47, 35 · 6.2 Organizational governance Win-Win Partnership · 6.6 Fair Operating Practices · 6.6 Community involvement and development Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs Social Contribution Activity Program 46~51 · 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Corruption and practices that assess and manage the impacts -various social contribution activities · 6.6 Community involvement and development of operations on communities, including entering, · 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development operating, and exiting. · 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation · 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for Lack of Performance Measurement · 6.6 Fair Operating Practices risks related to corruption. · 6.6.3 Anti-corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiEthical ManagementCompany-wide Employee Ethical 77 corruption policies and procedures. Management Training SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Ethical Management-Reponses to Management Ethics Viola77 tions Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy deNot Applicable N/A · 6.6 Fair Operating Practices Behavior velopment and lobbying. · 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Not Applicable N/A · 6.8.3 Community involvement parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Supporting Business Partners in Building Infrastructureno 36 · 6.6 Fair Operating Practices behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcase of violation reported, Fulfillment of TCP · 6.6.5 Fair competition comes. · 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Major quantitative indicatorno penalties for violation, 92 · 6.6 Fair Operating Practices number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance compliance · 6.6.7 Respect for property rights with laws and regulations. · 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management 41 · 6.2 Organizational governance · 6.6 Fair Operating Practices · 6.7 Consumer Issues Customer Health PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of prodObtaining Sustained Product Quality Competitiveness43 · 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights and Safety ucts and services are assessed for improvement, and percentcomplying with product lifecycle safety laws and regulations · 6.6.6 P romoting social responsibility in the value age of significant products and services categories subject to at home and abroad chain such procedures. · 6.7 Consumer Issues PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaObtaining Sustained Product Quality Competitivenessno 43 · 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health & safety tions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety imcase of violation reported · 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption pacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and PR3 Type of product and service information required by proceCommunication with Customersexpanding channels to 44~45 · 6.7 Consumer Issues Service Labeling dures, and percentage of significant products and services provide product information, e.g. instruction, manual, web· 6.7.3 F air marketing, factual and unbiased informasubject to such information requirements. site, demonstration, etc. tion and fair contractual practices PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaCommunication with Customersno case of violation 44 · 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health & safety tions and voluntary codes concerning product and service reported · 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption information and labeling, by type of outcomes. · 6.7.6 C onsumer service, support and complaint and dispute resolution · 6.7.9 Education and awareness PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Obtaining Sustained Product Quality Competitiveness-sales 42, 44~45 · 6.7 Consumer Issues surveys measuring customer satisfaction. and service training · 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health & safety Communication with CustomersCustomer Satisfaction Sur· 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption vey, showcase, demonstration, etc. · 6.7.6 C onsumer service, support and complaint and dispute resolution · 6.7.8 Access to essential services · 6.7.9 Education and awareness Marketing PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Communication with Customerscomplying with related 44 · 6.7 Consumer Issues Communication codes related to marketing communications, including adverlaws e.g. advertisement act · 6.7.3 F air marketing, factual and unbiased informatising, promotion, and sponsorship. tion and fair contractual practices PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaCommunication with Customersno case of violation re44 · 6.7.6 C onsumer service, support and complaint and tions and voluntary codes concerning marketing communiported dispute resolution cations, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by · 6.7.9 Education and awareness type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Communication with Customersno case of violation re44 · 6.7 Consumer Issues of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ported · 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with Obtaining Sustained Product Quality Competitiveness, Com44, 45 · 6.7 Consumer Issues laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of munication with Customersno penalties for violation · 6.7.6 C onsumer service, support and complaint and products and services. dispute resolution 103 GRI Application Level Our 'Sustainability Report 2010' contains each of the criteria to qualify for GRI-G3 Application level A+ and therefore, we make a self-declaration Level A+ for this report. The entire report contents and reporting process were reviewed by an independent external assurance provider. We did not apply the GRI G3 Sector Supplements to this report as the requirements cover only a small portion of our business activities. LS Mtron’s 2010 Sustainability Report uses the FSC Merit paper of Doosung Paper. The FSC Merit Date of Publication: Apr. 2011 paper has the FSC certification only attached to products using woods produced in forests enPublishers: Cha-Yol Koo, Jae-Seol Shim vironmentally produced and managed, and is an environmentally-friendly paper using the elPublication Company: LS Mtron Ltd. (Tel. +82-31-689-8288) Planning and Design: emental chlorine-free pulp. The paper was printed in soy oil ink that massively reduces air pollutHoney Communications Inc. (Tel. +82-2-325-9889) ants that might arise in the course of printing and manufactured in a printing house with the FSC Printing: Young Eun Printing.co., Ltd. (Tel. +82-2-2274-9250) certification.
