HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 1 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 1 Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs Hinopak Motors Limited is Health and Safety Systems Leadership Guidance / Buy• An integrated HSE department created and HSE Committee was reorganized; safety visits led by General Manager committed to respecting in Production were seen this reporting year. and protecting the dignity • Regular HSE meetings held led by our Management Representative (Director Production). of people in all its areas of Healthy and Safe Work • Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) required of all persons entering the plants; counseling and warnings given for nonoperations. All Environment compliance. stakeholders are assured of sincere efforts to uplift • Infrastructure required for maintaining safe working condition is ensured. Fire hydrant system upgraded and safety hoists purchased. Corrective measures were taken as required after internal/external audits. conditions with regard to health and safety, provide • Work for the improvement and renovation of our Body Operation Plant shop floor housing 800+ personnel at any given day continued. Completion expected in July 2011. sound labor-management relations and participate in • Routine checks of fire/safety exits done to ensure safe exits/evacuation. Same checks done through internal/external human resource/ OHSAS audits. community development. • Recreation activities were enhanced; the year saw to sports and recreation activities under the banner of Hinopak's Silver Jubilee Celebrations. Games including: for males; cricket, arm wrestling, tug of war, badminton, volleyball and miscellaneous sports and recreational activities for female staff like cooking competition, badminton, various races, tug of war etc. All participated cross-functionally. • External, inter-company sports tournaments/competitions participated by employees. • Daily morning exercise participated not just by employees but transient stakeholders/visitors. This year saw to the joining of Sales & Marketing staff in the morning exercise. • A dedicated Safety Administration Team (SAT) consisting of six qualified workers formed to promote safety-culture in the company. The team focuses on maintaining safety by walking around and to achieve our goal of Zero-Accident . • The introduction of SAT has seen favourable results, thus bringing down our PPEs-noncompliance, near-miss and fire hazard observations in both plants. • Good health and safety activities and effective programs/initiatives have brought down the rate for major and minor accidents. As compared to 2009's major 7 and minor 1 accidents, the company recorded no major and 1 minor accident in since June 2010 till date. Thus showing vast improvements in H&S activities. • • Standard temperature (26C) in office areas being maintained to mitigate negative health impact from fluctuating temperatures. • Observance of no smoking areas/zones done during the year, employees seen using only designated 'smoking' areas throughout the company. • Enhanced health awareness activities were attended by estimated 1,300 people (including employees and contractors' staff) from June 2010 to-date. Program included obesity/BMI (Body Mass Index) checks, awareness programs etc. A comprehensive program for obese / overweight / underweight employees is being made in collaboration with a renowned hospital, which will include diet plans, work-out schedules and routine consultations for identified employees. • Laboratory check of drinking water at Hinopak being conducted by the Aga Khan University Hospital; recent checks in our Assembly Operation Plant, Head Office and Body Operation Plant in 2011. Tank cleaning performed as required to ensure safe drinking water for employees/workers. • Medical tests conducted for all drivers and also food handlers (canteen staff); to ensure zero-transference of diseases through food. Monitoring and Awareness • Safety patrols being done on daily basis by our Safety Administration Team (SAT) members; ensuring on-the-spot controls. • Surveillance audit under OHSAS 18001:2007 in March 2011 was conducted successfully, i.e. compliance with the standards verified by our external auditors BVQI. Recertification audit scheduled in end June. • Accident and incident monitoring system given emphasis towards a safer environment. Near-miss incidents tracked, reported and shared to avoid re-occurrences. • Daily update, monitoring and maintenance of our Safety Calendar to highlight safety status continues. • Training-cum-mock drills given to Emergency Response Program (ERP) Teams to check readiness in case of emergencies. ERP Teams include Rescue, Firefighting, Spill, etc. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 2 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs • Periodic safety trainings given to employees; safety reminders/guidelines part of our employee orientation program. • Daily morning safety meetings led by team leaders/executives are conducted at shop floor level, after morning exercises. • Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Committee meeting held monthly where identified hazards and countermeasures reviewed / decided. A Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering Committee; chaired by Director Production/Technical, also meets every quarter to discuss HSE related initiatives/developments • Exchange of information on occurrence of fatal/major accidents shared with parent companies; learnings and adoption of new measures from experiences shared by other Toyota/Hino affiliates called 'yokoten' observed. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 3 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 1 Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs System Maintenance, • Hinopak' initiatives were again cited by the Employers' Federation of Pakistan for its participation in the Best Practices Citations Award on Occupational Health, Safety and Environment organized in 2011. • We have maintained our certification in OHSAS 18001 which was the first received (2008) in the industry in Pakistan; both internal and external audits were successfully conducted this year. • Hinopak cited for its Good HR practices by Sidat Hyder Morshed Associates and also for having in place a balanced and effective talent triangle for 2010. Basic Employee Facilities • 210 hygiene cards of our workers maintained in compliance with Pakistan's Factory Act requirements and ensuring workers' medical needs are met. • Similar to previous years, extra medical benefit (as special case) was again provided to few employees who exceeded their medical allowance this year. • Subsidized MBA program currently in collaboration with two of Pakistan's premier business schools increased from 29 last year to 32 this year. • Year-end training hours for our employees reached 115 per permanent/management employee or 66 hours per permanent employee including apprentices. • Nine (9) employees were sponsored (USD 2,102/each) for their religious pilgrimage (Hajj). • Cash awards and other monetary benefits for 2010-11 employee performance provided despite the company's financial constraints/losses. • Enhanced night shift allowance being provided considering the recent rise in inflation. • Disbursement of monthly attendance bonus continued for permanent workers. • Hinopak employees, permanent and contract (including contractor's) are insured. • Head Office gym/recreation room being used daily for work-outs and indoor games; inclusion of more games (e.g. snooker) under consideration. • Leave Fare Assistance (LFA) continued to be provided as benefit to our employees to allow them an amount for their annual leave. Employee Satisfaction • Employee feedback sought through various suveys (e.g. Climate Survey 2011, Salary & Benefits Survey, Canteen Survey etc.), action plans where possible embedded in annual HR/Admin/HSE objectives. • Employee satisfaction sought on current Salary & Compensation structure. • Routine benchmarking of our policies and practices against other companies continued, ensuring adoption of best practices benefitting our employees. Total Quality Management Continuous Improvement • We monitored and maintained our Quality Management Systems to ensure better working systems and processes for employees, allowing us certification in the latest version of the ISO 9001:2008 standards. • Kaizen initiatives, involving non-manufacturing functions, being implemented and monitored also participated by top management. Regular Kaizen meetings being held every month. • Daily, half-hour training at shop floor conducted through our Quality Assurance Department to educate personnel on process improvements. Over the 12-month period starting June 2010, 2,166 workers were trained resulting to 1,496 man-hours. • Company wide automation projects being carried out (through the MIS department); saving time, resources and bringing efficiency in processes. • Through our internal sources (Quality Assurance Department) a sensitization/awareness program on KAIZEN was conducted for 46 vendors'/vendor staff, achieving 322 man-hours of information transference on KAIZEN. Industrial / Employee Relations Fair Investigation • A formal Grievance Handling System is being finalized to have a mechanism where both workers' and management employees' grievances can be aired and resolved. Benchmarking with other MNCs to compare their system conducted. Automation of the system is underway to ensure proper recording and monitoring of grievances. • Complying with the Industrial and Commercial Employment (Standing Orders) Ordinance 1968, also ensures objectivity in following the procedures for disciplinary actions against misconduct. Hinopak employees are assured of their rights, fair treatment and the opportunity to be heard. Employee Recognition • Recognition of employees in punctuality and attendance last year resulted to sustainable results in the attendance system (management and non-management.) 'Employees of the Year' awards to be given in July. • Retiring/separating employees given farewell parties. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 4 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 1 Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs Security • Wide use and provision of security services to protect our people and properties has been one of our prime responsibilities. This service extends to the protection of our top management in their residences. • Hinopak's foreign visitors are always given extra security advice/travel advisory and support. • A Security and Communication Team and system are in place to handle emergency and risk situations. • Although CCTVs were increased last year, installation of more under consideration for increased security; sliding gate for Assembly Operations Plant / Head Office installed this year -more plans underway. Employment Policy for • Hinopak is compliant with the Workmen's Compensation Act relating to disability. Workers who could not continue Disabled People certain job due to disability met at work are transferred/given alternate job. • We follow the government directive to meet minimum requirement of employment of disabled persons. Forcible Displacement • Hinopak does not have a record of forcible displacement with reference to Standing Order (Ordinance) 1968 of the Labor Prevention Laws. Customer and End-users' Rights / Product/Service Quality & • Product Support network development continued by exploring new or upgrading dealerships to ensure customer support Protection Availability wherever and whenever required. • Our after-sales service enhancement schemes were implemented through different service schemes such as Thunder Service and Customer Care Clinic in coordination with our dealers. • Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey was conducted across the country through our Product Support Department to ascertain customers' feedback to enable us to serve them according to their specific needs. • We broke into the export market in March 2010 to make our products within the reach of more customers and end-users and contribute to the improvement of our employees' and other stakeholders' livelihood. • Our commitment to serve/delight our customers was cited by our parent company, Hino Motors, Ltd., through two awards: 1. 'Service Department of the Year (SDY)' for 2009-10 2. Service Promotion Contest Award for 2009-10, both awarded in May 2010 • 10 mobile workshops and 4 pro-care units, ensure more sophisticated services, repair and maintenance work on our entire product range at the remotest of locations. • Operations of our Mobile Training Unit continued, benefiting customers in terms of transportation cost on training, training at their doorsteps, easy supervision, etc. Stakeholder Supplier/Contractor/Vendo • Specific welfare/environment clause in our Vendor Evaluation Form only qualifies those who meet requirements on Participation/Engagement r Rights, Recognition of their labour's safety, working conditions and environment, respect for fundamental human rights and measures for Human Rights improvements taken. • While our suppliers/contractors are advised to follow our safety, health and environment requirements, their training is part of our overall safety program. • Like employees, contractors' and suppliers' induction into Hinopak is based on transparency and merit. • Free training given to 307 vendors/vendors' employees (equivalent to est. 1,019 hrs.) during 2010-11, through our internal resources/experts in various areas like 5-S, Inspection Techniques, TQM, TPS, etc., with the objective of helping them achieve improved bottomlines through effective and efficient operations. Education / Community • Hinopak added a duly-registered technical wing to SITE Model School in August 2009, operational exactly one year after Development and Welfare its inauguration in August 2008. First batch of TSC-Part II students will complete their TSC (Technical School Certificate) in May 2011; new intake admissions for part-I will be in May 2011. This will be the consecutive third year where Hinopak will be supplying Tools/equipment for TSC students. Total students currently enrolled for the TSC program are 50. • Over a three-year period since renovation, overall school admission/enrollment improvement seen, as of May 2011 the enrollment stands at approx. 846 students (Evening: 256, Morning: 590) • New in-take of the 3-year apprenticeship program saw induction of 34 apprentices in April 2011. Besides the new induction, 17 apprentices of the graduating batch were absorbed in the company’s workforce. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 5 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 1 Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs • More than 650 students and teachers have visited Hinopak since June 2010, which have always been well received by the students, teachers and university/school management alike. • Workers' children to be extended scholarship and books this year and management employees children to be recognized through a Academic Achievement Award . • We continued disbursement of Hinopak Skill Promotion Scholarship extended to 10 students of Pakistan's renowned engineering school, producing linkage and therefore, sustainability with regard to our business operations and human resource development commitment. The scholars are due to graduate in January 2012. • Technical School Certificate (TSC) Part-I and Part-II students of SITE Model School given a comprehensive visit to Hinopak's manufacturing facilities including Product Support Training Centre. In addition to this, visits to other engineering organizations (e.g. SIEMENS) were coordinated for the students during January ~ March 2011. • SITE Model School Technical Wing students showed their development by building a car which was built using indigenous material. The group was facilitated by the technical instructor. 11 students of the Technical Wing took active part in building the car. • Our summer (June 2010) and winter (December/January 2010-11) internship program saw to about 100 students getting acclimatized with a professional environment. Project-based, this program allowed linkage between theory and practice, much appreciated by students and the educational institutions alike. • Engineering University students being given technical assistance for their Energy Efficient Car project. Material, bodydesigning and body fabrication being done by specialized Hinopak workforce. • Continued support extended to Hinopak Community Health Centre through monthly provision of medicines and refurbishment of medical equipment. • A Hygiene Awareness program was conducted for SMS-girl students, which was conducted by 43 students and 2 faculty members. The program was held in collaboration with The Aga Khan University Hospital . • Supporting academic and recreational activities of SITE Model School, for their Milad (religious) program, the sound system was provided by Hinopak • Hinopak declared a ghutka/betel nut-free zone in November 2009. Monitoring and implementation ensured through our Health and Safety Section and CBA representatives. (Ghutka and betel nuts are chewable substances causing oral cancer very common in Pakistan.) • Potable as well as gardening water provided to SITE Model School. Hinopak gardeners visit the school regularly to maintain the school gardens and plants. • We continued in promoting a sporting spirit in the community by sponsoring the 7th KCCI Cricket Tournament in October 2010 -participated by 22 teams (organizations) in addition to the golf and hockey sponsorships in the past years. • Trainings provided to public/Hinopak stakeholders from April 2010 to March 2011: Drivers Safety Training, Technicians Training, Eco Driving, Fuel Saving Seminar, Motor Vehicle Training: producing 2,231 participants. • Additional Mobile Field Training Units produced participations to 1,917 this year-end covering 176 courses. The courses were attended mostly by technicians and drivers. • Approx. 6,230 drivers trained by our Product Support's Training Section, since 2008. • Other company donations passing through our Marketing Department in cash/kind extended to 25 organizations during the period June 2010 to May 2011. • A collaborative program on Child Care was conducted in-house by a team from Fauji Foundation. 60 management and non-management employees participated in the program. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 6 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 1 Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs • Hinopak employees donated their one day salary for the flood victims of the devastating flood which destroyed most parts of the Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pukhtoonkhwa (KPK) provinces in July ~ August 2010. The donation raised by the employees was matched equally by the management. Relief activities were carried out in Sindh and KPK province with a donation of Rs. 1.67 million. Pillows, comforters and mattresses were distributed to 700 families in Sehwan Sharif and adjoining areas (Sindh) and stoves (heating, lighting and cooking compatible) were distributed among 250 families in the KPK province. • An awareness program combining Introduction to Space and Environmental Pollution was conducted by a 2-member team from SUPARCO for the SITE Model School students. Attended by 147 students (boys/girls) and 11 teachers, introduced space/planets to the students and highlighted the environmental pollution issues. A space-competition is to be held (again with SUPARCO's collaboration) in August 2011. • • 97 employees children visited Hinopak under the company's Hinopak Employees' Children Visit . During the visit, the children were briefed on the company's history, and were introduced to the manufacturing facilities (AOP/BOP) and Hinopak's products. The visits were followed by Happy-meals. Road Safety Campaigns • We share our parent company's slogan concern beyond cars. Our stakeholders benefit from our Road Safety Campaign through Safe Driving and Econo-Drive programs conducted through our internal resources (PSD) this year. Personal Social • Employees donated their one day salary (some donated more through Zakat) for 2010 flood victims of Khyber-Pukhton Responsibility Khwa and Sindh; totaling Rs. 800,000. The raised fund was distributed through comforters, mattresses, pillows and multi-purpose stoves (suitable for lighting, heating and cooking). • Concerned Hinopak employees (est. 50) scheduled to clean up a turtle sanctuary in June 2011 to preserve their natural habitat in a Karachi beach. • Some employees head or are members of local/international clubs for the pursuit of community welfare and development. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 7 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit with human rights abuses. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs Hinopak is committed to Code of Conduct Code of Conduct • Employee commitment to the Code was sought through handwritten signatures 2007 and email confirmation in 2008, avoiding complicity of Adherence 2009, 2010 and 2011. human rights abuses in all • Complaints (contravention to the Code) were monitored/tracked by our Whistle Blowing Committee. its areas of operation. Countermeasures/action accordingly given/done. • Suggestion boxes available at conspicuous areas provided convenience in forwarding complaints/suggestions. Open working environment at Hinopak gives the spirit of freedom (of expression). • We follow the requirements of Standing Orders (Ordinance) 1968 and the Japanese Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (J-SOX). • For the second consecutive year running, the J-SOX audit was conducted to check strict adherence to the code of conduct. • Code of Conduct last updated in 2006 is under revision and will soon be updated and circulated. As felt by the Board of Directors in the last BOD meeting, the updated code will detailed guidelines for the employees so as to ensure clear comprehension of the code and prevent misconducts. Credo, Mission, Values, • We support Hino's Credo incorporating the Mission of making this world a better place to live in through social Practice contribution and concern for all stakeholders including compliance with all laws. • The value of integrity as embedded in the Hino Spirit principles followed by all Hino affiliates worldwide was highlighted in three Hino Spirit training sessions provided during the year. Plans are to impart training on Hino Spirit to the nonmanagement employees (in Urdu; native language) Employees Equal Opportunity • Female employees are given equal opportunity in all aspects of employment including training, promotion, and other Provision benefits. Female engineers can be found in our plant, previously unheard of in this culture. Female interns are also placed on shop floor in both the plants. • Aside from signing and communicating the Gender Equality Policy and Process Guidelines (developed by the Employers' Federation of Pakistan in conjunction with ILO) in December 2008, we are now looking into communication and implementation of 'Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace Act 2010' announced by the government. Same to be incorporated in the Code of Conduct currently being revised and will soon be updated. • Equitable career paths and growth opportunities are available for female employees. Female employees are also provided company conveyance facility to facilitate/encourage them to work without any major hindrances. • We practice the principle of diversity as one of the Hino Spirit values embed in areas like recruitment, vendor / supplier pre-qualification, promotion, etc. External Public Consumer Protection • We follow laws of the land, Pakistan's and other countries'. We ensure that foreign laws and regulations are absolutely referred to in our local and export product development, ensuring public right to safety and health. • Quality audits (sometimes aided by Japanese experts) routinely performed. A total of 625 audits of vehicles produced from June 2010 to-date ensure that our products conform to quality and safety standards keeping our consumers/customers' rights in mind. Vendor/Supplier Pre• Hinopak's vendors' / suppliers' premises and operations are checked/inspected before they are inducted as business qualification and Human partners. Non-complicity to human rights abuses is incorporated in our Initial Vendor Evaluation Report where safety of Rights Observation workers, working conditions, labor-management relations, among others things, are included. • Vendors/suppliers are encouraged to be certified in international management standards and likewise follow laws and conventions pertaining to human rights. • Encouragement to vendors in observing rights of employees have resulted to improvements in working conditions and safety (use of PPEs.) HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 8 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We uphold freedom of Industrial & Employee Relations Freedom of Association • Hinopak has been very compliant with the Industrial Relations Act (IRA) 2010 and has began looking into the association and the right requirements of the act, both allowing employees to join any trade union of their choice. of workers to collective • Hinopak workers represented by a registered Labor Union, Hinopak Motors Employees Union, existing since the bargaining. company's pre-Japanese ownership from 1969. Current membership to-date is 147, representing as Collective Bargaining Agent. • Union members elect their officers/executive body every two years; officers are given leave for participations in union activities, trainings or workshops. Latest election held on 31st May 2010, with the management providing logistical support. Collective Bargaining as a • As soon as required by the IRA 2010, five Worker-Management Participation Committees that include the Collective Tool for Addressing Bargaining Agent (CBA) to address issues pertinent to workers' terms of employment, working conditions, etc. were Working Conditions, Terms established. and Employment and • 12th collective bargaining agreement was successfully signed in February 2010, enhancing workers' benefits and Relations promising cooperation from them in terms of productivity, quality, housekeeping, etc. Same being implemented till date. • Industrial Relations are periodically monitored through the 'Industrial Relations Committee' chaired by General Manager HR, Admin. & HSE and participated by CBA's General Secretary and President, and the HR & ER Manager. Labor Laws as Point of • Hinopak ensures reference to labor laws relating to workersIRA 2010 and Standing Ordinance 1968, such as freedom Reference of association, including issues including but not limited to disciplinary action and termination. • Workers' and Union activities likewise reflect labor law requirements; mutual understanding and compliance resulting to a harmonious labor-management relationship. Labor-Management • Hinopak labor-management relations at Hinopak is exemplary; this harmonious relationship is based on mutual trust, Relations respect and transparency. • No strike or cessation in work or loss of work hours due to strike or lockout in Hinopak history. Engagement / Participation • Workers' active engagement in company affairs/operations has resulted to increased productivity and raised morale. Major thrusts of union participation include meeting production targets, productivity improvement, skill development, wastage control, education of workers, Kaizen, 5-S, health and safety. • Workers / CBA officers permitted to attend trainings both locally and internationally either through the company or through the Trade Union Federation. • Hinopak Union organizes and conducts trainings for workers from time to time. External Relations Engagement • Hinopak workers actively participate in workers' related issues, different worker-related training and seminars held since June 2010. • Union officers/members active in initiating/supporting Hinopak's donation campaigns for various causes. In this reporting period, workers made donation (1 day salary deduction) for flood victims of Sindh and Khyber-Phuktoonkhwa provinces. The CBA actively participated in the relief activities by accompanying the management employees to the flood affected areas. • Active participation of workers observed in the company's Silver Jubilee Celebrations (25-years) including the company wide sports gala including sports and activities such as tug-of-war, arm wrestling, cricket etc. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 9 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We are committed to the Employees Terms and Conditions of • Sufficient time is given to candidates before accepting our written job offer; employment contracts routinely checked to elimination of all forms of Service, Voluntary Nature ensure they do not violate any human rights or labor law violations. forced or compulsory labor of Employment, Freedom • Notice period is allowed for termination of employment contract -generally at 30 days; 90 days for General Manager in all areas of our or to Leave position-above. business partners' operations. • Exit interviews are conducted to solicit feedback and make necessary improvements as possible. Contractors/Business Partners Wage Regulations • Hinopak workers receive above minimum wage specified by law. Latest directive to increase minimum wage to Rs. 7000 has been executed. All salaries (management and non-management staff) being disbursed through bank accounts/ATM. • Hinopak vendors/contractors advised to meet minimum wage requirement for their workers/employees. Assessment & Contract • We encourage all vendors and contractors to comply with legal requirements relating to their employees' health and safety. • Forced/compulsory labor part of our initial Vendor Evaluation Report, and contract with them requires that they do not employ the same. Principle 5 Business should support the effectively abolition of child labor. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We prohibit engagement Employees Underage Hiring Prevention • We follow the under-age employment clause of the Factories Act 1934 for our workers and apprentices. in any form of child labor Process • We acquire and routinely check NIC (National Identity Card) No. of incoming employees/workers/apprentices/interns. in all areas of our or our business partners' operations. • We have no record of underage employee/apprentice; youngest apprentice on board is 15 years old (minimum age is 14 years old according to Apprenticeship Rules 1966 (Sindh). Business Partners / External Vendor / Contractor • Non-employment of child labor is ensured/checked through our Internal Vendor Evaluation Report. Public Evaluation and Engagement • Hinopak employees interacting with vendors/contractors and visiting their premises are to report any observation of engaging child labor. Youth Development • The Technical Training Program (TSC Part-I and Part-II) for SITE Model School boys along with the scholarships we provided this year are intended to effectively keep the youth off the workforce. • This year saw to the induction of the new batch (34 Nos.) of 3-year apprenticeship program and the inclusion of approx. 19 graduating apprentices in the company's workforce. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 10 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We advocate equal Employees Workforce Diversity • Our recruitment, selection and hiring processes are inclusive and vocal about giving equal employment opportunities. employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion in • Diversity as a principle espoused by the Hino Spirit we follow as Hino affiliate, is being brought to employees' attention employment and through orientation, trainings and other HR activities. occupation and prohibit any form of discrimination • Workforce profile (including workers) as of 31st May 2011 = 1,211: males 1,195, females 16 comprising of permanent in employment terms and managers/executives 145, permanent workers 147, apprentices 30, Hino contract executives 121, and contractors' conditions. workers 768. • Low number of female employees is due to our nature of business operations, not systematic exclusion. • Average workforce age: management permanent 37.4 years, management contract 32 years, non-management permanent 45 years, non-management contract 36 years. Overall average age: 37 years. Equal Employment • After adopting and communicating the Gender Equality Policy in December 2008, plan underway for implementation of Opportunities to Women recently-announced Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace Act 2010. and Minorities • Line managers' engagement in providing access to women and minorities while considering our merit-based policy is increasingly felt. More and more females are considered and inducted for assembly/manufacturing/floor jobs. • No report of exclusion of minorities in our employment activities. We have a diverse workforce where people from almost all religions represented in Pakistan are employed, besides Muslims (e.g. Hindu, Parsi, Christian) • Job requirements/specifications do not disadvantage certain groups. Benefits • Minorities are given extra holidays for observance of their religious holidays/festivals. • Minorities' food requirements are considered in our daily canteen services. • Despite company's central location, we provide pick and drop facility to female employees (even internees) in consideration of the local culture. • Non-permanent employees also enjoy foreign training, if required. No bond is secured for such opportunity. • No known grievance/complaint of discrimination with regard to compensation/benefit of females/minorities. Career Opportunities • Hiring and promotion on merit, performance, qualification and potential. • Minorities and female employees given the same training opportunities as the rest. External Public Employment & Internship • Going the extra mile for female candidates and minorities (employment and internship) is one of Hinopak's 'employer of Opportunities choice' factors. • We persisted with our Summer and Winter Internship Program to provide professional environment opportunities to college/university students. • Apprentices are absorbed in the workforce under merit. Business Partners' • Non-discrimination of employees/workers is included in our Initial Vendor Evaluation Report. Engagement, Inclusion and Recognition • Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors belonging to minority groups are inducted as business partners and given equal rights. • Contractors' employees (minority group) also extended benefits ('bonus') whenever company's financial conditions allow it. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 11 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We take precautionary Environment Management Leadership Guidance • As our Environment Management System focus, we adopted Hino Japan's 'Environment Charter' as reference in approach in meeting Systems implementing SMART objectives, promoting environmental action plan and showing commitment to facing environmental environmental challenges challenges resulting from business activities. met in all areas of • Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering Committee and Global Compact & CSR Committee composed of our top operations; we are management and Union representative oversee our commitment to environment care and protection, providing committed to avoiding and leadership and guidance for all related activities. mitigating negative impact • Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) department was recently integrated and the HSE Committee was of all our activities on the restructured to be more effective in taking care of the implementation of planned environment-related activities. environment. Legal Compliance • We subject ourselves to NEQS (National Environment Quality Standards) under SEPA (Sindh Environment Protection Agency.) Reports on waste water effluents and air emissions submitted using the SMART software required by the EPA. • Key parameters (energy consumption, material discard, and water conservation) were reported to Hino Motors, Japan on monthly basis. • Compliance in all aspects have ensured a clean, green record (no warnings, no penalties) for Hinopak. Water release and air release were both within compliance levels. • Our local and international legal compliance have enabled us to enter the export market. Since June 2010 we have exported 35 state-of-the-art quality buses to Middle East and African countries. Maintenance and • Environmental Impact Assessment program is in place, ensuring alignment with procedures for identifying, recording Monitoring and mitigating the environmental impacts of Hinopak operations. • Monitoring of gas emissions from our equipment and machinery as well as our vehicles products and fleet vehicles, paint booths, etc. Auditing, Certifications and • Internal audit conducted in 2010~2011; appropriate countermeasures taken against minor observations/nonAwards conformities. • Re-certification in ISO 14001:2004 received in July 2010 with no major/minor NCR. • We participated in the South East Asia (SEA) Environmental Conference 2011 held in Jakarta, Indonesia. Hinopak's initiatives of Environmental Conservation / Reporting were shared with other delegates. Hazardous Substance • As per Hino Motor, Japan's directives, we ensure that every chemical is verified against COC (Chlorinated Organic Control Compound) compliance. COC being carcinogenic in nature, can cause environmental and health hazards. To date, 87 chemicals have been checked and cleared. Communication, • Various EMS-related trainings were conducted as follows: ISO 14001:2004 Awareness Program (148 participants), Awareness, Training Internal Audit Training (18 participants), Shop-wise Chemical Handling Training (139 participants), and Introduction to Identification and Evaluation of Environmental Aspects and Impacts (10 participants). • In collaboration with the Sindh Wild Life Department, Hinopak organized an Environmental Awareness Session for the SITE Model School Students where 120 students benefited from this activity. The program was organized to sensitize the children on the issues being faced by the marine life with major focus on 'Turtles'. • Various banners and posters on environmental awareness displayed in both plants to celebrate Environment Month 2011. • Water conservation activity books circulated among employees' children during Hinopak Employees' Children Visit. • Hinopak Environmental and Social Report 2009~2010 published and shared with the public. This is the fourth consecutive report, first published in 2007. • During the space week in October 2010, the SUPARCO team conducted an Environmental Pollution awareness program for 147 students and 11 teachers of the SITE Model School. • During June 2010 ~ to-date 11 free tune up camps were organized all over the country which were made part of the Environment Month activities to provide awareness to the customers. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 12 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs Guided by our mission and Environmental Responsibility Hino Credo Corporate • Hino Motors' mission statement explicitly indicates environmental responsibility: To make the world a better place to social responsibility Guidelines Mission, CSR Chapter, Hino live in by helping people and goods get where they need to gosafely, economically and with environmental principles, we are Spirit responsibilitywhile focusing on sustainable development. committed to promoting • Hino's CSR Chapter reiterates this commitment… we strive to provide products that are safe and environmentallyenvironmentally friendly, pursuing a responsible balance with the environment in all of our corporate objectives. responsible thinking within • Hino Spirit enjoins all employees to practice the Spirit of Altruism or Contribution for employees to work for the the Hinopak family, benefit of your customers and society as a whole, be consistently aware of your responsibility in the local and global marked by sincere community, protect the environment for future generations. demonstration of better Hinopak Mission • The mission of Hinopak Motors Limited is reflective of our mother company's mission, to provide the society with safe, environmental-friendly economical, comfortable and environment-friendly means of transportation by manufacturing and supplying commercial practices. We strive to vehicles and services. increase our sphere of Hinopak Code of Conduct • Principle 1 of our Code of Conduct calls for developing and providing outstanding products and services, with sufficient influence beyond our attention to safety and environment, and Principle 4 that calls for environmental preservation activity as an integral part company by including all of our business, are recognized and adopted by our employees. other stakeholders and ensure greater positive Mottainai • This catchy Japanese word, our environmental motto, unites all Hino employees worldwide in the spirit of environmental preservation and cost reduction by simple measures. impact. Environmental Initiatives at Stop Global Warming • Our Stop Global Warming motto remained and against our target in Assembly Operation Plant, with our CO2 emissions Hinopak reduced 40% compared with our baseline year (2005). In our Body Operation Plant, emissions reduced by 23.7% compared with our baseline year. • Air conditioners constantly maintained; office temperature standardized at 26C. • Equipment and machineries constantly checked/maintained to ensure efficiency. • Promoting this year's Toyota Group motto on environment Are You Kind to The Earth? was actively promoted through different Environment Month activities on June: Tree Plantation within the company premises and in/around the SITE Model School. Totaling re-plantation of 70 plants during the activity. Pollution Prevention • Anti-pollution drive means controlling our wastes. Material discarded (in kg/unit production) from 2005 to the current year in our Assembly Operation Plant drastically improved by 42% while at Body Operation Plant, only by 2.34% from the same baseline year. • Effluents from various operations like paint, chemicals, human wastes, etc. treated and disposed off properly. • Segregation of solid wastes strictly followed; items reused/recycled wherever possible. • Participation in the Horticultural Society of Pakistan's 60th Flower Competition held in February 2011. Establishment of a 'Japanese Garden' planned for February 2012 competition. • We are actively promoting environment friendly products; examples of this are our CNG-engine buses and Euro II compliant export quality buses which are low-emission and low-fuel consumption engines. Energy/Water • World Water Day was celebrated at Hinopak on March 22, 2011 through awareness messages. SITE Model School Conservation: Reduce, children were also sensitized / engaged in the activities through an essay competition on Water Conservation: Our Reuse, Recycle Water, Our Future ; participated by a total of 35 school children (mostly secondary section students). • To promote energy conservation activities in the company, Energy Saving Guideline was circulated among employees by the EMR (Environment Management Representative) Office . • Lights are turned off before office hours, during breaks/while leaving the room. Use of sunlight while cleaning also directed. Project/study underway to replace regular tube-lights with energy-saver bulbs. • Constant checking and rectification of air pipes to avoid leakages. • Appliances/equipment unplugged after use and not left on stand-by. • Use of fresh air or fans encouraged; whenever/wherever possible, air conditioners to be turned off. • Plant effluents converted into gardening water through our Waste Water Treatment plants • As water conservation initiative, our water consumption level decreased by 39.2% against our baseline year of 2005 in Assembly Operation Plant and in our Body Operation Plant at 20.12% against 2005. • Environmental KAIZEN's are performed regularly, such as CO2 reduction, paper usage, usage of treated water for gardening etc. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 13 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs Employee Sensitization • World Environment Day celebrated in Hinopak on June 6, 2011 through a symbolic tree planting ceremony; top management members all planted trees (est. 50) to mark the occasion. • Environment care/protection awareness of employees through literatures/pamphlets/posters/banners witnessed in all three Environment Month/Day activities in June 2009, June 2010 and June 2011. • Environment Month participated by Hinopak as Hino affiliate. We are guided by Hino President's Environmental Message 2011 carrying the following main points for a cleaner cities and beautiful earth to the next generation: Further refine our commercial vehicle business activities while contributing to global environmental conservation and efforts to revive the economy, enjoying more fuel-efficient commercial vehicles around the world -to lower emissions of CO2 . • Environmental Message 2011 and announcement of Environment Month activities from our Director Production reiterated company's pledge for more commitment in energy preservation/ conservation, material discard and water consumption; that they should be taken into account in all aspects of our production processes. • Employees to take part in the beach cleaning activity in June. Environmental Initiatives with Pollution Prevention, • Employees to join clean-up activities in June 2011. External Stakeholders Energy Conservation • 240 vehicles were serviced for free in tune-up camps/camps (April 2010 ~ March 2011) that taught drivers/customers how to ensure proper vehicle usage and maintenance resulting to cleaner air from more clean air-emitting, fuel-efficient vehicles. • 70 trees planted within the company premises and in/around the SITE Model School. Sensitization / Awareness • Attention to environment highlighted in our promotion and advertisement drives for CNG bus and High-power Dutro to Campaign sensitize customers/end-users and public in general provide the linkage between our products and environment responsibility. • We sponsored a Water Conservation essay competition participated by 35 students in June 2011. Three winning essays and six consolation prizes awarded through part prize money and part books on environment / children's encyclopedia. • Estimated 150 employees' children expected in December 2011 for a 'mini winter camp'/plant visit will be shown an environmental movie, given environment care literatures and shown the waste water treatment plants. • 2,231 customers/end-users/drivers/technicians and general public (participants of our Motor Vehicle Training Program, Mobile Field Training Unit & Training Centre) were also sensitized on the importance of vehicle maintenance and its positive impact to the environment during this reporting period. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We are committed to the Environment-friendly Technology Manufacturing Vehicles • Hinopak introduced the first locally-manufactured CNG bus in the country and has secured repeat orders for satisfactory adoption of environmentthat Burn Cleaner Fuels performance. friendly technologies that and Emit Less Fuel • Euro-II engine technology fitted in some Hino products, despite the absence of local regulations on the same mainly reduce environment because of absence of clean fuel. impact from our products Testing and Development • We strictly follow Hino's green product development procedures. and day-to-day • All products undergo smoke belch tests to ensure quality of emission. operations. We ensure effective environment risk Use of Environment• Use of environment-friendly gas R-134a & R-404a for air conditioning of buses & refrigeration of trucks is ensured. management and Friendly Parts / Raw compliance across all our Material • We monitored and reduced use of diesel in our generator sets and other machinery used for production processes. business activities, from • Quality of fuel, lubricants & other components are being checked by standard specification. product Environmental-friendly • Production/Manufacturing processes reviewed regularly. design/development to Processes • For proper maintenance of vehicles, Hinopak provides authorized service stations/workshops. product sale. • Paint sludge, FRP & glass wool incineration are done by third party to reduce hazardous waste. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 14 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs We support the antiEthical Guidelines UNGC Subscription • Hinopak is very vocal about its UNGC subscription and commitment to all 10 principles. This commitment is corruption principle and communicated through publications, press releases, presentations, displays, etc. are committed to continue Hinopak Code of Conduct • Our basic Code of Conduct was recently revisited; being revised to be more comprehensive and explicit. However, our 'no-tolerance' policy to Principles 2, 3, 8 and 11 clear on our pledge to work against anti-corruption practices. any corruption practice. • Employees to be approached again this year for their commitment to this Code. 273 acknowledgements received from management staff. • Orientation of new hires included briefing on basic Code of Conduct and the UNGC's principles. Hinopak Whistle Blowing • The Whistle Blowing Committee (WBC), leading in the oversight of our anti-corruption commitment, met quarterly as System minimum requirement and monthly as desirable. • Similar to the previous years, during 2010-11 employees sent in their suggestions/grievances through the WBC and/or suggestion box. Accordingly, our MD/Chairman WBC addressed our employees' concerns. Hino Credo, Mission, CSR • Trust was invoked twice in the Hino Credo containing overall company mission, core principle and CSR charter, where Charter complying with laws and regulations and maintaining high ethical standards is a major focus. Hino Spirit • Hino Spirit principle on Sincerity, the Value of Integrity contains guidelines that employees follow in respect of anticorruption. Risk Assessment System J-SOX • Internal Control Framework guides Hinopak in following the J-SOX (Japan's version of Sarbanes-Oxley Act). Five (5) internal audits were conducted within period June 2010 to May 2011 and two (2) external audits October 2010 and March 2011. • Internal controls / value additions were provided in the following areas: rules for dealer incentive calculation, rules for advertising and sales promo activities, online stationery issuance processing and financial reporting. • For the second year running, Hinopak's MD/CEO declared compliance with the J-SOX requirements in a report sent to our principal in Japan. Audit Committee • An independent Audit Committee ensures monitoring of compliance activities. All three members of the Committee are non-executive directors. Corporate Governance / • External auditors publicly attested Hinopak's financial reporting integrity as contained in our Annual Report. Compliances • Hinopak's MD/CEO publicly affirmed compliance with corporate governance regulations as indicated in our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2011. • Other compliances: Stock Exchange regulations, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Ordinance 1984 and other taxation laws, etc. Citations, Awards • Hinopak received 'SAFA Best Presented Accounts Award' (November 2009, Dhaka, Bangladesh) for transparent reporting and adequate disclosures in financial statement. • Hinopak received 'Best Corporate Report Award 2009' for exemplary practices and corporate reporting (from Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan and Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan.) HR & Other Processes Process Improvement • HR processes such as payroll, leave application, attendance management were automated to ensure data integrity and avoid manual errors/tampering. • Recruitment and hiring policy is very vocal on transparency and merit; multiple assessments ensured all hiring's were done objectively. • Personal contact/interaction with Sales Tax personnel eliminated by electronic payment/processing. • Proposals/quotations from multiple vendors/suppliers sought, reviewed and seen by multiple Hinopak personnel before approval. HINOPAK MOTORS LIMITED Page 15 of 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress: June 2010 ~ June 2011 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Policies, Systems, Processes Actions Performance and Programs • Comprehensive process improvement / automation of HR/Admin related processes underway -some completed projects in 2010-11: Online Attendance Monitoring, Self-service for employees, Training Management System, HR Portal, Performance Appraisal system. Stakeholder Engagement Vendor Pre-qualification • Our vendors are subjected to a pre-qualification assessment, the Initial Vendor Evaluation Report, before they are inducted as business partners. Public Sensitization, • Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives and UNGC principles shared with public (students, visitors, etc.) sensitizing Partnerships them about the subject. • Hinopak visitors were routinely briefed about the company's Global Compact/CSR commitment and initiatives.
