Home About us Our approach Our products Shareholders Media Careers Our approach Home Our approach Our performance UN Global C ompact Our strategy UN Global Compact Our performance Our performance Welcome to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact section of the Rio Materiality Tinto website. Goals & targets Materiality Performance data Goals & targets GRI checklist Performance data Millennium Development Goals GRI checklist IC MM SD framework IC MM SD framework UN Global C ompact Surveys & awards Millennium Development Goals UN Global Compact Statement of support from Jan du Plessis, Chairman of Rio Tinto The Global C ompact 2010 marked the 10th anniversary of Rio Tinto's C ommunication on signatory to the United Nations Global C ompact. Ten progress 2010 years on Rio Tinto remains committed to its ten principles View the online annual report Previous communication and to promoting the Global C ompact wherever we on progress operate. As C hairman of Rio Tinto I am proud to confirm Rio Tinto's continued support for this important initiative. The way we work The UN Global C ompact's ten principles are reflected in The way we work , Rio Tinto's Surveys & awards Rio Tinto's policies, standards and guidance and are global code of conduct, was Assurance embedded in our overall approach to sustainable relaunched on 9 December 2009. development. In particular, we have enhanced our commitment to antiThe new edition supersedes business Life of our operations & corruption by revising The way we work, our code of conduct, refined our unit codes of conduct and establishes products guidelines for information gathering and relaunched Speak-OUT, our a common Group wide code. independently administered confidential whistleblowing programme. open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Environmental See all Our approach features Here you will find our 2010 communication on progress and can learn more stewardship about how we are implementing all ten principles across Rio Tinto. Social wellbeing Economic prosperity Governance systems Rio Tinto's Marie Bourgoin shares Glossary her story Jan du Plessis, Chairman Rio Tinto plc Features What is the UN Global Compact? The UN Global C ompact is an accord between the United Nations and business for cooperation and promotion in upholding a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental practice and anti corruption. These values are reflected in ten principles. Read more about the United Nations Global C ompact. See our policies, standards and guidance Rio Tinto and the UN Global Compact Rio Tinto is a founding member of the Global C ompact having become a signatory in 2000. Ten years on we remain committed to the ten principles of the Global C ompact which are reflected in our policy, standards and guidance. We communicate our progress (C OP) annually and our 2008 C OP was recognised by the Global C ompact office as 'Notable'. The Notable C OP Programme was introduced in 2004 to highlight and recognise outstanding C ommunications on Progress (C OP). C OPs featured in the Notable C OP programme are selected because of their adherence to the C OP policy and because they represent illustrative and inspirational examples of communicating progress. Rio Tinto are active members of the UK Network of the Global C ompact and a member of the Network's C ommunication on Progress working group. We regularly participate in Global C ompact working groups and events such as the Human Rights' Working Group, the Local Network meetings and the Leaders Summits (Geneva 2007 and June 2010). © 2011 R io Tinto All rights re se rve d. C ontact Library Privacy Te rm s & conditions He lp Acce ssibility Site m ap open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com
