Communication on Progress 2011 October 17, 2011 Dear United Nations Global Compact, CODE Incorporated is once again committed to supporting and enacting, within its sphere of influence, the values outlined in the United Nations Global Compact. CODE Inc. intends to undertake and promote responsible actions pertaining to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anticorruption within the company and on the part of the partners and affiliates with which CODE Inc works. CODE Inc. intends to continue to comply and adhere to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact program by creating practical solutions to contemporary problems related to globalization. The CODE Inc. Senior Management and staff fully support the actions the company is taking to work towards sustainability goals – in particular those contained in the United Nations Global Compact. We endorse the priorities and targets set out in our report. CODE Inc. recognizes, partakes, and benefits from the global economy and intends to do its part as an organization to support the advancement of broad-based development and sustainable markets, globally. Yours truly, Maryline Cauvier, President & CEO Reporting on sustainability is essential to the development of a healthy, robust business. The CODE Inc. Board supports the sustainable development components that CODE Inc. has implemented for the benefit of global economic growth. United Nations Global Compact 2011 The Communication on Progress (COP) is an essential component of the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is structured around global sustainability in four key domains: Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment, and Anti-Corruption. The following principles have been adopted as guidelines for organizations which share the Global Compact’s main objectives. Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protections of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Rights Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6. Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Environment Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights Issues Commitment: CODE Inc. continues to encourage Gender Equity through corporate example and the pursuit of business initiatives that focus on the development of women. Commitment: Ensure that CODE Inc. is in good standing with all Human Rights Laws Policies Performance CODE Inc.’s policy is to promote  The Code of Ethics and gender equity among its staff and Business Conduct, which all Board of Directors. employees are issued, guides employees on values & behavior collectively supported by CODE Inc.  CODE Inc. Board of Director’s supports equal representation of men and women on the Board as a guide & example that CODE Inc. demands equal opportunity & rights for women. CODE Inc. is committed to positive  CODE Inc. works primarily to progress by supporting initiatives that support democracy in the support the development of women developing world. Democracy and equality for all. cannot truly exist without equal voter representation by men and women.  CODE Inc. operates in developing nations & is vigilant of generating new ways to support nations in need. Labour Rights Issues Commitment: CODE Inc. respects, adheres to, and exceeds expectations of all labour laws set forth by Domestic and International Governments and Tribunals. Commitment: CODE Inc. will undertake ongoing assessments of the business practices of overseas clients to ensure that the labour rights of their employees are respected. Commitment: CODE Inc. embraces responsibilities in respect to the well-being of its employees. Policies Performance CODE Inc. operates internationally  CODE Inc. operates by and is involved with manufactures complying to and supporting around the world. In the course of international standards set conducting business in ‘high risk’ forth to protect human rights. areas we work to ensure that we are not complicit in human rights  Our Code of Ethics and abuses. If we were to find Personnel policies describe ourselves unintentionally the standards we set for implicated in an abuse we are ourselves and clients. committed to correcting the CODE Inc. advocates to our situation immediately. overseas contacts the importance of the United Nations Global Compact and how they too can become involved to promote positive global sustainability, with an emphasis on the human rights component. CODE Inc. supports it’s  CODE Inc. is pursuing new shareholder CODE with an annual business initiatives that align donation to support the with CODE development development of literacy and values. education.  CODE Inc. aligns its values with those of it’s parent organization CODE: empowering development, education and literacy. CODE Inc. meets and exceeds  CODE Inc. is committed to its applicable employment standards employees, our commitments set forth by both Provincial and are outlined in the Personnel Federal Legislation. Policy.  CODE Inc. complies to all international labour standards when conducting business overseas. CODE Inc. recognizes that our key  The health and safety rights asset is our people and therefore and policy is outlined in our is committed to going beyond Health and Safety document. providing fair, flexible, appropriate remuneration and benefits to all  A Violence and Harassment employees. Policy (2010 & 2011 revised edition) has been created in addition to our H&S policy to further ensure all possible situations are fully covered by policy to reduce risk.  A procedure and policy manual is in place for employees to reference any concerns. CODE Inc. offers assurance to it’s employees by providing a health and benefits plan.  CODE Inc. ensures that all CODE Inc. ensures that all employees have the necessary employees meet yearly training to allow them to work renewal of Workplace safely. Hazardous Materials updates. (WHIMIS) (2011) Environmental Issues Commitment: CODE Inc. views environmental issues with great importance. The CODE Inc. organization supports ecofriendly practices within its organization. Commitment: To lessen the waste created by the CODE Inc. organization. Policies Performance CODE Inc. supports corporate  CODE Inc. has revised its environmental responsibility policy on environmental well and is primarily focused on its being pertaining to the work ability to better the place. The revision environment by balancing encourages the company to office energy efficiency. consciously practice environmental sustainability.  CODE Inc. takes a precautionary approach to environmental issues encouraging carbon neutrality and lessened energy and water consumption within its offices.  Included this year (2011) is a water filtration system that has eliminated the use of water bottles within the organizations. Glasses have also been provided to staff.  A composting program has been initiated. (2011) Policies Performance CODE Inc. believes that  When conducting business in corporate environmental areas of little infrastructure sustainability begins with CODE Inc. realizes it is ensuring that eco-friendly essential to deliver a product practices are in place when that is reusable, thus ensuring conducting business. that minimal waste is created.  CODE Inc. respects environmental emissions concerns and ensures that it’s manufacturers provide safe, recyclable plastics when producing ballot boxes. CODE Inc.’s environmental  CODE Inc. supports the policies are aligned to environmental policies international standards and outlined by the Canadian apply these policies when Government; and adheres to conducting international the recommendations set business. forth by the Canadian Government on sustainable corporate environmental practices. CODE Inc.’s preferential mode  CODE Inc. has opened offices of transportation is ocean in Europe in order to source freight when timing and products closer to our main logistics permit. client base to encourage shipment by ocean freight and lesson CODE Inc.’s carbon footprint.  We espouse the virtue of surface transport not only from a financial perspective but as a more eco-friendly mode of transportation. Anti Corruption Issues Commitment: CODE Inc. is compliant with all International and National reporting standards. “We believe that openness and transparency are the most important levers for improving our performance. Our commitment to ‘deliver the vote’ will be enhanced by the new sustainable development policies applied by CODE Inc.” Policies Performance Ensures that all CODE Inc.  CODE Inc. has strong employees are aware of and internal policies about understand the CODE Inc. policy expectations of ethical on ethics. and professional behavior which is communicated to staff.  The CODE Inc. Code of Conduct is available to all CODE Inc. staff. CODE Inc. prides itself on  CODE Inc. operates an maintaining high standards of open communication corporate governance and open system with communication systems to employees; therefore, emphasize the integrity of the if any material issues company. arise they are reported to Senior Management, and if need be, taken up with the Governance and Policy Committee.  How CODE Inc. manages our Code of Conduct is described in Governance and Policy Report. CODE Inc. avoids all corruption  In order to guarantee pertaining to the nature of it’s that extortion or core business: democracy and bribery do not take electoral supplies. place CODE Inc. strives to mainly conduct business with the UN when dealing with countries that have questionable reputations. For further information, or if you have any questions or comments, please contact Keely Brach at keely@codeinc.com
