REPORT ON PROGRESS OF THE UNITED R Er e NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2010 Piraeus Bank Group Corporative Identity Piraeus Bank, the holding company of Piraeus Banking Group, was founded in 1916. After period of state-ownership and management (1975-1991) the Bank was privatized in December 1991. Since then, it has continuously grown in size and activities. Piraeus Bank is now one of the largest banks in Greece. It has diversified regional presence in 7 countries in South-Eastern Europe and Eastern Mediterranean, but also in the financial centers of London and New York. Nowadays Piraeus Banking Group is one of the most dynamic and proactive financial organizations in both Greek and international markets. Group possesses particular knowhow in the fields of retail banking, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), capital markets and investment banking and leasing. Piraeus Banking Group has strong presence in middle-market segment (businesses and individuals) the most dynamic part of the region’s economy. Also, it has strong credit culture coupled with sophisticated risk management systems. Group possesses as well cross-regional management teams which can provide proactive and tailor-made banking solutions. During previous year Group has recorded good business results, high liquidity and confidence of clients. At the end of December 2010, the Group possessed a network of 882 branches (360 in Greece and 522 internationally) and its total equity amounted to €4.0 bn (pro-forma for the €0.8 bn capital increase in January 2011), customer deposits to €30.0 bn, net loans €37.6 bn and total assets to €57.7 bn. The Group's fundamental policy direction for human resources development is based on the efficient management of human resources, leading to the creation of skilful and dedicated personnel able to function within the framework of the competitive EU banking market. At the end of December 2010, the Group employed 13,320 people. Piraeus Bank Group, combining business development and social responsibility, endorses systematically its relations with its social partners through specific actions, while special emphasis is placed on the protection of the natural environment. Piraeus Bank acknowledges that energy sources are not inexhaustible and should be used in a responsible manner. The Bank's contribution to the protection of the environment has two dimensions. The internal dimension, which refers to the Bank's efforts to mitigate its operational environmental impacts, and the external dimension which reflects the Bank's efforts to increase environmental awareness of its customers, and to promote environmentally friendly investments. Piraeus Bank has built significant presence in the field of Green Banking with a dedicated GREEN BANKING Branch and products that support lending for RES, saving energy, waste management, green transportation, organic farming, ecotourism-agritourism and green chemistry products. Piraeus Bank’s prudent management will continue to comprise the major element of its policies and development targets in the broader region markets where it operates and where medium term prospects remain positive. Piraeus Bank AD Beograd Corporate Profile Piraeus Bank A.D. Belgrade, a member of Piraeus Bank Group, has been present on the Serbian market since May 2005, with particular know-how in the areas of large corporate banking, retail banking and SMEs. Business philosophy of Piraeus Bank Serbia is meeting the highest international standards and values in providing banking products and services, with the application of the latest techniques and technologies. Piraeus Bank AD Belgrade in 2010, despite very challenging period for business, continued positive growing trend and achieved good operational results. Loans, together with cross border loans, at the end of 2010. reached €610 mn, while total assets reached €764 mn. Indicator that Piraeus Bank is recognized as a stable bank is Bank’s total deposit growth of over € 58 mn to €215 mn, which is y-o-y increase of 37%. Particular success has been achieved in growth of retail savings, which in 2010 increased by 40 mill Euro. Bank has also taken active part in purchasing of treasury bills issued by the Republic of Serbia, so at the end of 2010 bank had in its portfolio a claim on these securities amounted to more than 25 mill Euro. From the beginning of 2010 Piraeus Bank launched many different and innovative products and services for Corporate, SME and Retail clients. Bank together with European Investment Bank launched credit line to secure additional funding for SME, infrastructure and municipality lending, in order to enlarge its loan portfolio. Beside new credit lines offer for SMEs and Corporate clients, Piraeus Bank is paying special attention to the Retail clients. Besides many traditional banking products, leasing and rent services, Piraeus Bank has expanded its offer with Risk insurance. Based on market inputs and global trends Piraeus Bank is constantly improving its product portfolio and internal organizational structure. Commitment to the Serbian market and to company's further progress is witnessed by the fact that Piraeus Bank in late June became a shareholder of Piraeus Leasing with a share of 27.27% equity. Result of this recapitalization is a more attractive offer that includes a full packet of leasing services and favorable terms of payment, flexible repayment schedule and full costs control. Bank follows world’s trends in using new technology in order to improve banking sector and create innovative technological services which would in the best possible way improve and make easier everyday banking operations. Piraeus Bank understands how important is to contribute to the local community they are operating in, so the Bank developed and launched together with the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning special CSR project Going green campaign and Fill to the top! internal and external action. This activity consists of donation of recycling containers and boxes for collecting used paper to 18 cities where Piraeus Bank operates. Also, Bank has developed set of recommendations for energy saving, with the goal to increase energy efficiency, save energy and reduce CO2 emissions. Understanding that informing and educating about this environmental problem is very important Piraeus Bank actively involves all their resources to inform, educate, inspire citizens and companies and make special effort to support solving of these problems. Letter of Mr Neoclis Neocleous, Executive Board Chairman Piraeus Bank Group believes that the quality of life is intricately connected to the quality of the environment, and to this end, it undertakes initiatives to turn its belief into practice. Group is committed, via its Corporate Social Responsibility, to apply a policy that reduces the environmental impact of both its operational and business activities. Group passes its experience in domain of Corporate Social Responsibility to the countries where it operates. Piraeus Bank Belgrade has recognized, as a Group member, significant importance of environment preserving by which it become dedicated to take active role in “green” projects. Piraeus Bank is the first Bank in Serbia which supported the project of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and Let's clean up Serbia action, with which we launched joint action titled Fill to the top! . Action includes donation of boxes and containers for collecting paper in all cities and municipalities where Piraeus Bank operates. The aim of this initiative is to raise awareness of the citizens of Serbia on the importance of environmental protection and the importance of planning the collection and separation of paper. During 2009, Bank has started its own campaign “Going green”. Through this project, Bank has started to deal with resolving of recycling paper problem, on both external and internal level. Through informing and education of its employees as well as placing cardboard boxes for collection of used paper in all branches and offices of Piraeus Bank AD Belgrade throughout Serbia, Bank has during six months period collected two tons of paper in the Head Office building alone, thus saving 34 trees from being cut for production of necessary paper. Taking part in solving some global issues, Piraeus Bank, as a member of Global Compact of the United Nations, has given one additional incentive for its activities in the fields of human and labor rights, environment, support of disabled persons, as well anticorruption. The Bank is also implementing scholarship programs for young talents and support programs for individuals and institutions in need of its financial support. This report outlines the basic achievements of Piraeus Bank’s environmental policy in the past three years. In publishing these results, our aim is to transfer valuable know-how to our partners, customers and the general public. We believe that the effort to protect the environment will only lead to positive results if we all become actively involved. An overview of Piraeus Bank’s environmental performance Piraeus Bank acknowledges that energy sources are not inexhaustible and should be used in a responsible way. Therefore, the Bank’s contribution to the protection of the environment has two dimensions, an internal one and an external one. The internal dimension refers to the Bank’s efforts to decrease the environmental impacts from its operation. The external dimension concerns the Bank’s efforts to increase the environmental awareness of its customers, and also to support actions outside the Bank, concerning the environmental protection for future generations. In order to satisfy this objective, an Environmental Management System in compliance with the EMAS European Regulation is being applied. Within this framework, the general objectives of environmental management for the company are as follows:  continuous investigation in view of undertaking preventive or corrective initiatives for more productive use of resources required for the efficient operation of the Bank;  continuous awareness-raising among employees on environmental issues;  continuous efforts to reduce potential impacts on the environment by improving banking services and products provided;  publication of environmental impacts from the operation of Piraeus Bank, and also measures taken to mitigate these impacts;  preservation and improvement of the company’s performance as regards environmental protection. These general objectives will be achieved by applying control, monitoring and measurement methods for all processes included in operations for designing and producing products/services, procurement and cooperation, technical support etc, and also by defining specific measurable management objectives. The ultimate objective of the Bank’s environmental policy is the continuous reduction of our ecological footprint and the support of environmentally friendly entrepreneurship. This is achieved through natural resource management programmes, energy saving in our buildings, procurement of environmentally friendly materials, raising awareness and training employees and also through the development of green banking products. To this end the GREENbanking4Life project was highly instrumental in implementing the Bank’s environmental policy. This report includes the major achievements of Piraeus Bank’s environmental initiatives. These include: Over the past three years, Piraeus Bank has been implementing environmental programmes in order to mitigate its impact on the environment. These include energy and water-saving, recycling, travel reduction and green procurement programmes. Certain environmental programmes presented in this section have been co-funded by the European Commission within the framework of the LIFE project. Energy-savings programmes a) Pilot installation of photovoltaic systems b) Installation of energy control systems for buildings c) Remote management of lighting in buildings Green procurement a) Procurement of recycled, chlorine free paper b) Fleet of low emission corporate vehicles Solid waste (paper, ink cartridges, batteries, plastic, electrical equipment) a) Paper recycling b) Recycling of ink cartridges and toners c) Battery recycling d) Recycling of electrical and electronic equipment Transportation a) Car pooling b) E-learning Piraeus Bank has responded to the new social and environmental conditions and, to this end, has adopted a specific environmental policy. The means by which Piraeus Bank has applied its environmental policy and the results of this effort are as follows:  We have recycled more than 680 tonnes of paper, 2.6 tonnes of batteries and 60.6 tonnes of PCs.  We have delivered 1,700 printer cartridges and toners for re-use. By procuring recycled and chlorine free paper we have avoided the felling of 26,000 trees.  We have reduced the consumption of conventional paper by 8.8% and the consumption of electricity by 1% per employee from 2007 to 2008.  We produce clean energy from pilot photovoltaic stations with a total capacity of 45 KW installed on 4 Bank’s buildings.  Through e-learning programmes for our employees, we have reduced travels by 950,000km. This amount corresponds to avoiding the emission of 170 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2).  We are replacing Piraeus Bank’s corporate fleet with low CO2 emission vehicles. WITH THE USE OF RECYCLED CHLORINE FREE PAPER WE AVOIDED: CUTTING 2 2660 00000 TREES CONSUMING 6 60 00000 00000 0 KWH OF ENERGY CONSUMING 4 4660 00000 000 000 LITRES OF WATER WITH THE INCREASE OF EMPLOYEES’ PARTICIPATION IN E-LEARNING PROGRAMMES WE AVOIDED: 9 955000 00000 KM OF TRAVELS BY CARAND CO2 EMISSIONS OF 170 TONNES The environmental benefits of using recycled and chlorin free paper in the past three years are impressive at Piraeus Bank. By using recycled paper it was not necessary to fell 26,000 trees, while consumption of 6,000,000 KWh of energy and 46,000,000 litres of water was avoided. The creation of innovative green products and support for green entrepreneurship. The Bank offers, to both businesses and consumers, a wide range of green banking products that fund Renewable Energy Sources (RES) and energy conservation measures. In 2006, Piraeus Bank started offering specially designed green banking products that support a variety of sectors in green entrepreneurship. Thus, today the Bank offers the following specific products that are granted under special terms: 1. GREEN PRODUCTS FOR ENTERPRISES WISHING TO INVEST IN LARGE RES PROJECTS 2. GREEN PRODUCTS FOR ENTERPRISES WISHING TO INVEST IN PHOTOVOLTAIC STATIONS WITH A CAPACITY OF UP TO 150 KWp 3. GREEN MORTGAGES 4. GREEN LOANS 5. GREEN LEASING FINANCING 6. GREEN INSURANCE PRODUCTS Thus, in the last two years through financing RES projects we have avoided the emissions of 772,292 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere. At the beginning of 2008, we launched GREEN BANKING, the first green bank branch in the Balkans. The Green Branch operates as a point of information in regards to the green products and services that Piraeus Bank has designed and offers. Green products and services create effective and far reaching market-based solutions to address a range of environmental problems, to meet new legislation and directives and to raise environmental awareness. In other words, green banking products allow businesses and individuals to choose a solution for reducing their environmental impact. BY THE END OF SEPTEMBER 2009, PIRAEUS BANK HAD FINANCED GREEN PROJECTS WITH 3 3221 1,,8 8118 8,,0 0000 0€€ AND WITH CREDIT LIMITS OVER €560 MILLION. OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS, PIRAEUS BANK THROUGH FINANCING RES PROJECTS OF TOTAL CAPACITY OF 156 MW, HAS AVOIDED THE EMISSION OF 77 7 72 29 2,,2 92 2€ € TONNES OF CO2 IN THE ATMOSPHERE. THIS AMOUNT OF CO2 WOULD HAVE REQUIRED 28 MILLION TREES TO BE ABSORBED. GREEN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CREATE EFFECTIVE AND FAR REACHING MARKET-BASED SOLUTIONS TO ADDRESS A RANGE OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS, TO M EET NEW LEGISLATION AND DIRECTIVES AND TO RAISE ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS. The wide range of information and education programmes designed for employees, subsidiaries and the general public through electronic and printed communication, meetings and workshops, and incentive awards for the employees’ environmental behaviour. Overall, through Piraeus Bank’s environmental actions the average environmental performance of employees increased from 5.8 (on a ten point scale) in June 2007 to 6.3 in September 2009; that’s an increase of 8.6%. 1 111%% OF THE PIRAEUS BANK STAFF IN GREECE HAS VOLUNTARILY PARTICIPATED IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL E-LEARNING PROGRAMME 5 50000--6 6000 0 EMPLOYEES VISIT THE WEEKLY „GREEN NEWS“ ON THE BANK’S INTRANET 8 8..6 6%% INCREASE IN EMPLOYEES’ ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS Raising awareness among staff and the public in general with respect to environmental issues is a priority for Piraeus Bank. Managerial measures alone are not sufficient to improve the Bank’s environmental performance. Educating and raising awareness among employees is a primary requirement. The greater the participation of employees, the greater the success of environmental management programmes. INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNICATION AND EDUCATION Piraeus Bank implemented a series of actions to educate and raise environmental awareness among its employees. The aim was to use printed material, the intranet, elearning, meetings and seminars, as well as an incentives plan, in order to improve the environmental performance of staff members. The improvement in employees’ environmental behaviour led to an increase in energy saving in the Bank’s buildings, an increase of materials recycled, a reduction of material consumption and, finally, led the employees to get involved in the effort of improving the environmental performance of Piraeus Bank. Environmental education programmes also motivated Piraeus Bank employees to promote the green banking products to clients and inform them on new green technologies. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNICATION SUBSIDIARIES Piraeus Bank made significant efforts to communicate its environmental work externally, as well as among its subsidiaries. Thus, the Bank applied many communication strategies, aimed at customers, subsidiaries, and the general public. So far Bank has communicated with general public through: GREENbanking4Life website, Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report, Publications-Information leaflets, Participation in trade fairs and exhibitions, Participation in conferences and presentations, Cooperation with suppliers, Communication with customers, Piraeus Bank green business information desk at ACCI, Capacity building workshops for subsidiaries, Printed and electronic media, The Piraeus Bank Green Branch, Cooperation with environmental organizations, Public awareness – Wildlife photography exhibition, etc. Piraeus Bank is now moving ahead with a new project that aims to contribute to the market’s adaptation to climate change. It is well established that financial institutions can help the market to adapt to climate change. Having this in mind, Piraeus Bank is embarking on a new project entitled “C ClimaΒiz”, co-funded by the European Union. The aim of the project is to instigate the adaptation of the market to the impacts of climate change. ClimaΒiz is the new vehicle of Piraeus Bank’s ongoing implementation of its environmental policy; a policy that creates new standards in the financing sector and promotes green business at a national and international level. Corporate Responsibility Key Action and Targets Piraeus Bank driving force is based in its strategy and choice, constant pursuit of development, commitment to work, application of innovative technologies and productive and creative collaboration of all employees. Believing in its own values and vision, along with attention devoted to service quality, community and client support, Bank is focused on its human resources and is methodically investing in their development. Our goal is to develop and consolidate a business culture that will distinguish us from competition, improve our work, strengthen the collective team spirit, our initiative and increase performance. We, employees of the Piraeus Bank, are proud of our professionalism and service because what makes us different is the efficiency, knowledge, kindness, and the way we solve problems. Care for Employees Employees of Piraeus Bank Group are proud of the fact that Group has, as successful multinational company, voluntarily acceded to Global Compact positive UN initiative since 2004, successful implementing Global Compact fundamental principles of human rights protection in its daily practice. Human rights are basic principles on which people can live free and dignified, regardless of gender, religion, age, nationality, physical abilities, sexual orientation or any other form of diversity. These principles have universal value and apply equally to all, allowing us to fully develop our individual potential, intellect and awareness, with the idea of fulfilling personal and company goals. According to the Universal Declaration of the Protection of Human Rights, focus is on the following areas: – equality, protection of life and safety, personal, economic, social and cultural freedom. In order to properly present the ideas and principles of Human Rights protection which Piraeus Bank Group applies, HR Department of Piraeus bank Belgrade has launched several initiatives and activities to this area represented: 1. Full concept of Human Rights protection placed and hence presented on Banks Intranet, resulted in recognition, acknowledgment and better understanding of employees rights, 2. Staff support program has been intensified, broadening array of services (individual coaching and counselling sessions, critical incidents interventions), 3. Piraeus Bank believes that financial development and stability should be in balance with sincere interest and care for all employees. In order to support employees engagement and commitment, training programmes has been organized regarding Prevention and Management of Stress, as well as cultivating resilience in daily life, 4. Bank maintained a crucial policy to provide medical check up for all employees, as well as with additional health insurance, 5. Relevant practice was provided for the students of high educational institutions during whole year, 6. The Bank has participated in work of „HR Task Force“(American Chamber of Commerce) which was related to change of employment the legal framework. Improvement of Employees Piraeus Bank AD Beograd believes that training and professional improvement of employees are contributing to work quality increase, highly motivation of employees and to better reputation of the Bank’s corporate image. That is why, during 2010, Piraeus bank employees had a chance to attend seminars and training courses both in the country and abroad, besides already contracted training in the headquarters of Piraeus Bank Group in Athens. Trainings held abroad in 2010. Name of Training Organizer Location Branch Network Top Management Academy Piraeus BankGroup Athens (Greece) ATTF & Ministry of Compliance Finance, Luxembourg Luxembourg Contracts, commercial law, Associations of lawyers harmonization with EU Serbia Budva (Montenegro) Department of Bank Fraud Prevention & Detection Zachodni WBK Poznan (Poland) Human Asset Stanford Global Budapest (Hungary) Trainings held in 2010. Average number of Number of employees TYPE OF TRAINING trainings per attending the training employee in 2010. External Trainings 579 0,36 Internal Trainings 1017 1,83 Care for social community Piraeus Bank was one of the first companies on Serbian market that supported the initiative of United Nations, with aim to contribute to the integration of basic and universally accepted principles of Global Agreement in its scope of activities. Also, Piraeus bank was the first one that supported Ministry of Environment and Special Planning and Let's Clean Up Serbia drive with which Bank launched joined socially responsible campaign „Fill to the top!“ Piraeus Bank has managed to integrate into its existing mechanisms specific social procedures that support individuals and communities, as well environmental procedures that reduce its ecological footprint and support green entrepreneurship. Key Actions in 2010. Key Targets in 2011. Implementation of new and Implementation of SME support innovative services that have programs in collaboration with significantly improved daily business competent organisations and job protection programs; operation and cut expenses; By being ready to assist through Continued support of small and restructuring or the refinancing of medium enterprises in creating their debts, Bank has helped clients their rational and sustainable faced with repayment problems to projects for introducing new Business smoothly continue with the payment production lines, increase of Environment of their commitments; employment, and subsequently increase of export; Piraeus has invested a lot more than 250 million euros into Serbia. Bank will continue to support Together with loans that Piraeus several related causes and also Group has granted to Serbian legal banking products and services, entities, whether through Piraeus in like investment in renewable Serbia or, for example, through a energy and environmentallyPiraeus branch in London, the total friendly and energy-efficient is in excess of 600 million euros. housing projects. Full concept of Human Rights Further enhancement of knowledge protection placed and hence and skills by organizing specialized presented on Banks Intranet, trainings and seminars resulted in recognition, acknowledgment and better Increase in training hours per understanding of employees rights, person with the goal to cover 50% Work place of human resources Staff support program has been intensified, broadening array of Active reallocation of human services (individual coaching and resources for their optimum use based on business needs counselling sessions, critical incidents interventions), Further improvement of information exchange between Piraeus Bank believes that financial employees put Intranet and development and stability should be newsletter, as well as creating new in balance with sincere interest and channels care for all employees. In order to Full implementation and support employees engagement and consolidation of Human Rights commitment, training programmes principles in Bank’s procedures and has been organized regarding policies in order to raise awareness Prevention and Management of among staff Stress, as well as cultivating Further organization of annual resilience in daily life, medical examinations for all employees Bank maintained a crucial policy to provide medical check up for all Further organization of self review employees, as well as with additional as a method of self-motivation and health insurance, reward of outstanding individuals Relevant practice was provided for the students of high educational institutions during whole year, The Bank has participated in work of „HR Task Force“(American Chamber of Commerce) which was related to change of employment the legal framework. Sponsorship of Vračar Municipality Support to customer faced with activities, difficulties due to the economic Piraeus bank was the sponsor of prizes for crisis. best students on high school examination exams. Society Investment in fields of green Faculty of Law sponsorship economy that will create new Piraeus bank has supported travel job openings. expenses for members of the team going to Vienna to Willem C. Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot 2010. Platanus donation to the City and the citizens of Belgrade. Sponsorship of basketball team „Plavi Support of young talents grom“ Spirit of sport promotion Sponzorship of handball team Partizan Sport Sponforship of football team Crvena Zvezda Sponsorship of Ljubičevo horse games, Enhancement and dissemination of Požarevac, Traditional horse games where cultural and economic contribution participation is prestigious. This to local communities sponsorship was as well support to the Culture Support to the new editions and local community. research projects of social significance Tourist Organization of Vrsac sponsorship of 53rd Grape Harvest days in Vrsac Continuation of “Going green” campaign Continuation of “Going green” and action “Fill to the top!” followed by campaign and action “Fill to the donation of containers and cardboard top!” boxes for collection of used paper, Recycling containers and boxes were Promotion of special products and donated to the citizens of Pozarevac, services as an incentive for Sabac, Kikinda, Novi Sad and Zemun environmental protection Municipality; Implementation of environmental Sponsorship of „Green Serbia“ e-learning courses with a goal to conference; reduce CO2 emissions from the Bank’s core business Employees of the Bank joined the Better dissemination of the Banks’ Environment Serbian Spring Cleaning drive. environmental work to the public Bank has also supported this drive through donation of 50,000 bags to underdeveloped municipalities and to all interested citizens who wanted to join this drive; Donation of package of containers for collecting electronic waste to Trade School in Belgrade. Campaigns Bearing in mind the clear commitment of Piraeus Bank SA Athens regarding environmental protection, as well as that Piraeus Bank Group is transferring its experience to all Group member states, it was decided that in Serbia also, during defining CSR strategy, focus is placed on ecology. Reasons for launching Going Green strategy: Internal Going Green campaign Realized activities 1. Specially branded cardboard boxes for paper collection were placed in all Headquarters offices and Piraeus bank branches throughout Serbia  Result:  Within 6 months, only in the Belgrade area we collected 2 tons of used paper, that is we prevented cutting down of 34 trees required otherwise for that amount of paper!  This information is communicated to all employees via e-mail alerts 2. Bank has introduced on-line newsletter that regularly informs employees about new domains in environment protection, as well activities undertaken by Piraeus Bank. One of the constant theme is related to Bank’s social responsibility.  Result:  By sending on-line informators printing and paper overuse is avoided 3. More than 100 employees of Piraeus Bank from a total of 560, participated on 5 June 2010. in Serbian Spring Cleaning drive national campaign organized by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning within Let's Clean up Serbia drive. Piraeus Bank also supported this drive through donation of 50,000 bags and gloves to underdeveloped municipalities and clients.  Result:  Raising awareness of the importance of recycling and clean environment to employees and the citizens of Serbia. 4. „Green“ logo has been introduced as an integral part of employees e-mail signatures.  Result:  „Green“ logo constantly reminds and encourages employees to think about preserving environment 5. Support of the action One hour for the Planet Earth . Bank has through its Web portal, called on all visitors to turn off the lights on 27th March, in the interval from 8:30 PM to 9:30 PM, what itself did by turning off advertising lighting for an hour.  Result:  Increasing number of people who know about the growing problem of climate change that we all feel. External Going Green campaing Action „Fill to the top!“ Goals:  Raising awareness about global environmental issues and need for waste separation and paper recycling  Education and informing employees, media and other target groups about the importance of environmental protection  Calling other companies and individuals to contribute to environmental protection Activities: Piraeus Bank has created a special action Fill to the top in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and Let's Clean up Serbia drive, which implies:  Donation of containers for collecting used paper to all the cities in where Piraeus Bank operates  Donation of cardboard boxes for paper collection to the schools and municipalities in which Piraeus bank operates  Organizing press conferences and public lectures with eminent speakers Results:  Contribution to solving this problem at the level of raising awareness, as well as helping in implementation of concrete activities (donations of containers and boxes).  So far, Piraeus bank „green“ caravan visited Vrsac, Nis, Pozarevac, Kikinda, Sabac, Zemun Municipality and Novi Sad. In 2011, we will continue with the „Fill to the top“ action! Action “Fill to the top!” in Vrsac Action “Fill to the top!” in Nis Action “Fill to the top!” in Kikinda Action “Fill to the top!” in Pozarevac Action “Fill to the top!” in Šabac Action “Fill to the top!” in Zemun Municipality Action “Fill to the top!” in Novi Sad Action Put electronic waste in the right place and do it so often in Belgrade On World Education Day on Environmental Protection, Piraeus Bank continued Going green campaign with donation to Trade School. In forthcoming period, Bank will continue with series of actions as well with special budget appropriated for this purpose, to consistently act in a way to support environment preservation which we are all part of...
