CLEAR THINKING United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress March 2011 Statement of continued support from Michael Rose – Chief Executive Partner Over the past year, Allens Arthur Robinson has continued to support and promote the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. As a firm, we recognise that we have broad responsibilities to our people, their families and the communities in which we live. We have built longstanding, close relationships with many community groups and engage with these groups through our pro bono, charity and environmental programs and by complying with the UN Global Compact. Over the past year, our firm has continued to focus its attention on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption issues. We have made progress in all these areas and some highlights are outlined below: • Named a winner at the United Nations of Australia’s World Environment Day Awards for 2010. Our firm won the WSP Lincolne Scott Sustainability Leadership Award for demonstrating leadership in adopting practices that position environmental and social performance as priority areas of corporate responsibility and performance, alongside financial results. • Awarded the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women citation for the seventh consecutive year. • Celebrated the first anniversary of our Reconciliation Action Plan. In the first year of our RAP we deepened the impact of the work we do in relation to Indigenous rights, access to justice and Indigenous enterprise. • Committed the firm to an average of at least 35 hours of pro bono work per lawyer per year. Our goal was to exceed this target significantly, and we have done that this year. I am pleased to present this Communication on Progress, which outlines not only our commitment to the UN Global Compact but also the efforts of our people in honouring that commitment. Cover Image: Michael Rose, Chief Executive Partner Children join in the celebrations at the GARMA Festival. Image ©Yothu Yindi Foundation Image: Allens Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose at a recent visit to the Philippines in his role as ChildFund Australia’s Chair. 2 1 About Allens Allens Arthur Robinson (Allens) is an international law firm with offices throughout Australia and Asia. Allens has more than 850 legal staff working in the region. With more that 180 years of experience in the corporate and commercial fields, the firm provides a full range of commercial legal services to many of the region’s leading corporations and government organisations, including 86 of Australia’s, and 55 of the world’s, top 100 companies Allens was the first organisation in Australia to commit to the United Nations Global Compact in 2001. Since that time, Allens has worked to increase the alignment of its activities with the 10 principles set out in the Global Compact. Working to fulfil the Global Compact means businesses like ours can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. Our firm’s annual Community brochure has additional information: http://www.aar.com.au/comm/2010commbrochure.htm Image: Allens Arthur Robinson’s Sydney office 2 3 Human Rights In 2010, Allens conducted a range of activities that demonstrate its commitment to Principle 1 human rights. Businesses should support These fall under the categories of internal programs, general activities and and respect the protection pro bono work. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Internal programs Principle 2 The firm has a range of internal programs that demonstrate support and respect for human rights. One of the firm’s main internal programs for 2010 was established to make sure that they are not support reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. complicit in human rights abuses. Reconciliation Action Plan Allens was the first major Australian law firm to implement a Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) and 2010 marked its first anniversary. The main aim of our RAP is to enable our firm to play a role in closing the 17-year life expectancy gap that exists between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. Our RAP focuses on the development of relationships between Indigenous and nonIndigenous people, the fostering of respect and the creation of opportunities. Our relationships with Indigenous clients, such as audio and web conferencing service provider Message Stick, have deepened this year, as has the impact of the work done on Indigenous rights, access to justice and Indigenous enterprise. Allens is fortunate to have long-standing relationships with many Indigenous communities and organisations around Australia and it was with their help that we devised a RAP revolving around three key areas: relationships, respect, opportunities. In 2010, Allens: • Continued to invest in Indigenous commercial relationships, such as the one shared with Indigenous audio and web conferencing service provider Message Stick, who supply the firm’s major telecommunications services; • Became a founding member of the Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier Council; • Built cultural awareness across our firm and in our community via major corporate sponsorship of campaigns such as Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience (AIME) National Red Hoodie Day. AIME is a mentoring program that partners university students in a one-on-one relationship with Indigenous high school students. The ultimate goal of AIME is to see all Indigenous students finish school at the same rate as non-Indigenous Australians. Red Hoodie Day raises awareness and encourages people to visit AIME’s website, which provides a range Image: AIME National Red Hoodie Day – Sydney of information about Indigenous Australians; 4 5 • Created employment opportunities in our firm and in our community by A snapshot of some relevant pro bono work in 2010 employing 10 Indigenous interns, arranging four secondments to native title representative bodies, and strengthening our partnership with National Gaagal Wanggaan (South Beach) National Park Indigenous Television in developing a reverse secondment program; In March 2010, Allens and its pro bono clients Nambucca Heads Local Aboriginal • Advocated and led reconciliation in our profession via internal seminars, cultural Land Council and Unkya Local Aboriginal Land Council (the LALCs) reached a capacity development sessions and sponsoring representatives at the United milestone. After several years of settlement negotiations with the NSW Government, Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues; and agreements were executed to facilitate the establishment of the Aboriginal-owned • Won the Salvation Army Pro Bono Initiative Award at the Lawyers Weekly Icon and jointly managed Gaagal Wanggaan (South Beach) National Park, over South Awards for working with the Nambucca Heads Local Aboriginal Land Council Beach near Nambucca Heads in northern NSW. and Unkya Local Aboriginal Land Council to settle the major land claim at Gaagal Allens’ team has worked extensively with the LALCs and the Gumbaynggirr people Wanggaan (South Beach) National Park. over the past three years – and for more than 2000 hours – to give effect to land rights claims settled in December 2002. General activities Image: Partner Bill McCredie and the client The matter has involved a wide range of advice, spanning protection of Indigenous Allens has engaged in a number of general activities in support of human rights in teams from the LALCs at the ceremony rights in intellectual property and cultural heritage, to preferential contracting Australia and overseas, including: to mark the creation of Gaagal Wanggaan arrangements for Indigenous suppliers to service the National Park. (South Beach) National Park. • research on laws regarding economic, social and cultural rights; The settlement has provided a foundation for real, practical improvements in the • ongoing work for the Mental Health Legal Centre, including participation in the lives of the Gumbaynggirr people and creates an opportunity for a lasting, positive Mental Health Review Board appearance roster; impact on the community. • participation in the Homeless Persons’ Legal Centres in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane; The settlement terms created employment positions, • facilitation of regular seminars for the Refugee and Immigration Legal Service on key legal issues. This is extremely valuable for newly arrived migrants and training programs and provision of equipment. refugees with no experience of the Australian legal system; and • ongoing work for the UN Special Representative on business and human rights, The firm was awarded the Salvation Army Pro Bono Initiative Award at the Lawyers including advising on the human rights obligations of corporations in the AsiaWeekly Icon Awards 2010 for our work on the Gaagal Wanggaan (South Beach) Pacific for its Corporate Law Tools project. National Park matter. Pro bono work Tamil asylum seeker matter Allens’ pro bono practice goal is to provide free legal assistance to those in need in Allens was asked to take the case of two Tamil asylum seekers by the Refugee many areas of the law. Immigration and Legal Centre and worked with barrister Debbie Mortimer SC on the matter. We were a foundation signatory to the National Pro Bono Resource Centre Target for pro bono work, and committed the firm to an average of at least 35 hours of pro Allens successful case saw the High Court make a unanimous judgment about the bono work per lawyer per year. Our goal was to exceed this target significantly, and Image: Courtesy of the National Parks & unfair and unlawful treatment of processing asylum seekers offshore. The High we have done that this year. Wildlife Service (Department of Environment, Court held that our clients’ case was not handled fairly or lawfully, a decision that led Climate Change and Water, NSW). to a review of government policy in this area. In FY 2009-10, Allens: The impact of the High Court’s decision went beyond the two men involved; it • completed 40,765 hours of pro bono work; allowed our clients, and those in similar situations, to have their claims for refugee • assisted more than 200 organisations; and status assessed in accordance with Australian law, including the requirement to afford procedural fairness. This is a basic right that had been denied to those asylum • helped more that 300 individuals. seekers who entered Australia outside the migration zone. Allens has recently worked on a number of significant pro bono matters across The judgment also means that decisions made under the offshore processing the region and continued to establish partnerships with not-for-profit organisations system can be reviewed by the courts. The firm’s expectation is that the asylum through secondment programs. seekers’ application will now be heard again, in accordance with law. 6 7 Worldwide Orphans Foundation Australia In 2009, Allens was approached to assist in the establishment of the Australian branch of the Worldwide Orphans Foundation (WWO), called Worldwide Orphans Foundation Australia (the WWO-A). The WWO is a US not-for-profit organisation, founded in 1997 by renowned paediatrician Dr Jane Aronson. The WWO transforms the lives of orphaned children internationally through medical, developmental, psychological and educational programs, which help the orphans to become healthier, more independent and productive members of their communities. Allens has assisted in the establishment of the organisation and its trust fund, and is currently assisting the WWO-A with its applications for fundraising and tax concessions, so that it can implement its fundraising initiatives and programs in Vietnam and other countries where the WWO is working to assist orphaned children. Wrongful arrest and imprisonment Allens represented two young people in bringing a claim against the state of New South Wales for wrongful arrest and imprisonment. The matter was referred to Allens as part of the Children in Detention Advocacy Project. Proceedings were commenced in 2009 and the matter was settled in 2010, with the plaintiffs receiving compensation. The Refugee and Immigration Legal Service At the request of the Refugee and Immigration Legal Service, Allens assisted three young Zimbabwean students to escape a history of violence and persecution. The three boys were each members of a family that had strong links to a party opposed to the regime of President Robert Mugabe. The firm provided advice, drafted statutory declarations, and prepared legal submissions in support of these individuals’ applications. All three were granted permanent protection visas. Image: Deborra-Lee Furness and some of the children WWO-A assists. 8 9 Protection of labour standards in the workplace Allens maintains employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit Principle 3: or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. The firm opposes all forms of forced and compulsory labour and seeks to abolish child labour. The firm is Businesses should uphold the also active in its endeavour to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Activities In 2010, Allens conducted a range of activities that demonstrate its commitment to Principle 4: the principles on labour standards. the elimination of all forms of United Nations Special Representative forced and compulsory labour; Recently, Allens has worked on a number of projects with the United Nations aimed Principle 5: at protecting labour standards in the workplace. One of the most longstanding projects the firm has been involved in is working for the United Nations Special the effective abolition of Representative on business and human rights. child labour; and We have advised on issues around governmental obligations, in respect of human Principle 6: rights obligations of corporations, and we’ve also advised on social, legal and policy the elimination of discrimination issues surrounding the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. in respect of employment United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and occupation. Allens assisted the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights with its Corporate Law Tools project by advising on and drafting a Hong Kong chapter for a larger report that addresses corporate laws and corporate social responsibility across the region. Sustainable Procurement Policy Last year, the firm rolled out a new Sustainable Procurement Policy, which ensures that when buying products and services, Allens takes into account the environmental, ethical and social credentials of the suppliers, in addition to the factors of cost, quality and convenience. Now, all our Australian offices must, when purchasing a product or service, consider all matters covered in the policy, and ensure that all current and prospective suppliers are given the opportunity to complete the supplier questionnaire that enables the firm to monitor their sustainable and ethical practices. The firm’s strict procurement policy will help abolish all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour. Our carbon auditors were so impressed by our Sustainable Procurement Policy that they decided to add it to their own repertoire. Image: Allens employees are committed to protecting labour standards in the workplace. 10 11 Equal Employment Opportunity Allens is committed to the principles of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and takes a zero tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment and bullying in the workplace. Providing a safe and supportive workplace for our partners and employees is critical to our business. We value the diversity of our workforce, respect the differences between employees, and recognise that each person has individual talents and skills to bring to their role. All partners and employees work in an environment in which they can enjoy their work and relationships with colleagues, free from discrimination, harassment and bullying. In 2010, the firm updated its EEO policy, which applies to all partners, employees and contractors in all our offices in Australia and Asia. The EEO policy roll-out included compulsory training for all partners and staff. Diversity Strategy Allens has also recently launched a new diversity intranet site and implemented a Diversity Advisory Board, both focused on bringing together the firm’s Diversity Strategy, which includes issues of gender, flexible work arrangements and family. Gender In 2010, Allens reinvigorated and extended professional and career development programs for women. The program, called Women at Allens, plays an important part in our development and the acceleration of outstanding female professionals in all areas of our firm – not just our lawyers. The firm was awarded the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women citation for the seventh consecutive year. Allens was one of 98 organisations awarded the citation, which is given to nongovernment organisations with more than 100 employees that have policies and practices supporting women across the organisation. In 2010, Allens cemented its commitment to corporate leadership for gender equality by becoming one of the first organisations in Australia to sign the Women’s Empowerment Principles, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women and the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles present seven steps that businesses can take to advance and empower women. By signing the CEO Statement of Support for the Principles, Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose – and business leaders from across the globe – expressed support for advancing gender equality. Another highlight of the Women at Allens program in 2010, was the visit from Governor-General Quentin Bryce AC. The Governor-General attended a lunch at the firm’s Melbourne office and spoke about mentoring and leadership, with a particular Image: Governor-General Quentin Bryce AC focus on women. and Wendy McCarthy AO attend lunch in the 12 Melbourne office. 13 Flexible work arrangements Recognition Allens’ goal is to create an engaging work environment that inspires our people to • Finalist in the AHRI Inform HR Impact Award for most effective HR team of give their very best. We are committed to enabling our people to balance their work the year. and other responsibilities. • Then Director of People and Development, Susan Ferrier, won the Dave Ulrich Policies such as purchased annual leave, part-time work, job share, flexible hours, HR Leader of the Year award for excellence in HR and business practice. working from home and a graduated return from parental leave have been introduced • The firm’s People & Development team won two major awards at the 2010 HR across the firm. All programs are supported by coaching, tools and information kits. Leader Compass Awards, held in Sydney on 14 October 2010. The firm won the The programs are led by Head of Flexibility & Diversity, Jacqui Abbott. Careers MultiList Award for Best HR Team and the Aon Hewitt Employer of the Decade Award. In 2010, the firm was recognised for creating a flexible workplace for staff at the Australian Human Resources Institute (AHRI) awards. The firm was named the winner of the national Sir Ken Robinson Award for Workplace Flexibility. The judging Pro bono panel praised the firm’s parental leave policies, which were revised in 2010 as part An accredited Fairtrade workplace of the firm’s commitment to flexible working and the advancement of women within the firm. Allens was one of the first Australian organisations, and one of the first law firms, to become a certified Fairtrade workplace. Under the Fairtrade certification, kitchens Family in our Australian offices have started stocking exclusively Fairtrade tea, coffee, Whether you are a mother, father, or carer to a sick or elderly family member, drinking chocolate and sugar. Allens recognises that employees’ flexibility needs will vary at different life stages, particularly when family circumstances change. The Fairtrade label guarantees that a third-world farmer has received The premise behind each of the programs is to acknowledge that flexibility will be different for each individual and may change over time. The programs enable a fair price for their produce, no child labour or forced labour was used, women and men to achieve and maintain a balance between their professional and and that employment and environmental standards were met. personal commitments. A significant transition for women is the birth of a child. Acting on firm-wide survey results, Allens has completely revamped its parental leave program in 2010. As of Allens acted for Fairtrade Labelling Australia and New Zealand (FLANZ) on its 1 January 2011, all employees in Australia who are primary carers receive: licence agreements with two major confectionery companies, Cadbury and Nestlé. The licence agreements allow Cadbury and Nestlé to use the Fairtrade certification • 14 weeks paid leave after one year of employment (increased from six weeks); mark on some of their products that contain Fairtrade ingredients. • 16 weeks paid leave after two years of employment (increased from nine weeks); • 18 weeks paid leave after five years of employment (increased from 13 weeks). For FLANZ, entering into the agreements with major confectionery companies, such as Nestlé and Cadbury, means that the concept of Fairtrade is shifting into Non-primary carers now receive three weeks paid parental leave after one year of the mainstream. By purchasing products that bear the Fairtrade certification employment (increased from two weeks after two years of service). label, consumers are able to positively impact directly on poor and disadvantaged producers, their families and their communities. The firm now views parental leave as just one part of the entire transition period Image: Sorting Fairtrade coffee beans at the women go through when they are having a child. The complete transition includes: Highland Organic Agriculture Cooperative in Papua New Guinea • the period when they are pregnant in the workplace; • the time of parental leave; and Image: Maria Trogolo/Fairtrade Australia & New Zealand • the transition stage when they return back to the workplace. The firm has practices in place that support women through all these stages, including buddy systems, coaching programs and information sessions. 14 15 Environmental responsibility Policy Principle 7: Allens has been committed to sustainability and to supporting the environment for Businesses should support more than a decade. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Our policy is simple; to reduce the firm’s environmental footprint in the areas of: Principle 8: • Energy; • Water; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Waste (reuse and recycling); responsibility; and • Greenhouse emissions; and • Procurement. Principle 9: Our commitment to being sustainable leaders is driven, and formally monitored, by encourage the development the Footprint Committees, which are located in every Australian office and in our and diffusion of environmentally offices in Asia. friendly technologies. The Footprint Committee is made up of partners and employees whose innovative ideas, enthusiasm and passion facilitate the implementation of programs aimed at reducing our impact on the environment. Initiatives Our environmental initiatives have encouraged the firm to ‘think green’ whether at home or in the office. In 2010, the Footprint Committees continued to introduce programs aimed at reducing the firm’s carbon emissions. Some are outlined below: Sustainable Procurement Policy The firm’s Sustainable Procurement Policy (page 11) was an initiative rolled-out by the Footprint Committee. It takes into account the environmental, ethical and social credentials of the suppliers, in addition to the factors of cost, quality and convenience. Accredited Fairtrade Workplace The firm was one of the first Australian organisations to become a certified Fairtrade workplace (page 15). Under the Fairtrade certification, kitchens in our Australian offices have started exclusively stocking Fairtrade tea, coffee, drinking chocolate and sugar. The photo is of a Honey Possum, and is courtesy of our pro bono client Bush Heritage Australia. 16 17 GreenPower Educating Staff Since May 2008, Allens has been committed to using 75 per cent GreenPower in all In addition to working to reduce Allens’ impact on the environment, the Footprint Australian offices. This ongoing initiative significantly reduces the firm’s greenhouse Committees ran a number of events in 2010 to educate the partners and staff about gas emissions. the environment and sustainability, to promote ideas for use at home and to meet experts in the area. Virtualisation of servers The firm progressed its goal to brief all new employees on the Footprint Committees Allens has continued its work on the virtualisation of servers. This allows the firm and the firm’s environmental policies. to reduce power consumption, air-conditioning, capital costs and maintenance. For example, replacing the 19 servers in Perth and the 22 servers in Brisbane with three high-speed and energy-efficient models resulted in a reduction in energy All employees were taught that small things consumption of 79 per cent and 83 per cent respectively. make a big difference: Reduce the use In 2010, Allens strengthened its commitment to reducing paper usage. This has • Client Christmas eCards = not only a saving of paper, but Allens can support been done by raising awareness and, for instance, defaulting all printers to print some fantastic charities with the printing money saved. In 2010, Allens double-sided. Allens employees are continually encouraged to aspire to working in a supported the work of The Smith Family, which helps disadvantaged Australian ‘paperless’ office. Scanning and e-filing capacity has been bolstered to help achieve children to get the most out of their education, so they can create better futures this goal. Since 2004, we have reduced our paper usage by 55 per cent. for themselves; Stationery Amnesty • moving documents online and building a culture of less printing = 7800 trees saved since 2004; The Stationery Amnesty involves collecting surplus stationery from all staff. It is • cleaning with ‘green products’ = no harmful chemicals or abrasive products are counted, sorted and re-used where possible. The information obtained through this sent into our waterways; program is used to adjust the firm’s future stationery purchasing. • public transport tickets provided in Melbourne = less taxi use by our people; Thought for Food • Tandberg video phones being rolled out across offices for videoconferencing Thought for Food brings together the firm’s receptionists and catering staff to = a reduction in flights; consider ways Allens can reduce food wastage. This helped the firm reduce its food Image: Allens’ 2010 Client Christmas eCard. • staff are instructed to turn off equipment when not in use and motion-sensing ordering by 20 per cent in 2010. lights have been installed; • in Asia, office lights and airconditioning are turned off each night = saving Events electricity, reducing global warming and creating good habits among our people; • The Sydney office hosted a seminar presented by Ian Kiernan, founder of Clean • installing water-saving devices in washrooms and using sea-water for the flushing Up Australia Day, in February 2011. During the lunchtime seminar, Ian spoke of toilets = a solution to the growing water shortage problem; about the environment and what individuals can do to make a difference. • waterless urinals in all Australian offices = a water saving equivalent to The seminar was recorded and uploaded to the Allens intranet so that staff in 8.5 Olympic-sized pools; other offices could watch at a later date. Following the seminar, the Footprint • eWaste bins are provided in all offices for electronic waste = recovering and Committee announced its determination to improve recycling around the office recycling finite resources such as gold, copper and silver for manufacturing and reuse around the house. new products; and • When the lights went on following Earth Hour, the Footprint Committee asked • surplus office supplies and IT hardware are donated to charity = promoting everyone at Allens to think about the ways daily routines can be changed, in recycling and reusing, but for the greater good of our communities. order to benefit the planet. At 8.30pm, 26 March 2011, the firm’s lights switched off for Earth Hour once more. • In 2010, the Footprint Committee celebrated National Walk to Work Day in Perth by taking a lunchtime stroll to Kings Park, and National Ride to Work Day by riding to work. Riders were greeted with a breakfast spread courtesy of the Footprint Committee. 18 19 Recognition Australian Rainforest Conservation Society, Inc • Won the WSP Lincolne Scott Sustainability Leadership Award at the United For a number of years, Allens has acted for the Australian Rainforest Conservation Nations Association of Australia’s World Environment Day Awards 2010. Society Inc. (ARCS), a registered environmental organisation, in relation to its Following this award, Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose spoke at the United Springbrook Rescue Project. Nations in New York City at a sustainability conference alongside NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg and international leaders in business and sustainability; • Won at the HP Eco Solutions Printing Award Australia 2010; This ambitious project aims to protect and restore properties in the • Sixth-best organisation in Green IT Report Card (out of 250 organisations); Springbrook region of Australia’s Gold Coast Hinterland, with the eventual • First law firm accepted into Green Partner Program in Hong Kong; and aim of including them in the unique World Heritage-listed rainforest • Lawyer Fergus Green won the Michael Page Young Gun Award at the Lawyers areas in this region. Initially, this involved setting up a new tax-deductible Weekly Icon Awards 2010 for his work in the climate change area. Image: Partner Annette Hughes collects the gift fund specifically for the project. WSP Lincolne Scott Sustainability Leadership Award. Pro Bono Bush Heritage Allens then assisted ARCS in the development of a restoration agreement with the Allens advised Bush Heritage Australia, a non-profit organisation dedicated to Queensland Government in relation to the restoration and conservation of properties protecting Australia’s unique wildlife, on the acquisition of two parcels of land at purchased by the Government. Liffey, 47km south-west of Launceston, Tasmania. More recently, Allens has assisted ARCS in the transfer from generous benefactors A long-standing pro bono client of the firm, Bush Heritage was founded by Greens of the property known as Ankida, ensuring the future protection of the outstanding leader Bob Brown 20 years ago. The land at Liffey, measuring 14ha, includes the conservation values of this property. property known as ‘Oura, Oura’, which was Mr Brown’s personal retreat of almost Hummingfish Foundation 40 years and is also home to native animals including platypus, falcons, quolls and bandicoots. Mr Brown donated the property to Bush Heritage so that it can be The Hummingfish Foundation was established to protect the Earth’s unspoiled preserved for the enjoyment of future generations. natural environments by promoting sustainable community-based nature tourism. Image: Ankida Creek crossing. Allens work on the pro bono matter included preparing advice to the board of Bush Hummingfish aims to link community-based nature tourism start-ups with potential Heritage, carrying out legal due diligence, advising in relation to the ‘deeds of gift’ of customers. It works with both governments and local stakeholders, and applies the parcels of land, providing taxation advice, and acting on the transfer of the land. branding and marketing expertise in advancing the nature-based tourism industry. The acquisition is the latest in a string of matters involving Allens and Bush Allens has assisted the foundation in its establishment and obtaining tax exemption Heritage, including the negotiation of a vegetation plan agreement in respect of one status in Hong Kong. property, and advising on the establishment of an investment fund. The Nature Conservancy The firm views its work with Bush Heritage as a significant way to give back to Allens assisted the Australian arm of The Nature Conservancy with the requirements the community. Bush Heritage now owns almost one million hectares and helps for changing auditors. With a presence in over 30 countries internationally, The manage another two-and-a-half million hectares. Their aim is to care for one per Nature Conservancy is one of the largest conservation charities in the world and cent of the Australian landscape, which equates to about seven million hectares. takes a scientific approach to the protection of ecologically important land. Allens will continue working alongside Bush Heritage to help achieve that goal. According to Bush Heritage Australia chief executive office Doug Humann, Allens’ pro bono support is accompanied by a genuine interest and commitment to the cause. ‘Allens is one of our most important partners in our work to protect Australia’s bush for future generations,’ Mr Humann said. 20 21 Anti-corruption Policy Principle 10: As a leading law firm, we are committed to ensuring that our partners and Businesses should work employees abide by the law. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Initiatives In 2010, Allens engaged in a range of activities that demonstrated support for this principle, including: • Held seminars for clients detailing compliance requirements according to Australian and overseas anti-bribery laws; • Established an anti-bribery working group, bringing together members of the United Nations Global Compact’s Australian arm and civil society stakeholders such as Transparency International; and • Continued to provide extensive advice to a range of clients on establishing antibribery policies and compliance programs in Australia and globally. Ethics Committee Allens’ Ethics Committee continues to help our people deal with ethical issues encountered in the course of their work, including situations where it might be suspected that a party to a transaction is engaging in corrupt conduct. The Ethics Committee is closely involved in a wide range of training at the firm which covers issues of ethics and ethical conduct, professional responsibility and anti-corruption. 22 23 www.aar.com.au
