Kromann Reumert’s CSR Report May 2011 Contents 2 PREFACE by our Managing Partner Preface About Kromann Reumert 5 by our Managing Partner About this report 6 Welcome to Kromann Reumert’s second CSR Report, our second reexperience with other businesses and organizations, which has been port for the UN’s Global Compact – an initiative we have supported especially valuable. In addition to our pro bono partnerships with The CSR organization since 2008. One of our goals is to raise awareness of Global Compact, carefully selected – and primarily humanitarian – organizations, we 9 and this report is designed to play a role in that. have in 2010 been particularly attentive to how we can best support the UN’s 2015 targets (‘the Millennium Development Goals’), which Following on from the recent economic downturn, the legal profession faces some particularly exciting challenges. Clients are making increasing and dynamic demands for legal advice, and our vision to promise to improve the standard of living in the poorest developing countries. When the UN, Danida and around 60 Danish developmental organizations asked us if we would like to help spread the good STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 10 set the standard generates high expectations for us to meet our clinews that it really does make a difference to support efforts to help ents’ wants and needs. We touch on this in the section Stakeholder the world’s poor and needy, we were in no doubt that we wanted GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES dialogue. to assist with that campaign – something which our pro bono part14 ner SOS Børnebyen (SOS Children’s Villages) has also been involved 16 It is not a contradiction to run a good business and be a responsible in. The campaign was highly successful. However, what we need to citizen – in fact, to the contrary. This was an observation made by remember is that we have not yet reached the year 2015 – or the Human rights – Principles 1 and 2 e.g. Nils Smedegaard Andersen, CEO of A.P. Møller-Mærsk, when in targets set for that time. November 2010 his company hosted the launch of new recommendations made by the Danish Government Centre for CSR. The reWe are determined to continue with the process of accepting social commendations were designed to address the government on CSR responsibility. Therefore we must use the coming year to consider how work undertaken by Danish businesses. We have been inspired by we can become even more ambitious within CSR. This report reflects Labour – Principles 3-6 reading the recommendations and among other aspects, will work the extent to which we reached the goals set out in our last report. 18 further on the recommendation regarding the strategic grounding This year has once again seen a tremendous amount of serious work of CSR at board level – see more about this in our report, under the undertaken, including reducing our CO2 emissions and changing our section Anti-corruption and good business ethics. printer paper to FSC-certified paper – read more in the section headed Environment and climate. Additionally, we have further strengtEnvironment and climate Principles 7-9 21 29 Partnerships that make sense in relation to our business are eshened our pro bono partnerships and continue to consider how we sential in getting things moving in the right direction. Our approach can create a greater number of meaningful partnerships. to CSR – determined together with our staff and in consultation Anti-corruption and good business ethics – Principle 10 with Mads Øvlisen and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), among others – is to bring our own core competencies into play because it is in this way that we believe we can make the biggest difference. This requires systematic efforts to identify areas that 32 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO fall within our core competencies, given that we primarily operate in Denmark. UNDP’s network has given us the opportunity to share our Søren Johansen, Managing Partner THANK YOU 44 We welcome your feedback Kromann Reumert is interested in receiving comments on this report or, more generally, on our work within CSR. You are welcome to email Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen at kje@kromannreumert.com. Vision VALUES We set the standard Quality We provide practical solutions with commercial and professional insight. Commercial insight We take the time to understand the business and needs of each client. Spirited teamwork We stand together as a team, dedicated and attentive in our work with each other and with our clients. Credibility We take responsibility for our actions, for our development and for one another. K About Kromann Reumert Kromann Reumert employs a team of around 600 people who work with each other and with our clients in a committed and focused manner. It is a fundamental premise of Kromann Reumert’s partnership structure (where the partners in the firm are the owners of the business) that profits be shared equally. This guarantees an internal arrangement that assigns cases to precisely where we have the resources so that they can be addressed in the most efficient way by the most appropriate specialists. It is our experience that flexibility and accessibility are keywords in an ongoing cooperation, and our way of working centres on providing practical solutions for clients. At Kromann Reumert, the office is never closed. We are always ready to step in whenever our assistance is required. Our international outlook Kromann Reumert is an internationally oriented firm with both Danish and international clients. We are Denmark’s only member of the worldwide Lex Mundi association, an extensive international network of 160 premier and independent law firms comprising more We set the standard than 20,000 lawyers from around the globe. We are also active in We currently cover 30 specialist areas, but continue to work on demost of the international lawyers’ organizations – including IBA, ABA veloping new areas to meet our clients’ needs. So many specialist and AIJA, and several of our partners currently hold or have previskills gathered in one place is the reason that we can continually ously held executive-level positions in the international legal commuMission reinvent ourselves and stay up to date with the latest developments nity. For our clients, the benefits of our unique international position in both Denmark and abroad. It is our vision to set the standard include high-quality multi-jurisdictional advice and unique access to within the legal profession. Good is not good enough – we want to a range of specialists in almost every part of the world. At the same be the best. time, we are well placed to help our clients stay abreast of the latest international trends and developments, including those that may Legal advice that can be applied in practice extend to Denmark. Value-adding solutions and advice When we receive a new client, it is important to us that we develop with dedication and focus. an inherent understanding of how their business works. We ensure Kromann Reumert is a multiple winner of the International Law Ofthat accumulated knowledge about key aspects of our client’s busifice Client Award. In 2010, PLC Which Lawyer?, Chambers Europe ness is shared within the firm so that we can address individual tasks and Legal 500 named us Denmark’s best law firm within a long list as well as possible, and with emphasis on creating value that the of business areas. Similarly, many of our partners were singled out for client can benefit from. We endeavour to be proactive, particularly their individual expertise. where changes or potential changes in legislation, administrative practice or case law are, in our opinion, relevant to our client. Read more about Kromann Reumert at www.kromannreumert.com. ABOUT KROMANN REUMERT 5 About this Report This report is Kromann Reumert’s second CSR Report – and also our second COP Report (Communication on Progress Report), that we are required to present to Global Compact on an annual basis. Our goal with this report is to provide our stakeholders with an understanding of how Kromann Reumert works with CSR. We primarily focus on the four themes featured in the Global Compact’s Ten Principles – human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption – as well as the topic of partnerships which is also central to Global Compact. Before addressing these themes, we elaborate on some more general topics. The reporting period is from Spring 2010 to Spring 2011 – but exactly when the reporting year begins within each of the different themes depends on the figures that are available to report on. ABOUT THIS REPORT 7 Our ambitions The period just passed has highlighted to us the importance of foAs suggested, we have more or less instilled these ambitions into cusing our efforts. As a result, we have formulated two overarching the goals and activities listed in relation to each of the themes in ambitions to guide us in our CSR work: this report. Ambition 1 Our ambitions were identified through a series of employee surveys The and interviews with experts in 2008 – as well as with the input of CSR We will strive to integrate CSR into our own business and organiMads Øvlisen and Helle Johansen (from UNDP). The overall queszational processes so that it becomes a completely natural part tion was: How can Kromann Reumert make the biggest impact for of good business. CSR and Global Compact? In essence, the answer was that we should pursue what we are best at – legal advice – and that we l Particular examples of this are the initiatives and objectives should optimize our internal efforts on envi-ronmental and climate described in the sections on Environment and climate and issues. Labour rights and associated relationships have long been Partnerships and pro bono. on Kromann Reumert’s strategic agenda. Mads Øvlisen further suggested that Kromann Reumert could make the biggest impact withAmbition 2 in Global Compact by using our network among decision makers (and within decision-making bodies) to raise awareness of Global We will strive to be part of the driving force behind the evolution Compact. Kromann Reumert has now been a member of Global of CSR within business. Compact for two years and has mainly focused on internal projects. It is time to expand our work with a second ambition – one that is l We can achieve this by taking responsibility for raising awaremore externally oriented. Read more about this in the section Antiness of Global Compact and CSR. The initiatives and goals . corruption and good business ethics. Kromann Reumert’s developoutlined in the section Anti-corruption and good business ment can be illustrated as: (see figure below). ethics reflect our emphasis on this point. FRAMEWORK Global Compact as the frame for CSR strategy and initiatives organization Kromann Reumert has established a CSR steering group. Included in the group is the partner within the firm who is responsible for pro bono work, AMBITION 1 our HR Director, the Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding, the FaEmployee pro bono work and CO2 emissions targets cilities Manager and our Communications Manager who – with regard to practical aspects – takes on the role of project manager. The group meets at least five times a year to discuss both strategic goals and practical initiatives. Together with the HR Director, one of the firm’s partners – Christian Lundgren – is in charge of pro bono projects where seAMBITION 2 lected employee-run pro bono groups take on the responsibility of working with their chosen pro bono partnerships. The Facilities Manager is reRaise awareness of CSR and Global Compact sponsible for climate and environment, as well as supplier management. The Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding, together with our Communications Manager, has overall responsibility for ensuring our commitment to the Global Compact and other CSR-related initiatives. Overall responsibility for Global Compact is therefore placed within the Corporate 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Strategy & Branding area so as to exploit its full potential in relation to our business, and integrate it into our corporate strategy and value chain. THE CSR ORGANIZATION 9 Stakeholder CLIENT-ORIENTED dialogue Two of Kromann Reumert’s most important stakeholders are our employees (our fee earners and administrative staff) and our clients. Employee dialogue As we also detail in the Labour section of this report, it is only through as a systematic tool. One example of this is our use of client quesour employees’ dedication and commitment that Kromann Reumert tionnaires following the completion of tasks that are appropriate continues to be a successful firm. Aside from maintaining a policy to evaluate; such as the first task carried out for new clients, after of open communication from management, we also find it highly completing large cases, or as part of the annual evaluation of our relevant in this context to involve employees in important decisions. co-operation with a client. Kromann Reumert has just developed a new strategic plan. SimiWe have also worked on mapping out the journey that our clients larly to when we worked on the identification of Kromann Reumert’s embark on when they have a case with us. Our goal is for our client values, all employees were invited to provide their input into which and other stakeholders in the matter to have the best experience goals Kromann Reumert needed to set for the next year in order possible, from start to finish. to realize our vision to set the standard. All of our employees were grouped into different teams and invited to a session with our ManAdditionally, we are introducing something completely new to the aging Partner and another of the firm’s management team. Danish legal profession by starting to work with Key Account Management. This is not anything novel to most businesses, so we apClient dialogue preciate the generosity of our clients in providing feedback to help us Kromann Reumert exists to meet our clients’ wants and needs – and tailor this approach to our ‘world’. Our goal, of course, is to use Key to offer practical solutions that create value for our clients in their Account Management to learn to understand our clients even better ProduCT-ORIENTED businesses (our Mission). Naturally, we have always had such a foso that we can offer precisely the type of service that optimizes value cus, but to streamline these efforts into more goal-oriented aims and creation for their business. emphasize their importance, we have introduced client dialogue STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 11 Foto: Verdens Bedste Nyheder/NGO FORUM UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York from 23 to 25 June 2010 Global Compact´s Leaders Summit has so far been the largest and furthering these goals were considered within Kromann Reumert, but most important CSR event within the UN framework, so it was fitting after discussions with UNDP in Denmark, the Danish campaign entithat the event was spearheaded by United Nations Secretary-General tled ‘Verdens Bedste Nyheder’ (in English, ‘The World’s Best News’) Ban Ki-moon. Global leaders within business, government, society, was selected. The campaign ran from 17 August to 10 September universities and the UN gathered to address the most pressing chal2010, but spreading the message remains highly relevant today. lenges for the global business community in relation to social, environmental and economic sustainability. About the campaign ‘The World’s Best News’ As a campaign partner, Kromann Reumert helped Danish organiKromann Reumert’s Director for Corporate Strategy & Branding, Sille zations that work in developing countries (including our pro bono Stener, participated in the Leaders’ Summit in New York. It made a partner SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages)), Danida and the significant impression on her: UN in supporting the UN’s goals for 2015. The campaign against extreme poverty and destitution has already had a more far-reaching “It was incredibly inspiring to be able to come over and see the UN effect than most Danes might imagine. It really is the world’s best headquarters, be introduced to the key strategic ideas within Global news – which was, fittingly, the campaign’s theme. Compact and find out what is happening at an international level. Such insight is extremely valuable.” As a partner, Kromann Reumert assisted by raising awareness about One of the information mediums employed in the campaign was a special label for water bottles which all of our employees – and on this occasion also all of our guests – received. We can the 2015 goals. We functioned as an information channel broadcastalso mention that the Danish representatives within UNDP said that they would send our water The UN’s Millennium Development Goals (End Poverty 2015) ing the good news so that it reached as many Danes as possible. bottles to the UN headquarters in New York because, in their opinion, the bottle was “so cool”. In connection with the invitation to the Leaders’ Summit, Global This image is from the campaign launch for ‘The World’s Best News’, where Danish minister Compact also drew attention to the UN Millennium Development Søren Pind was among those to speak about the considerable benefits yielded by partnerships Goals, also called ‘End Poverty 2015’. Various partnerships aimed at between the public and private. Our water bottle appears in the foreground. Verdens Bedste Nyheder/NGO FORUM The Danish developmental organizations in cooperation with Danida and the UN 1.6 billion more people can now enjoy a good glass of water There are surprisingly large advances occurring in the fight against poverty. For example, since 1990, a further 1.6 billion people have received “One of the most important things for me was the chance to access to clean water. It matters to make a difference. Q meet with other Danish business leaders who are actively working As part of our commitment to Global Compact, Kromann Reumert supports “The World’s Best News”. Behind the campaign is the UN, Danida with Global Compact. It was particularly interesting to hear what and 60 Danish developmental organizations. The campaign highlights the UN’s Millennium Development Goals to “End Poverty by 2015”. they actually do within their businesses, but also on a broader level Q THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS to hear what trends they think will shape the Global Compact agenda over the next year. In the Danish delegation we had many people The eight ‘2015 goals’ outlined Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger who agreed that we need to work to position CSR more clearly at Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women the top of the business agenda, both at executive and board level”. Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability Sille Stener Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Development Kromann Reumert Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 13 THE 10 PRINCIPLES ARE: HUMAN RIGHTS 1-2 LABOUR 3-6 1. Businesses should support 3. Businesses should uphold the and respect the protection of freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed effective recognition of the right human rights; and to collective bargaining; 2. make sure that they are not 4. the elimination of all forms of complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7-9 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 10. Businesses should work against responsibility; and corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GLOBAL COMPACT´S TEN PRINCIPLES 15 Results: April 2010 april 2011 In the most recent period we set two goals within the theme of human rights. The status of these two goals is the following: GOAL activities We will show that we are an ethically responsible business partA CSR statement has been prepared in accordance with the ner in our role as supplier work tool ‘CSR Compass’. Find the statement on our website: www.kromannreumert.com/csr. Naturally, the statement addresses human rights and various aspects of the Global Compact’s Ten Principles We will develop and improve our existing partnerships The existing pro bono partnerships have resulted in numerous activities, and there are many more to come. Read about these in the section Partnerships and pro bono PRINCIPLES 1-2 Human rights The first two of Global Compact’s principles fall within the area of human rights. Kromann Reumert has several partnerships designed to help protect human rights – among others with Institut for Menneskerettigheder (The Danish Institute for Human Rights), Copenhagen Pride, Reden (The Nest) and Reden International (The Nest International). Read more about these in the section Partnerships and pro bono. New goals: MarCH 2011 marCH 2012 In the coming year, Kromann Reumert aims to formally draw up a Code of Conduct that outlines what we will require of our suppliers. This will assist us in our efforts to achieve a responsible supply chain. We have set the following objectives for the coming year: GOAL activities We will require certain standards from our main suppliers By the end of 2011, we will have prepared an addendum to all of our supply contracts – a ‘Code of Conduct’ – whereby Kromann Reumert will require its suppliers to comply with selected standards regarding human rights HUMAN RIGHTS 17 EMPLOYEE DATA Employees in total 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of employees 483 547 596 585 PRINCIPLES 3-6 Number of partners 57 54 59 67 Total percentage of women 54.9 53.2 53.2 53.2 Percentage of females among partnership 12.25 12.96 13.56 22 Average age 35.9 36.2 36.1 35.3 Labour Health Percentage of absence due to sickness, per employee Work-life balance 5 5 5 5 Commitment lar contributor to this overall result was the bar. More specifically, we aimed to focus on: Women working reduced hours 37 42 34 32 Kromann Reumert’s human resources prosubstantial increase in the delegation of improving cooperation between secretaries Men working reduced hours 0 1 1 1 vide a unique and continuous source of commanagement responsibility to lawyers. For and lawyers, strengthening social ties across petitive power. It is only through our emploknowledge sharing, we have maintained the the company and higher partner visibility. Number of mobile workplaces 250 320 380 410 yees’ dedication and commitment that we same level of performance recorded in our Results of employee satisfaction survey – work-life balance (rated on 60 67 -* 67 can create a successful business that consisprevious employee satisfaction survey. During The results of our employee satisfaction sura scale of 1 to 100, where 100 is the highest) tently delivers high-level results. Therefore, it the reporting period we have carried out the vey show that we have maintained the same is vital that Kromann Reumert’s employees activities named in our last CSR report. level of performance recorded in our previous Employee education are selected, developed and managed with employee satisfaction survey. The idea of cogreat care. Employee welfare operation across the firm was picked up as Total number of days that employees spent attending courses 2400 2600 2600 A series of initiatives were designed to improa theme by a range of activities, such as our Number of course days per employee 4.3 4.4 4.5 RESULTS ve a number of conditions affecting emplo‘V-dag’ (or ‘Company Day’) in 2010. Number of internal courses 70 80 82 Status regarding goals from the most recent yee welfare in Kromann Reumert. Overall, period: April 2010 – April 2011. our aim was to raise the bar. More specifiDuring the reporting period we implemented cally, we aimed to focus on: the balance bea project named ‘Commerical Processes’ Employee satisfaction In our last CSR report we set out a series of tween work and private life, a revised bonus that was intended to centralize our adminiCombined result – employee satisfaction (rated on a scale from 1 73 81 -* 80 goals within three target areas. We had the scheme for lawyers and personnel benefits strative activities and improve efficiency. A to 100, where 100 is the highest) opportunity to assess these in connection that “make everyday life easier”. recent user survey demonstrates a high level Management (rated on a scale from 1 to 100, where 100 is the 70 74 -* 77 with a firm-wide employee satisfaction surof customer satisfaction with the changed highest) vey in May 2010. An evaluation of each of The results of our employee satisfaction surwork practices. Both secretaries and lawyers the three areas follows: vey show that we have made a slight improfeel that the new arrangement has provided *Since employee satisfaction surveys are only carried out every 18 months, no survey was conducted in 2009. The most vement when it comes to the balance betthem with more time to devote to tasks that recent survey was in May 2010. Mentoring ween work and private life. The introduction create the most value. A series of initiatives were designed to imof a new bonus scheme placed more focus prove the perceived quality of management on making the time spent on tasks as proEmployee data among employees at Kromann Reumert. In ductive as possible. During the period nearly All employee groups in Kromann Reumert are general, it was our goal to raise the bar. More all desktop computers were replaced with given the opportunity to participate in interspecifically, we aimed to focus on: feedback laptops. Similarly, all mobile phones were renal and external training as required, and as on work performance, delegation, knowledplaced with smartphones that add flexibility a general starting point, all employees must ge sharing and improved personal developto the completion of work tasks. receive a minimum of one personal development sessions. ment session each year. The frequency with Cooperation and which these development sessions are carried The results of our employee satisfaction social ENVIRONMENT out is registered centrally with HR. The implesurvey show that in all of the areas that we A series of initiatives were designed to impromentation rates vary across different employee measured management quality, we have ve a number of conditions affecting cooperagroups, but on the whole, 80 % of all workers recorded significant or good progress. On tion and the social environment in Kromann receive one session annually. our assessment, it appears that a particuReumert. Overall, our aim was to raise the LABOUR 19 NEW GOALS: MarCH 2011 marCH 2012 In the forthcoming period we will dedicate a considerable amount of effort to the following goals and related activities: GOAL Activities Knowledge-sharing locally within departments and across the • Introduction of new firm intranet firm will increase. Sharing of both professional and commercial • Implementation of Key Account Management knowledge will be prioritized The workload sustained by individual departments and individual • Increased awareness within the central areas of the firm about persons is highly varied and needs to be balanced out by taking the allocation of resources into account competencies and work-life balance • Implementation of new systems in connection with our new intranet PRINCIPLES 7-9 Environment Cooperation across the firm (including social ties) can be further • Strengthened leadership roles in our legal departments improved, and similarly, partner visibility can definitely be better • Themes for our ‘Company Day’ and climate Other: We need to maintain our momentum in the areas that are • Ongoing training and education efforts currently functioning well, such as the quality of our management • Employee satisfaction survey in 2011 COMMITMENT/OUR VISION WITHIN department are highly committed to work of this nature, including ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE collaborating with our suppliers – to the extent that they are always Success requires everyone to contribute where they can. And altaware of the latest options for cutting down on CO2. hough we operate within the legal profession and therefore only have a limited CO2 output, we must still participate by changing our behaOn a practical level, results have been achieved by such measures viour and taking social responsibility. Therefore, our vision within the as installing light sensors in all of our rooms and offices (a total of environment and climate area is to set the industry standard. 25,999 m2), replacing selected lighting with LED lights, installing energy-saving power supply boards and components, installing a free An overall objective is to reduce our CO2 emissions by 20 % between cooling system with new decentralized server rooms, and replacing 2008 and 2012. The next section lists the activities that we initiated our coffee machines with new powersaving machines. On top of in order to achieve this particular goal, and others in the same field. these changes, we launched internal campaigns, including ‘Climate Week’ to coincide with the COP15 climate change conference held in Activities December 2009. Our employees are still greeted daily with messages In connection with Kromann Reumert becoming a Global Compact like “Taking the stairs instead of the lift reduces CO2 emissions.” company in 2008, we continued to work systematically and progressively on environmental and climate issues – just with clearer CO2 For all of our offices, waste management practices have resulted in targets. Among other things, we have emphasized the active involvethe installation of rubbish bins that are divided into three compartment of all of our employees in contributing to energy savings and in ments. We are continually evolving our waste management of food, setting challenging targets that initially seemed hard to achieve, but drink bottles, cardboard and paper, electronics and others. That all were possible with some extra effort. our employees actively contribute is a decisive factor in the achievement of our goals and further development. We have managed to reduce our energy consumption by 18 % over the last three years. This is largely attributable to our work in raising Our kitchens in Copenhagen and Aarhus use organic ingredients for people’s awareness about energy consumption, and our investment daily breakfasts and lunches for all employees, and food supplied to in improvements that were designed to provide returns within a maguests (such as in our meeting rooms). Staff are given free access to ximum time frame of three years. Our staff in the Facility Services organic fruit, juice and coffee. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 21 RESULTS: April 2010 april 2011 Environmental and For the period April 2010 to April 2011 we set the following goals and undertook the following related activities: climate data The activities we have undertaken have contributed to give us the following data: GOAL Activities 2008 2009 2010 Comments We will cut our CO2 emissions, • We have entered into a climate partnership with DONG Energy who provides professional Waste in tonnes 121 118 142 Increase in ‘small combustibles’ targeting a 20 % reduction between energy advice with a view to further reducing our CO2 output Waste sent to be recycled in tonnes 68 67 Focus area for 2011 2008 and the end of 2012 • Incandescent bulbs, halogen bulbs and other selected lights are being replaced with LED Electricity consumption / kWh 1,670,161 1,855,118 1,776,946 Increased office space in terms of m2 lights that last up to ten times longer than incandescent bulbs and use up to ten times less power. As at April 2011, 80 % of all of our lighting has been replaced with the new Electricity consumption / kWh per m2 84 72 68 energy-saving options District heating / MWh 1,542 2,170 2,605 Increased district heating requirements • The replacement of desktop PC’s with laptop computers finished at the end of April 2011. respectively for 2009 (due to an extension The switching out of our screens with EU energy-certified screens is an ongoing project of office space by 5100 m2) and 2010. Both • The installation of light sensors throughout our offices is complete years featured especially cold winters District heating / MWh per m2 0.08 0.08 0.10 Water usage / m3 5,669 6,830 5,485 Replacement and adjustment of flushing We choose suppliers whose prod• At the end of April we will have changed all of Kromann Reumert’s paper to FSC-certified mechanisms in toilets ucts generate the least pollution and recycled paper. This includes letterhead paper (bearing the firm’s logo) and copy paper waste the least resources • Along with changing our cleaning services provider to ISS in 2010, we have as at April 2011 Water usage / m3 per m2 0.28 0.26 0.21 replaced more than half of our cleaning materials and toilet paper with products bearing Transport / train / km 199,040 255,680 292,368 the ‘Nordic Swan’ symbol (or equivalent mark) which means they are certified as environmentally friendly by the Danish authorities Transport / plane / km 1,906,283 1,386,377 1,620,010 The increase in waste is attributable to ‘small combustibles’. Our reduction in electricity consumption is a result of the emphasis In 2011 we will focus on reducing our waste by increasing the placed on reducing electricity usage and with it, CO2 emissions, by We will increase the efficiency of our • In 2010 we used thermal photography to identify the windows in the Aarhus office that percentage of rubbish that we recycle. our Facility Services department. In the period 2009 to 2010 alone heating were responsible for the greatest heat loss. In February 2011 our landlord replaced 24 of we saved 8 % on our total power usage. the worst-offending windows Waste in tonnes Electricity consumption per m2 • We have streamlined the heating system in the Copenhagen office 150 100 140 80 Our IT will be greener • Servers in the Copenhagen office were changed to VMware • The majority of our servers were moved to the new building in Copen130 60 hagen in Autumn 2010. The new setup includes a free cooling system to reduce our CO2 emissions 120 40 110 20 Reduction in water usage • Renovation of all of the toilets in the Aarhus office together with adjustment of the half and full flush mechanisms in all toilets in our Copenhagen office 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, the months of January, February, November and DecemThe renovation of all of the toilets in the Aarhus office, together ber were much colder than in 2009 – which explains the increase with adjustment of the half and full flush mechanisms in all toiin heating. lets, means significant reductions in our water usage. District heating in MWh per m2 Water usage m3 per m 2 0,12 0,30 INFO Read about our support for renewable energy on page 26 0,25 0,08 0,20 0,04 0,15 0 0,10 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 23 Travel by plane has increased because of the increased focus on cooperation between the Aarhus and Copenhagen offices. At the same time, NEW GOALS: april 2011 april 2012 the use of video conferencing facilities has also significantly increased. To the extent that it is possible – with respect to time constraints and We have identified the following goals to work towards before reporting again to Global Compact in Spring 2012: tight schedules – our employees travel by train between Aarhus and Copenhagen. Transport by plane (1,000 km) Transport by train (1,000 km) GOAL Activities 2250 350 300 We will set new goals within the • Since we are already close to achieving our goal of a 20 % reduction in CO 2 emissions as at 2000 250 environment and climate area April 2011, we will set new targets by the end of 2011 that also include reducing the CO 2 produced in common areas with other landlords and, not least, our heating 1750 200 150 1500 We will streamline our heating to • The goal is to continue to ensure that our desk-bound staff work in an environment heated to 100 improve efficiency between 22 and 24 degrees celcius. Desk-bound staff make up around 90 % of our employees 1250 • At our office in Aarhus, we will endeavour to have more windows replaced in order to 50 reduce heat loss 1000 0 • For our Copenhagen offices we will concentrate on regulating our heating and cooling in a 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 way that makes most effective use of the heat, and we will also try to optimize cooling of the used district heating water that is returned to the system Measuring CO2 As stated previously, it was one of our goals to reduce our CO 2 emissions by 20 % by the end of 2012. Transport and district heating are not included in this target. Save CO 2 when setting up new • We will focus on reducing CO 2 emissions in the construction of a new floor and new workworkstations stations at our Aarhus office Our CO 2 target is based on CO 2 reductions per square metre. The following parameters are relevant: Replacing the four ventilation fans on • The fans on the roof of the Copenhagen office ventilate the building. Replacing these fans 2008 2009 2010 the roof of the Copenhagen office will create an annual saving of 29 tonnes of CO 2 2 m 19,938 25,925 25,999 Continue our switch to LED lighting • Replacing the remaining light bulbs with LED lighting in the Copenhagen offices involves As shown by the jump in figures, our office space increased significantly between 2008 and 2009. in both offices replacing the transformers in the ceilings. We aim to finish this project before the end of 2011 • Recent technological developments suggest that it is possible for us to replace fluorescent CO2 emissions / electricity consumption 2008 2009 2010 tubes with LED tubes. Along with this, all of our fixtures will also be replaced • By the end of 2011, we will have conducted tests to calculate the return on investment CO2 emissions, total in tonnes / MWh 761,747 845,614 809,628 involved with replacing all of our transformers, either in the period April 2011 to April 2012 CO2 Consumption/mwh per square metre 38 33 31 or between April 2012 and April 2013 We have reduced our electricity consumption by 18 % within the period 2008 to 2010. Increased efforts in sorting waste • In our Aarhus office, we need to focus more on the sorting of waste in collaboration with We will continue to work towards our goal of reducing our total CO 2 emissions by 20 % the cleaners and suppliers who retrieve our waste. In Copenhagen, the recycling rate is between 2008 and the end of 2012. 41 %, compared with 18 % in Aarhus. Our aim is for the office in Aarhus to achieve the same percentage for recycling of waste as in Copenhagen Code of conduct • Before the end of 2011, all of the suppliers that service Kromann Reumert’s Facility Services department will be sent a Code of Conduct to sign. This will form a pre-condition to further cooperation with us (see also our new goal in the section Human rights) We have reduced our CO2 emissions by 18 %. Our goal is 20 % by the end of 2012. The initiatives we NEW Goals: April 2012 – April 2013 have launched suggest that we will reach this goal. So far we have identified the following targets to achieve before reporting to Global Compact in Spring 2013: Therefore, the coming year will see us working to set Goal Activities new targets that also include the CO2 emissions proWe will continue to reduce our • Replacement of the existing cooling system with free cooling in the server room at the duced by our use of district heating. energy use Copenhagen office ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 25 Climate partnership survives cold winters K Despite two very cold winters, Kromann Reumert has succeeded in reducing its energy consumption by a surprising amount – so much so that climate partner DONG Energy is now using Kromann Reumert as an example of best practices in their advice to other companies. Kromann Reumert formally concluded a climate partnership with “For instance, I have also used the business as an example in advising DONG Energy in December 2010, where the two companies agreed a major accounting firm who used 12 % more power than Kromann on a shared vision to benefit both society and the climate. But coopReumert at night and on weekends. The building and the professions eration really began two years earlier when Kromann Reumert decided were comparable, so here was an area where the accounting firm could on its goal to reduce CO 2 by 20 % between 2008 and 2012. The joint reduce its energy consumption,” was Susanne’s recommendation, on initiative has already resulted in Kromann Reumert achieving a reducthe basis of her experience with Kromann Reumert. tion of 18 %: Supporting sustainable energy “It is nice to see that Kromann Reumert has been able to reduce its enAside from consultancy on energy issues, there is also a desire to fosergy usage by so much in such a short time. But it doesn’t come as any ter the development of renewable energy as a core element in the surprise to me because we know that an energy review two years ago partnership between DONG Energy and Kromann Reumert. This is FACTS identified some obvious power-draining devices that could be reduced achieved by Kromann Reumert purchasing certificates from wind enby investment in new equipment – many of which would provide returns ergy sources corresponding to the energy that Kromann Reumert exWHAT IS RECS? within just three years,” emphasizes Susanne Brøchner, Kromann Repects to use, following its energy-reducing measures: RECS is an acronym for Renewable umert’s contact at DONG Energy. Energy Certificate System. RECS “Even though Kromann Reumert has initiated quite a number of enercertificates are produced and Best practices gy-saving measures, there will obviously still be some residual energy regulated in accordance with Susanne uses Kromann Reumert as an example of best practices on usage. When the company buys RECS certificates, DONG Energy warinternational rules for trade in electricity usage when she advises businesses that are either moving renewable energy. Learn more rants that the wind turbines at Horns Rev II will produce the amount into new energy-efficient buildings or sizeable office spaces consisting about RECS at www.recs.org or of power equivalent to Kromann Reumert’s consumption. The type of www.dongenergy.dk. of a large number of square metres. Both of these features are charpower that comes out of Kromann Reumert’s power sockets remains acteristic of Kromann Reumert’s business, but it has still managed to unchanged. But the certificates mean that the company is helping to reduce its energy consumption. support renewable energy,” concludes Susanne. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 27 PRINCIPLE 10 FACTS A switch to environmental paper In 2010, Kromann Reumert switched its ordinary copy paper Anti-corruption and good business ethics out with FSC-certified environmental paper (paper approved by the Forest Stewardship Council). Since we use around 150 pallets of A4 80 gsm paper each year, our choice of product makes a difference. In April 2011, we will finish replacing Kromann Reumert’s letDenmark appears to be one of the least corrupt countries in the world, according to Transterhead paper with FSC-certified environmental paper. This includes stationery, envelopes, writing pads, business cards, that benefit nature and animals – and the climate. FSC protects parency International Denmark. Since Kromann Reumert primarily operates in Denrecords, file folders and greeting cards with envelopes. local communities and indigenous peoples that live in forests mark, we are not as exposed to corruption as more global companies. In order to more around the world – from the Sami people to the Indians. Read accurately reflect local conditions, we have added ‘good business ethics’ to the Global What is FSC? more at www.fsc.dk. Compact’s tenth principle. Read below about our efforts to consistently operate with a FSC-certification ensures the sustainable use of certified forests and marks compliance with forestry management standards This report is also printed on FSC-certified paper. high standard of business ethics. Commitment no circumstances that should prevent Kromann Reumert from accepAs a law firm, it is imperative that we always take an active role in ting the matter. Where there are any questions, or any doubts as to relation to our ethical responsibilities. We therefore allocate considewhether a matter should be accepted, they must be referred to the rable resources towards ensuring that we maintain high ethical stanEthics Committee. dards in our work. The Ethics Committee ensures that the partners in the firm share a All Danish law firms are required to comply with the Administration common understanding about what the ethical principles are and of Justice Act on legal professional practice. The Danish Bar and Law what they mean. The Committee maintains a continuous dialogue Society oversees compliance with professional responsibility and has with the partnership to secure consistency with the company’s values created ethical rules for lawyers that require strict adherence to lein day-to-day activities. gal professional standards and ethics. The legal professional practice rules are a code of conduct that regulate, among other things, conCorporate governance fidentiality and conflicts of interest. Recommendations published by the Committee on Corporate Governance in Denmark are principally aimed at Danish listed companies As part of our general quality assurance, we have put in place a numwhose shares are admitted for trading on a regulated market in Denber of internal procedures and rules that supplement the legal ethical mark (such as the NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen A/S). When listed rules. These help us detect and resolve any potential conflicts of intecompanies choose to become publicly traded companies, it is crucial rest. Aside from Kromann Reumert’s rules on conflicts of interest, we that both shareholders and the market are also given the opportunity have also created a specific set of rules on insider trading and money to monitor the companies’ performance, so transparency is important. laundering. Kromann Reumert is not a listed company, but rather a partner-owInternal procedures and rules ned and operated firm (a partnership). The firm nevertheless aims to Each individual lawyer is responsible for complying with the rules adlive up to the Committee’s recommendations, albeit with adjustments ministered by Kromann Reumert’s Ethics Committee, which is made necessary to reflect our structure as a partner-owned company, and up of five partners. The Ethics Committee must be consulted where with respect for the ethical principles required of a law firm. there is any doubt about obligations, and must also take up questions on its own initiative. Examples of adherence to the Committee’s recommendations are that Kromann Reumert’s owners (the partners in the firm) are involved Before a new case or client is accepted in general meetings and thereby exercise active ownership. ManageKromann Reumert’s clients are businesses. Before a new client or ment consists of a board and an executive management team, where case can be accepted, a thorough review of all ethical issues must the board sets the firm’s overall strategy and values, while execube undertaken. The responsible partner within the firm signs a detive management is responsible for everyday leadership, support and claration that there is no existing conflict of interest and no likely development of our legal business. Read more about our leadership risk of a conflict of interest arising, that Kromann Reumert’s rules on structure at www.kromannreumert.com. preventing money laundering have been observed, and that there are ANTI-CORRUPTION AND GOOD BUSINESS ETHICS 29 PRINCIPLE 10 NEW GOALS: april 2011 april 2012 Taking our point of departure from the issues discussed above, our primary goal is to raise awareness of CSR (social responsibility) and corporate governance at the highest levels of management within businesses. Below are the activities that will be required in order to achieve our goals in the coming year: Kromann Reumert has identified its key stakeholders and is working kers in the business world. Now that Kromann Reumert has been a Goal Activities persistently to strengthen relations with them through increased diamember of Global Compact for two years and has established strong logue. Our CSR Report is relevant to this issue, as well as providing us internal policies and activities, it is time to take up Mads Øvlisen’s We will raise awareness of CSR and • For any partners within Kromann Reumert that request permission to assume a directorship, with an account of how we assume social responsibility and thereby recommendation. We have been in dialogue with UNDP (the UN’s corporate governance at the highCSR will be added as an assessment parameter for the firm’s Ethics Committee to deliberate attempt to get involved in the surrounding community. Management Global Development organization) who implement Global Compact’s est levels of management within on. If the company seeking the new director does not already have a CSR policy, the Kroalso works specifically with risk management. We have established a work in Denmark, and they view positively the goals that we have set businesses mann Reumert partner is encouraged to discuss with the board how the company can work steering committee for risk management that is charged with responourselves for the coming year. with CSR, to the extent that it is relevant to and compatible with the company’s business sibility for a risk management system that will identify and address different types of risks, including how risks are regularly identified, monitored, minimized or eliminated. FACTS • Design a practical CSR tool that directors can use for their work at board level Work on social responsibility must • Continued active collaboration with INSEAD (one of the world’s leading business schools) CSR is also taken up by the board be reinforced at board level and Business Kolding, where partners from Kromann Reumert teach corporate governance In addition to the Committee on Corporate Governance’s recommen“In order to ensure that corporate social responsibility is in the education programme for board members dations that listed companies establish a policy for social responsibifirmly established within Danish businesses at strategic lity, the Danish Council on Corporate Social Responsibility has also level, the Council recommends launching initiatives to recommended that the Danish Government launch initiatives that strengthen board work with social responsibility.” strengthen work on CSR at board level. Source: Translation from recommendations for the Danish Government published by The Danish Council on Corporate Social Responsibility. The FACTS FACTS recommendations are available (in Danish) at Before deciding to support the UN Global Compact in 2008, Krowww.raadetforsamfundsansvar.dk. Partner as Vice-Chairman of the Broaden corporate governance training mann Reumert consulted Mads Øvlisen, who is a director of Global Committee on Corporate Governance and skills among business leaders Compact (among other things). He suggested that Kromann Reumert In June 2009, Kromann Reumert partner Marianne Philip A number of Kromann Reumert’s partners teach could make the biggest difference to Global Compact and within was named Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Corporate corporate governance at one of the world’s leading CSR by making use of the unique access we have to decision maGovernance for Denmark. business schools – INSEAD – which has teamed up with Business Kolding to create a new education programme The Committee on Corporate Governance has been for board members. pivotal in corporate governance work and has influenced public debate in Denmark. Among other things, this has The training will include providing current and future resulted in the publication of a number of recommenboard members with the necessary skills to take dations for corporate governance – the most recent of responsibility and create value. which are from April 2010. Partnerships and pro bono Overview of our Aside from a commitment to follow its Ten Principles, Global Compact also challenges its members to form partnerships that make a positive difference in society. Pro bono means pro bono partnerships ‘for the public good’. Since our last report, we have entered into new partnerships with Ashoka and Institut for MenCOMMITMENT neskerettigheder (The Danish Institute for Human Rights). Read about our partners below. Kromann Reumert’s pro bono policy consists of a series of principles. • A fundamental principle is that we apply the same rules in handling pro bono cases as for all of our other work. However, when The principles: we consider whether or not to engage in pro bono projects, we • Kromann Reumert’s pro bono projects include work that the firm’s ingen undertake a more extensive assessment as to whether a case adeforen Børne hjælp Hjernesk employees perform for free or at a reduced price, where such could involve a conflict of interest or otherwise be damaging to Børneh sdage n jæ a 15,000 lpsdagen (o ciation) is work is not carried out in furtherance of Kromann Reumert’s own Kromann Reumert. r ‘Chil ingen jury Asso as sup foster ch dren’s e sk a deforen an is h Brain In it h fa milies porting ildren and y Help D Hje rn gen (Th e D that work s w interests. and sp volunte ou ay’) su deforenin anization ciation at orts clu er work ng people in pports Hjerneska ep en dent org o u t the Asso bs. Rea in Denma the e, in d o re ab • Kromann Reumert carries out pro bono work that is not religious d more child a rk, a io n w id ea d m D ish). an nat injury. R FACTS inantly in nd you at ww w.bhd th asso s well by brain k (predom or political in character (although there are some grey areas). .dk (in ciation s affected oren in g en .d Danish rneskadef • The scope of our pro bono is proportionate to our firm’s size and Pro bono AT Kromann Reumert ). www.hje character. Kromann Reumert’s pro bono projects include work that • The individual departments within the firm have the autonomy the firm’s employees perform for free or at a reduced to take on pro bono projects that are in line with our other cases, price, where such work is not carried out in furtherance of Kromann Reumert’s own interests. but in order to coordinate the firm’s collective pro bono efforts we Copenh have put in place a ‘Pro Bono Committee’ that assumes responsiChildren’s agen Pri SOS Børnebye rne is part of SOS de e (SO S Ch ildren’s Villages) hu m an itarian orCopenhag rn ivate en Pride’s bility for the work. SOS Børnebye l), th e wo rld’s largest pr . Re ad more als, bisex mission is tio na ne ed to promo Villages (Interna lp to children in uals and te equalit on that se ek s to provide he ww w. so s-c hildrensvillages. Read mo transsexu als in Den y for hom ganizati nish) or see re at ww mark. osexuneby.dk (in Da w.copen at www.sos-bor um br ella organization . hagenpri de.dk. ) fo r th e org (in English Reden K F U K s S o c i a l e A r b e j d e m the FACTS OMBOL D Reden es fe m ale pr ostitutes with an escape fro t sh ow er , a meal, OMBOLD n (The Nest) provid et; th ey can get a ho ou tside of Kromann Reumert was included as a case study in the 2010 edition of Børsport fo is the d r the ho riving fo rce beh Re de harsh reality of work on an d the ad stre vice to help them create a lif e m ind an e nigh t, sens Ledelseshåndbog for CSR, a management handbook on CSR producal agen da. Read e le ss and so cially ma initiative aimed to a bed for th and drug ab use. ish). more at www.om rginalize d on the put prostitution de n.dk (in Dan ced by Danish business news service Børsen – read an excerpt of it here: bold.dk (in Danis sociopo litiRead more at w w w .re h). Kromann Reumert: The employees behind positive partnerships Law firm Kromann Reumert, who provides legal advice to Following the employee survey and discussions with UNDP – businesses, has chosen to focus its CSR work on creating partincluding Mads Øvlisen – Kromann Reumert was in a position Institut for Mennesk erettigheder nerships with selected organizations and causes who then reto present a framework for its CSR work. Important were GloWork undertaken by Institut for Menneske enInstitute for Human rettigheder (The Dan ing social Rights) includes rese ish ceive ‘pro bono’ assistance. Kromann Reumert has been part bal Compact’s Ten Principles and not least the invitation to enrld’s lead education and docum arch, analysis, informa of th e w o h an g ing entation on human tion, Ashoka sociation d system-c more abroad in cooperatio righ ts in Denmark and of Global Compact since 2008. ter into partnerships that make a positive difference in society. ka is a global as ea te in n ovative an m s. R ea d n with organizations Asho eks to cr rob le and public authoritie rs that se t social p Denmark, the Nordic Council, the Council s in After launching the event at the annual ‘V-dag’ (‘Company trepreneu ost urgen of Europe, OSCE, the fo r th e world’s m and the UN. Read mo re at www.mennesk EU The initiative surfaced among Kromann Reumert employees afDay’), volunteers signed up to various pro bono groups who solutions . eret.dk. shoka.org at www.a ter a new strategic plan was launched in 2008. The firm had took their substantive point of departure from the survey realways carried out pro bono work, but not in a structured and sults. The groups are still led today by the employees and, strategic way. Against the background of employee requests after a great deal of thorough research, have identified the Reden Internation for strategic CSR, a questionnaire was sent out asking how CSR organizations and causes for which they can make the biggest al Reden International is an organization should be organized and applied within Kromann Reumert. The difference through partnerships. trafficking of wome that fights against n. It provides practic the women in prostitutio al support for foreig answer was clear: The firm should do what it is best at to make n in Denmark. n Read more at www.r edeninternational.d the biggest difference – and that means providing legal advice. k. PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 33 RESULTS carried out for our individual pro bono partners in the period 1 March 2010 – 1 March 2011: Organization Goal articulated for the past year Activities carried out within the past year Ombold OMBOLD’s short-term goal is to transition from • Advice on OMBOLD’s legal status regarding valuea grassroots organization to a more established added tax for some of its activities organization within the area of social mar• Advice on fundraising ginalization. For that to occur, it is necessary • Advice on the drafting of OMBOLD’s Articles of for OMBOLD to establish a sound contractual Association framework, including lease contracts for new • Advice on OMBOLD’s employment contracts facilities, sponsorship agreements and employ• Copying tasks were performed by our Printing ment contracts. This will ensure that resources Services department are allocated to the right places within the orga• Provision of suitable premises, equipment and nization catering for OMBOLD’s annual two-day employee seminar SOS Børnebyerne We will continue with and expand on • Ongoing over-the-phone advice in response to (SOS Children’s Vilthe existing cooperation questions from donors directly, as well as emlages) ployees in SOS Børnebyerne regarding gifts and bequests, and regarding pending legacy cases • Advice on drafting powers of attorney for estate administrators • Training of a new employee in the applicable rules, as well as processes and case management in relation to the creation of donors’ wills and legacy cases • Miscellaneous consultations and evaluations with regard to documentation for rules on signatories for SOS Børnebyerne and documentation for tax approval of SOS Børnebyerne’s tax-free donations • Review and input for SOS Børnebyerne’s written communication to 2,500 lawyers on clients’ wills (inheritance considerations) • Real ad hoc assistance to SOS Børnebyerne in pending and more complex succession cases • Assistance with assessments of the legal basis for donation campaigns, employment and insurance matters, Articles of Association and other issues Results BØRNEHJÆLPSDAGEN (or ‘Children’s Help Day’) We will continue with and expand on the existing cooperation • Advice on general commercial law, including assessment of cooperation agreements, campaigns and competitions, various legal questions from Børnehjælpsdagen’s directors and board, and preparation of a letter of opinion to the organizaIt has been shown that our time registration on pro bono cases has not what kind of assistance we have actually provided when it comes to evaltion’s accountant in connection with preparation been as precise as that for fee-earning cases. This is because our pro uating the cooperation. Such data can help us highlight which areas we of the annual report bono work is not subject to the same high level of follow-up analysis have provided advice in, and whether our focus should remain the same • Development of cooperation agreements with and scrutiny as our debitable cases. And on top of that, our adminisfor the next year. We have therefore tried to establish a system for time students trative staff also assist with pro bono projects (assignments performed registration and on that basis create some guidelines. Between 1 March • Development of procedural rules for Børnehjælpsby our Project Center and Printing Services department are common2010 and 1 March 2011 we registered 1,195 hours of pro bono work. dagen’s board place), and these tasks do not usually require registration of time. It is our goal to provide pro bono partners with the same high quality services as our paying clients and therefore it is important that we know PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 35 Organization Goal articulated for the past year Activities carried out within the past year Organization Goal articulated for the past year Activities carried out within the past year Børnehjælpsdagen We will continue with and expand on the existing • Assessment and amendment of Børnehjælpsdagen’s Institut for MenA new partnership at the time of writing last • Court proceedings regarding a dismissed employee (or ‘Children’s Help cooperation Articles of Association and structure, including fundneskerettigheder year’s report, so goals were yet to be established • Preparation of standard contracts, including: Day’) related advice (The Danish Insitute • Advice on structuring e-commerce • Miscellaneous assistance on employment matters for Human Rights) • Cooperation agreement for collaboration with an • Provision of meeting rooms, facilities and catering for NGO on the implementation of human rights meetings, seminars and similar • Fee contracts with external consultants • Assistance from Kromann Reumert’s Project Centre: • Consultancy agreements with an external consult• Internal Kromann Reumert Christmas tree project, ant and a contract for consultancy work carried where Kromann Reumert employees could choose out by the organization itself to privately support Børnehjælpsdagen by giving a • Agreement for participation in a consortium to Christmas present to children in the organization’s achieve resolution of a specific project care. Børnehjælpsdagen received DKK 14,500 for • Preparation of internal guidelines for the above gifts for children standard agreements • Assistance in connection with the launch of the • Creation of general guidelines for accounting, project ‘Se Mit Ansigt’ (or ‘See My Face’), where documentation, auditing and reporting for the children in the organization’s care could work toorganization’s partners and consultants (guidelines gether with artists to create a self-portrait were required to ensure adequate accounting procedures and compliance with requirements set out by Rigsrevisionen (or ‘The State Auditor’)) HjerneskadeWe will advise Hjerneskadeforeningen about • Advice in connection with the planned separation of a foreningen separating out a selected project to form an inproject to form an independent legal entity. • Contractual advice for a fee, including: (The Brain Injury dependent legal entity • Advice on the potential dissolution of a previously • Review of a partnership agreement with Total Association) established fund • Advice on a sub-contractor agreement with BSR, • Ongoing over-the-phone advice to the association’s performed for a flat fee staff in response to contributions from donors, gifts and bequests, and on pending legacy cases • Advice with regard to pending litigation • Preparation of material for the website and provision of or disputes, including: information to association employees on legacies and • Employment litigation (a court case), carried out the administration of deceased persons’ estates for a flat fee • Potential litigation against a Polish partner • A dispute with a consultancy firm Reden (The Nest) A new partnership at the time of writing last year’s • Assistance in handling complaints to Det Sociale Nævn report, so goals were yet to be established (The Social Complaints Board) • Assistance with problems relating to the protection of personal data following the resignation of an employee • Assistance with a breach of confidentiality matter concerning a former employee reden A new partnership at the time of writing last year’s • Assistance with drafting and preparation of employInternational report, so goals were yet to be established Besides working with these pro bono partners, we have created a pro bono ment contracts group that contributes to different educational initiatives that aim to en• Assistance with severance agreements hance people’s understanding of the meaning and impact of the law in society: • Assistance with settlement agreements • Assistance in the drafting of an agreement to transfer Efforts Goal articulated for the past year Activities carried out within the past year intellectual property rights • Assistance with regard to the organization’s Articles of Association Educational Increased focus on identifying educational insti• Teaching at CPH West and Erhvervsakademiet contributions tutions where our teaching about the meaning (The Business Academy) and impact of the law will make a difference. copenhagen A new partnership at the time of writing last year’s • Creation of agreements regarding concerts for The group will continue teaching at CPH West pride report, so goals were yet to be established Copenhagen Pride 2010 and Erhvervsakademiet (The Business Academy) • Preparation of stallholders’ agreements for Copenhagen Pride 2010 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 37 New goals: March 2011 – March 2012 Organization/activity Goals for March 2011 – March 2012 Every one of our pro bono partners is assigned an employee who acts as their point of contact with Kromann Reumert. It is this member of our firm that takes responsibility for such tasks as holding annual evaluation meetings with the cooperation partner. And it is in part due to these Institut for Menneskerettigheder (The • We will provide legal advice on an ongoing basis, including identifying and priormeetings that we have established targets for the coming year. Danish Institute for Human Rights) itising the most important and urgent areas Organization/activity Goals for March 2011 – March 2012 Educational initiatives • We will increase our efforts to identify educational institutions where learning Ombold • OMBOLD’s goal is to transition from a grassroots organization to a more esabout the meaning and significance of the law and/or education on selected tablished organization within the area of social marginalization. As part of this legal topics will make a difference process, OMBOLD has for the first time received funding from the Danish state. • Our pro bono group will continue teaching at CPH West and Erhvervsakademiet To continue in this direction, Kromann Reumert will establish a sound legal (The Business Academy) framework for the organization, to include such tasks as handling contact with the public authorities, and updating the Articles of Association and employment contracts • In 2011, OMBOLD plans to launch a sponsorship concept called ‘Klub 1001’ (‘Club 1001’) which is intended to achieve a higher degree of self-financing. For this project, Kromann Reumert will assist OMBOLD with framework agreements and the individual sponsorship agreements SOS Børnebyerne • We must continue providing the current level of assistance with a view to con(SOS Children’s Villages) tinuing improvements to, among other things, internal procedures within SOS Børnebyerne so that it can be seen to be a professional organization and partner from both internal and external perspectives • We will take care of SOS Børnebyerne’s needs with regard to legal advice within any area and at the same time continue with and build on our role as ‘trusted advisor’ • SOS Børnebyerne is expected to join our special training event for board members in voluntary organizations Børnehjælpsdagen • We will continue to provide the same kinds of legal assistance on an ad hoc basis (or ‘Children’s Help Day’) as required, as well as project assistance for various projects. Kromann Reumert will take care of the organization’s needs with regard to legal advice Hjerneskadeforeningen • We will advise Hjerneskadeforeningen on separating out a particular project to a (The Brain Injury Association) separate legal entity • We will conduct a seminar on board responsibilities, to which members of the board for all of our pro bono partners will be invited • We will provide legal advice on an ongoing basis and continue the existing cooperation, including drawing up wills for the Association’s legacy donors Reden (The Nest) • We will provide legal advice on an ongoing basis and continue the existing cooperation Reden International • We will provide legal advice on an ongoing basis and continue the existing cooperation Copenhagen Pride • We will provide legal advice on an ongoing basis and continue the existing cooperation PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 39 It creates a sense of security As Vibeke was appointed to management, such things as employee contracts needed to be improved. Therefore, one part of Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work has been to update staff contracts, which, according to a satisfied manager, has resulted in “calm among our personnel. They know what they are entitled to, and that clearly comes through in the help that they provide to the women.” Vibeke characterized Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work in the following way: “Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work does not directly support our work with the women, but it is imporDoes tant in helping to lay the very foundations for our work.” “ It creates an enormous sense of security for me as a manager if I know I can pro bono always get access to legal advice, because my primary role in relation to our ” personnel is to relax staff so they have the energy to take care of women. Vibeke Lenskjold Reden International work make “ We have a typical NGO profile where we are particularly good at cooperation and development, but not so good with market orientation. So where Kromann Reumert a difference makes a difference, I believe, is in introducing a higher standard of professionalism Hanne Elisabeth Rasmussen and better market orientation – at the same time as helping to keep costs down. . ” SOS Børnebyerne A LIFELINE To investigate whether Kromann Reumert’s pro bono Hanne Elisabeth Rasmussen, Managing Director work really does make a difference, several commitof SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages), characterized her organization as a developing ted employees decided to ask the people we work with. NGO because in the last three years they have This formed the basis for a presentation at Kromann managed to double the number of children they Reumert by three of our pro bono partners. help. Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work played a role in this development. Tuesday 3 February 2011 saw all of Kromann Reumert’s staff in Copenhagen invited to a late-afternoon meeting. The occasion was a special presentation by three According to Hanne, Kromann Reumert was like of our pro bono partners who were invited to speak about their organizations a lifeline when unexpected situations suddenly and the cooperation with Kromann Reumert. The three speakers were Managarose, because it meant that there was someone ing Director Hanne Elisabeth Rasmussen from SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s to call. In Hanne Rasmussen’s opinion, Kromann Villages), Manager Vibeke Lenskjold from Reden International and Director Jonas Reumert also helped SOS Børnebyerne become Christoffersen from Institut for Menneskerettigheder (the Danish Institute for Hua better service organization. man Rights). Foto: Les Kaner PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 41 Keeping track of all of the agreements Jonas Christoffersen, the Director of Institut for Menneskerettigheder (the Danish Institute for Human Rights) was in agreement with other speakers in suggesting that the pro bono collaboration enabled services that otherwise would simply not be affordable. Jonas, who himself is a lawyer, was also appreciative of the fact that they had been able to revise standard contracts and similar documents. “It gives me unbelievable peace of mind to be able to say to my department heads: Call Kromann Reumert!” said Jonas Christoffersen, who also made it clear that they will maintain complete control over all of the agreements in the future. Jonas Christoffersen Institut for Menneskerettigheder Foto: Stig Stasi adds a new perspective Pro bono “It gives me unbelievable peace of mind to be able to say to my department According to Kromann Reumert’s HR Director, Søren Villadsen, the firm’s employees gain new perspectives and greater insight into client relations when they undertake pro bono projects. heads: Call Kromann It is not only our pro bono partners who gain something out of the Kromann Reumert’s employees also gain greater insight into social cooperation with Kromann Reumert. This is the view held by Søren relations in Denmark. In helping organizations in the public domain Reumert! . ” Villadsen, HR Director within Kromann Reumert: they perhaps view cases from another angle than the usual: “Our employees typically gain a different perspective on client rela“Overall, it means that Kromann Reumert ends up with committed tionships when they perform pro bono work. These types of clients staff that are better at handling client relations because of their new– and we consider them clients because our pro bono partners must found insight,” concludes Søren. be considered on equal footing with our paying clients – are not from conventional businesses, but predominantly come from interest groups or volunteer organizations,” explains Søren and elaborates: “Economically speaking, pro bono clients tend to have a different point of departure than our usual clients, given that the money they save is used exclusively to help other people. This type of engagement and dedication is contagious,” says Søren Villadsen. PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 43 Dear employees, Thank you for your fantastic commitment to Kromann Reumert’s CSR efforts. Thank you for your interest in everything from improvements in our sorting of waste to increased power savings, through to dedicated and ongoing efforts towards our pro bono partnerships and involvement in good business management. Your level of engagement extends well beyond the topics mentioned here. Thank you for contributing with your commitment to Kromann Reumert. It makes us proud. Sincerely, Kromann Reumert Management
