RESPONSIBLE MOVING & RELOCATION UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON PROGRESS 2010 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from the CEO ............................................................................................................3 Highlights on Sustainability at Santa Fe Relocation Services ............................4 UNGC progress Matrix ..............................................................................................................5 People bottom-line (UNGC principles 1-6)....................................................................6 Planet bottom-line (UNGC principles 7-9) ....................................................................9 Proﬁt bottom-line (UNGC principle 10) ........................................................................11 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Santa Fe Relocation Services is delighted to present its ﬁrst Global Compact communication on progress to our stakeholders who ensure the continued success of our company. Santa Fe Relocation Services is a global and multicultural group, oﬀering global relocation services to more than 64,000 families annually to all parts of the world. We are fully aware of the responsibility we bear toward our customers, shareholders, employees and the communities in which we operate. Therefore, we have established a strict set of ethical values to guide us in our business operations based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact regarding people, planet and proﬁt. Moreover, our environmental sustainability eﬀorts are externally audited by DNV on an annual basis. As our business stretches across 15 countries, we are using international minimum standards as a framework to bridge the local regulations that diﬀer from country to country. Our goal is not just to maintain and improve our position as the market leader in the relocation services industry, but we also aspire to be the industry’s leader in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Asia-Paciﬁc. At Santa Fe, we see sustainability as everyone’s responsibility; therefore, we need to ensure that our 1,950 employees fully embrace and support the company’s initiative and constantly focus on continual improvement. During 2009 and 2010, we made progress by bringing together our management team with professional CSR consultants and creating a framework to implement consistent application of the UNGC principles across the entire organization. In June of 2010 our Corporate Headquarters and our Hong Kong operation completed implementation. Our stations in Singapore, China and Indonesia are in the implementation phase and scheduled to be up and running regarding a systematic and comprehensive sustainability approach by the end of the ﬁrst quarter of 2011. Our remaining stations in India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, UAE, Vietnam and Australia will start implementation in 2011. Our Mission: We make it easy Our Vision: Deliver sustainable value through innovation Bent U. OurPorsborg Values: Quality, eﬃciency and people CEO EAC FOODS President Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. Lars Lykke Iversen CEO 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS ON SUSTAINABILITY AT SANTA FE RELOCATION SERVICES Relocating more than 24,000 families in 2010 to all parts of the world, Santa Fe Relocation Services is a major globalisation player by facilitating a transfer of skills and competences to markets where they are most needed. Being a key player in the moving and relocation industry brings opportunities and challenges; opportunities to use our key competences in logistics to the beneﬁt of the communities where we operate and challenges primarily regarding reduction of the environmental impact of our operations. A major achievement in 2010 was the implementation of a whistle blower system and a grievance mechanism to further support the CSR roll-out and ongoing CSR compliance management. In 2010 Santa Fe also saw evidence that CSR is increasingly becoming a parameter of competition as a service provider to multinational corporations. People: High standards for high quality Our employees are key to our success. To maintain our high quality standards that result from employee satisfaction and low employee turnover we among others support a work environment conducive to good health and strive to be an exemplary employer. One of our major interests is to help people in need by drawing upon our core areas of expertise, providing support to fund raising activities and donating to worthy causes in the regions in which we operate. Santa Fe is active in a variety of community events and charitable organizations. This is done to create goodwill, motivate staﬀ, and improve the world in which we live. In all markets where Santa Fe is present, we sponsor chambers and other expatriate organizations that are dedicated to fostering international business and social relationships. Some of the community organizations supported by Santa Fe include women’s groups, crisis help-lines, international schools, amateur arts organizations, non-proﬁt organizations, sports leagues, Crossroads International, Goodwill, OXFAM and the Johns Hopkins Research Fund, which focuses on the research and treatment of breast cancer. Santa Fe contributes $10 per move to Johns Hopkins and is proud to have raised over US$1.2 million for the Breast Cancer Fund. Santa Fe and our employees also contribute to many local community-based projects throughout the region. Planet: An industry challenge and priority As a leader in logistics, we feel a particular obligation to help tackle the causes of climate change. That’s why we became ISO14001 certiﬁed in 2002 and created speciﬁc objectives with continual improvement targets to reduce our carbon footprint. Proﬁt: Compliance with international anti-bribery standards Economic responsibility has always been a part of Santa Fe’s culture to conduct our business in a responsible and ethical manner. We are known for being trustworthy, transparent, a responsible business partner and having a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribery in all forms Relocating more than 24,000 families in 2010 to all parts of the world, Santa Fe Relocation Services is a major globalisation player by facilitating a transfer of skills and competences to markets where they are most needed. SANTA FE POLICY 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNGC PROGRESS MATRIX Principles Commitment Systems Actions Results People Principle 1: Support and respect the To continuously monitor our CSR standards inCreated and rolled out Increased employee protection of internationally progovernance system to ensure corporated into OcSupplier Code of Conmotivation, retention claimed human rights. compliance with basic human cupational Health duct to all suppliers of and positive customer rights standards within our or& Safety Work InHong Kong operations feedback Principle 2: Make sure that we are ganization and with those whom struction, Employee not complicit in human rights we interact UN Global Compact Manual and ISO Grievance Mechanism High standards increase abuses. Principles 1-6 9001 created for staﬀ our reputation as responsible service proPrinciple 3: Support freedom of as2011: ISO 27001 CusRevised and updated vider; leads to diﬀerensociation and the right to collective Creating on-line training modules tomer and staﬀ Employee Manual and tiation bargaining. for key principles – discriminadata protection ISO documents to incortion, corruption, data protection porate UNGC principles; Principle 4: Support elimination of all and business ethics Grievance Mechastaﬀ training forms of forced and compulsory lanism for staﬀ bor. Improving group data collection Gap Analysis – UNGC Supplier Code of principles (Hong Kong , Principle 5: Support the eﬀective abRecruitment of a Group Talent Conduct Singapore, China and olition of child labor. Manager Indonesia) Principle 6: Support elimination of Gap Analysis – UNGC principles External Audit by DNV – discrimination in respect of employin remaining countries measure ISO standards ment and occupation. Planet: Principle 7: Support a precautionary To reduce the negative impact of ISO 14001 EnvironRevised and updated 100 % of Hong Kong’s approach to environmental chalour business on the environment; mental work inEmployee Manual and packing materials are lenges. to meet or exceed regulatory restructions and speISO documents to incorreused and / or recycled quirements; and to continuously ciﬁc objectives porate UNGC principles; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to seek to improve our processes to and staﬀ training Cost savings: Fuel conpromote greater environmental reachieve higher standards – UN External audits sumption decrease of sponsibility. Global Compact Principles 7-9 Gap Analysis – UNGC 9,5 % despite volume principles (Hong Kong , increase of 16,4 % Principle 9: Encourage the develop2011: Singapore, China and ment and diﬀusion of environmenImproving group data collection Indonesia) tally friendly technologies. External Audit by DNV – measure ISO standards Proﬁt: Principle 10: Work against corruption Apply a zero tolerance approach Whistle blowing Revised and updated Improved risk managein all its forms, including extortion with respect to corruption, extorsystem created for Employee Manual and ment within the organiand bribery. tion and bribery. Maximizing the all staﬀ ISO documents to incorzation positive impact of our business porate UNGC principles operations where we have speSupplier Code of cial skills, products or services to Conduct Provided conﬁdential make a diﬀerence in the commuWhistle Blowing mechanities where we live and work – Employee manual nism to all employees UN Global Compact Principle 10 and training Prohibited bribery and 2011: extortion in Supplier On-line training modules Code of Conduct 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE 10 PRINCIPLES: OUR PROGRESS PEOPLE: UNGC PRINCIPLES 16 Human Rights We respect human rights within our area of inﬂuence and operate our business in such a way as to make us an exemplary employer. In addition, as one of the largest employers in our industry we support a work environment conducive to good health. This helps us to maintain the high quality standards that result from employee satisfaction and low employee turnover. The Employee Manual which contains clear guidelines and rules for everyone working in any of our regions and business units was reviewed and updated in 2010 to reﬂect our CSR commitments. Grievance mechanism To ensure compliance with all our internal policies and regulatory requirements we established a grievance mechanism in 2010. Through this mechanism employees are encouraged to report their concerns regarding conditions of employment, unfair treatment by management, supervisors or other employees, health and safety issues, working conditions or any other work related problem / concern to their immediate supervisor / manager. Supplier Code of Conduct We expect all of our suppliers (companies and / or individuals who do business with any Santa Fe company) to adhere to the same ethical principles. For this purpose, Santa Fe has drawn up a Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets the standards for doing business with our company. Our Supplier Code of Conduct helps us encourage suppliers to adhere to ethical and environmental standards. It covers areas such as child labor, forced labor, compensation, working hours, discrimination, health and safety, business continuity planning, improper payments / bribery and the environment. The Supplier Code of Conduct roll out is underway in all oﬃces following the CSR roll out plan and is scheduled to be achieved in 2011. The Supplier Code of Conduct will be included in new procurement contracts including renewals and existing long-term agreements. Corporate Health Policy We actively manage health and safety risks, providing employees with regular information about occupational health and safety, e.g., avoiding accidents and illnesses and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Our ISO 9001 quality manual and employee manual includes work instructions for Health & Safety. In 2011 we will introduce Group-wide deﬁnitions of key performance indicators (KPIs) such as accident and sickness ﬁgures. The KPIs facilitate more precise and systematic recording and analysis of all sickness-related absences and accident rates for all the countries in which we operate. Occupation health and safety (Hong Kong) 2009 2010 Work related injuries 12 16 Number of days oﬀ due to accidents 137 380 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 The increase in work related injuries is due to 3 cases resulting from ﬁeld work which caused sick days of 137, 92 and 30 days respectively. To improve these ﬁgures for 2011 they will be discussed during the annual supervisors, crew and drivers meetings where health and safety issues are reviewed and it will be assessed if more health and safety training is required to decrease work related injuries. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS To prepare for pandemics we have established company-wide Santa Fe Hong Kong Gender Ratio of Managers pandemic preparedness plans, which we systematically reﬁne and update. In these documents, we provide counsel as to how the risk of infection can be recognized and objectively evaluated, as well as how to protect employees, customers and the general public from further infection in the event of an infectious outbreak. Labor Standards 35.70 % We respect the basic principles of the international Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, in accordance with national laws and practices. 64.30 % Skills, performance and ethical conduct shall be our only indicators for employee qualiﬁcation. We will not tolerate discrimination with respect to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, Male national origin, social status or any other protected discrimination grounds. Female The Santa Fe Supplier Code of Conduct explicitly forbids child labor, forced labor and discrimination, and stresses the importance of core labor principles. Training Santa Fe is committed to on-going training of all employees and consistent delivery of ’world class’ service. This quality can be achieved only through a proactive, managed training and development program, reviewed and supported by our head oﬃce in Hong Kong. Our induction program for all staﬀ regardless of grade covers the following key areas: • Health & Safety training and procedures • The Quality Program ISO 9001/14001/ISO27001 and their policies • HR Issues – including discrimination, corruption and data security • Company proﬁle / policies • Customer Service, Sales, Service Delivery, Insurance, etc. All employees are encouraged to further their careers and development through recognized qualiﬁcations. For example, we currently have employees studying for examinations in areas as diverse as ﬁnance, business management, sales management, customer service, English and real estate. Santa Fe has for many years run an exchange program allowing team members from across the region to experience working in another country. Santa Fe External Employee Training Average Hour Per Staﬀ ( Hong Kong ) 7.5 Staﬀ 1.19 1.6 2009 Middle management 3.33 2010 4.8 Senior management 4.6 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The decrease in 2010 in employee training for staﬀ compared to 2009 is mainly due to the postponement of a planned Customer Service Training program to the ﬁrst quarter of 2011, and due to a relatively high number of English classes in 2009. Workplace Quality Santa Fe strives to be the employer of choice for its more than 1,950 employees. Our employees are our greatest asset and what diﬀerentiates our services from our competitors. We strive to retain the best and the brightest employees in the industry. Our goal is to increase the average number of years staﬀ stays with our company (currently 5.3 years), while reducing employee turnover. Santa Fe Group Employee Turnover 2009 17.7% 2010 20.6% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% The reasons for the increase in employee turnover are primarily due to the closing down of a General Cargo function and high turnover rates in China, Malaysia and Dubai where employees with English speaking ability are in high demand. To deal with these challenges and to further develop our staﬀ we have committed to hiring a Talent Manager in 2011. Educational Support in India Santa Fe India made the decision to educate children of employees who are from economically weak backgrounds, or earning less than INR 15,000 (USD 350) per month. They cover educational expenses for up to three children per employee to an amount of INR 15,000 per annum per child and are currently educating 23 children. In addition to our other donations, we have organized a 5 kilometer Fun Run at the annual International Association of Movers conference for the past 7 years. This year we raised over US$18,000 at the San Diego conference. This is an event that continues to grow year-onyear and is one of the highlights of the conference. 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLANET: UNGC PRINCIPLES 79 Seeking to conserve the environment is at the heart of our susSanta Fe Group Consumption of Gasoline and Diesel tainability work. Responding to climate change is our number one environmental priority we want to help preserve the environment for future generations. 6000 5112 Reducing Emissions and Resource Consumption 5000 4626 Running a logistics organization emits CO2 and consumes resources. At Santa Fe our ISO14001 is a key strategic priority for 4000 our business to reduce our impact on the environment. It brings together all of our eﬀorts to manage our impact on climate change 3000 across all divisions, regions and countries. It also helps us improve the way we manage environmental impacts under local regulations. Currently, 85% of our oﬃces are ISO14001 certiﬁed. Our 2000 goal is to have the remaining oﬃces certiﬁed by 2012. To help us track our progress toward achieving better performance, we have 1000 set several environmental objectives for all of our own operations. All of the targets are measured, reviewed and audited by a third 0 party, DNV, on an annual basis. litre ‘000 2009 2010 In 2010 we have used less fuel while moving greater volumes. In fact, there has been a 9.5% decrease in use of gasoline & diesel despite an increase of 16.4% in volumes moved. Moreover, we started to evaluate our global CO2 eﬃciency in 2010, covering CO2 emissions from our own operations and from our subcontracted transportation services. In the future, we will continue to choose more environmentally friendly trucks and products. Together with carbon oﬀset solutions we aim to run a carbon neutral business in the future. As a logistics provider with a large ﬂeet of trucks on the road, vehicle emission control has been a primary priority. Our Company policy requires that our entire ﬂeet consist of EURO II trucks or above. In addition, although regulations in Hong Kong require trucks to maintain an emission level of 50 HSU or below, we set our goal at 30 HSU, or 40% below the legal requirement. 83% of our trucks emit less than 20 HSU. The procurement of new passenger vehicles will focus on environmentally-friendly automobiles. Our industry is also heavily reliant on natural resources, particularly materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic, tape, etc. for oﬃce use and packing materials. We reached our goals in 2010 of recycling or reusing 100% of packing material and oﬃce paper in Hong Kong. Both objectives are measured on an annual basis and audited by an external auditor, DNV. 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Tree Planting in Indonesia In Indonesia, Santa Fe supports the One Million Trees initiative in cooperation with the NGO Yasasan Tanam Pohon Indonesia. Santa Fe Indonesia plants a tree for every outbound sea shipment as of July 1, 2010. This amounts to approximately 500 trees per year. Through the project Santa Fe aims to raise awareness of deforestation and climate change issues in Indonesia. This way, we also seek to inspire employees, customers and communities to promote environmental conservation. The Environmental Footprint of Our Suppliers We cannot meet our environmental targets alone. That’s why we have speciﬁed environmental guidelines in our Supplier Code of Conduct which states that suppliers must comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards as well as implement an effective system to identify and eliminate potential hazards to the environment. As stated in our ISO 14001, all suppliers will be reviewed annually to ensure compliance. Examples of Environmental Objectives in Hong Kong • To ensure all motor vehicles pass annual vehicle examinations we arrange each truck to have an emission test on an annual basis for trucks with an emission over 30HSU we take the necessary steps to decrease to 30 HSU • To maintain same amount of A4 paper consumption (in ream) as compared with last year • To reduce the consumption of electricity (in units) by 3% as compared with last year • To re-use 100% of paper cartons brought back from inbound jobs or unpacking jobs • To provide 100% used packing material to external recycling company 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PROFIT: UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 We are committed to compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Code of Conduct Our Employee Manual clearly states that we will deal with all our customers, suppliers and others in a straightforward manner and in compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Supplier Code of Conduct Our Supplier Code of Conduct states that the supplier may not oﬀer services, gis or beneﬁts to employees in order to inﬂuence employee conduct in representing Santa Fe. Whistle Blower System In parallel to the revision of our Employee Manual, we established a Whistle Blower System with the purpose of managing the CSR rollout and ongoing compliance management. Employees can report incidents relating to accounting and ﬁnancial irregularities and violations of laws and regulations via the dedicated hotline and / or via a conﬁdential e-mail address, which was launched in the summer of 2010. An Ethics and Compliance Committee was established within the organization to support the Whistle Blower system. The Ethics and Compliance Committee will investigate all reported allegations of misconduct and initiate corrective action where appropriate. Every incident will be evaluated in an independent manner. We will implement appropriate action to address inappropriate conduct and deter future violations. Disciplinary action may include retraining, dismissal or other appropriate discipline of the individual involved as well as discipline of the supervisor. Santa Fe provides support for all domestic economies in which we operate through the taxes we pay and other tax revenues that are made possible by our economic success. 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CHALLENGES Integration of Wridgways Santa Fe is acquiring the Australian business Wridgways, and the integration process will include securing compliance to Santa Fe’s CSR standards. The challenge is to implement systems and procedures for people, planet and proﬁt for 31 new Wridgways oﬃces and their third party providers. Santa Fe will start assessing levels of compliance and work to bring Wridgways’ systems up to Santa Fe standards. Wridgways has already achieved ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and is currently working on ISO 27001. Overtime The moving and relocation industry is troubled by high seasonality and limited availability of qualiﬁed temporary workers, which negatively aﬀects the working conditions of our employees. However, Santa Fe is addressing this issue by hiring temporary work force and outsourcing to third party providers, while at the same time complying with local legislation and paying overtime compensation. Regional roll out Santa Fe’s business is widespread across Asia-Paciﬁc, operating under diﬀerent national legislation and cultures. We address this issue by complying with internationally recognized principles and standards, which provide a uniform basis for compliance. To support the roll out of our CSR program in a company with 1,950 employees in numerous stations across 15 countries including the newly acquired Wridgways we will roll out a voluntary e-learning program, which will be launched in the ﬁrst half of 2011. Furthermore, in 2011 we will focus on introducing Group wide Key Performance Indicators and enhanced data collection to help us monitor and evaluate our progress and identify areas where we need to improve. SUMMARY The result of Santa Fe’s CSR eﬀorts is a more productive and competitive company due to increased employee satisfaction and productivity, improved processes, better relations with key stakeholders, and greater customer satisfaction and loyalty. CSR is increasingly becoming a parameter of competition for the company as a service provider to major international corporations. CSR provides Santa Fe the ability to help our customers achieve their CSR requirements. For more information regarding the sustainability eﬀorts of Santa Fe please contact Managing Director for Hong Kong, Lance Allen at Lance.Allen@santafe.com.hk or go to www. santaferelo.com 12
