2010-2011 Delivering Green products & technologies for a SUSTAINABLE future TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Foreword 1.1 Statement of Support 2. Support of the Ten Universal Principles of the UN Global Compact 2.1 Human Rights 2.2 Labour 2.3 Environment 2.4 Anti-Corruption 3. About Oryx Enterprises Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 1 1. FOREWORD 1.1 Statement of Support As a member of the Global Compact, we ensure that the ten universal principles are integrated in our business policies. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals. Being socially responsible corporation, it enhances our reputation in the eyes of our partners and clients as well as increasing their trust in us as a company to do business with, greater customer reliability and satisfaction. Here we summarized the progress we have made towards these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. Ahmad AL MASRI General Manager Email: ahmad-almasri@oryxenterprises.com Phone: +974 44903139 Fax: +974 44903142 Address: PO Box 3016, Doha-Qatar Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 2 2. Support of the Ten Universal Principles of the UN Global Compact 2.1 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses At Oryx Enterprises, we treat people with the utmost respect. We are not only committed to comply with guidelines set by international and local human rights groups, but we also take steps towards good employment practices by having a fair and objective approach to all employees. We always give employees‟ salary on time and assist them whenever they have financial difficulties. We provide a delightful working environment and keep within justifiable and decent operating hours. We strive to provide a work environment that strengthens our employees to effectively and efficiently use their skills and promotes personal development. Continuous professional development of all staff members is extremely important to the career success of the individual as to the Company. 2.2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Oryx, we exercise the right to freedom of association and we do not conduct or condone forced, compulsory or child labour. All our employees Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 3 are either from the GCC or hold valid working permits. Our working hours are based on a six-day working week with holidays in compliance with the Qatar labour law. In hire of employees or performance of works, no direct or indirect restriction and no granting of direct or indirect privileges on the basis of person‟s race, sex, origin, belief is permitted. We provide equal opportunity for each and every individual that joins the company. Our company enjoys and celebrates cultural richness brought about by our mix of employees. We have a system in place for hiring people. We evaluate, train and reward employees based on their achievements. The system applies to everyone ensuring that there are no discriminations at all. Our employees should be able to enjoy a work environment free from all forms of harassment. In support of this policy, we prohibit unwelcome sexual advances, verbal, physical, and visual harassment. We are proud to report that since the start of Oryx operations, there has been no issues/complaint forwarded to the management pertaining to harassment. 2.3 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Oryx approaches the environment with utmost precaution. As global warming becomes a major concern worldwide, we are aware that we need to take urgent steps in doing our part to protect our environment. We constantly educate our employees to have good eco-friendly practices not just within the office environment but to their homes and to society as well. Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 4 We focus our attention to delivering green products & technologies in Qatar and in the Middle East countries. Since 2006, SINAK S-102 and other environment friendly concrete curing materials have been introduced in the Middle East construction industry. Oryx in partner with SINAK Corporation takes part in saving the region‟s precious resources by distributing green products. During our first two years, from 2006-2009, a total of 1,904,500,000 liters of fresh water were saved and a waste of 3,960,000 square meters of hessian and plastics were reduced. From April 2009 to present, an additional 1,500,000,000 liters of water savings and 500,000 square meters of hessian and plastics were reduced. Moreover, we have a reward program in placed in order to encourage our clients to continue having eco-friendly practices by providing them with complimentary products and gifts. We are proud to say that our products are GREENGUARD Indoor Air Quality Certified®. Oryx Enterprises will continue the development and the researches in this field in order to capitalize on the concrete industry introducing other top unique related products to this industry. We are still implementing the Reuse, Reduce, Recycle principle. We encourage communication through document sharing and email to reduce the usage of and reliance on, paper. For used paper when all sides are utilized, we call the recycling agents for pick-up thus reducing recyclables being distributed in the recycling facilities and in the landfill. We required our employees to switch off unnecessary lights and air conditioners, as well as power down electrical appliances if not in use. The last employee to depart will be responsible for turning off all electrical points except for the refrigeration unit. Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 5 2.4 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Oryx, we strive to conduct our business according to high ethical standards. We are committed to take anti-corruption measures and eliminate any forms of bribery and extortion. We conduct our business as “transparent” as possible to ensure that we abide by lawful and responsible practices, one way in which is by performing an annual audit only from an authorized Audit firm. To date, there is no case of complaint against our business on corruption issue. We will continue in pressing on the significance of this principle not only within the company but to all of our stakeholders. Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 6 3. About Oryx Enterprises Oryx Enterprises was formed in 2006, the desire was to start and grow a successful business that aimed at the construction industry and shortly after opening the doors, Oryx Enterprises signed an agreement with SINAK Corporation, a USA based manufacturer of speciality concrete and masonry treatments. Oryx is headquartered in Doha, Qatar and have operating offices in the U.A.E, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Jordan and expanding throughout the region. The „water savings‟ technology that Oryx are currently marketing and distributing exclusively in Middle East and North Africa is SINAK S-102 and the rest of the products. Through persistence, Oryx has already seen the benefits across Qatar, the UAE and Jordan over the three years where water savings have been realized. Oryx Enterprises management philosophy is based on responsibility and mutual respect. People who work with Oryx desire to work with us because the environment encourages the “C4A”, concept which is: Creativity, Concepts, Competencies, Connections, and Achievement. This C4A concept is one of our tools in performing the Stakeholders Value Creation of Oryx Enterprises. Oryx Enterprises COP 2010-2011 7
