THE Title REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP 2010 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT s M o st o r l d ’ t h e “ W ” o f i e s One l Compan Et h ic a The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 I Contents 1 Introduction 2 Rezidor in Short 4 Message from the President and CEO 5 Rezidor Responsibility Timeline 6 Stakeholders and Policy 7 Organisation and Tools 9 Pillar 1: Taking responsibility for the health and safety of employees and guests 11 Interview with Eirik Bergvoll, General Manager 12 Pillar 2: Respecting social and ethical issues in the company, as well as in the community 15 Interview with Niara Mohamed, Responsible Business Coordinator 16 Pillar 3: Reducing our negative impact on the environment 19 Interview with Bob Burns, Regional Engineer 20 Environmental Certifications 21 Summary of Progress 24 Global Compact Compliance 25 About the Report Since June 2007, Rezidor’s corporate charity organisation is World Childhood Foundation. Through various fund-raising activities at hotel and corporate level, the company raised TEUR 60 for Childhood in 2010. Read more on page 14. INTRODUCTION Rezidor’s Responsible Business programme builds on the principles of sustainable development and the triple bottom-line, where all hotels shall strive to take economic, social, ethical and environmental issues into consideration when making decisions in their everyday work. The purpose of this Rezidor Hotel Group 2010 Responsibility Report, published in conjunction with the 2010 Annual Report, is to help our key stakeholders to value, assess and understand the operations of The Rezidor Hotel Group with regard to three pillars of the The three pillars of Responsible Business programme. Responsible Business 1. T  aking responsibility for health and safety of employees and guests 2. Respecting social and ethical issues in the company, as well as in the community 3. R  educing our negative impact on the environment. Origins of Responsible Business Taking responsibility for the environment and increase awareness and readiness to handle everyday actions of every employee at every local community has been an important part risks and reduce costs, but also as a means to level in every hotel and every Rezidor office in of Rezidor’s broader commitment to sustaincapture opportunities in the process of every country. We have a structured risk able development since our first environmenachieving the goal of being an industry leader management formula entitled TRIC=S which tal policy in 1989. In 2001, this commitment with solid long-term profitability. promotes proactive behavior throughout the was fortified and placed within the scope of At Rezidor, we acknowledge that the company. TRIC=S stands for Threat assessthe award-winning Responsible Business prosafety and security of our guests, employees ment + Risk mitigation and management + gramme. Fully aligned with the company’s and property is an imperative aspect of hotel Incident response preparedness + Crisis mancore business objectives, Rezidor’s Responsioperations. Maintaining the necessary levels agement, communications and continuity = ble Business programme was instated to of safety and security is dependent on the Safe and Secure hotels. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 1 Rezidor in short The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the fastest growing hotel operators in the world. The hotels in our portfolio are operated under with the Italian fashion house Missoni. By the lease or a management agreement, or by a three core brands, Radisson Blu, Park Inn by end of 2010, Rezidor had more than 310 separate operator using one of the Rezidor Radisson and Hotel Missoni. We develop and hotels (circa 66,000 rooms) in operation and brands under a franchise agreement. Responlicense Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson almost 100 hotels (circa 21,500 rooms) sible Business programme is encouraged at all in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) under development in more than 60 counhotels, including franchised properties, and under Master Franchise Agreements with tries across EMEA. corporate offices. Carlson, a global, privately held hospitality Rezidor is focusing on hotel management. and travel company. Hotel Missoni, is operCurrently, all hotels in Rezidor’s portfolio are ated under a worldwide licensing agreement either operated by Rezidor itself under a Rezidor Responsibility Performance Indicators 2010 2009 2008 2007 2 Energy/m (kWh) Radisson Blu 285 279 292 308 2 Energy/m (kWh) Park Inn by Radisson 304 290 308 350 Water/ Guest Night (litres) Radisson Blu 433 415 461 475 Water/ Guest Night (litres) Park Inn by Radisson 327 358 375 403 Waste/ Guest Night (kg) Radisson Blu 1.49 1.69 1.70 1.74 Waste/ Guest Night (kg) Park Inn by Radisson 1.39 1.51 1.77 2.16 Medallia Guest Satisfaction Environmental Conscientiousness 8.1 7.9 – – Climate Analysis Employee Satisfaction score 86.7 85.7 85.1 85.1 Average 3T Monitor Safety and Security self-audit score 92.9 93.7 92.3 91.4 2 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Rezidor hotels in operation in 2010 20 21 7 5 8 4 26 21 10 7 15 8 24 25 4 11 1 32 1 1 7 2 5 2 2 11 14 12 2 11 7 4 43 1 2 1 11 2 21 1 3 11 1 1 11 1 1 4 2 1 11 1 1 11 1 5 1 6 5 5 1 1 11 1 1 Others 4 1 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 3 Message from the President and CEO Welcome to one of the “World’s Most Ethical companies” 2010 was Rezidor’s third consecutive record year of hotel openings and we are proud that more and more places around the world are discovering that our hotels are great places to stay, great places to work and that we have great brands for owners to invest in. Profitable growth is key to the long term success and stability of our company, but one look at the finite and sometimes seemingly shrinking size of our planet and the resources it contains always reminds me of the shared responsibility we have to take care of our small, spinning sphere. Rezidor has a long history of being a responsible company with environmental and safety and security programmes that started well over 20 years ago and that have been developed, improved and expanded continually ever since. For this we are grateful to our motivated employees who deliver Responsible Business each day and to our owners who have aligned their operations with our approach and whose support of our efforts is invaluable. The success and value of these programs is also benefitting our brands globally as Carlson Hotels Worldwide in 2010 adopted the Living and Leading Responsible Business training programmes developed by Rezidor. An agreement was also signed with Carlson to develop safety and security programmes jointly, combining resources for the benefit of all guests, employees and owners of our brands globally. Today, we openly acknowledge that along with our increasing size, which may give us greater visibility and influence in the marketplace, we have an increased opportunity to take on an even greater share of that responWe will continue our commitment towards sibility. Especially in our interconnected and expanding our company responsibly and interdependent world, we feel that power developing, operating and franchising hotels and influence can be used not to become that will be seen as positive examples provideven more powerful and influential, but to ing excellent, sustainable services and become more responsible. employment opportunities in their communiTherefore one of the real highlights for me ties. this year was when Rezidor was chosen as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. Kurt Ritter, President & CEO 4 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Rezidor Responsibility Timeline 1988 2003 2007 • Creation and adoption of the SAS Interna• Launch of Hotels Environment Action • L aunch of Responsible Business Best tional Hotels Safety and Security Standards Month (now Responsible Business Action Practice database Month) •W  orld Childhood Foundation becomes 1989 • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo, is first corporate charity organisation • First environmental policy driven by SAS Rezidor property to receive third party •R  ezidor is first international hotel group to Group environmental certification with the offer guests carbon offsetting 1996 Nordic Swan eco-label • E mergency Management Binder renamed • Launch of the Radisson SAS environmental • Rezidor becomes chair of International Risk Management Binder and directly linked programme with 24 action points Hotels Environment Initiative Executive to introduction of 3T Monitor Online Risk • Founding member of the International Committee Management program and the TRIC=S Hotels Environment Initiative formula 2004 1997 • Awarded “Worldwide Hospitality Award for 2008 • Safety and Security Manual replaced by Environmental Protection” •R  oll-out of new Living and Leading Emergency Management Binder in a risk • Development of internet based database Responsible Business training for all assessment format allowing it to be used in for environmental legislation with self-audit employees all properties and quarterly updates • L aunch of rezidorethics.com 2001 • Carlson Companies signs ECPAT Code of •M  onthly TRIC=S reports distributed to all • Launch of the Responsible Business Conduct against sexual exploitation of General Managers. programme encompassing the three pillars children •R  ezidor one of the founding members of of health and well-being, social and ethical United States State Department Overseas 2005 responsibility, environmental responsibility Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel • First Rezidor Responsible Business Award • Responsible Business Coordinators Security Working Group. given to Radisson Blu St Helen’s Hotel, appointed and trained Dublin, at Annual General Manager 2009 • First Responsible Business Training initiated conference •S  igned up to the United Nations Global with 35% of staff trained by year-end Compact 2006 • Monthly reporting of energy, water and • Responsible Business programme awarded 2010 waste HOFTEL Owner-Friendly Innovation of the •W  e are named one of the “World’s Most • Save the Children becomes corporate Year Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere charity organisation Institute •H  alf of hotels are eco-labelled and counting • E ntered agreement with Carlson companies for Rezidor to lead a joint effort to further develop and align safety and security globally for the companies and their brands. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 5 Stakeholders and Policy Stakeholders and Policy As a dynamic international hotel company with three core brands operating and under development in over 60 countries, we recognise that we have an impact on a wide selection of stakeholders, either directly or indirectly. The basis for identifying and selecting our key a difference. However, our stakeholders may These objectives below are realised stakeholders with regard to Responsible Busihave differing, even contradictory expectathrough suggestions for actions, reinforced ness relates primarily to the extent to which tions, so we must work hard to balance these. by performance-based targets. The Sumwe influence or impact them: economically, Thus the table below lists our key stakeholdmary of Progress table from page 21 lists our socially and environmentally. We attempt to ers, our main policy objectives in relation to key performance indicators, commitments estimate the interdependence between Rezieach, and what we believe to be their expecand targets and achievements for the year dor and these stakeholders and focus our tations in relation to Rezidor. 2010. efforts where we have the potential to make Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy Expectations Employees We shall educate and facilitate for our employees to make Fair and equal treatment; secure and safe working environa conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and ment; training and career progress; fair pay. social issues in their private and work lives. Customers We shall inform and make it easy for our guests to participate Leading service; good value for money; flexible approach; enviin Responsible Business related activities at our hotels. ronmentally responsible; good global coverage; benefits and generous loyalty programmes. Property Owners We shall work together with property owners to find innovative Good returns from property management; high level of solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social security. objectives. Shareholders We shall provide shareholders and investors with timely, accuTransparent information; sound strategy and corporate goverrate and transparent information on Responsible Business nance; high return on investment; minimisation of risks. related risks and opportunities. Suppliers We shall strive to purchase products that have a reduced enviFair and equal treatment; value-based pricing. ronmental impact during their lifecycle, from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and international Compliance with rules and regulations; financial contributions legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, (taxes and fees). human rights and the environment. Community We shall take an active role in the international responsible Forming an active and responsible part of society; sponsorships business community, and contribute to the local communities of projects; contribution to infrastructure; contribution to where we operate. attractiveness of destination. Environment We shall do our utmost to continuously improve our perforReduced consumption of energy, water, and chemicals; mance in the areas of energy, water, chemicals, and resource resource-efficiency; biodiversity protection; minimisation of consumption, and waste generation in order to reduce our waste and emissions; responsible; purchasing; sustainable negative impact on the environment. transport. 6 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Organisation and Tools Organisation Responsible Business endeavours to capitalise on both top-down and bottom-up approaches to ensure maximum engagement and greatest impact. Board The Rezidor Board is fully committed to not only supporting the company’s Responsible Business programme but the Board also actively helps drive development of the programme. This active involvement has played a key role in expanding the scope of the Responsible Business and making it an integral part of all hotel operations.  Corporate Office Rezidor has a dedicated Responsible Business department providing hotels with ongoing support to implement Responsible Business practices. The Responsible Business department in turn collaborates with other key departments such as Safety and Security and Human Resources as well as Technical Development, Sales and Marketing, Food and Beverage, Business Development and Finance to ensure Responsible Business is integrated into all aspects of Rezidor’s operations. The Corporate Responsible Business Department reports to the Executive Committee.  Regional Responsible Business Coordinators There is also a regional framework in place for Responsible Business, supporting the hotels at a regional level and providing a liaison between the hotels and the corporate Responsible Business team. This helps ensure Responsible Business is integrated consistently across all regions; all employees are fully engaged in the programme; and the capturing of bottom-up efforts. The 15 Regional Responsible Business Coordinators meet twice a year, where they are informed about and discuss the most recent developments and plans for the Responsible Business programme.  General Manager The General Manager of the hotel is ultimately responsible for the hotel’s Responsible Business activities and our General Manager Certification Programme, which is mandatory for all General Managers, includes a dedicated Responsible Business session as well as specific sessions on security and Crisis Management.  Responsible Business Coordinator The Responsible Business Coordinator leads the Responsible Business Team consisting of employees from different departments and all levels at each hotel. Together they review current practices and implement Responsible Business across all departments and report their progress to Corporate Office. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 7 Organisation and Tools Responsible Business Tools Responsible Business Training Responsible Business Intranet Our unique Living Responsible Business and Our continuously updated intranet contains Leading Responsible Business training modinformation about standards and policies; ules are mandatory for every Rezidor reporting requirements and guidelines; a employee within 90 days of their arrival. Livcomprehensive best practice database; coling Responsible Business is a 2.5 hour enerlateral and communication templates; fundgetic, practical and interactive mandatory raising tips for World Childhood Foundation; session for all employees at all levels. It aims information on certification and awards and to help participants understand our impact other useful resources. and how each individual can make a difference in their daily life, both at home and at Safety and Security Tools work. Leading Responsible Business is an All of our hotels have access to our online additional model targeting Heads of Departself-audit risk management tool that guides ments and General Managers to ensure they them through the Four Cornerstones of lead by example and empower employees to Guest Safety, Employee Safety, Fire Safety get involved. and Operational Security, helping them to ensure their internal policies, training proResponsible Business Manual Responsible Business Manual grams, awareness and preparedness are The Responsible Business Manual begins with under continuous review. Additionally, the the very first steps that involve the appointsystem links them directly to a library of good ment of a Responsible Business Coordinator, practices developed and implemented at our the creation of a Responsible Business Team, hotels. Monthly TRIC=S reports are sent to all and the assessment of initial environmental hotels and corporate offices showing develand social performance of a hotel. It also oping threat trends, incident patterns, status Let’s take responsibility includes information on how to organise of risk mitigation programs and other inforeffective Responsible Business meetings, mation. These reports are also linked to the progress with Action Plans that are tailorlibrary or external resources where hotels can made to fit each hotel, and suggestions on acquire further knowledge or resources to how to best communicate results externally assist them in staying ahead of the threat and internally. In addition, once hotels have curve. truly progressed towards the level of Responsible Business excellence, the Manual includes guidance on how hotels can receive recognition for their outstanding achievements. 8 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Pillar 1 Pillar 1: Taking responsibility for the health and safety of employees and guests Rezidor strives to provide a responsible and healthy environment for our guests and employees. Keeping people safe and secure – At Rezidor we understand that maintaining it’s TRIC=S without magic the high levels of safety and security that Rezidor has a safety and security programme guests, employees and owners rightfully designed to protect guests, employees and expect is only achievable through the everyowners’ investments while maintaining or day actions of every employee at every level even enhancing guest and employee satisfacin every hotel in every country. One of the tion. The acronym TRIC=S stands for the folfoundations of the programme therefore is lowing formula: Threat Assessment + Risk Employee Safety. We encourage employees Evaluation and Mitigation + Incident to report dangers or aberrations, take immeResponse Preparedness + Crisis Managediate action to prevent injury or damage, and ment, Communications and Continuity = to follow-up and ensure that dangers are Safe, Secure and Sellable hotels. removed and abnormalities corrected. We have a structured risk management agenda with proactive behaviour, gathering The Challenges and sharing information throughout the comWe also acknowledge that the hotel and pany. The lines of communication regarding tourism sector is highly dependent on the Healthy hotels safety and security issues are kept open and public’s perception of health and security Our Responsible Construction and Renovathe focus is on prevention. In addition to risks. Security scares can reduce demand for tion Guidelines demand high indoor air quality news and media monitoring, Rezidor mainhotel and tourism services. We believe that and accessible rooms and facilities. 48% of tains subscriptions to third party risk analysis by having a dynamic and robust safety and hotels are now completely smoke-free and and alert services. We also encourage our security program and by openly engaging our we are continually increasing the number of hotels to actively engage in safety and secustakeholders, we can help ensure that pernon-smoking guest rooms from the current rity related forums on a local level. ception is based on the reality of the fact that 80%. We also facilitate the well-being of our hotels today are very safe and comfortable guests by offering exercise and sport facilities places to stay. with gyms, swimming pools and spas. MoreBrain Food is a new nutritional formula over, we endeavour to ensure that we provide our Danish hotels have developed for The Four Cornerstone Building Blocks fresh and wholesome food. We continue to meetings and conferences in close coopfor TRIC=S offer a wide variety of healthy options at our eration with Christian Bitz. The product In the mid-1990’s we took steps designed to restaurants. Our hotels endeavour to accomhelps ensure that all meeting participants align the Safety and Security programme modate guests with food allergies, and 33% remain healthy and alert all the way more closely with our operations when we of hotels have allergy tested guest rooms. through a meeting. We serve food that designed building blocks that make up the Hotels also increasingly offer organic (67%) keeps blood sugar levels stable and profour cornerstones of our programme: Guest and fair trade (86%) products. Within our vides optimal nutrition for the brain, so Safety and Security, Employee Safety and concepts such as RBG and Fillini, Responsible your meeting participants maintain a high Security, Fire Safety and Operational SecuBusiness is incorporated through the eliminadegree of brain activity and reactivity. rity. To remove some of the taboo and mystion of unsustainable ingredients such as Fresh locally sourced ingredients are most tique that often surrounds security-related bluefin tuna and the promotion of local seanutritional. They taste the best, and are issues, we defined very simple, understandsonal food. best for the environment, so naturally, able goals for each cornerstone: No guest they form the basis of the food we prepare. should become ill, injured or suffer loss during their stay; No employee should become ill, The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 9 Pillar 1 injured or suffer loss at work; The risk of fire and operational units. It includes an overview Crime and Justice Research Institute project should be kept to a minimum and we should of our threat assessments, input on the risk to develop a handbook on public-private be able to detect fire quickly and limit any management programme, examples of incipartnership models. damage caused and; for Operational Security: dents and prevention activities as well as we should be able maintain uninterrupted information on crisis management and comTomorrow’s TRIC=S hotel operations and have plans in place to munications training and other information We live in a world of real-time communicalimit the impact of a disruption both in length relating to the safe and secure operations of tions and a world where responsibility for and degree. Simple, understandable, doable. our hotels and our company. The simple ensuring safety, security and protection of report is linked directly to support docuinfrastructure is increasingly being shifted The Evolution of TRIC=S ments and by clicking the links the hotels can from government offices and agencies to the Traditionally, safety and security was about quickly learn more about how a threat could private sector. This brings a new wave of planning appropriate responses to incidents affect them, how a risk can be removed or challenges where we not only have a duty to that could occur. Incident response however mitigated and how hotels have handled incicare but we must perform this duty knowing is only part of the equation that creates a dents successfully. This keeps our programme that our actions will be visible. Our TRIC=S formula for cementing the four cornerstones very dynamic, allows us to learn from each programme has been developed to meet together into a solid foundation for safe and others’ experiences and helps us to continuthese new demands of transparency and secure hotel operations. A one size fits all ously improve the information and the good accountability. manual is not sufficient support to our diverse practice library our hotels can access. The An external review of our Corporate Secucollection of hotels. Instead we use an online reports are very much a result of a two-way rity and the TRIC=S programme by the UK self-audit system linked directly to a library communication between the individual hotels based consultancy firm BGN Risk in 2009 of good practice examples collected from our and the corporate offices they report to. concluded: “This model is providing value for hotels. The self-audit routinely guides hotels through a comprehensive and complete review of their local safety and security program helping them keep policies updated, implement procedures adapted to their needs and means, and complete training programmes regularly for their staff. In 2010 a record 250 hotels used this tool and at yearend there was an average 96.3 compliance with set objectives. Amongst the 250 hotels there is also a growing number of franchise properties for whom the system is made freely available. Yes I Can! – Always Care Yes I Can! is our company vision at Rezidor and the “Always Care” motto for our Safety and Security programme was inspired by this vision of taking personal responsibility and showing “Yes I Can” hospitality. “Always Care” says that if we care about people, care about Cooperation at all levels money but more importantly it is protecting property and care about the world around us, We advise our hotels to play an active role in company assets, employees and customers.” we will also take personal responsibility in their local community crime prevention proWe feel confident that the built in dynamics protecting these vital elements in our lives. grams, regional or national hotel associations in our programs will assist us in continuing to It is therefore everyone’s responsibility to and other groups that can help them adapt meet the challenges we face. “Always Care”. their safety and security programs to meet In their review, BGN Risk also stated that local needs and requirements as well as to our program was versatile, functionally releCommunicating at all levels share information and good practice that can vant, scalable for expansion and could be The success of our Safety and Security probenefit others. applied in any location. In November 2010 an gramme is meeting the ongoing challenges At corporate level Rezidor is an original agreement was signed so Rezidor will assist we face, monitoring threat developments member of the US Overseas Security AdviCarlson with the further development of corfrom pandemics to crime to terrorism, globsory Council (OSAC) hotel security working porate safety and security processes and will ally and locally, whether they are slowly bubgroup and actively involved in other programs bring the corporate safety and security bling up under the surface or rapidly bursting such as serving on ASIS International’s Hotel, guidelines of both companies closer together onto the scene. Every month we therefore Entertainment and Tourism Council and conproviding a global umbrella of safety, security share a TRIC=S report with all of our hotels tributing to a United Nations Interregional and resilience for our brands. 10 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Pillar 1 Eirik Bergvoll, General Manager at Radisson Blu Hotel in Johannesburg The Soccer World Cup in South Africa was a successful test of the Rezidor Safety and Security System. “A structured -The planning for the safety and security for the Soccer World Cup 2010 in South to the event’s security. The Radisson Blu Hotel also stayed in close liaison with the Responsible Africa started one year before the event, local authorities and other hotels in the says Eirik Bergvoll, General Manager at area. Everything went perfectly well and Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton in Johannesthe guests and employees were happy durBusiness burg. The World Cup was a practical test of ing the sporting event. -The local organisers did a fantastic job, approach is Rezidor’s TRIC=S formula, which stands for says Eirik Bergvoll, to avoid problems with Threat assessment + Risk evaluation + Incilogistics deliveries were made during the dent response capability and + Crisis mannight. fundamental agement preparedness = Safe and Secure Hotels. TRIC=S is part of the Responsible Generally, guests are expecting high levels of safety and security to be able to have for success in Business programme and has been practiced a good and safe visit experience. Training of from the opening of the hotel in 2008. all employees in safety and security is of the Prior to the World Cup numerous security utmost importance to keep up the high Africa” delegations from corporations and celebrities such as royalties and heads of states standard of Rezidor. TRIC=S is considered to be an industry-leading initiative and has conducted security site inspection of the gained international respect. hotel. During the event they had their own After the event the safety and security security details that needed to be coordimanagement team of the hotel collected nated with the Radisson Blu security frequently asked questions and made a arrangements. standard presentation that could be used Before and during the World Cup the for any potential customer to get a quick hotel used the expertise of OSAC (Overseas overview of safety and security at the Security Advisory Council) of the US hotel. This presentation is now also used by Department of State. During the event the other hotels in the group as Rezidor’s best hotel management received daily updates practice. from OSAC as well as security briefs related The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 11 Pillar 2 Pillar 2: Respecting social and ethical issues in the company, as well as in the community There is no doubt that the highlight for Responsible Business at Rezidor in 2010 was our recognition by the Ethisphere Institute as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” (WME). of the Ethisphere Institute. “This year’s expanded and promoted widely within ReziWorld’s Most Ethical Companies award was dor from the STAR supervisor development more competitive than ever, because compaprogramme, to internal audit training and all nies realise that making ethics a priority is the way up to our internal General Managers critical amidst a tough economic environCertification Programme. It is furthermore ment.” reflected in the “Always Care” motto of the Thus we are very proud that our pledge to group’s Safety and Security programme. build our company on a solid ethical foundaAny employee with concerns or questions tion has been acknowledged. Taking responabout the Code is encouraged to raise these sibility is at the core of how we operate and directly with their supervisor. Serious or senwe have already demonstrated the strength sitive concerns regarding the Code or a posof our commitment through our signing of sible breach of the Code can also be reported the United Nation’s Global Compact, the anonymously through rezidorethics.com. This world’s largest voluntary corporate responsiis managed by a third-party, Ethics Point, bility initiative, in 2008. In signing the Global which ensures that reports are swiftly Compact we committed to aligning our operbrought to the attention of the appropriate ations and strategies with ten universally person or persons at Rezidor. In 2010 we This is the fourth year Ethisphere, a thinkaccepted principles in the areas of human enhanced this website to ensure employees tank dedicated to the creation, advancement rights, labour, environment and anti-corrupare confident of its independence and are and sharing of best practices in business ethtion. A description of the policies and procomfortable reporting their concerns. ics, corporate social responsibility, anti-corcesses we have put in place to enforce these ruption and sustainability, has published the principles can be found on page 24. Transparency and Anti-Corruption WME rankings. Through in-depth research Rezidor does not make any contributions or and a multi-step analysis, Ethisphere Code of Ethics give other support, direct or indirect, to reviewed thousands of nominations from We believe the strength of a company starts political parties or individual politicians. The companies in over 100 countries and 36 with a deep commitment to ethics from the industries in order to determine the winners. top and is sustained with an unwavering dedi“Rezidor’s promotion of a sound ethical envication to these same high standards from The Code of Ethics in short: ronment shines within its industry and shows employees at every level. To guide hotel and 1. We respect the law a clear understanding that operating under regional office staff, management and 2. We show respect for all persons in the highest standards for business behaviour employees alike, about how we want to operall situations goes beyond goodwill and “lip-service” and is ate our business and our way of life, Rezidor 3. We think ethically intimately linked to performance and profitlaunched a Code of Ethics in spring of 2008. 4. We act fairly ability,” said Alex Brigham, Executive Director The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 5. We do not discriminate against contains rules and guidelines for our business anyone for any reason conduct and responsibilities vis-à-vis col6. We are honest and transparent leagues, customers, guests, suppliers, share7. We are loyal to our employer holders, authorities and the world at large. 8. We do not exploit the company’s Every employee is introduced to Rezidor’s resources ethical culture and Code of Business Ethics 9. We think of safety at all times through the Living Responsible Business 10. We take care of the Earth training programme. This foundation is 12 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Pillar 2 Rezidor Hotel Group receives no direct nor we are on the right track. Since 1991, the any hospitality career. The Rezidor Hotel significant financial subsidies from governfirst year when the analysis was conducted, Group supports transfers throughout the mental organisations in the countries where and even during the challenging times of the hotels in all countries, enabling its employees we operate hotels. However it is worth noting global downturn, Rezidor ‘s Employee Satisto grow with the company and to develop that many hotels receive financial assistance faction Score has steadily increased and curthemselves. As much as we perceive our for Responsible Business initiatives in other rently stands at 86.7– an outstanding result guests to be individuals with individual needs forms, for example: within our industry and other service indusand wishes, we also perceive our employees tries worldwide. to be individuals with individual backgrounds • Not only did Radisson Blu Hotel Basel Taking into account all hotels, under all and cultures. Employees are hired for their receive nearly TEUR 12 in support from the contract types, a total of over 35,000 attitude and willingness to serve the guest. state for new more efficient windows and employees were working under the Rezidor Cultural differences enable us as an employer lightening protection, the city of Basel also brands during 2010. During the last year over and as a host to cater to the needs of our clirewards employers for reduced energy 2,500 jobs were created with the vast majorentele on an individual basis even better. Rezconsumption through their social insurance ity of employees hired from local markets. idor’s Equal Opportunities Policy states that contributions which resulted in a benefit of The company counts no less than 140 no discrimination due to age, race, religion, over TEUR 12 for the hotel in 2010. nationalities amongst the workforce, 57% of gender or disability is allowed, and all our • Together with Sund Resurs and City Akadewhich is male. All employees receive regular hotels have routines in place to ensure this min, Radisson Blu Hotel Malmo received a performance and career development is the case. grant of TEUR 93 for a diversity managereviews at least on a yearly basis. Personnel ment project. costs, such as wages, training and benefits, People Development and Training • In 2010 Radisson Blu Hotel Karsruhe are by far the largest cost for the company, Rezidor has for many years successfully received a subsidy of TEUR 5 and a tax 54.3% amounting to MEUR 278.9. More focused on having a positive effect on the rebate of TEUR towards the installation of a information on payroll cost and the split of bottom-line through active people managecombined heat and power generator and these costs per country can be found under ment. We offer a range of tools in order to they expect to benefit from a further TEUR Note 10 of the Rezidor Annual Report 2010. attract and retain talented people by hiring 31 over the coming years. Rezidor pays fair wages according to attitude and training skills. • During 2010 Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, industry standards and had no legal breaches Yes I Can! is also the driving force behind Malta Golden Sands received a grant of with regard to labour legislation last year. our company’s award-winning 5-step people 30% towards a new reverse osmosis plant; Rezidor respects the rights of employees to development programme. This programme is a grant of 50% worth TEUR 7 on the instaljoin trade unions if they so choose and to our tool to bring each of our employees to his lation of three way valves on the property’s bargain collectively in accordance with local or her full potential, it respects the local culair conditioning units and a grant of 50% laws. Pursuant to the European Union Directural values of our 35,000 employees in over worth TEUR 11.5 towards the cost of new tive on works councils (94/45/ EC, the 60 countries in which we operate, and it segregated waste bins and a waste com“Works Council Directive”) Rezidor has looks after individual needs and different sets pactor. established a European Works Council, which of skills and experiences. Our 5-Step People has been entered into by and between repreDevelopment Programme is at the heart of In some regions where Rezidor operates sentatives of our central management and Rezidor’s people development strategy. This there are high risks related to corruption, employee representatives. This framework programme allows for every ambitious thus the Code of Business Ethics is a valuable helps regulate information and co-depenemployee to aim for the top, thanks to our tool and management and staff are trained in dency issues. Annual meetings are held, simple – but efficient – policy of recruiting this regard. These issues are also covered in where issues such as the company’s finances, from within. The programme covers five levour internal control procedures. Rezidor takes performance, future ventures and other parels of increasingly more advanced training substantial measures to ensure that the ethiamount issues, are discussed with employee and includes the mandatory New Hire Oriencal behaviour stated in the Code of Ethics is representatives. Rezidor strives to handle all tation, On-Job Skills, Yes I Can! and Living a core value in all business relationships. In operational changes in a transparent and Responsible Business. 2010 we also enhanced the governance proopen fashion, with the goal of giving the The Mentor Mentee programme was gramme for our operations with a new and employees fair influence. When taking over launched in 2000 to ensure that the inhabitdedicated anti-fraud policy. The Rezidor an existing hotel, we endeavour to retain the ant knowledge within the group will be taken Hotel Group has not had any significant incimajority of the employees of the earlier hotel care of and passed on to the future generadents regarding corruption or bribes causing brand. tion of General Managers. In 2010, 25 Menlegal actions during 2010. tees were appointed to their first time GenEqual Opportunities eral Manager assignment, representing up to Empowering Employees A strong understanding and respect of cul30% of the General Manager appointments Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice for tural differences is essential to Rezidor’s sucfor the year. Yet again during 2010, 95% of our people. We care for our employees, cess as we employ no less than 140 different Rezidor General Managers came from within involve them in our planning and decisionnationalities and we operate hotels in over 60 the company. making processes and ask for their feedback. countries. Diversity amongst the workforce The Business School @ Rezidor is an inteOur annual Climate Analysis, a group-wide in our hotels is as old as the hospitality indusgrated part of the 5 Step People Developemployee satisfaction survey conducted by try itself. Experience across different hotels ment Programme since 1996. The Business an external independent party, shows us that and different countries is an integral part of School @ Rezidor has a wide range of courses The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 13 Pillar 2 spanning from supervisory leadership and human-rights related issues hands-on, Charity management training to a General Manager strengthening local communities by running a Throughout the year, Rezidor’s hotels sponCertification Programme and business planresponsible operation. Child or forced labour sor many charities and non-profit initiatives ning for Heads of Department. During 2010, is not accepted and this is ensured through at local level through actions such as fundfour international schools were held in training, local hiring policies and careful monraising assistance, training, free meeting Dubrovnik, Berlin, Hamburg and Stansted. In itoring. We also pay close attention to, and rooms and other in-kind donations. In 2010, addition to these international schools, three train our employees to be aware of, the risks over 234 hotels participated in the annual regional schools were conducted and several of child sex tourism while Carlson Companies Responsible Business Action Month in SepBusiness School courses were organised has signed the ECPAT Code of Conduct tember when hotels are encouraged to orgaindependently in various locations. In 2010 against the sexual exploitation of children on nise environmental and community activities. alone, 750 participants from over 42 counour behalf. The Rezidor Hotel Group is also proud to have tries participated. the World Childhood Foundation (Childhood) The Rezidor Learning Network (RLN) was Community as its international charity organisation since launched in July 2009. A learning manageTourism is dependent on the community as June 2007. Through various fund-raising ment system, offering virtual tools, it aims to well as cultural and natural heritage. Hotel activities at hotel and corporate level during increase Rezidor’s curriculum of on-line companies contribute positively to the social the year, the company raised TEUR 60 for learning opportunities – both now and in the and economic development of regions in Childhood in 2010. At the same time hotels future. The system has more than 4,300 which they operate. Hotels hire a majority of have donated approximately TEUR 360 to active users is open 365 days a year and their employees locally and pay local taxes local charitable causes. 24/7. which are re-invested to benefit the region. The Management Development ProWe also give support through the restoration World Childhood Foundation gramme which is designed to develop, train of cultural heritage sites, by sponsoring local Since June 2007, Rezidor’s corporate charity and prepare existing Supervisors to become events and charities and by partnering with organisation is World Childhood Foundation – Department Heads within two years has been research and interest organisations. Being a non-profit organisation dedicated to serva success during the year with 87 persons well thought of helps to safeguard our repuing the most vulnerable children in the world: starting the programme in 2010. The protation and strengthen our brand. It enables us street children, sexually abused and exploited gramme usually lasts for 24 months, and to more easily acquire licenses to operate and children, children trafficked for sexual purinvolves a real role from day one. facilitates the process of establishing operaposes and institutionalised children, with a During 2010 we launched the On Job Skills tions and securing business partners in local particular focus on girls and young mothers. Monthly Training Calendar. This calendar markets. Rezidor also has a direct and subRezidor’s mission is to provide its several focuses on different areas of the hotels each stantial effect on local communities as an million guests each year with a comfortable month and involves all level of staff with employer and a purchaser. and restful stay away from home. Childhood short and efficient trainings. To date there are In addition to taking responsibility for our aims to help children who are abused and more than 650 qualified On Job Skills trainers own social, ethical and environmental behavexploited to ensure that they are given a safe spread throughout the Rezidor Hotel Group. ior, Rezidor strives to facilitate guests’ particand secure childhood, or simply put, a home. ipation in the Responsible Business proThese parallel aspirations mean that Rezidor’s Human Rights gramme. Rezidor was the first international support to Childhood is natural to who we are Rezidor operates hotels in countries where hotel company to offer all its loyal guests the as a company and a corporate citizen. As we problems with corruption and violation of possibility to offset the carbon emissions move forward towards achieving our growth human rights issues exist. Key human rights associated with their stay through our loyalty objectives, we will also continue our commitissues for the hotel industry include fair programme goldpoints plusSM . Guests are ment to support children around the world wages, women’s rights, the capacity to join encouraged to save energy through key card and to provide them a safe home and a better trade unions and collective bargaining. controlled lighting, conserve water through childhood. Breaches of good practice and association towel and linen re-use programmes and to with social problems can cause considerable recycle their waste when possible. We also long-term damage to a company’s reputation widely communicate our Responsible Busiand may result in a company being denied ness efforts to guests and other interested future licenses to operate, sometimes even parties through posters, brochures, online facing international boycotts. Rezidor does and this Responsible Business Report. In addinot in any way participate in or condone tion many hotels work with local schools, practices that breach International Declarabusinesses and Non Governmental Organisations covering these issues. On the contrary tions to increase awareness of and build we feel that our presence can be a positive capacity for environmental and social influence. We work to rid prevalence of improvements. 14 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Pillar 2 Positive impact on an Egyptian Community -Part of the Responsible Business objective is Quseir. As part of a wider campaign by Resala to have a positive influence and impact on the to raise funds for those in need, the hotel local community, says Niara Mohamed, provided 50 meals for members of the local Responsible Business Coordinator at Radisson community in El Quseir and also collected Blu Resort, El Quseir in Egypt. She is the clothes donations from staff and guests, coordinator between the hotel and the comwhich were then distributed to the poor. munity regarding social, ethical and environmental issues. The resort runs a unique comClean-up initiative at the beach Niara Mohamed, Responsible Business munity development centre with training for Every year one or two big clean-ups are Coordinator at Radisson Blu Resort in Egypt local people and opportunities for visitors to arranged together with the Resala Associaparticipate in the local culture. tion, RSEC Centre, Roaya Association, El Here Niara tells us about the social and Quseir Sports Committee, El Quseir City environmental activities conducted by the Council and the other hotels in the area. The hotel in the community as part of Responsible resort provided all volunteers with a t-shirt, “Responsible Business Action Month in September: gloves, garbage bags, refreshments and transport to and from the beach. There were  l Quseir Hospital Development E about 100 people cleaning from the particiBusiness and Project Radisson Blu Resort organised a repair campating organisations, as well as hotel staff and guests. community paign in cooperation with the city council for the intensive care unit of El Quseir hospital. The resort assisted by sending its engineering Children’s Art exhibition to help local community work is team with maintenance supplies and providing the intensive care unit with medical An art exhibition was arranged in cooperation with the Administration of Education and important devices as well as mattresses, bed sheets and pillows. Managers from surrounding hotels were invited to a conference arranged at the Roaya Association. The exhibition involved the display and sale of more than 150 pieces of children’s art from all of the local schools in because we Radisson Blu Resort to share best practice and to collect money for the hospital. El Quseir. The proceeds of the sales went towards helping the local community. The live with the HIV & Hepatitis C Conference exhibition also serves to encourage talented students to show their works. Funds raised citizens and In partnership with the Ministry of Health and were also given to the school to help develop the Health Directorate of the Red Sea a HIV & the artists and buy new materials and equipHepatitis C conference was hosted to raise ment for the art department. the hotel is awareness amongst staff and locals. The initiative was a huge success with over 75 peoOther examples of Community depending on ple attending. The Radisson Blu Resort proinvolvement vided transport for people locally and -Every year we are inviting handicapped chileveryone attending the conference was prodren to the hotel for the Handicap Day celecommunity. vided with information leaflets to share the message further. bration, says Naira. Orphans are also invited every year to do activities in the hotel. Other We are not examples of community involvement are Charity donation to people in need development centre on jobsite training for A charity donation event was organised at students and entrepreneur training for the alone” the Resort in association with the National Egyptian Charity organisation Resala El hotels school courses. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 15 Pillar 3 Pillar 3: Reducing our negative impact on the environment Rezidor continues to focus on resource efficiency with regard to energy, water and waste and widespread eco-labelling of hotels has allowed us maintain our strong environmental performance in 2010. investors with an objective and reliable benchmark for responsible investments. The Nordic Sustainability Index highlights the 50 best rated companies on the Nordic exchanges, while the Sweden Index commental certifications or eco-labels in certain prises the 30 best rated on the Stockholm regions where Rezidor operates. Thus we are exchange. Thus the indexes identify the leadactively working with environmental organiing companies in terms of sustainability and sation including Green Key to develop criteria Rezidor is proud to be recognised for moniand pilot schemes at Rezidor properties. In toring not just the bottom line but the triple 2010 we helped introduce the Green Key bottom line of environmental, social and ecolabel to Bahrain, Russia Saudi Arabia and the nomic performance. United Arab Emirates. A full list of certificaAt hotel level, we continued to pursue tions can be found on page 20. third-party environmental certifications in 2010 to ensure hotels are doing their utmost Responsible Construction to reduce our environmental impacts. This and Renovation Our continuous improvement was recognised year 57 hotels received a respected eco-label Rezidor works actively to enhance resource in 2010 through our inclusion in both the such as the Nordic Swan or ISO 14001 bringefficiency and to measure, monitor and OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index and the ing our total number of eco-labelled hotels to reduce its carbon footprint and this requires OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index. GES 150. For the most part, regional certifications cooperation with property owners, construcInvestment Services – Northern Europe’s or eco-labels have been selected to ensure tors and architects. At the same time, in leading research and service provider for hotels perform to their maximum potential in order to minimise environmental impact and Responsible Investment – and NASDAQ their respective countries, and also to take promote efficient resource use from the OMX, the world’s largest exchange company, into account consumer awareness of these beginning of new projects, the use of smart calculate a number of sustainability and ethischemes. In fact one challenge encountered design and best available technology is essencal indexes on the Nordic markets, providing along the way is the unavailability of environtial. To this end, our Responsible Construction Energy/m2, kWh Water/guest night, litres Waste/guest night, kg 500 500 2.5 400 400 2.0 300 300 1.5 200 200 1.0 100 100 0.5 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 Radisson Blu Park Inn by Radisson Radisson Blu Park Inn by Radisson Radisson Blu Park Inn by Radisson 16 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Pillar 3 – Environment Pillar 3 condition channels and ceiling finishes, only materials without negative biological and ecological impact. All installed maintenance free windows throughout this building project are 100% sound proof, at the highest insulation standards and airtight. Not surprisingly this hotel has made significant savings as a result of these measures. Use of energy saving light bulbs throughout the hotel as well as low voltage bulbs in public area where dimming is required results in an energy saving of approximately 60%. Watersaving cisterns throughout the building use approximately 10% less water in comparison to regular cisterns. Low emission gas powered facilities heating a cooling entails a 0.2% Park Inn Stuttgart CO2 emission and energy efficiency of around 98%. The sustainability of the Südtor building, • The use of sustainable building materials The German Society for Sustainable conwhich includes the recently opened Park Inn without polluting elements in order to prostruction established extensive criteria to Stuttgart, was a primary objective in the long the life of the building. assess sustainable buildings which are at the planning stages. During the development of highest standard and exceed by far the existthe building the following targets were set: During the construction phase this criteria ing law & regulation requirements. The certiwas applied to ensure the sustainability of the fication marks are classed into Bronze, Silver • Highest possible insulation quality of the entire project and minimise the biological and Gold. During a pre-assessment visit for building exterior, which is now 23% below impact of the materials used. For the exterior the Office part of the building a Silver Certi­ the energy saving regulations, to minimise walls as well as the ceiling structure a reinfication was achieved instantly. The same crithe primary energy consumption of the forced concrete without chemical additives teria can be used for the Hotel part of the entire building. were used which have been complimented building. An air quality measurement without • The use of energy efficient and low emiswith maintenance free fibred concrete panels furniture achieved already excellent results sion gas powered facilities to produce the to achieve the high insulation specifications. which confirm the use of sustainable materials entire power and hot water demand for the In addition, the fully insulated flat roof is grass and their effective impact on the building as building as well as to contribute the excess covered. For the interior which includes floor well as the positive influence on the hotel power into the local power grid. textiles and components, interior walls the air guests. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 17 Pillar 3 and Renovation Guidelines advise owners, taken in February 2011, based on 2010 data. cleaning chemicals. In the kitchen area, 91% developers and hotels how to best manage In 2010, emissions from electricity, natural of the hotels have a fat separation device in their land in a productive and sustainable gas, heating oil, district heating and LPG gas place, to ensure that fat residue does enter manner. for the 218 properties for which Rezidor has the water system. In 2010 Rezidor expanded the Regional comprehensive data amounted to 408,943 Engineering structure to include Germany in tons CO2 equivalent. Our carbon footprint has Waste addition to France and the UK. This structure thus increased in absolute terms which is to Solid wastes are generated by many activities aims to capitalise on regional synergies and to be expected with the large number of hotels in our hotels like food preparation, prepackhave a direct impact on the bottom line as a opened last year. aged items consumed, guest waste, cleaning result of improved operational efficiency. As the bulk of our emissions come from etc. We are proactively seeking to reduce our There have been no environmentally related energy and in this case electricity use, our residual waste which would otherwise be sent fines or spills at hotel or corporate level in efforts to decrease emissions are concento landfill or incineration. As part of Living 2010. trated on working towards energy efficiency Responsible Business training, employees are and shifting to renewable energy sources. trained in waste management and the waste Energy Again we are particularly sensitive to the hierarchy: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle; and are The energy consumption of Rezidor hotels energy sources used in the countries in which empowered to make improvements where consists primarily of electricity, district heatwe operate hotels and the availability of they see fit. 87% of hotels have a dedicated ing, heating oil, natural gas, and LPG gas with renewable sources in the grid, which is why a waste-sorting area while 66% of hotels have 22% of hotels using renewable energy to number of hotels are generating their own waste-sorting equipment on house-keeping varying degrees. Energy costs as a share of energy through technology such as photovoltrolleys. 67% of hotels return packaging to Rezidor’s total costs is 5.7% (5.6), and during taic panels. suppliers while 40% of hotels provide waste2010 we spent TEUR 29,494 (25,658) on sorting facilities for guests in public areas. We energy related costs for leased hotels. Living Water also aim to purchase products that generate & Leading Responsible Business training and In order to reflect the growing importance of minimal waste through setting central and an increasing proportion of eco-labelled water conservation in 2010 Rezidor adjusted regional purchasing policies and avoiding dishotels contributed to greater energy effihotel water reporting to include all water posable items as much as possible. For examciency in 2010. However, due to a significant used on site. Water for outdoor leisure faciliple 94% of hotels have refillable amenity disrise in occupancy during the year, our tradities and irrigation are now taken into account pensers in public washrooms. tional performance indicator energy per across all regions. Thus, although water conIn 2010 we saw a 12% reduction in waste metre squared shows a slight increase. sumption per guest night decreased by an per guest night at Radisson Blu properties Rezidor is committed to contributing to mitioutstanding 9% for Park Inn by Radisson, we while at Park Inn by Radisson hotels the gating climate change by continuously see a slight increase for Radisson Blu which reduction was 8%. We believe these reducimproving the energy-efficiency of our operahas more resort properties. In any case we tions were achieved mainly due to the influtions. To this end 90% of guest rooms are fitremain confident of our water conservation ence of stricter waste management legislation ted with low-energy light bulbs; 70% of guest efforts and our performance for both brands in a number of countries, stringent recy-cling rooms have key card controlled power and is still far below the International Tourism criteria as part of environmental certifications light-ing; 71% of hotels use occupancy senPartnership benchmark for environmental and increased employee awareness. sors or motion detectors to control lighting in excellence. Ongoing employee training conintermittent use areas. At the same time 71% tributed to improved and more water-effiWorking with Suppliers of hotels have a Building Management System cient routines in housekeeping, kitchens and A large part of our social and environmental in place and energy efficiency is an important leisure facilities. In addition to conserving impacts is derived from those of our supplipart of the role of the Regional Engineering water it is essential Rezidor manages the ers. As an international hospitality company structure. quality of the water we discharge. This can be we use a vast variety of products and the in the form of grey water which has been majority of our material use is in the form of Emissions used in showers and sinks and still is relatively products we purchase from suppliers. ConRezidor’s greenhouse gas emissions result clean. 6% of hotels have systems which can trolling how and what we buy is an important primarily from our energy consumption and reuse this water to flush toilets while a numpart of our Responsible Business strategy. For mainly consist of carbon dioxide emissions. ber of properties in hotter climates use this some products where we buy large quantities We have calculated our emissions each year water for irrigation. At the same time, our and where we perceive the negative environsince 2006 in conjunction with the Edinburgh hotels frequently use rain water and even mental impact to be high, we have set strict Centre of Carbon Management. These condensation water for irrigation. environmental performance demands. Moreassessments focus on energy related emisWastewater can also be in the form of over, all suppliers are required to sign Rezisions only, as accurate conversion factors for black water which comes from toilets and is dor’s Supplier Code of Conduct and have the waste disposal or not yet widely available. sent directly to a sewage treatment plant for opportunity to further profile their ResponsiConversion factors used for energy sources processing. In any case it is essential that we ble Business performance to hotels through are based on the World Business Council for endeavour to avoid water contamination, RezPIN, Rezidor’s central purchasing proSustainable Development Greenhouse Gas through chemical use in housekeeping or gramme online platform. Thus we try to posiProtocol and guidelines from the Carbon kitchen residue for example, as much as postively influence our suppliers by providing Trust. An assessment of the greenhouse gas sible. In order to reduce cleaning chemical incentives to develop environmentally sound emissions of Rezidor’s operations was underwaste we use pre-set dosage systems for products produced in a responsible way. 18 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Pillar 3 Bob Burns, Regional Engineer at Park Inn, The Lighting programme alone saves approximately Heathrow, London 490 ton CO2 emissions per year As part of its Responsible Business Proreport is written about things that need to be gramme, Park Inn Heathrow has undertaken a done. The property manager and chief engi“We are not huge task to change all the light bulbs in the hotel to long life energy saving light bulbs. neer decide which measures to be taken, described in the Rezidor action plan. These saving for -This project alone results in a reduction of 948,761 kWh of electricity and a financial saving of $80,000, says Bob Burns, District engineering audits will be further spread to Europe and Russia. According to Bob, the main environmental today but Engineer at Park Inn Heathrow, London. Carbon dioxide objectives are set every year and issues are utility usage such as water, gas and electricity, and waste management. As mensaving for the lighting project will result in 492 tons CO2 reduction in one year. That was a key factor when the hotel was recently awarded Gold tioned before Park Inn Heathrow has successfully converted lighting and as a result made huge energy savings and obtained subtomorrow. status by the Green Tourism Business Scheme. stantial cost reductions in one year. The waste consists mainly of food waste. By We should be The 900 bedroom hotel implements a wide variety of initiatives to conserve energy and increasing recycling Park Inn Heathrow has significantly reduced the amount from 9 tons aware of the water and to reduce waste. Bob Burns is also to landfill per week to 5–6 tons per week. responsible for other hotel properties At the monthly staff information meetings between Wales and Birmingham and reviews briefs are also given on environment, water long term the properties as part of the Responsible Business programme on an annual basis. Bob and, light bulbs in addition to practical reminders such as switching lights off. The benefit” has a task force role where he shares his objective is to change attitudes and behavexpertise and experience by visiting other iour by information and training. A training Rezidor Hotels about to be opened, for programme is planned for all engineers at the example the Radisson Blu Resort & Spa Hotel Rezidor Hotels in the UK in 2011. in Dubrovnik and the Radisson Blu Waterfront The 13 hotels In the Heathrow Airport area Hotel in Stockholm. meet regularly to share best practice. -We conduct yearly engineering audits, -Rezidor is considered to be the industry where we go through the building from roof leader in Responsible Business and we are to basement examining for example the proud to share information to improve for technical condition of water storage tanks, example waste removals and to be transparelectrical and heating systems, and the insuent and open minded about other environlation, says Bob. After the inspections a mental issues, concludes Bob Burns. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 19 Environmental Certifications Environmental certifications Entreprise Ecodynamique (1) Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm Lithuania Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Gøteborg Park Inn, Kaunas Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Park Inn, Klaipeda Green Hospitality Award, Ireland (11) Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport Platinum Award Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan Gold Austrian Ecolabel (2) Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda Award Park Inn Uno City, Vienna Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork Gold Award Radisson Blu Palais Hotel, Vienna Netherlands Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway Gold Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin Gold Award The Green Tourism Business Scheme, UK (13) Radisson Blu Hotel City Centre, Amsterdam Radisson Blu St. Helen’s Hotel, Dublin Gold Award Park Inn Heathrow, Gold Award Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Limerick Silver Award Park Inn Manchester Victoria, Gold Award Poland Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo Silver Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh, Gold Award Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Hotel, Cork Airport – Silver Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow, Gold Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone Bronze Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Stansted Airport, Gold Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny Bronze Award Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, Gold Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Park Inn Peterborogh, Silver Award Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Green Globe (3) Park Inn Russell Square, Silver Award Park Inn Muscat Park Inn Telford, Silver Award Russia Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai-Media City Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast, Silver Award Park Inn, Nevsky Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds, Silver Award Park Inn, Pribaltiyskaya Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool, Silver Award Park Inn, Pulkovskaya Golden Leaf Green Hotel Certificate (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Manchester Airport, Silver Award Radisson Royal Hotel, St Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing, China Radisson Sonya Hotel, St Petersburg The Green Key (60) Hungarian Green Hotel Award (2) Bahrain Saudi Arabia Park Inn Sarvar The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel, Residence & Spa Park Inn, Al Khobar Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest Al Muna Kareem Radisson Blu Hotel, Al Madinah Belgium Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Nordic Swan Eco-label (33) Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah Denmark Radisson Blu Park Lane Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel and Conference Centre, Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Copenhagen Radisson Blu H. C. Andersen Hotel, Odense Estonia United Arab Emirates Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen Park Inn Central, Tallinn Park Inn, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Hotel, Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai-Media City Finland France Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Radisson Blu Hotel, Epsoo Park Inn, Arcachon Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Park Inn, Charles de Gaulle Airport Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Park Inn, Lyon Ouest ISO 14001 (21) Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn, Macôn Germany Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn, Nancy Radisson Blu Gewandhaus Hotel, Dresden Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Vaasa Park Inn, Nice Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn, Orange Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Ambassador Hotel, Paris Opéra Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus Norway Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland Resort, Paris Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Aix les Bains Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysées Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodo Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Radisson Blu Hotel, Neubrandenburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf Radisson Blu Polar Hotel, Spitsbergen Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport Radisson Blu Resort, Schloss Fleesensee Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim Radisson Blu Le Dokhan’s Hotel, Paris Trocadero Radisson Blu Resort, Rügen Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Paris Eiffel Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Dusseldorf Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo The Regent Grand Hotel, Bordeaux Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden The Regent, Berlin Sweden Latvia Park Inn, Solna Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Switzerland Park Inn, Uppsala Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Radisson Blu Hotel, Linkjøping Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmø Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm 20 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Summary of Progress Summary of progress Responsible Business Responsible Business Responsible Business Commitments and Targets Achievements 2010 Policy Objectives Indicators for 2010 EMPLOYEES 1. Availability of user-friendly Ensure workers (in particular My Rights @ Rezidor documents We shall educate and facilitate Increase employee awareness Responsible Business tools for migrant workers) are informed for hotels in Middle East and for our employees to make a regarding Responsible Business employees of their rights Egypt conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and Availability of timely, practical Include Responsible Business in Towel Programme training social issues in their private and actionable information on On-Job Skills Training Calendar included for July and work lives. safety and security issues that impact hotels Ensure all hotels regularly 12 TRIC=S reports were sent to receive updated information on all hotels -one each month threat assessments, risk mitigation measures, incident response practice and crisis management 2. Percentage of hotels that comAll hotels to comply with local All hotels comply with local Foster a responsible working ply with local labour law labour law (working hours, freelabour law environment dom of association, equal, opportunities and non-discrimination) Overall Employee Satisfaction Climate Analysis score of 85 or Climate analysis result increased above from 85.7 to 86.7 Employee Satisfaction with Climate Analysis Ethical StanClimate Analysis Ethical Stanregard to Responsible Business dards score of 87 or above dards result increased from 87.3 and Ethics to 88.3 Percentage of hotels that have 95% of hotels to make informa97% of hotels make information made information on rezidotion on rezidorethics.com availaon rezidorethics.com available to rethics.com available to ble to employees employees employees Provide expert specialist training Work with colleagues in other Free, two day high-level security opportunities especially in counmajor hotel groups to facilitate managers training in Doha, tries where this may not be regional safety and security Qatar for 100 security managreadily available trainings ers from the Middle East region including 10 participants and 1 trainer from Rezidor CUSTOMERS 3. Number of hotels obtaining third 40 new hotels to obtain third 57 hotels obtained third party We shall inform and make it Increase customer awareness party certification party certification certification easy for our guests to particiregarding the Responsible Busipate in Responsible Business ness programme and our hotels’ Percentage of hotels integrating 85% of hotels to integrate 85% of hotels have integrated related activities at our hotels. achievements Responsible Business into Sales Responsible Business into Sales Responsible Business into their presentations presentations Sales presentations Percentage of hotels with 70% of hotels to have a Respon72% of hotels have a Responsible Responsible Business page on sible Business page on hotel Business page on hotel website hotel website website Responsible Business included in Responsible Business to be Responsible Business to be Guest Satisfaction programme added to Medallia Guest Satisadded to Medallia Guest faction programme for Park Inn Satisfaction programme for Park Inn by Radisson 4. Percentage of hotels providing 95% of hotels to provide refill94% of hotels provide refillable Provide Responsible Business refillable amenity dispensers in able amenity dispensers in public amenity dispensers in public actions that are easy for guests public washrooms washrooms washrooms to participate in Percentage of hotels making 75% of hotels to make battery 85% of hotels make battery colbattery collection boxes availcollection box available for lection box available for guests able for guests guests Percentage of hotels facilitating 40% of hotels to provide waste 40% of hotels provide wastewaste sorting by guests -sorting facilities for guests sorting facilities for guests 5. Percentage of hotel rooms that 80% of hotel rooms to be 80% of hotel rooms are Provide a healthy environment are non-smoking non-smoking non-smoking and offer healthy, nutritious organic and fair trade food and Percentage of nonsmoking 45% of hotels to be 48% of hotels are non-smoking beverages hotels (guest rooms and public non-smoking spaces) Percentage of allergy-tested 30% of hotels to provide 33% of hotels provide allergyrooms allergy-tested rooms tested rooms The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 21 Summary of Progress Responsible Business Responsible Business Responsible Business Commitments and targets Achievements 2010 Policy Objectives Indicators for 2010 PROPERTY OWNERS 6. Number of hotel owners informed 90% of hotels to inform owners 94% of hotels have informed We shall work together with Inform all property owners about about the Responsible Business about the Responsible Business their owners about the Responproperty owners to find innothe Responsible Business proprogramme and hotel activities. programme and hotel activities. sible Business programme and vative solutions that satisfy gramme to facilitate the use of hotel activities. our economic, environmental best Responsible Business pracand social objectives. tice when building and renovating Percentage of hotels that con90% of hotels to consider 91% of hotels consider Responsider Responsible Business in Responsible Business in their sible Business in their Long their Long Range Investment Long Range Investment Plan Range Investment Plan Plan SHAREHOLDERS 7. Percentage of hotels that report Maintain high reporting level 99% of managed and leased We shall provide shareholders All hotels to comply with the monthly and annually to corpofrom managed and leased hotels hotels completed monthly Enviand investors with timely, reporting requirements of the rate office ronmental Reporting and the accurate and transparent Responsible Business proannual Status Report questioninformation on RESPONSIBLE gramme naire BUSINESS related risks and opportunities. Increase reporting level to min. 39% of franchised hotels 40% from franchised hotels reported their Responsible Business data 8. Percentage of hotels reporting 50% of hotels to report signifi60% of hotels report significant Increase financially related significant environmental incant environmental investments environmental investments Responsible Business informavestments tion in corporate reporting Percentage of hotels reporting 10% of hotels to report assis4% of hotels report assistance assistance or grants from local tance or grants from local or grants from local authorities authorities for Responsible Busiauthorities for Responsible Busifor Responsible Business-related ness-related investments ness-related investments investments SUPPLIERS 9. Percentage of hotels sharing 80% of hotels to share Rezidor 82% of hotels have shared We shall strive to purchase Increase the number of suppliers Rezidor Supplier Code of ConSupplier Code of Conduct with Rezidor Supplier Code of products that have a reduced that fulfill the Responsible Busiduct with their suppliers their suppliers Conduct with their suppliers environmental impact during ness criteria for suppliers their life-cycle, from suppliers Percentage of hotels asking sup50% of hotels to ask suppliers to 48% of hotels have asked supthat demonstrate environpliers to complete the Rezidor complete the Rezidor Responsipliers to complete the Rezidor mental and social responsibilResponsible Business Supplier ble Business Supplier QuestionResponsible Business Supplier ity. Questionnaire naire Questionnaire Percentage of hotels requesting 70% of hotels to request that, 64% of hotels have requested that, or providing advice as to or provided advice as to how, that, or provided advice as to how, suppliers improve their suppliers improve their environhow, suppliers improve their environmental, social or ethical mental, social or ethical perforenvironmental, social or ethical performance. mance. performance. 10. Provision of organic certified 70% of hotels to serve organic 67% of hotels serve organic Increase the number of products food items certified food items certified food items purchased that comply with set Responsible Business criteria for Provision of fair trade certified 75% of hotels to serve fair trade 86% of hotels serve fair trade product group products certified products certified products 22 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 Summary of Progress Responsible Business Responsible Business Responsible Business Commitments and targets Achievements 2010 Policy Objectives Indicators for 2010 AUTHORITIES 11. Number of hotels reporting No legal breaches to Responsible 0 hotels reported legal breaches We require our managers to Zero number of incidents of nonbreaches to Responsible BusiBusiness-related legislation to Responsible Business-related abide by local and internacompliance with regard to ness-related legislation legislation tional legislation, especially Responsible Business-related regarding labour laws, Health legislative demands and internaPercentage of hotels performing 100% of hotels to perform 99% of hotels performed legaland Safety, human rights and tional agreements Responsible Business legal selfself-audit where available self audit where available the environment. audit COMMUNITY 12. Amount of money raised for Raise TEUR 75 for World ChildTEUR 60 raised for World ChildWe shall take an active role in Have a positive influence and corporate and local charities hood Foundation hood Foundation the international Responsible impact on the local and internaBusiness community, and contional community Raise TEUR 350 for local causes TEUR 360 raised for local tribute to the local communicauses ties where we operate. Number of hotels participating in 220 hotels to participate in 234 hotels participated in Responsible Business Action Responsible Business Action Responsible Business Action Month in September each year Month Month Percentage of hotels organising 80% of hotels to organise 76% of hotels organised employee volunteering for charemployee volunteering for employee volunteering for ity or community charity or community charity or community ENVIRONMENT 13. Expansion of Regional Engineering Expand Regional Engineering Regional Engineering structure We shall do our utmost to conReduce dependence on fossil structure structure to one new country extended to Germany tinuously improve our perforfuels and become more energy mance in the areas of energy, efficient in all areas of operation Percentage of hotels with Pre98% of hotels to have Preventive 97% of hotels have Preventive water, chemicals and resource without sacrificing the guest ventive Maintenance Programme Maintenance Programme in place Maintenance Programme in consumption, and waste genexperience and comfort in place place eration in order to reduce our 2 negative impact on the enviEnergy kWh/m 2% reduction in Energy use meaEnergy use measured as kWh ronment. sured as kWh per metre squared per metre squared increased by for both Park Inn and Radisson 2% for Radisson Blu and 5% for Blu Park Inn due to increased occupancy Percentage of hotels using 30% of hotels to use renewable 22% of hotels using renewable renewable energy energy energy 14. Water litres /guest night Adjust water reporting to Adjusted reporting shows Conserve water whenever posinclude all water used on site decrease of 9% for Park Inn sible without sacrificing the while Radisson Blu with more guest comfort and discharge resort properties increased by ”clean” water 4% 15. Residual waste: kg/guest night 2% reduction in waste generaResidual waste measured as kg Decrease the amount of residual tion measured as kg per guest per guest night decreased by waste generated (going to landnight for both Park Inn and 12% for Radisson Blu and 8% for fill / incineration) Radisson Blu Park Inn The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 23 Global Compact Compliance Global Compact Compliance Human Rights Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of inter• Code of Business Ethics nationally proclaimed human rights; and • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Employee Handbook • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Code of Business Ethics • My Rights @ Rezidor • www.rezidorethics.com • Policy on the Facilitation of Prostitution • Supplier Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the • Human Resources Guidelines effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Employee Handbook • European Workers Councils • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Code of Business Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Code of Business Ethics • ECPAT Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and • Human Resources Guidelines occupation. • Employee Handbook • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Transfer Policy • Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities • Social Networking Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to envi• Responsible Business Policy ronmental challenges; • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental respon• Global Compact Caring for Climate sibility; and • Responsible Business Policy • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Rezidor List of Restricted Substances • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines friendly technologies. • Supplier Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Risk Assessment Policy including extortion and bribery. • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy • Internal Audit • Supplier Code of Conduct 24 The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 About the Report ABOUT THE REPORT The purpose of this Rezidor Hotel Group 2010 Responsibility Report, in combination with the 2010 Annual Report, is to help shareholders and other key stakeholders to value, assess and understand the operations of The Rezidor Hotel Group with regard to three pillars of the Responsible Business programme. We have an ongoing dialogue with our stakegeneration. This also allows us to report our adjusted over the years. Data is checked holders and we report what we consider to performance in a fair and transparent manner internally before consolidation with hotels be of particular interest to those we deem from year to year. asked to justify or explain significant deviakey: employees, customers, property owners, The scope of this report covers Rezidor as tions. Reporting is mandatory for managed shareholders, suppliers, authorities, commua group, providing examples from operations and leased hotels. Moreover, at year-end nity and environment. Thus the Rezidor 2010 regardless of brand. However, due to the 85% of hotels had a Responsible Business Responsibility Report describes the most small number of hotels operated under the specific Action Plan in place for 2011. These material and relevant sustainability aspects of Regent (3), Country Inn (2) and Hotel Missoni Responsible Business Action Plans are our operations, not the full range of actions (1) during 2010, data from these hotels is updated yearly. At the same time, 89% of the and data. limited, while the focus is on Radisson Blu hotels have also incorporated Responsible with 200 hotels and resorts and Park Inn by Business related targets into their overall Scope and Boundaries of the Report Radisson with 103. Business Plan. Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries Responsible Business programme is Hotels are also able to use Rezidor’s excluto areas in which the company has full control encouraged at all hotels, including franchised sive on-line self-audit system that guides over data collection and information quality. properties, and corporate offices. For 2010, them through a review of all key elements in Downstream impacts are generally excluded 39% of franchised hotels completed the the Four Cornerstones of Guest Safety and – as we do not at present dispose of reliable Responsible Business Status Report while 9% Security, Employee Safety and Security, Fire tools to measure these. The numerical data completed the monthly Environmental Safety and Operational Security. One section specified in this report refers to the year Report. of questions is released to the audit each 2010, unless otherwise stated. Monthly quarter, so at the end of the year hotels will environmental reporting and the annual StaRoutines for Monitoring have reviewed the entire programme. The tus Report, compiled by the management Hotels are asked to report their Responsible self-audit is more than box-ticking; it is like a team at each hotel, form the foundation for Business performance in two different living manual since each question is directly Rezidor’s Responsible Business reporting. reports. Overall compliance with, and proglinked to a library of good practice examples The reporting is based on year-end figures, ress towards, the 15 objectives of the collected from the hotels themselves. The meaning that all hotels in operation by Responsible Business programme (see page self-audit is freely available to all hotels, December 31st were asked to report. Conse21) is assessed through the annual Responsiincluding franchises. In 2010, over 210 propquently, some hotels report full-year data, ble Business Status Report questionnaire. The erties were actively using the system to help while properties that opened during 2010, Status Report is an internet-based database keep their internal safety and security polireport only for the months they were in managed by an external consultant (also cies, procedures and training programs up to operation. Hotels that discontinued operaavailable through Rezidor’s intranet), and date. tions with Rezidor during the year are not contains 66 questions touching on all releincluded. During 2010, 28 hotels came into vant areas of the Responsible Business proAccounting Principles and Verification operation under managed and leased agreegramme. The questionnaire used is inspired Financial data presented in the Responsibility ments, as well as 4 hotels under franchised by the UN Global Compact and the Global Report is derived from audited annual agreements. Meanwhile, 2 managed or Reporting Initiative guidelines. Environmental accounts. For all external reporting, currenleased and 4 franchised hotels left the system performance data (e.g. energy, water and cies are converted into Euro. Accounting in 2010. Due to the fact that the reporting waste) is collected on a monthly basis principles for financial reporting, as well as base changes from year to year, we use key through an Excel based database linked to the conversion rates used, are stated in the performance indicators which are based on Rezidor’s comprehensive accounting and Rezidor Hotel Group 2010 Annual Report. surface area (m2) or occupancy (guest nights) financial system. The data requested has The Responsibility Report has not been indeas these are the dominating factors affecting expanded slightly since the launch in 2002, pendently reviewed by auditors or any other energy use, water consumption and waste while the reporting periods have also been third party. The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010 25 Title The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic and fastest growing hotel companies in the world. The group currently features a portfolio of more than 400 hotels with 87,000 rooms in operation and under development in over 60 countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Rezidor operates the core brands Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson – as well as Hotel Missoni, a new lifestyle brand which is developed worldwide following a licence agreement with the iconic Italian fashion house Missoni. Rezidor ‘s long-standing, wide-ranging and awardwinning Responsible Business programme contributed to the group being named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2010. For more information, visit www.rezidor.com If you have any comments, queries or questions, please contact: Christiane Reiter, Director Corporate Communication christiane.reiter@rezidor.com Renu Snehi, Director Corporate Communication renu.snehi@rezidor.com The Rezidor Hotel Group Corporate Office Avenue du Bourget 44 B-1130 Brussels Belgium Tel: +32 2 702 9000 Fax: +32 2 702 9300 IV The Rezidor Hotel Group | Responsibility Report 2010
