How MittMedia Print works with Global Compacts ten principles Corporate Responsibility MittMedia Print AB is a Swedish printing house with 130 employees. MittMedia Print runs a business with environment high up on the agenda. MittMedia Print is a Swan ecolabelled printing house and a Climate Neutral Company. Environmental and social work is part of vision, policies and every day work in MittMedia Print. MittMedia Print is by conducting good work environment, and developed policies on ethics, gender and work, taking our social responsibility. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights MittMedia Print is supporting “Kooperation utan gränser”. It is an aid organization that helps poor people by giving them the right tools to create a better life through workshops, micro financing and cooperative partnership. Principle 2. Ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses MittMedia Print are strongly against perpetration of human rights and we will act with persistence if it appears within the sphere we can affect. MittMedia Print have a company policy towards gender, sexual and social diversity and strongly encourage candidates from different backgrounds. LABOUR Principle 3-6 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation MittMedia supports the Global Compacts principles on labour standards and we follow Swedish labour laws. All employees of MittMedia Print are free to join independent trade unions and we never use minors for work. ENVIRONMENT 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmentally challenges MittMedia Print follows the Swedish laws and regulations that exist. We are certified according the Nordic Swan Ecolabel and Climate Neutral Company. Our ambition is to be proactive in environmental issues. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility MittMedia Print takes responsibility by being a Climate Neutral Company (verified by Respect Europe AB). We offset our greenhouse gas emissions by investing in a CDM-projekt in The Gayatri Agro, in India. That project aims to produce bio energy and electricity to the local network of agricultural residues that previously had no outlet. The project represents a shift from fossil fuels (like coal and gas) to renewable fuels and contributes to the stabilization of the local power grid. Total project saves about 21 000 tones CO2/year. The project, apart from direct climatic and environmental benefits, also created about 400 new jobs for local people. For our costumers we offer ecolabelling on printed products and a climate neutral supplier. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions  Spring of 2011, MittMedia Prints new printing plant will be completed in Sundsvall where a new technique is used called Waterless printing, which means that no water is used in the printing process. MittMedia Print is the first newspaper printing plant in Sweden with this type of technology. The technique involves, in addition to water reduction, although a decreased paper and energy consumption. Waste heat will be utilized through a heat exchanger connected to the building's heating system witch reduces the heating consumption.  Energy Survey in cooperation with an electricity supplier with the goal of reducing electricity and heat consumption.  45 % reduction of CO2 emissions in three years regarding electricity and heat consumption.  Reduced CO2 emissions in comparison with used amount of paper between 2008 and 2010. Total 37 % decrease.  Optimization / control of ventilation. Plans the coming year  Planning of all employees carrying out “Environmental driving license”.  Uphold frequent use of video conferencing instead of travelling.  Increase environmental awareness among employees by an internal action plan.  Changing energy supplier to two of our facilities. The change results in that we will only use electricity from renewable sources and those measures will be performed to reduce energy consumption.  Explore the possibilities for green transports.  Design documents for our suppliers so they can describe their environmental work.  MittMedia Prints new printing plant in Sundsvall, will be certified by FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. ANTICORRUPTION 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery MittMedia Print supports the Global Compact principles on anti-corruption and is strongly against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery. Corruption is always something you need to be attentive about. MittMedia Print always holds a legal and professional way all business, agreements, negotiations and contracts. Summarized by Malin Lisselerks Environmental Coordinator, MittMedia Print AB, Gävle, Sweden 2011-11-25
