UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 Communication on Progress Submitted December, 1 2011 I. Statement from the President Midwest Die Casting Corporation is fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. As an U.S. manufacturer since 1927, we have built our company around these practices and we have been successful for over eighty years. Midwest Die Casting Corp has been positively involved in our local communities and has encouraged our employees to do the same. The United States of America has also always held a high standard for their businesses through their laws and regulations. These laws often extend beyond the UN Global Compact’s ten principles and the laws mandate a higher standard for most sphere of influence as well. Midwest constantly monitors our employees and vendors to ensure we are, and only work with outstanding every-day corporate citizens. As we move forward we will continue finding new ways of maintaining these principles that we and the United Nations hold in high esteem. Regards, Greg Gillstrom President December 1, 2011 Page 1 II. Description of Actions Midwest has started the investigation into a water reclamation project to recycle cooling water for production machines. The end goal is to help reduce the water usage at the facility which will help reduce our environmental impact. Advanced engineering of new part design looks to reduce the amount of material used to produce product to reduce the need for natural resources. In the area of human rights Midwest’s number one priority is to provide a safe, clean, and ergonomically friendly work environment for its crew members. All state and federally mandated laws are followed per OSHA guidelines. Employees are trained in areas of lock out/tag out programs, emergency action plans, MSDS sheets for understanding and handling hazardous materials and fire drills. A clean work environment is maintained with general daily cleanup and semi-monthly aggressive plant wide clean up schedules. Improving ergonomics in the work place are addressed on a consistent basis. Tools have been designed and built to reduce the short and long term effects of repetitive motion injuries. Midwest has also implemented a plan to increase employee job rotation in work stations minimize using the same motion to perform jobs. Advanced engineering of new part designs always has weight reduction as one of the number of goals to make parts lighter to handle and reduce the amount of stress on employees. As an American manufacture labor principles have always been at the forefront of Midwest’s policy. Employee rights are posted in the work area and are enforced by the laws of years of government reform and policy implementation. Midwest has always been upfront with its business intentions. A zero tolerance policy is maintained for employees who engage in extorting customers, suppliers, or prospective employees for personal or company gains. Company policy reflects and communicates to new and existing employees the importance of upholding the business ethic of intolerance to corruption. Midwest Die Casting Corporation has always supported human rights, labor rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. As a responsible manufacturer, Midwest works to identify and do business with vendors and customers whose values reflect its own. III. Measurement of Current Outcome Until this first COP Midwest Die Casting has not maintained a record of its actions in regards to upholding the Ten Principles. Moving forward Midwest will document and monitor its actions described above to ensure the principles continue to be followed. Page 3 Midwest Die Casting Corporation is proud that the average age of doing business with its customers is thirty-five years. If Midwest did not share the same ten principles as the UN Global Compact, the company and its customers would not achieve these types of long term partnerships. Midwest continuously reviews itself and those it has influence on to ensure this continues. It is and always has been Midwest’s way of life. Page 3
