Contents Joint Statement of the Chairman and CEO 2 The Eczac›baﬂ› Group 4 2010 in Review 14 Improving our Relationship with the Environment 20 Promoting Sustainable Consumption Choices 30 Eco-innovation 34 Promoting Healthy Workplaces and Lifestyles 36 Aligning HR Policies with Sustainability Principles 40 Sustainable Social Responsibility 44 Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance 48 Independent Assurance Report 50 Reference Guide to the UN Global Compact Principles 52 Every day there is increasing evidence that business as usual Joint Statement of is no longer an option. Continuing with “business as usual”, the Chairman and CEO as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development points out in its recent study Vision 2050, condemns us to the gradual collapse of ecosystems, accompanied by social unrest, resource-based conflict, and ultimately the failure of our economies and systems of government. The good news in Our commitment to sustainable Vision 2050 is that if we make fundamental changes in governance structures, economic frameworks, and business development is first and and human behavior, not only can we leave future generations a world worth living in, we can also create new areas of valueforemost driven by our concern added growth for businesses and societies. for the future of this planet, Our commitment to sustainable development is first and foremost driven by our concern for the future of this planet, but we also recognize that, as but we also recognize that, as a business strategy, it offers the a business strategy, it offers the most comprehensive framework for managing our risks and opportunities and ensuring that we remain competitive in most comprehensive framework the rapidly changing global environment. for managing our risks and Energy is one of our primary areas of focus in the period ahead because it represents a major cost item in our core businesses opportunities and ensuring that and is the chief source of our carbon emissions. This is why we have focused most of our efficiency projects to date on we remain competitive in the energy and set ourselves two energy targets for the three year period 2011 2013: to reduce the per ton consolidated energy rapidly changing global consumption of our industrial operations in Turkey by six environment. percent and the total energy consumption in our administrative and commercial buildings in Turkey by 15 percent. We believe that we can achieve both targets. Achieving energy efficiency not only gives us the opportunity to strengthen our competitive edge in our existing businesses but also to build brand loyalty by demonstrating our commitment to reducing emissions. 2 New public expectations with regard to the sustainability Looking back to our achievements since we established our performance of brands and products represent a whole new first sustainable development committee in 2007, perhaps the window of opportunity for differentiating our products and most important of all is the change in mindset that we are services. This will be one of the focuses of our new innovation seeing throughout our organization. We set out to introduce center, which will work on new ideas, processes, products and sustainable development principles into every area of our technologies for our Building Products Division to facilitate business operations, and in the process we are succeeding in sustainable living solutions. Eco-smart products discussed in embracing them as natural components of our corporate this report demonstrate the value-add that we have already culture. In the years ahead, we are confident that this inspiration created in a wide range of businesses by focusing innovation and excitement will drive our growth through innovative on sustainable development. solutions in our targeted markets. Sustainability performance is a growing concern of employees as well. Talented young people in the labor market today want more from their companies than profit and growth: they want to be part of larger efforts to make the world a better place. Focusing on sustainability, therefore, sets us apart in the eyes of our potential recruits enabling us to attract the best and brightest. This is one of the reasons why we are undertaking numerous initiatives to communicate more widely our sustainable development commitment and activities. We have also taken steps to align our human resource strategies with our sustainable development goals. We have begun to include sustainable development training in our professional programs and to require that incoming recruits have basic knowledge about sustainability issues. We have also initiated a drive to increase the representation of women in the decisionmaking processes of our companies. As a first step towards achieving this goal, we have instructed our recruitment teams in Turkey to give precedence to women among candidates of equal strengths and attributes. All of these efforts will also advance our continuing commitment to aligning our businesses with the 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in May 2006. 3 The Eczac›baﬂ› Group Mission and values The Eczac›baﬂ› Group is committed to advancing the well-being of society by improving the lives of its customers, managing its businesses in ways that contribute to the community and protect the environment, and sponsoring projects and activities that enrich the lives of current and future generations. In line with its mission of As members of the Eczac›baﬂ› Group: improving the well-being of We hold our dignity and self-respect above all else. Ethical society, the Eczac›baﬂ› Group business principles underpin our business activities. is committed to promoting Eczac›baﬂ› Group employees avoid all activities and behavior that demean themselves and others – including the Group, its social and economic companies and stakeholders – and that run counter to the development, encouraging Group’s mission of pioneering modern, high quality and healthy lifestyles. Two of the first considerations in the formulation of cultural and scientific activity, every business strategy and decision are the legitimacy and fundamental decency of the proposed actions. and preserving scarce natural Our management style respects the individual. We believe that resources through responsible each of us has the right to learn about issues that affect us and to voice our opinions on these. We regard it our duty, as well business practices. as our right, to challenge our personal limits and develop our abilities. The Eczac›baﬂ› Group believes that participative management is the most effective and humane management approach because it encourages employees to develop themselves and their jobs while working with others towards the achievement of shared goals. The success of this system depends on accurate and open communication at all levels of the organization and well-planned opportunities for self-development, so that each employee can realize his or her full potential. We believe that quality is a way of life. In all that we do, in every product and service we provide, we aim for the highest level of quality. Our customer is the focal point of this pursuit of quality. As a pioneer, the Eczac›baﬂ› Group has a duty to surpass established standards and raise consumer benchmarks of product and service quality. The focus of the Group’s quality improvement efforts is its customers, without whom it has no purpose. We are open to the world and to change; by nature we are pioneering and entrepreneurial. The search to innovate in every area of activity is a fundamental aspect of our corporate tradition. 4 Openness to change is essential for innovation, which is pivotal Dr. Nejat F. Eczac›baﬂ› was profoundly influenced by his father’s for long-term business success and continual improvement. dedication to improving the conditions of his community. For this reason, innovation is a strategic element of the Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s management approach in every business process and In 1939, on his return to Turkey from graduate studies abroad, corporate activity. he focused his training and resources on producing vital goods that were largely unavailable in Turkey. In 1942, he began We uphold the tradition of serving our community because we manufacturing a vitamin A and D substitute for cod liver oil, esteem our society and respect our environment. We are proud which had become scarce during WWII, and a decade later he of the contributions that we have made to culture and the arts, opened Turkey’s first modern pharmaceutical plant. Over the education, science and sport. following years, he expanded the Group’s activities from pharmaceuticals to building products, consumer products, In line with its mission of improving the well-being of society, finance, information technology, and welding technology, in the Eczac›baﬂ› Group is committed to promoting social and many cases establishing the first manufacturing plants in economic development, encouraging cultural and scientific Turkey for some of the essential products of modern life. This activity, and preserving scarce natural resources through entrepreneurial history is embodied in the Group’s mission responsible business practices and sponsorship. Sponsorship statement. of institutions and activities that enrich and strengthen society is a fundamental component of the Group’s corporate culture. Apart from supplying much-needed products and services using the most advanced technologies available, Dr. Eczac›baﬂ› We recognize that participatory management gives each of us strived to contribute to the development of Turkish industry the responsibility of working forcefully towards the objectives and civil society through the establishment of professional and goals of our institution. We are careful to observe the rules business organizations, research institutes, educational of our work environment as we understand that this reflects institutions, cultural foundations and scholarship funds. our respect for our colleagues. For Dr. Eczac›baﬂ›, contributing to the development of Turkey’s Empowerment, which is essential for participative management, economy and social institutions was as important as developing also requires that every employee embrace and advocate the a successful business. One of his most oft-expressed ideas in Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s targets, rules and corporate culture. this regard was: “The real measure of private entrepreneurship is its success in increasing the wealth of the whole community”. Today, every Eczac›baﬂ› Group company regularly contributes Corporate social responsibility to one or more non-profit institutions and one of the primary corporate values that all Eczac›baﬂ› employees are expected Family tradition of community service to share is the “tradition of serving our community”. Dr. Nejat F. Eczac›baﬂ›, the founder of the Eczac›baﬂ› Group, was born in 1913 during the turbulent final years of the Ottoman Empire. The period was marked by armed conflict, scarcity, and a massive influx of refugees to the cities, which struggled to provide them essential services. Dr. Eczac›baﬂ›’s father, who was the first university-educated pharmacist of Turkish origin in Izmir, was at the forefront of efforts to accommodate the city’s rapidly expanding population, co-founding an association to help immigrants and implementing programs to combat cholera and typhus. In 1934, in honor of his many years of public service, Dr. Eczac›baﬂ›’s father was invited to adopt the title of “Head Pharmacist” (“Eczac›baﬂ›”) as his surname. 5 Eczac›baﬂ› Group Profile Eczacıbaﬂı is a prominent Turkish industrial group with 39 companies, close to 10,100 employees and a combined net turnover of 2.1 billion in 2010. Eczacıbaﬂı’s core sectors are building products, healthcare and consumer products. Additionally, the Group is active in finance, information technology, welding technology, property development and mining. In Turkey, Eczacıbaﬂı is the leader in most of its businesses and has distribution networks for building products, pharmaceuticals and fast-moving consumer goods that are among the strongest in their sectors. Internationally, Eczacıbaﬂı is best known for its flagship VitrA brand, a powerful contender in global bathroom and tile markets. It is also a major exporter of tissue paper, welding electrodes, electronic smart cards and industrial raw materials such as clay and feldspar. International partnership is a central component of the Eczacıbaﬂı Group’s growth strategy. Eczacıbaﬂı has seven international joint ventures and numerous cooperation agreements with leading international companies. All of these are grounded on the principle of long-term mutual benefit, based on firm business criteria and ethical business practices. The Eczacıbaﬂı Group’s mission is to be a pioneer of modern, high quality and healthy lifestyles. Accordingly, the Group encourages each of its companies to surpass established standards in their sectors and raise consumer benchmarks of product and service quality. Through sponsorship and responsible corporate practices, it also promotes social and economic development that nurtures cultural and scientific activity, protects the environment and preserves scarce natural resources. 6 Division highlights Our Consumer Products Division is Turkey’s largest manufacturer and supplier of tissue paper products through Long the premier supplier in Turkey of bathroom products a joint venture with Georgia-Pacific, and the leading supplier and ceramic tiles, our Building Products Division is one of skin care products and professional hair coloring products of the few manufacturing groups worldwide producing through its joint ventures with Beiersdorf and Schwarzkopf. every component of the bathroom as well as an expansive It is also involved in the manufacture of away-from-home range of wall and floor coverings. Supported by eight cleaning products and selected cosmetics, and the marketing manufacturing sites in Turkey and eight outside Turkey, and distribution of a wide range of FMCG brands through an our Division is contending for top three ranking in Europe extensive retail distribution network. with a powerful portfolio of international and local brands: VitrA, Burgbad, Villeroy & Boch (Tiles), Engers, VitrAFix, We have three industrial operations outside of our core VitrA Therm, Artema, and ‹ntema Kitchen. International divisions, a welding consumables joint venture with Lincoln assets include a majority share of V&B Fliesen, the tile Electric, a smart card production and personalization joint division of Villeroy & Boch, 100 percent of Burgbad, the venture with Giesecke&Devrient, and an industrial raw leader of the European luxury bathroom furniture market, materials extraction and processing operation that operates and 100 percent of Engers Keramik, a German tile eight sites in Turkey. We also have commercial property, producer. including an award-winning shopping, residential and office center in Istanbul, Kanyon, several financial service companies, Our Healthcare Division is the leading manufacturer of and an information technology solutions and services provider. parenteral and renal solutions in Turkey through a joint venture with Baxter International and the largest producer of radiopharmaceuticals for nuclear medicine in Turkey and neighboring markets. It also has an extensive marketing and distributing operation for pharmaceuticals and personal healthcare products produced by global companies for the Turkish market. Other activities include hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis services, comprehensive home healthcare services and Turkey’s first special care center for the elderly, chronically ill, and post-operative patients. 7 Eczac›baﬂ› Group at a Glance Building Products Healthcare Consumer Products Finance Division Division Division • Eczacıbaﬂı Building Products Co. • Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter • ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper Co. • Eczac›baﬂ› Securities Co. Hospital Supply Co. • Burgbad AG • ‹pek Kag›t Kazakhstan LLP • Eczac›baﬂ› Asset • Eczac›baﬂ›-Monrol Management Co. • VitrA Tiles Co. Nuclear Products Co. • Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim Co. • Eczac›baﬂ› Investment • VitrA Tiles LLC (Russia) • Eczac›baﬂ› Pharmaceuticals • Eczac›baﬂ›-Beiersdorf Cosmetic Holding Co. Marketing Co. Products Co. • Engers Keramik GmbH & Co. KG • Eczac›baﬂ› Investment • Eczac›baﬂ› Pharmaceuticals • Eczac›baﬂ›-Schwarzkopf Partnership Co. • V&B Fliesen GmbH Trading Co. Professional Hairdressers’ Products Co. • Eczac›baﬂ› Pharmaceutical • ‹ntema Building Materials • Eczac›baﬂ› Health and Industrial Investment Co. Marketing and Sales Co. Services Inc. • VitrA Ireland Ltd. • Eczac›baﬂ› Health Care Products JSC (Russia) • VitrA (UK) Ltd. • VitrA Bad GmbH (Germany) • VitrA USA Inc. • VitrA Bath and Tiles JSC (Russia) JV partners JV partners JV partners • Villeroy & Boch • Baxter • Georgia-Pacific • Monrol Nuclear Products • Beiersdorf • Schwarzkopf Business areas Business areas Business areas Business areas • Sanitary ware • Ethical drugs • Tissue paper products • Finance investment • Sanitary fittings • IV solutions • Cosmetics • Ceramic tiles • Non-Rx products • Personal care products • Kitchen & bathroom furniture • Hospital supplies • Baby care products • Acrylic bathtubs & shower trays • Dialysis treatment • Household cleaning products • Fillers & adhesives • Home care • Away-from-home products • Nuclear medicine • Lens and lens care products Information Welding Mining Other Products Technology Technology and Services • E-Kart Electronic Card • Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric • Esan Eczac›baﬂ› Industrial • Kanyon Management and Systems Co. Askaynak Co. Raw Materials Co. Marketing Ltd. • Eczac›baﬂ› Information • Italia Minerals SRL • Ekom Eczac›baﬂ› Foreign and Communication Trade Co. Technologies Co. • Eczac›baﬂ› Property Development and Investment Co. • Yap›-‹ﬂ Real Estate and Construction Co. • Eczac›baﬂ› Insurance Agency Co. JV partners JV partners JV partners • Giesecke & Devrient • Lincoln Electric • ‹ﬂ REIT Business areas Business areas Business areas Business areas • IT • Welding consumables • Industrial raw materials • Foreign trade • E-card systems and equipment • Property development • Insurance Eczac›baﬂ› Group Financial Highlights * ( Million) 2009 2010 TOTAL NET SALES Building Products 679.1 811.7 Healthcare 294.9 283.9 Consumer Products 396.8 466.7 Other Products and Services 429.5 546.4 Eczac›baﬂ› Group 1,800.2 2,108.7 17.1 % INTERNATIONAL SALES Building Products 400.4 444.9 Healthcare 3.1 5.4 Consumer Products 35.0 42.1 Other Products and Services 52.8 94.9 Eczac›baﬂ› Group 491.2 587.3 19.6 % EBITDA Building Products 49.0 64.8 Healthcare 52.5 55.2 Consumer Products 32.8 24.8 Other Products and Services 0.3 20.4 Eczac›baﬂ› Group 134.6 165.2 22.7 % *Combined results of Group companies 10 Eczac›baﬂ› Group Environmental Highlights Statement of Energy Consumption and Carbon Emissions in Turkey Energy consumption (MWh)* Carbon emissions (ton)* 2008 1,175,225 2008 290,331 2009 1,059,836 2009 263,935 2010 1,281,605 2010 322,385 *Total energy consumed by the Group’s 26 industrial sites in Turkey and resulting carbon emissions. Full details of data content and the basis for preparation can be found in the Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance section of this report. This data, which comprises the “Selected Information”, has received limited assurance from PwC, details of which are provided in the Independent Assurance Report on page 50. Energy, carbon emissions and water per ton-equivalent of output* Energy consumption (MWh/ton) Carbon emissions (CO2 ton/ton) Water consumption (m3 /ton) 100 100 100 100 94.1 100 94.8 100 80 91.9 80 91.8 80 90.4 86.3 60 60 60 40 40 40 20 20 20 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 *Per-ton data for industrial sites in Turkey does not include Esan Eczac›baﬂ› Raw Materials, which accounts for close to 75 percent of total output on a ton basis. As a result, small changes in its output can have a disproportionately large impact on per-ton data. 2009 production data has been restated to reflect improvements in the methodology for calculating consolidated production on a ton basis. Energy consumption by source* Water consumption (m3) * (% in MWh equivalent) 2008 1,952,603 2009 1,651,710 2010 2,788,192 *Total water consumed by the Group’s 26 industrial sites in Turkey. Natural gas Electricity Diesel Steam LPG/LNG *Total energy consumed by the Group’s 26 industrial sites in Turkey. Corporate Governance Zero tolerance for corruption The Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s mission statement and values provide The Eczac›baﬂ› Group is a professionally managed group of clear guidelines on the Group’s policy regarding corruption as 39 affiliated companies directed by our parent company, does its Human Resources Handbook, which includes the Eczac›baﬂ› Holding. The primary functions of Eczac›baﬂ› following rules in its Code of Business Ethics: Holding are to develop our Group’s long-term goals and business strategy and coordinate Group resources and • Eczac›baﬂ› Group employees must obey the law and avoid investments accordingly. any activity that places the Group in a difficult legal position or hurts its reputation. Eczac›baﬂ› Holding’s executive structure reflects the priority we give to encouraging management participation at the • Eczac›baﬂ› Group employees must not use their position to highest level of its decision-making process. Eczac›baﬂ› obtain an advantage from individuals or institutions and Holding’s Board of Directors has eight members, including may never make or offer to make an illegal payment to an five independent directors. Under the leadership of this individual or institution. Board, we have an Executive Steering Committee with broad • Eczac›baﬂ› Group employees will always maintain the Group’s responsibility and authority on Group management decisions. Code of Business Ethics in its relationships with government This committee comprises the chairman and two viceofficials and customers and will not participate in activities chairmen of the Board of Directors and the vice presidents aimed at influencing these stakeholders that might hurt the of Eczac›baﬂ› Holding’s main operational and functional Group’s reputation. divisions. • It is the duty of every Eczac›baﬂ› employee to be honest, Among other duties, the Executive Steering Committee trustworthy and honorable in relationships with both approves investments and annual budgets submitted by customers and employers, to achieve customer satisfaction Group companies, monitors progress in both areas, and through quality, speed, convenience, courtesy and respect, recommends measures for ensuring that targets are met. and to treat every individual and institution equally. Additionally, it evaluates new business opportunities and • In the case that an employee is proven, through submits its recommendations on these to the Board of documentation or other objective evidence, to have broken Directors. It also oversees the implementation of the Group’s these rules, they are to be reported to the highest level of human resource policies, approves recommendations for authority in the Group for decision on the disciplinary executive appointments, and determines the main principles measures to be taken. of the Group’s organizational structure. The Eczac›baﬂ› Human Resources Handbook also has rules The Executive Steering Committee is supported in these against commercial and financial transactions with relatives of responsibilities by a number of sub-committees involving employees, violation of which can lead to termination of the senior management of Group companies. These employment. Every Eczac›baﬂ› Group company has an audit committees cover key management issues: auditing, new and control system that reports to the Head Comptroller and business development, human resources; planning, finance Legal Affairs Office at Eczac›baﬂ› Holding. and investments; corporate communications; and the coordination of company activities within core business Stakeholder engagement divisions. The Eczac›baﬂ› Group appreciates the importance of actively Five Eczac›baﬂ› Group companies are open to the public: engaging with stakeholders to advance both its mission of Eczac›baﬂ› Pharmaceutical and Industrial Investment Co., pioneering healthy, modern and high quality living and the Eczac›baﬂ› Building Products Co., ‹ntema Building Materials success of its businesses. For us, stakeholders are everyone we Marketing and Sales Co., Eczac›baﬂ› Investment Holding Co. interact with or impact, and who impact upon us, starting with and Eczac›baﬂ› Investment Partnership Co. All of these our employees and customers, and including our suppliers and companies publish their corporate governance principles in business partners, our industry associations, the communities their year-end annual reports, which are available through to which we belong, and governmental institutions. our corporate website. www.eczacibasi.com.tr 12 Employees meetings, we announce our meetings in the main press and the bulletins of the stock exchange and make our annual reports Recognizing that our Group’s success depends on the success and financial statements available to shareholders at least two and satisfaction of our employees, we strive to ensure that we weeks in advance. At the annual meeting, shareholders may have in place the best human resources management ask questions and receive answers from our companies’ boards applications and educational programs, provide a professional of directors and vote on major decisions, such as the division and appealing working environment with continual of assets, large purchases and hiring. opportunities for professional and personal development, and develop a long-term relationship with our employees that Business partners begins in their university years and continues into and through their retirement. Our relationships with our business partners are guided by the principle of long-term mutual benefit, based on firm business Sustainable success in the implementation of our corporate criteria and ethical business practices. Our goal is to work jointly strategies requires that we have a dynamic structure that is with business partners to develop our processes, products and prepared for change. In this, our employees are our most services and improve our business results.We achieve this essential source of power, so we support and motivate them through information-sharing and regular meetings with business to achieve their top performance. partners to evaluate performance, share concerns, discuss projects, and set targets. This approach has served us well in Hence, we offer our employees the opportunity to discover and our seven international joint ventures, several of which began exploit their potential, to develop their qualities further in view as exclusive licensing, marketing or distribution agreements, of attaining corporate goals, to strengthen their individual and in our many relationships with suppliers, distributors and motivation and team spirit, and, based on their success, to retailers. advance their career. Through performance evaluation, opendoor access to management, strategy meetings, innovation teams, and our Group-wide suggestion and project evaluation Society system, we are harnessing the creative energy of our employees One of the Eczac›baﬂ› Group values is “serving our community”, and encouraging their participation in management decisions. in line with our mission of improving the well-being of society. For us, this means two things: doing business in ways that Customers contribute to society’s well-being and partnering with or sponsoring civic initiatives and institutions that promote social “Our customer is the focal point of our pursuit of quality.” We and economic development and nurture cultural and scientific formulated this Group value more than two decades ago when activity. we formally adopted Total Quality Management as the basis for the management systems of all of our companies. Today, Since its foundation in 1942, the Eczac›baﬂ› Group and members in line with our growing focus on innovation, our customer has of the Eczac›baﬂ› family have founded or co-founded numerous become the focal point of innovation as well.For this reason, NGOs involved in education, health and hygiene; arts and in addition to establishing systems for engaging with customers culture; public policy and scientific research; and sports. Every on a regular basis, such as customer surveys, websites, call year, all of our companies are expected to contribute to one or centers, and hotlines, we are asking customers to steer our more of these activities. innovation efforts by creating opportunities to hear their needs and desires and listening to them carefully. We also encourage all senior management to join industry associations and initiatives aimed at tackling business issues Shareholders and improving the benchmarks in our industries. Accordingly, we are active in more than 40 organizations that are involved In all our publicly traded companies, our principle is to ensure with issues material to our businesses, including healthcare, that shareholders have access to all non-confidential information building products, paper production, retailing, advertising, about our operational activities and decisions and are able to mining, and real estate, as well as in Turkey’s main business exercise fully their shareholder rights at annual meetings. associations: the Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s In addition to corporate websites, all our publicly traded Association, the Istanbul Chamber of Industry, the Turkish companies have systems in place for responding quickly and Quality Institute, and export development associations. accurately to shareholder requests for information. To ensure shareholders’ ability to make informed decisions at annual 13 We set ourselves three goals for the period 2007-2010 when 2010 in Review we became the first group of companies from Turkey to join the World Business Council for Sustainable Development: measuring and improving our environmental performance starting with highly material variables that are also significant cost factors; integrating sustainable development principles into all our business operations and corporate culture; and In 2010, we continued taking a leadership role in sustainable development initiatives in our industries and home countries. We believe we made to develop our organizational significant headway in all three areas in 2010 through the activities described below. structure for initiating, Set energy reduction targets for the three-year period developing and monitoring ending December 2013 sustainable development Having introduced sustainable development into our strategic activities throughout the Group. plan and performance evaluation criteria in 2009, we set ourselves two energy targets for our operations in Turkey for the three-year period 2011-2013: achieving a six percent reduction in the per-ton consolidated energy consumption of industrial sites and a 15 percent reduction in the consolidated energy consumption of administrative and commercial buildings. Strengthened further our sustainable development management In 2010, we continued to develop our organizational structure for initiating, developing and monitoring sustainable development activities throughout the Group. In April, we established the position of Vice President of Sustainable Development reporting directly to the President and CEO. This senior position, responsible for coordinating sustainable development activities throughout the Group, is the first of its kind in Turkey. In August, we established a new sustainable development working group to analyze the efficiency of the Group's commercial and administrative buildings and develop and implement strategies for improving their energy and water use efficiency. As a result, we now have three working groups focusing on specific areas of sustainable development: environment, product responsibility and building efficiency. We also expanded the number of Group companies represented in our sustainable development working groups from 15 to 26, including representatives from all our industrial subsidiaries in Europe. Since the second half of 2007, our sustainable development working groups have sought to promote sustainable development practices throughout the Group by collecting and evaluating data on the Group’s current performance, sharing best practices, recommending ways to improve performance, and enhancing awareness and understanding of sustainable development issues within the Group, particularly among decision-makers. 14 The working groups are also responsible for developing relations with business NGOs working on sustainable development issues and taking an active role in their working groups and initiatives. The Environment Working Group is primarily responsible for determining which environmental indicators are material to the Group's operations, then coordinating with companies to collect and evaluate this data on a quarterly basis. ln 2010, the working group began to coordinate with the Group's international subsidiaries with the aim of including them in the data collection and evaluation process in 2011. To facilitate this, the working group is coordinating with Strategic Planning to incorporate environmental data into the electronic performance monitoring data and reporting process. The four tasks of the Efficiency in Buildings Working Group established in the last quarter of 2010 are to evaluate current energy and water use in the Group's administrative and commercial buildings, establish minimum performance levels, determine energy efficiency targets, and undertake training and awareness campaigns. By the end of the year, the working group had collected energy and water consumption data for aII administrative and commercial buildings in Turkey, carried out a thorough evaluation of the energy efficiency of seven buildings and determined ways to significantly improve their energy performance. Okﬂan Atilla Sanön The goal of the Product Responsibility Working Group is to Vice President of Corporate Communications assist the Group develop products and services that contribute and Sustainable Development to sustainable lifestyles by monitoring consumer and market trends, innovations, and emerging technologies, and communicating this information to relevant companies. We’re taking a comprehensive approach to sustainable development: in addition to incorporating sustainable development principles in all our business decisions, we’re making them a central component of our corporate culture and, on an individual level, our life philosophy. One of the roles of our sustainable development working groups is to enhance awareness and appreciation of the importance of sustainable development issues. Already, we’ve begun to sense a change in the mindset of our employees and stakeholders, and I believe we’ve achieved the critical mass that will drive this transformation forward. One day soon, everyone is going to be an advocate for sustainable development. Our goal is to be the leader in this area and set the benchmarks for our competitors to follow. 15 Joined new national and international sustainable Commissioned independent assurance of consolidated development initiatives data for all industrial sites in Turkey In 2010, we expanded our participation in national and With the aim of establishing a firm basis for measuring international sustainable development initiatives, signing improvements in our sustainability performance, we on to the Cancun Communiqué, the Energy Efficiency in commissioned PricewaterhouseCoopers to conduct assurance Buildings Manifesto of the World Business Council for on the 2008, 2009 and 2010 consolidated energy and carbon Sustainable Development, and joining a select group of data of our Group’s 26 industrial sites in Turkey. We are the first companies and investors involved in the development of the group of companies in Turkey to assure and report consolidated first Sustainability Index for the Istanbul Stock Exchange. energy and emissions data for industrial sites, a leadership role that we aim to strengthen by gradually expanding coverage The Cancun Communiqué, an initiative of The Prince of to more sites and data. In this regard, we also began to collect Wales’s Corporate Leaders’ Group on Climate Change, calls and evaluate data on energy and water consumption at our on governments to reach an “ambitious, robust and equitable manufacturing operations abroad and commercial and global deal on climate change”. A year earlier we joined administrative buildings in Turkey. businesses worldwide in signing the Copenhagen Communiqué prior to the Copenhagen Climate Summit. Completed numerous projects to improve our resource efficiency By signing on to the Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in Buildings of the World Business Council for Sustainable Many of our companies initiated or completed energy efficiency Development in June 2010, we committed ourselves to projects in 2010. Several also achieved major savings in water evaluating, improving and reporting the energy performance use, other raw materials used in the production process, and of all our buildings. packaging materials. In the Building Products Division, our manufacturing plant for VitrA-branded ceramic sanitary ware became the first in its industry in Turkey to obtain EN 16001 Energy Management Certification. In addition to installing an innovative natural lighting system on its roof, our ceramic sanitary ware operation adopted a new repair technology that greatly reduces the need for re-firing units with small imperfections. Two of our tile producers, VitrA Tiles and Engers, completed major heat recovery investments to enable them to reuse waste heat from their kilns in other processes. VitrA Tiles also developed a fast-firing method for porcelain pool tiles that greatly reduces firing times, while Burgbad, our luxury bathroom furniture maker, opened a new wing at its plant in Germany specially designed to minimize energy consumption. These and other improvements in the Division’s production processes to rationalize the use of electricity will enable us to improve our efficiency in this business field by almost 48,000 MWh. ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper, our joint venture with Georgia-Pacific in the Consumer Products Division, became the first tissue paper manufacturer in Turkey to obtain ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certification. In 2010, ‹pek Ka¤›t made innovative changes in its large machinery operation that will save more than 2,200 MWh and lowered its water consumption per ton of output by 4.2 percent through continued improvement of its internal water cycles. 16 In our Healthcare Division, Eczacıbaﬂ›-Baxter Hospital Supply, our flagship manufacturer of parenteral solutions, peritoneal dialysis products, and other hospital supplies, completed five energy projects that are designed to save 750 MWh per year. E-Kart Electronic Card Systems, our joint venture with Giesecke & Devrient, committed itself to reducing its consumption of non-renewable energy by five percent annually with the aim of becoming a carbon neutral enterprise and obtained both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification. Kanyon, our pioneering shopping center in charge of coordinating the Group’s efficiency efforts in buildings, completed a major solar water heating investment and signed a protocol with Istanbul Technical University and Türk Philips to determine how to improve the efficiency of its lighting and energy systems. Group functional divisions also contributed to our energy reduction achievements in 2010, with Information and Communication Technologies completing a virtual data and cloud computing project that reduced the number of our servers from 98 to three for annual energy savings of about 456 MWh per year. While energy and water consumption were our main focus in 2010, we also made headway in other areas of our environmental performance, such as waste management and recycling. Sedat Birol Executive Vice President Healthcare Division Eczacıbaﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak, our welding technology and Head of Environment Working Group company, signed a waste management agreement with a recycling company enabling it to use non-dangerous waste to produce energy. Eczacıbaﬂ› Building Products initiated a recycling In 2010, we began cooperating with project for PE plastic and increased the ratio of regenerated our international subsidiaries on sand in its foundry processes from five to seven percent. data collection, best practices and Eczacıbaﬂ›-Baxter began to re-use waste carton trays as separators for glass bottle cases. eco-efficiency targets. We now have representatives from all of our Esan Eczac›baﬂ› Industrial Raw Materials, our mineral and international manufacturing operations mining operation, has developed a unique formula for substituting a portion of the expensive and high emission in our environment working group, and Portland cement it uses in the concrete support systems of its our goal is to incorporate their energy underground mining activities with waste material from the and emissions data in our consolidated same operation. accounts. With two years of assurance Details of these and other projects can be found in the section “Improving our behind us, we’ve learned a great deal Relationship with the Environment” on page 20. about the data evaluation process. For our 2011 assurance process, we hope to have in place new reporting systems that will facilitate the inclusion of more sites and indicators. We also aim to expand our initiatives in occupational health and safety, which we began last year with the support of representatives in our working group from the Group-wide OHS unit. 17 Launched new products with improved sustainability Created websites to promote our brands’ sustainable features development activities, products and services Eczacıbaﬂ› Giriﬂim, our manufacturer of away-from-home Two of our flagship brands – VitrA and Selpak – launched cleaning products, developed and launched a new line of websites in 2010 dedicated fully to explaining their sustainable industrial washing powder in 2010 that does not contain development approach and practices. The two websites aim to phosphates or petroleum-based products, has a vegetablecreate awareness among stakeholders of the brands’ sustainable based active ingredient, and is packaged in a recyclable development commitments and achievements. Additionally, cardboard box. our tissue paper company, ‹pek Ka¤›t, established a website promoting its eco-smart hygiene solutions for away-from home E-Kart Electronic Card Systems launched Turkey’s first fully customers. biodegradable credit card. Began to align our HR policies with sustainable Eczacıbaﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak developed two welding development strategies consumables that reduce the volume of pollutants emitted during the welding process and introduced a range of fume In 2010, we began to align our human resource policies with extractors to improve the welding experience. It also upgraded our sustainable development goals, focusing first on learning its most popular welding machine to increase users’ energy opportunities for members of our Sustainable Development efficiency by as much as 25 percent. Working Groups. Apart from including sustainable development in performance indicators, we added knowledge about Eczacıbaﬂ› Building Products designed the entire 2010 collection sustainability issues among the criteria expected of new of VitrA-branded WC pans so as to be compatible with its ultra candidates for management positions. water-saving 2.5/4 liter dual flushing system. Importantly, we also prepared the groundwork for a broad new Details of these products and packaging innovations can be found in the section initiative, which we launched at the beginning of 2011, to recruit “Promoting Sustainable Consumption Choices” on page 30. more women and strengthen their representation in the Group. More information on this initiative can be found in the section “Enhancing women’s recruitment” on page 41. 18 Implemented internal awareness campaigns In addition to a specific award for sustainable development, we included “contribution to sustainable development: One of the primary focuses of our sustainable development economically, socially and environmentally” among the key activities in 2010 was communication and training to increase criteria for determining the winners of our other five innovation corporate-wide awareness and appreciation of sustainability awards. issues. Campaign topics included recycling, video-conferencing, tobacco use and health, traffic safety and cancer risks for Expanded our hygiene program for primary boarding women. schools Several Group companies carried out their own internal The Eczacıbaﬂ› Hygiene Project, our Group-wide social communication campaigns on energy and water efficiency responsibility project to ensure that children at Regional Primary featuring booklets and videos for employees and suppliers and Boarding Schools have modern, high quality and healthy training for employees and corporate customers. environments, renovated the washing areas of six more schools in 2010, raising to 11 the number of schools and 5,500 the Created a sustainable development award number of students benefitting from this project since 2007. We also continued to provide personal hygiene classes to primary To encourage the development of eco-efficiency projects and school students around Turkey in 2010, increasing the reach of innovative products and services that contribute to sustainable this program to almost six million students in 7,360 primary development, we established a new category in our annual schools in 50 cities around Turkey since 2002. Innovation Awards: Sustainable Development Award. In addition to creating a measurable financial benefit for the company, Details of our social responsibility projects can be found in the section “Sustainable the winning project must make a unique contribution to the social responsibility” on page 44. environment by improving the lifecycle of a product or service and/or contributing to the efficient use of resources and minimization of waste and emissions. “Quit. Change your life!” is the slogan of our new anti-smoking campaign, which offers free medical treatment, psychological and social support to all Group employees in Turkey who decide to quit smoking. 19 Improving our Relationship In line with our mission of promoting modern, high quality and healthy living, we believe we have three main responsibilities with respect to the environment: designing goods and services ith the Environment that help our customers improve their relationship with the environment, pioneering the implementation of business practices that enable us to improve our own, and working with stakeholders to promote the technological, legislative, and Through innovative changes cultural changes needed to improve our environment and achieve a healthy future for society, business, and our planet in our production processes, as whole. plant architecture and product designs, we aim to reduce Reducing the resource footprints of our manufacturing operations significantly the amount of One of the ways we are improving our own relationship with energy, water, and other inputs the environment is through resource efficiency. Long before in many of our manufacturing this concept became known as “eco-efficiency”, we were asking our companies to look for ways to reduce their resource intensity operations. and rewarding productivity projects of this kind in order to cut costs and increase our competitive advantage. Through innovative changes in our production processes, plant architecture and product designs, we aim to reduce significantly the amount of energy, water, and other inputs in many of our manufacturing operations. Improving the efficiency of our manufacturing processes In 2010, our industrial operations in Turkey and internationally continued work on numerous energy efficiency projects. Together these are designed to save close to 48,000 MWh of energy and a corresponding 13,000 tons CO2 over the years ahead. As a point of comparison these savings represent 3.3% and 3.6% of our 2010 energy consumption and carbon emissions respectively. VitrA: Turkey’s first EN 16001 certified ceramic sanitary ware plant In December 2010, VitrA’s ceramic sanitary ware plant became the first in its industry in Turkey to receive EN 16001 Energy Management System certification, which provides the systems and procedures for systematically monitoring, evaluating and continuously improving energy efficiency. 20 The Bozüyük production plant, our Building Products Division’s largest production complex in Turkey, has significantly reduced VitrA adopts new -9,900 repair technology for MWh the amount of energy and water used to produce one unit of ceramic sanitary ware. In addition to using treated waste water, it reuses all fine fired clay scrap in new mixes and recycles an glaze imperfections increasing share of its sludge to make firing trays for semiIn 2010, Eczacıbaﬂ› Building Products-VitrA began finished products. using CeramiCure® acrylic solutions and laser technology to repair minor glaze defects in ceramic Solid ceramic sanitary ware sanitary ware in place of re-glazing and re-firing waste recycled in the them at high temperatures. In 2010, we estimate cement industry (tons) that this new technology reduced the need for re-firing by 20 percent, enabling us to achieve natural gas savings of 9,900 MWh in the years ahead while maintaining our high standards of quality. -17,454 Through an innovative project with the cement industry, all the MWh remaining solid waste – including sludge, scrap and plaster Artema further optimizes moulds – is used by cement makers as alternative raw materials, energy and water use in faucet enabling us to achieve 100 percent recycling of all solid waste. In 2010, building on this pioneering record, our ceramic sanitary production ware plant became the first in its industry in Turkey to receive EN 16001 Energy Management Certification. Similarly, our faucet Rationalization measures in Eczacıbaﬂ› Building and fitting operation at the same plant is continually improving Products-Artema’s polishing and plating units, its electricity, natural gas and water efficiency as well as its use improved insulation, and recovery of waste heat of recycled scrap metal and foundry sand in its production from compressors to heat the building lowered processes. the amount of electricity and natural gas needed to produce one faucet by respectively 20 and 32 percent (total 17,454 MWh) in 2010. Water consumption per faucet also dropped 25 percent (2,800 tons) with the installation of small pressure baths at each workbench and the recovery and VitrA switches to fast-firing reuse of overflow water from the -2,800 production of porcelain pool tiles plating tank. tons water VitrA Tiles has developed a fast-firing method for porcelain pool tiles that enables it to lower the firing time from 18 hours to 1.5 hours while improving the durability of these tiles. The new process, which won a 2011 Eczac›baﬂ› Innovation Award in the VitrA installs natural lighting “efficiency” category, has increased the production system at ceramic sanitary ware capacity of this tile line by 11.3% while reducing the amount of natural gas required per tile by 58%. plant Overall, the project is expected to save 67,800 m3 of natural gas, an amount corresponding VitrA’s new generation lighting system at its to 136.3 tons of CO2 emissions per year. ceramic sanitary ware plant uses GPS-controlled -67,800 reflective mirrors to maximize sunlight intake throughout the day and distribute it uniformly m3 natural throughout the building. The new system is gas projected to reduce annual electricity consumption and CO2 emissions by almost 20 MWh and 10.3 tons respectively. 21 Sustainability Features of the Bozüyük Production Complex All units · Local sourcing of major raw materials · Solid waste separated at source Ceramic Sanitary Ware · Waste heat from tunnel kilns used in boilers · Closed water loop in the glazing mill · 100% recycling of scrap ceramic products, sludge and plaster molds · Fine fire clay scrap reused in clay production · GPS controlled natural lighting system · Recycling station repairs 50,000 palettes and 35,000 separators · Reuses treated water (40% of total) Awards Certifications · ISO 9001 Quality Management (all operations) · ISO 14001 Environmental Management (all operations) · OHSAS 18001 (Ceramic sanitary ware) · EN 16001 Energy Management Tiles (Ceramic sanitary ware) · Waste heat from kilns used in spray driers · 1997 Istanbul Chamber of Industry Environment Incentive Award (Ceramic sanitary ware) · 1998 TÜS‹AD-KALDER National Quality Award (Ceramic sanitary ware) · 1999 Ministry of Labor and Social Security OHS Award (Ceramic sanitary ware) · 2000 EFQM European Quality Prize winner (Ceramic sanitary ware) · 2000 TÜS‹AD-KALDER Faucets and Fittings National Quality Award · Solvent-free washing (Faucets) system for sanitary fixtures · 2005 Named “Most Successful · Regenerates and reuses core sand for the Plant in Reducing Electricity casting process (7% of total) Intensity for the 2002-2004 Period” by the General · Reuses scrap from the casting process Directorate of Electrical Power (68% of total) Resources (Ceramic sanitary ware) · Reuses treated water from the plating process · 2007 Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance TPM Excellence · Localized dust collectors 1st Stage Award (Faucets) -16,747 Ceramic tile manufacturing is one of our most energy-intensive manufacturing activities, accounting for over half of our Heat recovery MWh consolidated energy consumption and, where natural gas is projects at VitrA Tiles concerned, an even larger share. Small improvements in the energy efficiency in these operations, therefore, can have a and Engers major impact on our Group-wide performance, which is why we are working hard to find ways to improve our energy efficiency VitrA Tiles and Engers both completed heat in this area. Some of the projects we are undertaking involve recovery projects that enable them to recycle rationalization of our operational processes; V&B Fliesen, for waste heat from their kilns in the spray drying example, is saving an estimated 720 MWh per year by reducing process. With the addition of three new its use of pre-kiln driers in hot weather and automatically systems in 2010, VitrA Tiles now has six heat shutting off dust suction filters during idle time. Other projects recovery systems at its plant in Bozüyük involve major investments in new technologies, such as heat providing natural gas savings of 1,484,000 m3 recovery systems for recycling waste heat from kilns in other production processes, and electric vehicle fleets. annually. Engers’ new system is expected to save 90,000 m3 of natural gas per year, for total annual savings of 16,747 MWh. VitrA Tiles’ heat recovery project won the 2011 Eczac›baﬂ› Innovation Award in the V&B Fliesen earns EMAS “sustainable development” category. certification in 2010 EMAS (the European Union Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) is a voluntary testing system for companies wishing to improve their environment performance beyond the relevant statutory VitrA Tile optimizes colored requirements. It calls for a continuous, performancepaste preparation process oriented and above all measurable optimization process, in which employees also need to be VitrA Tiles has optimized the preparation integrated. V&B Fliesen has set itself the goals of process for colored paste used in tile design reducing per-ton energy and water consumption so as to reduce the required number and by five percent, and ceramic waste by 10 percent volume of pigments, paste base, mediums between 2010 and 2013. and glazes and improve the quality and uniformity of colored paste batches. The newly developed system, which is fully automatic, eliminates the use of spray dryers and ensures that all paste fully meets customer color requirements. Through this project, VitrA Tiles has improved the efficiency of its pigment use by 21% and mediums by Reduced emissions, improved 50%, lowered the number of required paste safety at V&B Fliesen bases and pigments by respectively 50% and 67%, reduced the milling time V&B Fliesen completed a major logistics, technology of paste bases by 31%, and increased -21% and purchasing project in 2010 that involved the the speed of the product pigment and renewal and modernization of around 100 development process by 33%. -50% medium appliances and vehicles, including forklift trucks consumption and its entire fleet of electrical pallet trucks, per tile electrical, gas and diesel stackers, and reach trucks. The new fleet is safer, easier to use and more environmentally friendly. The new electrical vehicles will help V&B Fliesen to meet the European EMAS environmental targets, as they use high frequency loading technology that provides energy savings and a reduction in CO2 emissions. 24 In the Consumer Products Division, ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper, our Sixteen Georgia-Pacific plants in 11 European countries joint venture with Georgia-Pacific, continued to improve its competed for the award; ‹pek Ka¤›t won with the highest resource efficiency in 2010 with four major projects to optimize score possible. In addition to the criteria listed above, its electricity use and further measures to improve its internal Georgia-Pacific jury members were impressed by ‹pek Ka¤›t’s water cycles. systematic approach to sustainable development and senior management’s strong support and leadership of this approach. ‹pek Ka¤›t has been treating its industrial and domestic wastewater since the early 1980s. In 2008, although our three industrial wastewater treatment plants were complying fully with national effluent standards, we invested in a major upgrade of our treatment process so as to improve the quality of treated wastewater and comply fully with Turkey’s discharge limits, the EU Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive, and the Reference Document on Best Available Techniques in the Pulp and Paper Industry. Variable speed technologies ‹pek Ka¤›t was also the first in its industry to sell sludge from improve energy efficiency its water treatment plants to prefab housing panel manufacturers and is recycling scrap from tissue paper production and converting ‹pek Ka¤›t implemented a number of projects in processes into pulp. 2009 and 2010 that reduced the energy demand of tissue paper production As a result of all these efforts, ‹pek Ka¤›t has received Georgia by 8,700 MWh and prevented the Pacific’s first Sustainability Award, which recognizes company release of 4,470 tons of CO2 performance in a wide variety of areas: compliance with regulations, internal and external communication; quality, -2,238 MWh emissions. Four of the largest projects of this kind optimized the environment, product stewardship and occupational safety management systems; resource and waste management; energy speed of paper machines, pumps and carbon management; continual improvement in these and compressors using variable areas; and environmental, social and economic achievements. speed technologies, reducing electricity consumption by a combined 2,238 MWh and CO2 emissions by 1,151 tons. One of the variable speed projects uses cascade communication to adjust paper machine speed to pulp consistency – a first Steady improvement in the resource efficiency of in the industry. our tissue paper plant 2.5 2000 2008 2010 2 1.5 First Turkish tissue paper Index manufacturer with ISO 14001 1 certification 0.5 In 2010, ‹pek Ka¤›t became the first tissue paper producer in Turkey to obtain ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certification. The certification encompasses 0 both of ‹pek Ka¤›t’s plants in Turkey. Production Electricity Natural Gas Steam Water (kWh/ton) (m3/ton) (ton/ton) (m3/ton) 25 In our Healthcare Division, Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter Hospital Supply, its Lean Energy Program, completing five major energy efficiency our joint venture with Baxter International and Turkey’s leading projects. As of end-2010, Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter had entered the manufacturer of parenteral solutions, peritoneal dialysis products, fourth and final stage of this eco-efficiency program. and other hospital supplies, continued to move forward with Wide range of energy efficiency investments at Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter In 2010, Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter completed five major energy efficiency projects that are expected to achieve annual electricity consumption savings of 748 MWh. Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter replaced the fluorescent lights in its mixing room, which consumed 60 watts per hour on average, with new LED lights that consume about one-third of that amount for annual energy savings of close to 25 MWh. The active life of an LED lamp, if used 24 hours every day, is five years as compared to one year for fluorescent lights, resulting in further savings in lighting 48 MWh costs and labor. A water chilled cooler project completed in 2010 replaced existing inefficient air-cooled train chillers for energy savings of 330 MWh per year. Additionally, the new system enables Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter to save cooling-related water and chemical consumption. New energy efficient pumps replacing existing booster pumps will lower electricity consumption in this operation by 75 MWh per year and are easier to maintain. The installation of a variable speed converter to adjust the speed of the reverse osmosis unit according to load variation is expected to reduce annual energy consumption by 83 MWh. The fifth project improved the insulation of a warehouse through the installation of double glass windows and is expected to save 235 MWh per year. ISO/EN Certification of Turning welding waste Eczacıbaﬂ› Group Companies into value 9001 14001 18001 Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak Eczacıbaﬂ› Building Products-VitrA 1 1994 1998 2008 collects and reuses the powdered Eczacıbaﬂ› Building Products-Artema 1994 1999 coating material from its production VitrA Tiles 1995 2009 process in the manufacture of new welding consumables: in 2010 this V&B Fliesen2 1995 2010 represented 350 tons of powdered Eczacıbaﬂ›-Baxter Hospital Supply 2001 2002 2007 coating material. Eczacıbaﬂ›-Monrol Nuclear Products 2002 2002 RTS Renal Therapy Services 2006 In 2009, Askaynak signed a protocol ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper 1994 2010 2011 with a local recycling company to take the non-dangerous sludge from its Eczacıbaﬂ› Giriﬂim 2008 2009 2009 waste treatment plant to use as an E-Kart Electronic Card Systems 2004 2011 2011 energy source; in 2010 this represented Eczacıbaﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak 1995 258 tons of sludge. Askaynak recycles Eczacıbaﬂ› Esan3 1994 all packaging materials through the 1 In 2010, this operation also obtained EN 16001 Energy Management packaging recycling foundation, ÇEVKO. System certification and ISO 17025 Competence of Testing and Calibration Since Askaynak began to Laboratories certification. cooperate with the 2 This operation has EMAS certification, which encompasses 14001 standards. foundation, it has collected 3 In 2010, this operation also obtained ISO 17025 Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories certification. and recycled 850 tons of packaging waste. 850 tons of recycled waste 26 Promoting eco-efficiency through new plant design Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak received the Chairman’s EHS Award in 2009 from Lincoln Electric, which has adopted In recent plant investments, we have incorporated water and our central bath and waste treatment system as a model for its energy-saving features as well as new processes aimed at new plant in India. optimizing resource use and reducing waste. Some of these features are simple architectural designs that make more use The sharing of best practices between business divisions has of natural lighting and air circulation to cut down on electricity enabled our companies to incorporate manufacturing systems use. Others involve simple technologies for collecting and treating and architectural features that have worked well for other rainwater or process water for re-use in manufacturing processes plants. Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim’s industrial cleaning and personal care or gardens, or using solar energy to heat water for personnel products plant, which began operating in May 2008, incorporates use. Some are unique technologies developed by our employees several innovative features of our welding technology plant to especially for our businesses – such as the central bath system optimize energy and water consumption and reduce our impact for plating and lubricant baths at our welding technology plant. on the environment. Solar energy, treated rain water, and Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak, our equal share joint cleaning in place steam-based sanitation systems cut water use venture with Lincoln Electric, has significantly improved its and waste by half compared to similar facilities. Additionally, resource efficiency by constructing a plant specifically designed the cooling system incorporates a magnetic bearing chiller that to reduce the use of water, chemicals and energy in the reduces energy requirements in this system by about 35 percent. production process. Developed in-house, the architectural structure of the plant Burgbad’s new furniture plant uses daylight for interior lighting, solar energy for water heating, and natural air circulation for ventilation. These features alone incorporates energy efficiency reduce electricity requirements by about 772 MWh per year. principles The plant’s most innovative feature, however, is a central bath system that increased the productive life of plating and lubricant In 2010, our luxury bathroom furniture maker, Burgbad, baths three-fold and drastically cut water, sulfuric acid, copper completed the construction of a new 3,900 square sulfate and soap use. Other features of our plant include highly meter production hall at its Greding-Grafenberg plant efficient ovens, and treatment and recycling systems for water and powdered raw materials. that incorporates a number of important sustainable design principles. The new hall is designed to minimize the consumption of energy and natural resources during all phases of its life cycle: from the planning Esan’s unique concrete -585 and construction stage through operational and modernisation stages and eventually its dismantling formula replaces cement tons of and disposal. In order to keep its impact on the with mining waste indirect ecosystem as low as possible, the plant optimises CO2 lighting technology and light management to provide Esan Eczac›baﬂ› Industrial Raw Materials, the energy savings of up to 32 percent. One way it is doing this is through the intelligent use of daylight on the Group’s mineral and mining operation, has developed northern side of the structure. This orientation avoids a unique formula that enables it to replace 10 percent undesired overheating during the summer and makes of the Portland cement it uses to support the spaces sun protection unnecessary. Warmth is provided created by its underground mining activities at Balya through ceiling-mounted radiant panels fuelled by with waste material from the same operation. The wood chips produced at the plant and controlled by resulting concrete far surpasses the required standards, energy-saving room sensors. is non-toxic and harmless to the environment, and significantly lowers both the carbon footprint and The new building was constructed using regional costs of the operation. It also reduces the space materials that were selected as far as possible to be required for storing waste, and thus the impact of the reusable or recyclable. We avoided, for example, operation on the surrounding environment. In 2010, composites that are difficult to recycle at the end of we estimate that this new formula lowered Esan’s their lifecycle and used glued laminated girders, which carbon footprint by 585 tons and waste by 650 tons. are renewable resources. By constructing the new building adjacent to the existing building, we reduced Over the next three years, we expect to the number of new exterior walls and optimized the substitute 11,570 tons of Portland flow of materials between buildings and minimize -650 cement with our special mix, reducing this way our mining operation’s carbon transportation. The building also contains an advanced extraction system for woodchips that is 17 percent ns of waste footprint by 10,400 tons. more energy efficient than traditional systems. 27 Enhancing the efficiency of our Projected savings of planned building buildings efficiency projects* While striving to develop sustainable production facilities and       operations, we are also improving the efficiency of existing         commercial and administrative buildings and developing new properties that incorporate sustainable development principles. Electricity (MWh) 27,906 3,067.3 11 Natural Gas All administrative and commercial buildings in Turkey of the (MWh equivalent) 6,192 1,761 28 Eczac›baﬂ› Group consumed 27,906 MWh of electricity in 2010, an amount representing 10 percent of the electricity consumption Total Energy (MWh equivalent) 34,098 4,828.3 14 of our industrial operations in Turkey. Natural gas and water consumption, at just over 580,000 m3 and 50.8 tons respectively, Water (Tons) 50,861 6,430 13 are relatively small overall but represent important cost factors for our buildings. *The numbers represent the projected annual savings of planned projects upon their completion. In line with our commitments as a signatory to the Energy 1. 2010 energy consumption of all commercial and administrative buildings in Efficiency in Buildings Manifesto of the World Business Council Turkey 2. Based on the minimum savings projections of independent consultants and for Sustainable Development, we aim to lower the energy equipment manufacturers. consumption of our administrative and commercial buildings in Turkey by 15 percent between 2011 and 2013. Accordingly, our Efficiency in Buildings Working Group is carrying out a systematic study of all Group-owned administrative and Many of the projects the working group has developed, apart commercial buildings, including an analysis of: from improving insulation, involve the replacement of less .. Building efficient lighting, heating and cooling systems with newer, system design more efficient ones, such as condensing boiler cascade systems Peak operational hours . Lighting systems and electrical appliances in place of central furnaces, VRV systems in place of split ACs, .. Insulation problems and LEDs in place of fluorescent lights, and the installation of solar water heaters to the roofs of several buildings. .. Energy consumption data Efficiency, workload and capacity of all motors Other projects include the replacement of inefficient .. Efficiency of automation systems Efficiency and technologies of lighting systems, and automation systems with manual controls based on sensors, and the installation of frequency converters on selected pumps Alternative energy options, such as solar energy or and motors. On a building-by-building basis, we project that . cogeneration systems, and Efficiency of humidifiers. savings will range from five percent to a high of 42 percent in the case of our former headquarters with rates of return generally within five years and often less than one. With the support of specialist consultants, the working group has drawn up and begun to implement numerous projects that are projected to lower the electricity and natural gas consumption of Group buildings in Turkey by respectively 11 and 28 percent. 456 MWh Virtual data storage and cloud computing In 2010, our central Information and Communication Technology Division completed a major project to outsource a large portion of the Group’s data storage and computing operations to virtual data centers. Through this project, the Group reduced the number of servers at its headquarters from 98 to three, for electricity savings of 456 MWh per year. Aside from substantially lowering carbon emissions, the project has opened up new office space for other functions, lowered maintenance and repair costs, and greatly increased the capacity, effectiveness and efficiency of our Group-wide ITC systems. 28 Kanyon installs solar water heating system Kanyon, our prestigious shopping, business and residential center in Istanbul, has carried out numerous projects and research in collaboration Tuncer K›n›kl› with NGOs, universities, and public and private Operations Director-Kanyon institutions to improve its energy, water and waste Head of Efficiency in Buildings performance since 2008. Measures have included Working Group installing water-saving faucets, toilets and urinals in all public restrooms; designing an efficient We established the Efficiency in Buildings Working Group watering system for indoor and outdoor gardens; in August 2010, soon after signing the Manifesto for Energy improving the efficiency of cooling towers and Efficiency in Buildings of the World Business Council for reusing cooling tower water in bathrooms; Sustainable Development. Our first priority is to evaluate rationalizing escalator and elevator systems; and the electricity, natural gas and water consumption of the achieving year-round heat recovery at air Group’s administrative and commercial buildings and conditioning power stations. develop efficiency projects in these areas. In countries like Turkey, where limited local energy resources mean we are In 2010, Kanyon added 100 solar panels to provide highly dependent on energy imports, ensuring sufficient, hot water for restaurant kitchens reliable and economic sources of energy needs to be a and commercial establishments. priority. Energy efficiency is one of the easiest ways of This system is expected to supply tackling this issue because, generally speaking, energy 35 percent of the shopping accounts for as much as 82 percent of the total cost of an center’s hot water demand and reduce natural gas -67,000 m3 investment during its 10-year lifecycle, as opposed to eight percent for the initial purchasing cost. consumption and carbon natural gas emissions by respectively 67,000 m3 and 127 tons per year. Kanyon also signed a protocol with Türk Philips and the Department of Energy Developing sustainable communities Planning and Management of ‹stanbul Technical The Ormanada project, located on 220,000 m2 of land in a wooded University’s Energy Institute to evaluate the lighting suburb to the north of Istanbul in Zekeriyaköy, aims to create a and energy efficiency of its shopping center and low rise, moderate density gated community that is highly sensitive office tower and propose improvements. As a to the surrounding environment and wildlife. result of this study, which was completed in the first quarter of 2011, Kanyon management will The design principles of the project were developed by Torti undertake nine projects in 2011 that will reduce Gallas and Partners, one of the leading master planning and the electricity used in lighting the public areas of urban design firms in the United States, Kreatif Mimarlık, and the Kanyon shopping center by 821 MWh, an Rainer Schmidt Landscape Architects. Ormanada offers a blend of tranquility, comfort, healthy living, sustainability, unambiguous amount equivalent to six percent of the electricity design, lifestyle quality, and originality to create a “living consumed for this function in 2010. community”. Kanyon has a waste management system with Shaped by a “sustainable life”philosophy, Ormanada’s 188 villas collection points for glass, paper and other and 71 townhouses incorporate environment-friendly materials recyclable materials, waste food from restaurants that are long lasting and do not need special care. Home interiors and cafes, and electronic waste – a first in Turkey. use VitrA and Artema branded “Blue Life” products, which minimize In recognition of all these efforts, Kanyon was the consumption of natural resources and increase eco-efficiency. selected to represent Turkey for the Ruban Exteriors use long lasting natural materials that require very little maintenance. The exteriors of residences incorporate many details d’Honneur in the “Environmental Awareness” that demonstrate sensitivity to health and environment issues: category of the 2010 European Business Awards. insulation systems that are safe and environment-friendly, awnings, water treatment systems that reuse wastewater in the gardens, solar lighting for roads, and more. 29 We are committed to serving customers who want to contribute Promoting Sustainable to the environment by choosing products designed to reduce resource consumption and pollution during production, Consumption Choices transport and use. We are also looking for ways to reduce our packaging materials, recycle packaging, and switch to packaging materials that are recyclable or biodegradable. We are committed to serving Products that contribute to customers who want to sustainable lifestyles contribute to the environment by In the Building Products Division, where our main businesses involve bathroom spaces and wall and floor coverings, our choosing products designed to primary goal is designing products that help customers save water, such as extra low water flushing systems, waterless reduce resource consumption and urinals, flow-regulating faucets and self-cleaning tiles. We are also designing products that cut down on material pollution during production, consumption, by reducing, for example, the depth of transport and use. washbasins and bathtubs, and thickness of tiles. To communicate our Division’s longstanding commitment in this area, VitrA, our global bathroom and tile brand, has articulated a production, design, and management philosophy called “Blue Life”. “Blue Life” for us means striving to reduce the use of non-renewable resources in the production process, making significant investments towards boosting eco-efficiency, and developing products that promote energy and resource conservation by end-users, driven by a concern for the environment and our collective future. Blue Life reflects our belief that efficient management of our resources today is critical for the future of our blue planet and that good design takes responsibility for natural resource conservation. Blue Life also means contributing to a better society through longterm social responsibility projects targeting children, hygiene and education. Our Consumer Products Division is also undertaking many initiatives to promote sustainable consumption choices. In 2009, ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper launched Eco-Promise, committing itself to proactively ensuring full compliance with new environmental legislation and regulation; procuring 100 percent of its pulp from certified suppliers who can prove that their wood pulp derives from sustainably managed forests; supplying tissue products manufactured from nonbleached or bleached pulp produced by elemental chlorinefree or total chlorine-free processes that pose no risk to human health or the environment; contributing to sustainable living by encouraging employees, suppliers and other stakeholders to take part in health, educational, work safety and other social projects that improve people’s lives; and giving priority to R&D and innovation projects that create low cost, high value-add products responding to consumers’ desires. 30 Blue Life bathroom and tile products Our Building Products Division has developed more than 240 water-saving products for homes and commercial spaces that meet the needs of 4L 6L 2.5/4 L WC pan The world's most customers in a wide range of segments. By water-saving choosing Blue Life products for their bathroom WC pan spaces, a family of four can conserve up to 190,000 liters of water per year. Many of these products are also designed to reduce material use during production, with consequent savings in energy use for production and transport. We are also designing better insulation materials for building exteriors. Good insulation can cut back energy consumption by buildings – which are estimated to account for 40 percent of total energy use globally – by 30 to 50 percent, offering significant savings to users as well as contributing Hygienic to lower greenhouse gas emissions. Here, too, water-free we are taking the lead with a growing array of urinal external thermal insulation composite systems that can help save up to 50 percent of the energy used for heating, self-cleaning wall and floor tiles that also remove stale odors from the air, and slim tiles that require fewer resources to produce, Water-saving package and transport. New projects in the bathtub pipeline incorporate advanced technologies that will further expand the contribution of tiles to sustainable living. Cartridge preventing excessive water use VitrA Therm Slimetric standards in Slim, stylish and heat insulation eco-friendly tiles 31 Phosphate-free Eco-smart tissue paper and industrial detergent dispensers Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim, our industrial Every new ‹pek Ka¤›t product not only aims to offer hygiene product manufacturer and consumers their best choice, it also strives to fast-moving consumer goods promote smart tissue paper use and resource marketing company, is developing conservation. cleaning products and packaging that use fewer resources and are better for the environment. One ‹pek Ka¤›t is designing a growing range of tissue of these is the Maratem brand of phosphate-free paper products and dispensers that promote ecopowder detergent, m640, which it launched in 2010. smart consumption. Some of its newest products This industrial-duty product not only contains no of this kind are Selpak 1-Sheet Bathroom Tissue, phosphates or petroleum-based ingredients, all its Turkey’s first and only bathroom tissue with a active ingredients are derived from renewable plantspecial patented technology that encourages based sources. consumers to use a single sheet at a time; Solo Squeezed Bathroom Tissue, which requires Another new cleaning product with a lower 15 percent less storage space, Solo Double Roll environmental impact is “foamy soap”. Because of Bathroom Tissue and Kitchen Towel, which helps its foamy texture, this new soap provides four times to decrease packaging, logistics and warehouse as much cleaning power as normal soap of the same costs; Selpak Paper Cloth, the first and only kitchen weight, so it uses less packaging and creates less towel in Turkey that is durable enough to wash waste. It also promotes better hand-washing practices and reuse several times; and Selpak, Solo and Silen among children, as it is easier and more fun to use. “half-sheet” kitchen towels. In the away-from-home market, Lotus Professional branded enMotion Biodegradable credit cards towels, Smart One bathroom tissue, and Reflex Towels reduce paper consumption by at least E-Kart Electronic Card Systems launched Turkey’s 30 percent with their patented technology. first biodegradable credit card in 2010. The card offers all the technical advantages of PVC without At the same time, ‹pek Ka¤›t is expanding its range the disadvantage of slow decomposition. E-Kart’s of products made from recycled paper, substituting biodegradable card will decompose within 39 months recycled cardboard cores for white ones made from in both aerobic and anaerobic environments. virgin fibers, using recyclable materials as much as possible in packaging, and packing products in cardboard boxes made from recycled paper. Cleaner and more energy-efficient welding products Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak launched a gas metal arc welding consumable in 2010 that uses Sustainable development less copper and chemicals and prevents the emission communication of copper fumes during the welding process. It also reformulated its stick electrode coating recipes so Two of our brands have developed communication campaigns for as to reduce the amount of particles emitted during their sustainable development initiatives. VitrA’s communication the welding process. campaign for Blue Life aims to raise awareness among all VitrA stakeholders of the growing scarcity of natural resources and the Another major product upgrade in 2010 involved importance of resource conservation. To this end, VitrA has the re-launch of a popular welding machine to published information on sustainable development issues on a dedicated website – www.bluelife.com – prepared printed brochures eliminate harmonic current emissions and increase and catalogues, and highlighted all its water and energy-saving users’ energy efficiency by as much as 25 percent. products with the Blue Life label to help consumers make better Askaynak aims to re-launch all of its models with choices. It has also provided training to all VitrA employees and this upgrade in 2011 and 2012. distributors on conservation issues. 32 ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper communicates its commitment to sustainable development on the packaging of Selpak-branded tissue paper and kitchen towels, which carry its Eco-Promise Reducing and recycling packaging logo, and provides detailed information on its sustainable development activities and products on its Eco-Promise website. materials ‹pek Ka¤›t also has a website for away-from-home customers that provides detailed information in Turkish and English on Many of our companies use PE (polyethylene) plastic eco-smart products. for packaging, but are trying to find ways to reduce their use of this material, which can take as Our Consumer Products Division is educating away-from-home long as a 1000 years to decompose. customers on resource efficiency and hygiene issues through a new marketing organization exclusively for this segment. Eczac›baﬂ› Building Products-VitrA -141 Eczac›baﬂ› Industrial Hygiene, as the new marketing organization began sending all PE plastic used to tons of PE is called, creates logistical and marketing synergy between wrap palettes to a recycling company away-from-home brands in different businesses so as to provide complete hygiene solutions for away-from-home customers. in 2010, preventing about 100 tons -40 tons of of this material from going to the cardboard One important component of this initiative is Maratem Academy, dump last year. For the first time it also a training and consultancy operation for away-from-home customers. In 2010, this service provided training to roughly used recycled PE in place of new material. 700 cleaning professionals on how to use cleaning chemicals In 2010 this accounted for close to 19 percent safely and efficiently and assisted customers develop, implement of total PE consumption for packaging; in 2011 and monitor customized cleaning and hygiene plans; HACCP we aim to increase this to 30 percent. guidelines and planning; food hygiene practices; health audits and more. ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper succeeded in considerably reducing the thickness of its PE-based product “Less is better” packaging packaging in 2010, lowering its annual consumption of this material by 16.3 tons per year. Packaging is an important sustainability issue both in terms of its environmental impact and cost for many of our businesses, Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim reduced the thickness of its particularly our fast-moving consumer goods businesses. This high-density polyethylene canisters by 10 percent, is why we are continually looking for ways to reduce our for savings of 25 tons per year. packaging material use and switch to environmental-friendly alternatives, such as biodegradable or recycled material. In Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter Hospital Supply began to reuse 2010, many of our companies found ways to improve their the cardboard trays used as packaging by its bottle performance in this area. supplier as separators for IV bottles in 2010, reducing its cardboard waste by 40 tons per year. Previously, this waste cardboard was sent to the municipality recycling center; now, it goes to a cardboard First biodegradable packaging packaging supplier, which cuts and reshapes the material as bottle separators. in Turkey’s tissue paper market Eczac›baﬂ› Pharmaceuticals Marketing reduced the ‹pek Ka¤›t is working hard to reduce the impact thickness of its cardboard packaging for of its packaging on environment, an important pharmaceutical products by about 50 grams on concern in the fast-moving consumer goods average. This change is expected to lower its annual industry. In early 2011, it launched biodegradable consumption of cardboard packaging by 105 kg packaging for Selpak-branded bathroom tissue. in 2011. Made with a patented technology that is the first of its kind in Turkey’s tissue paper sector, Selpak’s biodegradable packaging goes through molecular breakdown into methane, CO2 and inert and harmless humus with the help of bacteria in both aerobic and anaerobic environments in less than five years. It can also be recycled to make new packaging. 33 To increase our Group-wide value and competitive edge, we Eco-innovation must continually anticipate our customers’ expectations with products and services that respond to their values and differentiate us from our competitors. Sustainable development is probably the most powerful conceptual tool we have for achieving this and for ensuring our Sustainable development long-term business success. Aside from directing us to produce more efficiently, use fewer resources and create less waste, it is probably the most powerful sets our sights on emerging environmental and social issues, preparing our businesses for the challenges and opportunities conceptual tool we have of new policies and regulations, and inspiring us to imagine new ways of living that align us with the concerns of our for ensuring that our innovation customers. efforts achieve long-term To understand these concerns, we need to listen to our customers and our own people; we need their insights and help in designing business success. our products. This is what we are aiming for with our Blue Ocean and Inocino innovation programs, and our quality circles, brainstorming teams, and focus groups. Since 2007, when we started our Blue Ocean innovation program with a group of 30 people, we have provided basic training on innovation and Blue Ocean methodology to all our employees in Turkey. Now, Blue Ocean project development is a central part of our innovation efforts. In 2010 alone, 300 employees from 12 companies were involved in the development of 14 outstanding Blue Ocean projects that were selected from among hundreds of new ideas for products and services. We know that we need thousands of customer-need focused ideas if our innovation program is to be successful and that our best source of ideas is our own employees. This is the purpose of our Inocino suggestion and evaluation system, which we established in 2009. In 2010, this system received 2,600 suggestions from our employees, no less than 14 percent of which have passed the initial approval stage and are being worked on further. As we progress, we are adapting Inocino to our needs. In 2010, for example, we adjusted the system so that companies are able to invite employees to suggest solutions to specific problems and employees are able to comment on and evaluate suggestions logged into the system. We are currently developing mechanisms for incorporating the views of our stakeholders, especially those of our customers. Coordinating these multiple activities is our Innovation Coordinator, responsible for directing our innovation drive and working with senior management to make innovative thinking a fundamental component of our corporate culture. We want our innovation initiatives to have a balance between incremental and disruptive innovation: while looking for new opportunities and ways of improving our competitive advantage through small but effective incremental innovation, we are also investing in disruptive innovation. Developing innovative 34 technologies and designs is one of the aims of the VitrA Innovation Center we are constructed at the Bozüyük production complex and which coordinates all the research and development activities of our Building Products Division. Innovation Awards One of the ways we measure the success of our innovation efforts is through international recognition of the innovative features of our new products and services. In 2010, new Group products received 10 design awards, including some of the world’s most prestigious design awards. At the same time, we are encouraging and rewarding innovative design through our own innovation awards, which we started just over 10 years ago. During this period, Group companies submitted close to 300 high value-add projects, many of which have contributed significantly to our operations’ eco-efficiency and sustainable product and service portfolios. This year we received a record number of applications for the Eczac›baﬂ› Innovation Awards. A total of 16 Group companies, including – for the first time – our international enterprises, submitted 53 projects: 14 in the “Product” category, 11 in the “Efficiency” category, eight in the “Communication” category, six in the “E-Transformation” category, and no less than 14 in our new “Sustainable Development” category. Ata Selçuk Innovation Coordinator We’re doing everything we can to create excitement among our colleagues about Inocino projects innovation. We’re creating numerous under development * opportunities for learning about innovation through training, Efficiency and cost reduction 33 % communication, and the sharing of best New products and services 31 % practices. We’re establishing systems Communication 5% and mechanisms to engage employees Business development 5% at every level of our organizations in Human resources 4% the innovation process, and recognizing Sales and marketing 4% and rewarding innovative ideas. *Total of 614 projects Sustainable development principles add a new and inspiring direction to our innovation efforts. Most people want to be a part of something that is bigger than profits and market share: they want to contribute to a better world and find solutions to pressing social and environmental problems. By linking innovation to sustainable development, therefore, not only are we strengthening our operations’ competitive edge, we’re unleashing a whole new energy and excitement about innovation. 35 Contributing to improvements in the lives and lifestyles of Promoting Healthy employees – both at the workplace and at home – is one of the chief objectives of our businesses’ sustainable development rkplaces and Lifestyles strategies. We believe we have a responsibility in this regard and it makes good business sense. Not only does it make us a more attractive place to work, it is also one of the best ways of ensuring that sustainable development principles become an Contributing to improvements integral part of our corporate culture. in the lives and lifestyles of Ensuring a safe and healthy employees – both at the workplace workplace and at home – We aim to achieve the best environment, health and safety record in Turkey and one of the best internationally. To help is one of the chief objectives of us coordinate the health and safety efforts of our individual our businesses’ sustainable companies, we have established an occupational health and safety (OHS) unit to carry out joint projects with occupational development strategies. health and safety experts throughout the Group, starting with a compilation of statistics to locate areas of best practice and others that need to be strengthened. For this, the unit has developed an IT application to monitor health and safety data on a Group-wide basis. The application can find correlations between employee health and environmental indicators, thus generating critical information for locating OHS risks and preventing workplace-related illnesses, and can be used to monitor the health and safety performance indicators of our subcontractors. Our OHS unit has also established a field team with occupational doctors and safety experts from the Group trained specifically for OHS field visits by the Turkish Standards Institute. The goal of this team is to examine the OHS practices of Group companies and develop a database of “best practices” to share with Group companies. The team is also providing support to Group companies that want to obtain OHSAS certification. Five of our industrial operations have OHSAS 18001 certification and one more aims to obtain it in 2012. Employees at these establishments represented just under half of all employees working at our industrial sites in Turkey. Safety Record of Eczac›baﬂ› Group Industrial Operations*    Work-related deaths 0 0 0 Lost time injury per million work hours 19 13 13 * All 26 industrial sites in Turkey 36 Mobile employee safety Industrial Operations with In 2010, we evaluated the traffic safety record of our corporate vehicle fleet in Turkey with the aim of improving our OHSAS 18001 Certification performance in this area. Drawing on best practices, we Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter Hospital Supply 2007 developed a manual for corporate vehicle use and traffic safety Eczac›baﬂ› Building Products-VitrA 2008 that we will distribute in 2011 to all employees who use Groupowned vehicles alongside training and communication of our Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim 2009 performance targets. All drivers are expected to familiarize E-Kart Electronic Card Systems 2011 themselves with the manual and to maintain it in their vehicles ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper 2011 at all times. The new guidelines put responsibility for unsafe or unlawful driving squarely on the shoulders of users and incorporates disciplinary measures – even termination of employment – for certain traffic violations. Additionally, our OHS unit provides training to employees on ergonomics, first aid, accidents at work and occupation-related illness, and offers programs and counseling on nutrition, smoking cessation and other health-related issues. Many of Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter Safety Awards these activities are also available to employees of subcontractors. 2001 Best EHS Program Award ‹pek Ka¤›t Safety Awards* 2008 Baxter Excellence in Safety Award* 2009 Baxter Excellence in Safety Award** 2004 Georgia Pacific President's Award for Safety1 * 1 mn hours w/out lost time incident 2004 Georgia Pacific Chairman's Award for Safety2 **2 mn hours w/out lost time incident 2005 Georgia Pacific President's Award for Safety (twice)1 2005 Georgia Pacific Chairman's Award for Safety2 2008 Georgia Pacific EMEA Safety Excellence Award3 2010 Georgia Pacific EMEA Safety Excellence Award4 2011 Georgia Pacific EMEA Safety Excellence Award5 *250,0001, 500,0002, 350,0003, 400,0004, 600,0005 hours w/out lost-time incident 37 We initiated the campaign on 1 March 2011 with a letter from Awareness-raising campaigns Eczacıbaﬂ› Group President and CEO Dr. Erdal Karamercan on explaining Eczacıbaﬂ›’s long-running campaign against tobacco Anti-smoking use and commitment to improving the life of smokers and ensuring a healthy and safe working environment for “Quit. Change your life!” is the slogan of our new anti-smoking non-smokers. campaign, which offers free medical treatment, psychological and social support to all Group employees who decide to quit smoking. Every Group company in Turkey is taking part in Women’s health the campaign, coordinated and implemented by our Group’s As health issues of particular concern to women, cervical and OHS unit. breast cancer are two other areas where we have focused our The initiative also brings two major changes to the workplace: health awareness campaigns in the last two years. Our activities starting in September 2011, Group employees will no longer in this area have included seminars, communication campaigns be allowed to take “smoking breaks”during work hours. For and, in response to requests by employees, at-cost provision of this reason, Human Resources has added “ability to work in HPV vaccines. a non-smoking environment” to the list of criteria in our recruitment process. “Quit. Change your life!” is the slogan of our new antismoking campaign, which offers free medical treatment, psychological and social support to all Group employees in Turkey who decide to quit smoking. 38 Recycling With the aim of integrating sustainable development principles into our corporate culture and promoting sustainable lifestyle choices at home and work, we carried out a number of communication campaigns in our buildings, plants, corporate magazine and corporate portal pointing out ways to save water and energy, encouraging the use of stairs in place of the elevator, and promoting the recycling of glass bottles, batteries, and other recyclable or toxic waste. Video-conferencing Recognizing the impact of air travel on greenhouse gas emissions, we initiated a long-term effort to promote the use of video-conferencing over flying, using the Group’s 47 video conference facilities. These facilities hosted more than 1500 meetings in 2010, 80 percent of which involved offices in different countries. Using widely accepted international formulas, we estimate that by using video conferences in place of travel we prevented the emission of 900 tons of CO2 in 2010. Tarih 8 Ekim 2009 Perﬂembe Yer Kanyon Ofis 22. kat toplant› odas› Saat 8:15-9:15 veya 9:15-10:15 Seminerlere kat›lmak isteyen ve Kanyon Ofis Binas› ve Eski Holding Binas›’nda görev yapan kad›n çal›ﬂanlar›m›z, saat tercihlerini belirterek Kurumsal Portal üzerinden baﬂvurular›n› yapabilirler. Women’s health seminars 39 The primary objectives of our human resources policies are to igning HR Policies with attract, develop and retain outstanding human resources and to ensure that our companies have dynamic organizational ustainability Principles structures that are aligned with their strategic plans and objectives. To achieve this, we strive to ensure that we have in place the best human resources management applications and educational programs, provide a professional and appealing We announced a new policy work environment with continual opportunities for professional and personal development, and develop a long-term relationship in March 2011 that instructs with our employees that begins in their university years and continues into and through their retirement. We understand our human resource teams “outstanding human resources” to mean well educated and well prepared individuals who are open to innovation and in Turkey to give priority to change, entrepreneurial and energetic; who actively seek personal and professional development, who train other women in the recruitment process personnel and who share our understanding of respect, participation, initiative, quality, innovation, and sense of when deciding among candidates responsibility towards our jobs, community and environment. of equal strength and attributes. Transparent recruitment, selection and promotion processes We select the most suitable applicant for every job based on a clear set of criteria and a transparent recruitment and selection process that is described in detail in our Recruitment and Selection Handbook. This process includes well-defined tests for each position, workplace simulations, and face-to-face interviews with a number of people from different levels of the organization. Empirical methods are used throughout to rank candidates, and every time someone is refused, the reasons for the refusal are recorded, monitored and evaluated. This system aims to prevent applicants from being denied employment for discriminatory reasons, such as gender, religion, or race. The following excerpts from our Human Resources Handbook are illustrative of our policies in respect of employment and placement: The main principle of the Group’s recruitment and placement process is providing equal opportunity for employment and promotion – without discrimination or favoritism – to people who have the right competencies for the job (knowledge, skill, and attitude) and who demonstrate an appreciation of our corporate culture. The selection and placement process for a position should take into consideration, first and foremost, the qualities required by that particular position. Discrimination and favoritism are forbidden in the selection of new employees and the planning of career development paths. 40 Although women already play an important role in the Speaking out and being heard management and implementation of our operational strategies, we know we must increase their representation further in the We view the criticisms and suggestions of all our stakeholders, years ahead. Currently, women represent 34 percent of all our not just our employees, as opportunities to improve our professional employees, 30 percent of all lower and middle performance. For employees, we have created numerous tools managers, and 13 percent of senior management. These figures and established a number of platforms both at the Group level tell us that we have almost equalized the promotion rates of and within companies for the verbal and written women and men to mid-level management positions, so if we communication of ideas. These include the Group corporate increase the percentage of women recruited into our portal, management meetings, and an “open-door” organization, we will rapidly equalize their presence in management approach for face-toface communication. One mid-level management. In this regard, we announced a new of the most important developments in this area was the policy in March 2011 that instructs our human resource teams launch, in 2009, of our Group-wide suggestion and project in Turkey to give priority to women in the recruitment process evaluation system, “‹nocino”. when deciding among candidates of equal strength and attributes. Through the human resources portlet of the Eczac›baﬂ› Group corporate portal, our employees are able to access all In the longer term, we must do more to ensure greater information related to their professional development, representation of women at senior levels of the decision-making performance, and rights, including their personal development process in Turkey. One mechanism already in place for improving plan, performance evaluation, compensation rights, and holiday women’s role in executive management is our competency time. Personalized human resource pages also enable our assessment program for management trainees. Here, women employees to monitor the targets of their departments and represent a high 47 percent of program participants, a companies. development that will gradually increase the representation of women in upper management as their average age and seniority Enhancing women’s recruitment increase. Increasing the role of women in our businesses is essential if we are to achieve a sustainable competitive edge and advance our mission of modern, high quality and healthy lifestyles. Not only is there a growing body of evidence that companies with more women in decision-making positions are more profitable and have better oversight, we are also learning that – on a nation-wide level – increasing the employment of women can have a three-fold impact on reducing poverty. Women in the Eczac›baﬂ› Group* % Women Overall, including industrial employment 21 Professional Employees 34 Department Heads 30 Managers 30 General Managers and above 13 New Recruits 40 Competency Assessment Program (for management trainees) 47 Average age of men/women 37.3/34.0 Average seniority men/women 9.82/7.46 * Data as of end-December 2010 41 Promoting personal and Freedom of association professional development In accordance with national labor regulations in Turkey and all other countries where we are present, our employees have We are committed to creating an environment that enables the right to freely associate themselves with a union and to every one of our employees to learn continually, experiment undertake collective bargaining. We encourage collaborative and develop personally and professionally. In return, we ask and transparent relations with unions representing our that our employees strive to develop themselves and their employees because we believe we can find mutually beneficial jobs and create added value. With this aim, we provide and long-term solutions to new challenges and opportunities. opportunities and guidance to employees who wish to develop In Turkey, employees at our three largest companies (Eczac›baﬂ› their full potential in their areas of specialization. Building Products, VitrA Tiles, and ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper) are represented by unions. Using performance management applications and career maps, we assist employees in determining their goals in parallel with management and professional development needs and Protecting employee rights support them with individual development and action plans to close competency gaps. Our human resources systems and practices are designed to protect the rights of employees as well as the interests of our Our development programs fall under three main categories: businesses, in line with our mission statement and values. To on-the-job training, personal development and management, this end, we have developed a comprehensive management and career development. On-the-job training generally involves system which ensures that every human resource process is “guidance”, “rotation” and “assignment”. Another form of legally correct, documented, and retrievable for review by professional development is “job enrichment”. Management management and external auditors. and career development are aimed at developing particular skills needed for the job or career development. All employees are given equal opportunities for personal and career development. Building new competency in sustainable development In line with our sustainable development strategies, we are creating opportunities for our employees to learn about sustainable development issues and asking them to build competencies in these areas. In 2010, we sent key members of our working groups to a sustainable development certification program organized by the Regional Environment Center-Turkey and Bosphorus University and our entire sustainable development team to two training seminars on ISO 14064 Greenhouse Gas standards and Carbon Emissions Reporting. We have also prepared an e-learning module on sustainable development that all employees will be required to complete in 2011 and included sustainable development among the general knowledge criteria expected of new candidates for management positions. 42 Under no circumstances do we employ children or force a person to work. All new employees are explained their rights during the orientation stage and directed to the Human Resources Handbook in the corporate portal. They are also informed immediately of changes to this handbook and to their rights and obligations through internal communication tools – most and encouraged to review these changes. Apart from ensuring that all our businesses strictly adhere to labor regulations in Turkey and other countries where we are present, we continually monitor the performance of our subcontractors to ensure that they, too, adhere to these regulations. We do not tolerate any infringement of these regulations or other employee rights by our subcontractors, and we terminate our relationship with subcontractors who fail to fulfill their legal obligations after a single warning. Sustainable development e-learning module 43 The Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s long-term approach to corporate Sustainable citizenship reflects the personal commitment of its founder, Dr. Nejat F. Eczac›baﬂ›, who firmly believed that corporate Social Responsibility citizenship was an essential function of every business and that the “real measure of private entrepreneurship was the success with which it increased the wealth of the community as a whole.” To achieve this, Dr. Eczac›baﬂ› undertook numerous We found or support social initiatives with colleagues and on his own to establish civil institutions that would enrich Turkey’s social, scientific and initiatives that draw on the cultural life. Continuing this institution-building approach to corporate citizenship, we found or support social initiatives that expertise of our businesses and draw on the expertise of our businesses and create opportunities for our brands and employees to be part of long-term, sustainable create opportunities for our solutions. brands and employees to be part Children, health and education of long-term, sustainable Eczac›baﬂ› Hygiene Project solutions. The Eczac›baﬂ› Hygiene Project is an international award winning project that aims to secure modern, high quality and healthy environments for school children attending Regional Primary Boarding Schools. In partnership with the Ministry of New washing Education, which is determining the neediest schools and ensuring they areas for have the required plumbing 5,500 students infrastructure, three of our flagship at 11 schools brands – VitrA, Artema, and Solo – are Target: 30 schools renovating the bathrooms and showers in the dormitories and buildings of these schools with VitrA and Artema products and teaching students about good personal care and hygiene practices. Within the Eczac›baﬂ› Group, a growing number of Group companies and employees are contributing to the success of the project, including Eczac›baﬂ› Building Products, ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper, Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim Marketing, and Eczac›baﬂ› Volunteers. To date, 5,500 students at 11 schools primarily in eastern Turkey have benefited from the project. According to the protocol the Eczac›baﬂ› Group signed with the Ministry of Education in January 2010, 30 Regional Primary Boarding Schools will benefit from the project. Apart from partnering in the Eczac›baﬂ› Hygiene Project, our Solo tissue paper brand has organized personal hygiene classes for almost six million students at 7,360 primary schools in 50 cities around Turkey since 2002. This project received a prestigous World Business Award in recognition of its contribution to the UN Millennium Goals. The Eczac›baﬂ› Hygiene Project has also received international awards, including the International Public Relations Association’s 44 Golden World Award in Social Responsibility, an Honorable In 2005, we signed a protocol with the Ministry of Education’s Mention in the associated Special United Nations’ Award Vocational Education Directorate to provide refresher courses at competition and two Honorable Mentions from the US: one Askaynak’s plant to technical teachers at state-run vocational in the “Best Social Responsibility Project of Europe” category schools, print and distribute a welding technology textbook of the Stevie International Business Awards and the other in prepared by Askaynak to technical teachers and senior students the “Community Relations” category of PR News Platinum at vocational schools, provide equipment to vocational schools Awards. at cost, and act as a sponsor/partner/shareholder for EU-funded vocational training projects in the welding sector. Reproductive health hotline Since 2005, we have provided refresher courses to 300 teachers In 2000, we joined forces with the Family Planning Association at state-run vocational schools; distributed close to 60 thousand of Turkey to establish ALO OKEY, a free, 24-hour hotline copies of its textbook – which it has also made available for free providing professional and accurate information about on its website – donated electrodes for reproductive health. Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim, which distributes OKEY practice labs, and provided state-of-thebranded condoms, is in charge of managing and maintaining art welding equipment for free or at Trained this hotline. very economical prices to a number of training centers. 1,400 people Dr. Nejat F. Eczac›baﬂ› Foundation music scholarships at 76 Aside from helping to establish a institutions welding training center that facilitates These scholarships enable outstanding young Turkish musicians the training and certification of 115 in 2010 to pursue graduate musical studies abroad. To date, our foundation has provided financial support to almost 100 welders a year, we have provided musicians studying a wide range of instruments as well as equipment and consultancy to welding orchestration, direction and composition. programs organized by municipalities, industrial zones, and shipyards. Overall, these training seminars benefited more than 1,400 people from 76 institutions in 2010, raising the total Partner of the vocational school system in Turkey number of people to which we have provided this training since 2005 to over 5,000. Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak is contributing to the sustainable growth of the welding technology industry through training seminars and the provision of consultancy, equipment, textbooks, and supplies to state-run vocational schools, universities, public education centers, and prisons. 45 the International ‹stanbul Music, Film, Theatre and Jazz Festivals Culture and the arts as well as the International ‹stanbul Biennial, this way enhancing our involvement in the Foundation and broadening our ‹stanbul Museum of Modern Art communication with the public. Istanbul festivals are admired and followed by a large art-loving community. In 2010 alone, We are the founder and core collection donor of Turkey’s first almost 349,000 people attended these events. private museum of modern and contemporary art, the ‹stanbul Museum of Modern Art. Established VitrA Ceramic Arts Studio ver three in 2004, ‹stanbul Modern is committed to illion advancing the Turkish public’s appreciation We established the VitrA Ceramic Arts Studio in 1957 with the sitors since of modern and contemporary art, contributing to the production of new work, and sharing goal of encouraging ceramic artists and public appreciation of ecember Turkey’s artistic creativity and cultural identity this medium. Over the years, the studio has opened its doors to 004 a large number of young and talented ceramic artists, organized with global audiences. public exhibitions of their work and hosted master classes, conferences, slide shows and workshops on ceramic art. The At its 8,000 square meter site on the shores of the VitrA Ceramic Arts Studio is a member of the Geneva-based Bosphorus, ‹stanbul Modern offers visitors a large variety of International Academy of Ceramics (IAC). exhibition galleries with paintings, sculpture, photography and new media, as well as educational facilities, a research library, cinema, café, and gift store. The museum’s collections, Public policy and scientific research exhibitions and interactive educational programs aim to stimulate active engagement with the arts among visitors of Eczac›baﬂ› Scientific Research and all ages and from every segment of society. Medical Award Fund Since ‹stanbul Modern opened in the fall of 2004, over 3,000,000 We established this fund in 1959 to promote 172 medical people have visited the museum and some 340,000 children high caliber medical research. Since then, the research and young people have attended art workshops and classes. fund has supported 172 medical research grants, projects and presented 67 awards to Turkish 67 awards ‹stanbul International Music, Film, Jazz, Theatre scientists for valuable research in health and and Visual Art Festivals medicine. In 2002, the Scientific Research and Medical Award Fund also began supporting promising research We are a staunch supporter of the ‹stanbul International carried out by medical students. Festivals through our sponsorship of the ‹stanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts, founded in 1973 on the initiative of Dr. Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation Nejat F. Eczac›baﬂ›, our Group’s founder. In 2006, after more (TESEV) than three decades of direct patronage of selected festivals, we became the Leading Sponsor of the ‹stanbul Foundation We are an active supporter of the Turkish Economic and Social for Culture and Arts. In our new role, we are contributing to Studies Foundation, an independent, non-profit think-tank 46 dedicated to conducting and supporting research on public Eczac›baﬂ› Sports School policy issues. TESEV is the successor of the Economic and Social Studies Conference Board, which Dr. Eczac›baﬂ› founded in 1961. The Eczac›baﬂ› Sports School teaches volleyball to young girls in the 6-14 age group who often have less access to organized sports. Turkish Informatics Foundation (TBV) It also assists young girls develop their motor and coordination skills. We are a corporate sponsor of the Turkish Informatics Foundation, established in 1995 through the efforts of our Group’s Vice Chairman, Faruk Eczac›baﬂ›, also the foundation’s Eczac›baﬂ› volunteerism current chairman. The foundation’s main goal is to contribute to the development of the legal, technical and physical Eczac›baﬂ› Volunteers infrastructure required for Turkey’s full transition to an information-based society. We support the efforts of Eczac›baﬂ› Volunteers, a volunteer initiative established 25 projects for by our employees in 2007 to carry out 4,000 children Sports and leadership projects that benefit children. In principle, at schools and Eczac›baﬂ› Volunteers focus on projects that Eczac›baﬂ› Sports Club complement the social responsibility projects hospitals of Group companies and contribute to children’s Established in 1966, the Eczac›baﬂ› Sports Club single-handedly mental, physical and emotional wellbeing. Since trained many of Turkey’s best sportsmen and women in the 2007, Eczac›baﬂ› Volunteers have carried out 25 projects that have fields of basketball, volleyball, gymnastics and directly benefited 2,500 children in five regional primary boarding table tennis before focusing its resources schools in Turkey and two pediatric wings at university hospitals exclusively on women’s volleyball in the in Istanbul.They have also organized eye exams for 1,500 children early 1990s. During this period, the club 27 national in a local neighborhood and collected school and student supplies won 13 National Championships in table for 241 schools around Turkey requesting assistance. tennis, eight National Championships in championships men’s basketball, 12 National ‹pek Ka¤›t Volunteers Championships in men’s volleyball, and three National Championships in chess. ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper employees established a volunteer program in 2007 called “Let’s Hold a Hand” in partnership with a local NGO. Since 1968, the women’s volleyball team has won 27 National Funded entirely by volunteers, the program aims to contribute to Championships, seven National Cups and played in eight the quality of life of children at the Karamürsel Gazi Vakf› and European Cup Finals, winning the “European Cup Winners’ Cup” Gazanfer Bilge Children’s Orphanage, which is located near ‹pek in 1999. In addition to its A-team, the club has three junior Ka¤›t’s plant, through educational, health, sports, cultural and teams that have contributed players over the years to the A social activities. In 2010, volunteers carried out 20 different activities team, other first division teams and the Turkish National that directly benefited more than 100 children. Volleyball Team. 47 Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance This Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance (“ECRG”) document Scope of reporting supports the preparation and reporting of energy consumption and carbon emissions data by the Eczac›baﬂ› Group (hereafter For FY09 and FY10, energy consumption and carbon emission “Group”). It is the responsibility of Group management to ensure data relate to the energy consumed in Turkey by the Group’s: that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare its energy • Industrial sites in Turkey, comprising production facilities consumption and carbon reporting in line with, in all material and mining operations; respects, the ECRG. All data up to and including FY10 (financial year ending 31 December 2010) only comprises the industrial • Administrative buildings located at the industrial sites; and sites in Turkey (as detailed on the next page), excluding non-industrial sites in Turkey and all international sites. The • Own transportation of materials and products within the data for these years, therefore, do not represent the entire industrial plant sites. Group. Energy consumption and carbon emissions at industrial sites belonging to joint ventures have been allocated between joint General reporting principles venture partners according to their shares, in line with the Group’s financial accounting policies. In preparing this guidance document, consideration has been given to following principles: The following are omitted from the scope of reporting: • Information Preparation – to highlight to users of the • Energy used outside of the site gate. For example, transport information the primary principles of relevance and reliability from suppliers, to customers, in between Group locations, or of information; and business travel (even if they involve vehicles belonging to the site), and employee commuting; • Information Reporting the primary principles are comparability / consistency with other data including prior • Energy consumed in non-industrial operations; year and understandability / transparency providing clarity to users. • Energy used by third parties in the manufacture / production of purchased raw materials, products and other supplies; Key definitions • Energy used in the use / consumption and disposal of manufactured products; For the purpose of this report, the Group defines: • Energy in respect of outsourced and contracted operations / • ‘Energy’ to mean electricity, natural gas, diesel / gasoline, fuel manufacturing (i.e. activities contractually performed by third oil, LPG, steam, propane / butane and coal. For the purpose parties); of this report, energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, such as bio-waste, bio-mass, bio-diesel, or renewable • Energy supplied to third parties; and sources of energy (such as wind or solar energy), which collectively represent an insignificant share of total energy • Carbon equivalent emissions arising from other greenhouse consumption and carbon emissions. gases on the basis that these are not material. • ‘Energy consumption’ means the energy used during the Energy consumption and carbon emissions from acquisitions reporting year (1 January to 31 December), being the energy and disposals are included and terminated respectively from the purchased during the period. Energy consumption data date of contractual completion of the transfer of asset ownership includes energy used in the operation of on-site industrial / leasehold. This is consistent with the Group’s financial reporting. facility and manufacturing processes, including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site transportation and air circulation. Data preparation • ‘Carbon emissions’ means the carbon emitted as a Energy consumption result of the energy consumption during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). Energy consumption data are reported for electricity, steam, and primary fuel sources, which comprise natural gas, diesel, LPG, • ‘Industrial sites’ include plant buildings, treatment works, and fuel oil. Electricity, natural gas, and steam consumption warehouses, laboratories and industrial site administration data are obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with buildings. internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices. Diesel, LPG, and fuel oil consumption data are obtained from supplier invoices. 48 The Group has used the following published conversion factors: Restatements • For electricity, no energy conversion is required as the unit The measuring and reporting of carbon emissions data inevitably of supply is invoiced in kWh; involves a degree of estimation. In exceptional circumstances • For steam, the conversion factor (from ton to kWh) is calculated restatements of prior year reported emissions may be required. by using thermodynamic tables for saturated steam (Ozturk, Restatements are considered where there is a change in the A. & Kilic, A. (1991). Thermodynamic Tables and Diagrams. data of greater than 5 percent at a Group level. Birsen Publications) based on the steam temperature, pressure and condensation factors (ratio of closed to open circuit condensation and the relating temperatures), which are Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s industrial sites generated internally; in Turkey • For natural gas, the energy conversion factor (from cubic All of the Eczac›baﬂ› Group’s 26 industrial sites in Turkey, meters to kWh) provided by the Turkish Energy Market listed below by company, are included in our Statement Regulatory Authority is used; and of Energy Consumption and Carbon Emissions. • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel, LPG and fuel oil), energy conversion factors (from litres or kilograms to kWh) Building Products Division are obtained using the related ratios of the carbon conversion · Eczac›baﬂ› Building Products factors provided by The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (July (ceramic sanitary ware, faucets, 2009). bathroom/kitchen furniture, acrylic bathtubs and shower trays) 4 sites Carbon emissions Carbon emissions are calculated by the Group using published · VitrA Tiles (ceramic tiles) 2 sites conversion factors. Conversion factors enable the determination · Eczac›baﬂ›-Koramic Building Chemicals of the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere per (building chemicals) 2 sites unit of energy consumption. Different types of energy sources have different conversion factors reflecting their carbon intensity. Healthcare Division In future periods, conversion factors may be updated to reflect changes/improvements in published data. · Eczac›baﬂ›-Baxter Hospital Supply (parenteral solutions, peritoneal dialysis The following conversion factors are used: products and other hospital supplies) 1 site • For fuels (such as natural gas, diesel, LPG, residual fuel oil), · Eczac›baﬂ›-Monrol Nuclear Products conversion factors are obtained from the calculation tool (radiopharmaceuticals for provided by the GHG Protocol (July 2009), which uses data nuclear medicine) 4 sites provided by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). Refer to IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Consumer Products Division Greenhouse Gas Inventories (www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/vol2 · ‹pek Ka¤›t Tissue Paper www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/vol2); and (bathroom and facial tissue, napkins, kitchen towels) 2 sites • For electricity and steam, conversion factors are obtained from the 2010 Guidelines to Defra / DECC's GHG Conversion · Eczac›baﬂ› Giriﬂim Factors for Company Reporting provided by the UK (away-from-home products and Government. Electricity conversion factors listed within Annex selected cosmetics) 1 site 10 International Electricity Emission Factors for year 2006 and Turkey are used. These conversion factors for electricity Other Products and Services and steam have been used instead of the factors detailed within the GHG Protocol calculation tool because they include · Esan Eczac›baﬂ› Industrial Raw Materials transmission and distribution losses. (industrial raw materials for ceramic sanitary ware and tiles) 8 sites Note: The Group obtains steam from a cogeneration plant that produces electricity and steam jointly. A carbon conversion · Eczac›baﬂ›-Lincoln Electric Askaynak factor for steam has not been provided from the supplier. (welding consumables and electrodes) 1 site Therefore, the conversion factor used for electricity is also used · E-Kart Electronic Card Systems for steam. Although use of this factor results in an overestimation of the carbon emission for steam, this factor will be used until (magnetic stripe and smart cards) 1 site a more accurate one is available. 49 * For the purpose of reporting, “Eczac›baﬂ› Group” includes Eczac›baﬂ› Holding A.ﬁ. and its subsidiaries and joint ventures. ........................................................................................................................................................................... ....... 50 Assurance work performed We conducted this limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (“ISAE 3000”) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. Our limited assurance procedures included: • Making enquiries of relevant management of the Eczacıbaﬂ› Group and reviewing a sample of relevant management information. • Evaluating the design and implementation of the key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Selected Information. • Limited testing, on a selective basis, of the preparation and collation of the Selected Information prepared by the Eczacıbaﬂ› Group. • Undertaking analytical procedures over the reported data. Limitations Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used for determining such information. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can result in materially different measurements and can impact comparability. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. It is important to read the Selected Information in the context of the Reporting Guidance. In particular, the conversion of different energy measures to megawatt-hour (mwh) and energy used to carbon emissions is based upon, inter alia, information and factors generated internally and/or derived by independent third parties as explained in the Reporting Guidance. Our assurance work has not included examination of the derivation of those factors and other third party information. Conclusion Based on the results of our procedures, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, for the year ended 31 December 2010, the Selected Information has not been properly prepared in all material respects in accordance with Eczac›baﬂ› Group Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance. Baﬂaran Nas Ba¤›msız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müﬂaavirlik A.ﬁ. a member of PricewaterhouseCoopers Ediz Günsel Partner Istanbul, 13 June 2011 Reference Guide to the UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; approach to environmental challenges. (Pg. 3-5, 42-47) and (Pg. 2-3 / 14-19 / 20-33) Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater human rights abuses. (Pg. 43) environmental responsibility. (Pg. 14-19, 20-33) Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. (Pg. 14-19 / 20-33) Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Anti-corruption collective bargaining; (Pg. 42-43) Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. compulsory labor; (Pg. 42-43) (Pg. 12) Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; (Pg. 42-43) and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (Pg. 3, 40-42) 52
