UN Global Compact Communications of Progress September 29, 2011 Privileged & Confidential Page 1 September 29, 2011 General With three plants in the US, Lectrus is a leading electrical systems integrator in the US. We engineer, fabricate and install equipment centers, operator centers, generator enclosures, subbase fuel tanks and other custom metal enclosures that protect complex electrical power and control systems. During a supplier review in mid-2010, Lectrus learned that joining the United Nations’ Global Compact was a key requirement to becoming a recognized global supplier by Schneider Electric, headquartered in France. Lectrus submitted our commitment letter and became a registered member of the UN Global Compact in early October 2010. Lectrus has committed to making the Global Compact’s ten principles part of the growth strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. In order to facilitate a company-wide adoption, Lectrus formed a Steering Team consisting of operations leaders and human resource personnel from each plant and select members of the company’s Senior Leadership Team (SLT). For 2011, the Steering Team focused on implementing key performance indicators in the areas of human rights and environment. The period covered by this Communications of Progress is October 2010 to September 2011. CEO Statement of Support At Lectrus, we take as much pride in the product we produce as we do in caring for the environment in which we live. We have experienced significant change and rapid growth over the past five (5) years as we continue the transition from a small, family-owned custom metal shop with one plant to a larger, metal fabrication and electrical integration company with three locations. Our employees are beginning to understand how our steel fabrication and electrical integration operations impact local waste streams and greenhouse gas emissions. Management is now intentional in our demographic hiring practices. Lastly, we have implemented and educated all employees on policies that make Lectrus a better place to work. We are proud to be a part of the UN Global Compact and continue our commitment to its principles. Jerry Driscoll President & CEO Privileged & Confidential Page 2 September 29, 2011 Human Rights: Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights: Assessment, Policy and Goals Lectrus maintains a Harassment-Free Workplace Policy (located on our internal network as Document #0040; January 1, 2011). We are committed to providing a work environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. The company will not tolerate any type of harassment based on race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age, disability, military service or other protected characteristics. All reports of harassment will be promptly and thoroughly investigated. Employees’ privacy will be protected to the extent possible while complaints are being investigated and actions taken. Employees will not be subject to retaliation or any other negative action as a result of reporting harassment or discrimination. Inappropriate conduct toward an employee by someone outside the company, while on company property or work time, will be addressed with that individual’s employer. In addition, we publish Equal Opportunity Practices for our suppliers. These documents are located on our website (www.lectrus.com) and on our internal network. Lectrus favors suppliers who have a social and political commitment to basic principles of human rights and who do not discriminate against their employees in hiring practices or any other term or condition of work, on the basis of race, color, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, religion, disability, age or political opinion. Our goal is to eliminate any potential risk and remain free of any complaints that may impact the human rights of our employees and suppliers. Human Rights: Implementation When new employees join Lectrus and each time we revise these policies, our Human Resources Department provides training to all employees and an opportunity to ask questions. Once per year, we provide training for managers and supervisors on maintaining a Harassment-Free Workplace. Our policy states that any employee who believes he or she has been subjected to any type of harassment is requested to immediately tell the person engaging in the conduct to stop. If the person persists, or if for any reason the employee is uncomfortable talking to the person, they are Privileged & Confidential Page 3 September 29, 2011 requested to immediately contact their supervisor and report the incident to any member of management or Human Resources. Employees aware of another employee being harassed are also encouraged to report the behavior to his or her supervisor or to Human Resources. Any employee uncomfortable seeking assistance from a member of management or Human Resources can report the concern through the company’s Ethics Hotline All reports of harassment are promptly and thoroughly investigated. The employee’s privacy will be protected to the extent possible while complaints are being investigated and actions taken. Employees will not be subject to retaliation or any other negative action as a result of reporting harassment or discrimination. Any employee found to have engaged in any type of harassment will be subject to corrective action, up to and including termination of employment. Any supervisor who engages in, knowingly condones any type of harassment, or retaliates against an employee who files a harassment complaint, will be subject to corrective action and possible termination of employment. As a federal contractor in compliance with Executive Order 11246, Lectrus maintains an affirmative action plan which is updated annually. During the coming year, all managers and supervisors will go through more detailed training and goal setting to develop recruiting methods aimed at increasing our female and minority employee population. We will establish recruiting sources and strategies that attract a more diverse pool of candidates. Human Rights: Measurement of Outcomes During the reporting year, we started tracking all applicants and a specific metric which records the number of qualified female and minority applicants. Category Female & Minority Total % of Total Applicants 54 332 16% (Oct-10 to Aug-11) Employees 120 418 29% (as of 8-31-2011) Privileged & Confidential Page 4 September 29, 2011 Labor: Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labor: Assessment, Policy and Goals Lectrus has an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy (located on our network as Document #0038; January 1, 2011). The company is an equal opportunity employer and complies with all applicable discrimination laws. Lectrus recognizes that cultural differences exist and different standards apply in various countries, but we believe all terms and conditions of employment should be based on an individual's ability to do the job, not on the basis of personal characteristics or beliefs. Furthermore, we will recruit, hire, train, and promote people in all job classifications without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, or any other characteristic protected by law. It is expected that all employees will treat one another with mutual respect. Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination in the workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of their immediate supervisor or the Human Resources Department. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Labor: Implementation Lectrus complies with all federal and state labor regulations including: National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), Occupational Health and Safety Act (OSHA), and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO). Posters exist throughout the company informing employees of their rights. Throughout Lectrus policies, employees are informed of avenues and processes for voicing concerns and complaints. Labor: Measurement of Outcomes Since this is our first year of participation, we chose to address the Human Rights and Environment Principles. We will implement additional policies, goals and outcomes regarding the Labor Principle within the next four (4) years. Privileged & Confidential Page 5 September 29, 2011 Environmental: Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental: Assessment, Policy and Goals In March 2011, another large customer requested Lectrus to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. Thousands of organizations from across the world’s major economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions, water use and climate change strategies through CDP. In order to respond to the request, Lectrus assembled a cross-functional team who met every week for 2 months in order to determine the carbon footprint for Lectrus. After educating themselves on the CDP, carbon emissions, and reporting requirements, the team reached out to vendors for fuel consumption (Scope 1 emissions) and energy use (Scope 2 emissions) data. Through this process, the team responded to the CDP before the deadline and determined that our corporate gross global emissions for 2010 was 6,273.8 metric tonnes CO2e. In addition to paper, plastic and cardboard, Lectrus processes millions of pounds of steel and related raw materials every year. During the reporting year, we started recording the amount of waste diverted from landfills through recycling efforts company-wide. Environmental: Implementation Lectrus is committed to reduce our carbon footprint. We are starting to conserve electricity and fuel to save the company money and preserve our environment. Lectrus installed a paint booth at our new South Dakota facility featuring an electrostatic wet application process, which resulted in a reduction in paint quantities used and VOC emissions by 50% as compared to the wet spray system currently in operation within the original facility. Lectrus complies with all federal and state environmental laws including air quality, hazardous waste disposal, storm water management, and noise and hearing conservation. Required inspections, testing and permits are reviewed and updated annually. Privileged & Confidential Page 6 September 29, 2011 Environmental: Measurement of Outcomes Lectrus is now measuring our carbon footprint and taking steps to reduce our carbon emissions. Monthly, we now measure the pounds of steel, copper bus, copper wire, aluminum, stainless steel, wood, cardboard, aluminum cans, paper and plastic recycled. We are in the process of establishing a metric and goals to measure our raw material waste reduction as we continue to grow. Results from our largest waste streams are shown in the table below. Material Recycled Avg. Monthly Quantity (thru Aug-11) Scrap metal recycled: steel 100,005 lbs Scrap metal recycled: copper bus & wire 11,419 lbs Scrap metal recycled: aluminum 31,736 lbs In addition to our internal monitoring, we routinely host third-party environmental inspections and audits from customers, consultants, and governmental agencies. Corrective actions are implemented to address any issues identified during these audits and inspections. Privileged & Confidential Page 7 September 29, 2011 Anti‐Corruption: Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti‐Corruption: Assessment, Policy and Goals Lectrus maintains a process called the Ethics Hotline Policy (located Document #0039; January 1, 2011) which states “As members of the Lectrus Corporation team, it is very important, and it is Lectrus Corporation’s policy, that we act in lawful and ethical ways in all of our dealings inside the company and with outside parties. One way that we can reinforce this policy is by providing a secure and anonymous way for our employees to report any concerns about illegal or unethical behavior. To this end, Lectrus has employed an outside service and adopted a policy and procedure for reporting complaints and concerns regarding suspicions of fraud, bribery, theft, sexual harassment, conflicts of interest, or other illegal or unethical acts.” Lectrus Corporation will not allow any form of harassment or retaliation to be made against any employee for any such reports made in good faith. Employees are encouraged to use the company hotline number for reporting suspicions of fraudulent activity by any employee or vendor of the company such as the following:  Fraud  Embezzlement  Bribery  Kickback  Computer Fraud  Counterfeiting  Credit Card Fraud  Extortion  Forgery  Insurance Fraud  Money Laundering Lectrus maintains specific Standards of Conduct (located on the internal network as Document #0039; January 2, 2011), which states Lectrus employees are expected to conduct all business dealings and relationships with the highest standards of ethics, honesty, integrity and respect for others at all times. Activities conducted as an employee of the company should always place the Privileged & Confidential Page 8 September 29, 2011 lawful and legitimate interests of the company over personal gain. Conduct expected of Lectrus employees includes:  Professional communication and behavior with all companies and individuals, inside or outside of Lectrus.  Ensuring both internal and external customers are provided the highest level of service, responding promptly to all requests.  Reporting any issues or concerns as it relates to Lectrus’ business, customers, or employees that is considered to be unprofessional, unacceptable, or not in the best interest of the company. Employees are not permitted to:  Own, directly or indirectly, a financial interest in suppliers, customers, or competitors except for publicly traded securities where the employee’s percentage of ownership is less than 1 percent. Financial interest includes loans, stock, contracts, joint ventures, and the like.  Personally gain, directly or indirectly, from purchases or sales made by the company, other transactions to which the company is a party, use of company assets, facilities, confidential information, or use of company personnel.  Accept or solicit a gift, favor, or service that is intended to, or might appear to, influence the employee’s decision-making or professional conduct.  Accept outside compensation for work that is already being paid for by the company, or to accept outside employment that interferes in any way with the employee’s position with the company.  Sell, utilize, or disclose confidential information of the company except in the pursuit of the best interests of the company.  Compete with the company or its business in any way.  Assist or participate in the misuse of company funds, including, without limitation, the misappropriation of such funds for the personal benefit of employees of the company or customers.  Use his or her position with the company or information acquired during employment in a manner that may create a conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, between the employee’s personal interest and those of the company.  Employees must disclose actual or potential conflicts to their supervisor as soon as they become aware of them. In addition, employees may not accept, directly or indirectly, any money, objects of value, or premiums from any person or company that has or is doing or seeking business with Lectrus, except when officially authorized by the company or its management. All employees must Privileged & Confidential Page 9 September 29, 2011 disclose authorized transactions of this nature to their manager. Providing excessive gifts or entertainment to others who may represent potential business is prohibited. Anti‐Corruption: Implementation When new employees join Lectrus and each time we revise these policies, our Human Resources Department provides training to all employees and an opportunity to ask questions. The Ethics Policy is available on our network and posted throughout our facilities. Our Standards of Conduct policy is also available to all employees on our network. We do receive reports from our Ethics Hotline service anytime a call is made by an employee. Anti‐Corruption: Measurement of Outcomes Since this is our first year of participation, we chose to address the Human Rights and Environment Principles. We will implement additional policies, goals and outcomes regarding the Anti‐Corruption Principle within the next four (4) years. Privileged & Confidential Page 10 September 29, 2011
