Contents Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 4 Organizational Profile 5 Awards and Recognition 8 Report Parameters 9 Principles. Objectives. Priorities. 11 Management Approach 15 Stakeholder Management 19 Economic Sustainability 20 Performance Indicators 21 Campus Reach 26 Digital Reach 27 Tech Reach 28 Other Community Initiatives 29 Environmental Management 30 UN Global Compact 33 Report Application Levels 34 GRI Index 35 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 1 “We don’t just think for today. We’re also planning for tomorrow...” 2 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PEOPLE • 5000+ Virtusans worldwide • 99% of senior management are local hires • HR Awards and Recognition • Certified by the Corporate Research Foundation Institute as one of Britain’s Top Employers for 2011. • Ranked among the Top 20 IT Best Employers in India, for the second consecutive year in the DataquestIDC Annual Survey. • Awarded Gold for HR Practices at the HRM Awards 2010 by Sri Lanka Association of Human Resource Professionals and Hewitt Associates India. • Average training hours per head in FY11 95.6315 • Total learning opportunities utilized in FY11 33575 • Our Awards Schemes • Delivery Excellence Awards • Recognize and Value Everyone (RAVE) Awards • Long Service Awards • CAPs COMMUNITY • 17,200+ campus training hours • 500+ internships • 30 placement engineer scholarships • 15,000 students across India and Sri Lanka gained access to IT education • 70 IT labs have been set up in rural schools ENVIRONMENT • 22% reduction in per capita energy consumption • Our Hyderabad campus is being submitted for LEED Gold Certification. • In Sri Lanka, calculations have already been verified by the EU SWITCH-Asia Funded EEPEx Project VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 3 Section (A) Introduction Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. report for the year 2010/2011 is effectively our third publication of sustainability disclosures. Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Sustainability reporting demonstrates our commitment towards A MESSAGE FROM KRIS CANEKERATNE sustainability; it underlies our responsiveness to those who want CHAIRMAN & CEO  to know us better. Our greatest pride in undertaking sustainability reporting stems from the fact that as a corporate, we are now able to through the integration of strategic CSR to our business strategy, cater to wider stakeholder needs through the integration of in a reportable and quantifiable manner. This is especially true in light of the fact that in this year’s sustainability report we adopt the framework laid out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as the primary basis for disclosure. The report seeks to disclose on Level C with the objective of moving to a higher level of disclosure over the next two years. Through the adoption of GRI criteria, we have in effect enhanced the comparability of our sustainability efforts across the industry on a global platform, benchmarked sustainability performance against performance standards and demonstrated our commitment to sustainable development through the consistent integration of sustainability with corporate objectives. We firmly believe that the integration of sustainability into our core business strategy will yield and drive future growth. In 2010 we continued to focus on Virtusa’s key pillars of sustainability; Digital Reach, Campus Reach, Tech Reach and Code Green. By cascading our insight from previous years, in the year under review, we tightened our focus on delivering greater value through these initiatives. The scope and scale of our sustainability efforts have been enlarged through collaboration with a diverse range of partners – from customers and suppliers to governments and NGOs all of who have added value and assisted us towards making a bigger and more profound impact on. Employee volunteerism has been at the crux of our sustainability drive. Through selfless dedication our employees have played a pivotal role in successfully implementing Virtusa’s sustainability initiatives and brought to reality many of our sustainability targets. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) we remain committed to protect and promote principles endorsed by the Virtusa Corporation has evolved over the last decade into a publicly UNGC in our sphere of influence. traded global operation that specializes in Information Technology Services. As a NASDAQ traded company (NASDAQ:VRTU) we are As the principal steward of sustainability at Virtusa, it gives me great more than aware of the transparency imperative in building credibility pleasure to present the Sustainability Report for 2010/2011. and respect in the global corporate sphere. We recognize and accept the need to be transparent in organizational and sustainability activities Kris Canekeratne and to be accountable to a diverse range of stakeholders. Virtusa has Chairman & CEO reported on its sustainability initiatives over the last two years and this MISSION STATEMENT OUR VALUES To be the partner of choice for corporations in creating a PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE: Expand the contours of our customer competitive advantage through technology excellence. experience through innovation and acceleration of business outcomes INTEGRITY: Be forthright and honest in all our interactions To create the conditions for professional success and quality of RESPECT: Treat our stakeholders, environment & our diversity with life for all Virtusans. respect To be a socially conscious and responsible corporate citizen in LEADERSHIP: Lead by serving those being led and be accountable all countries of operation. when things go awry 4 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (B) Organization Profile Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. Organization Profile Virtusa Corporate Headquarters Founded in 1996, the Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU) is a global $217.9 million whilst in the year 2009/2010 the company’s turnover information technology (IT) services company providing IT consulting, stood at $164.4 million. technology and outsourcing services. Using our enhanced global delivery model, innovative software platforming approach and industry SERVICES AND OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE expertise, we provide high-value IT services that enable our clients to We provide a broad range of IT services, either individually or as enhance business performance, accelerate time-to-market, increase part of an end-to-end solution, from business and IT consulting and productivity and improve customer service. technology implementation to application outsourcing. Our IT consulting services include strategic activities such as up front business case Headquartered in Massachusetts, USA we have offices in the United development and ROI, technology roadmaps, architecture services, States, United Kingdom, Hungary and the Netherlands and global and application portfolio assessment. Our technology implementation delivery centers in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Chennai, India and services include application development, systems integration, legacy Colombo, Sri Lanka. system conversion and enablement, and quality assurance (“QA”) and testing. Our application outsourcing services include application Our enhanced global delivery model leverages a highly-efficient onsiteenhancement, maintenance and infrastructure management. We also to-offshore service delivery mix and proprietary tools and processes use our solution based service offerings, which are based on specialty to manage and accelerate delivery, foster innovation and promote skills and domain expertise in areas such as enterprise content continual improvement. Our global service delivery teams work management, data warehousing and business intelligence, business seamlessly at our client locations and at our global delivery centers in process management, mobility, cloud computing and social media, India and Sri Lanka to provide value-added services rapidly and costto accelerate business outcomes and improve customer experience. effectively. This is achieved through the utilization of our enhanced global delivery model, which we manage to a 20/80, or better, onsiteOn November 4, 2009, we expanded our service offerings and to-offshore service delivery mix. domain expertise in the insurance and healthcare industries through the acquisition of InSource Holdings, Inc. (“InSource”) and we now offer We provide IT services primarily to enterprises engaged in the following additional services such as evaluation, assessment and remediation industries: communications and technology; banking, financial services services for health care payers and providers related to The International and insurance (“BFSI”); and media and information. Our client portfolio Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th mainly consists of repeat business. This is proven by the fact that Revision (“ICD-10”). during the financial year ended March 31, 2011, approximately 89% of revenue was generated from clients to whom we had been providing On February 1, 2010, we extended our enterprise application, services for at least one year. rationalization and modernization capabilities and service offerings through the acquisition of the business of ConVista Consulting, LLC Virtusa employs approximately 5,056 employees across all locations. (“ConVista”) and now offer a wide range of financial transformation In the financial year 2010/2011 the Company posted a turnover of services built on the SAP platform. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 5 On September 9, 2010, Virtusa was given the opportunity to ring the closing bell at the NASDAQ Marketsite in New York’s Times Square. The closing bell was rung by Chairman & CEO Kris Canekeratne. Tom Holler (EVP & Chief Strategy Officer), Keith Modder (EVP and Chief Operating Officer), Raj Rajgopal (EVP of Business Development and Client Services) and Ranjan Kalia (SVP & Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary) were also present at the event. More in-depth information on the service portfolio is available online In January 2011, we opened an Advanced Technology Center in and can be accessed via our website:http://www.virtusa.com/ Bangalore in addition to our existing Indian operations in Hyderabad and Chennai. We have operations primarily in India, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom and we serve clients across North America, Europe, the Middle East OWNERSHIP and Asia. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, The table in the following page sets forth certain information regarding revenue generated outside of the United States accounted for 26%, beneficial ownership of our common stock as of July 9, 2010: (i) by 26% and 28% of total revenue, respectively. each person who is known by us to beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock; (ii) by each director or Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa nominee; (iii) by each named executive officer; and (iv) by all directors Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries and executive officers as a group. organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary and the Netherlands. Unless otherwise noted, the address of each person listed on the table is c/o Virtusa Corporation, 2000 West Park Drive, Westborough, Board Massachusetts 01581. Compensation Nominating & Audit Committee Committee Corporate Govern(Independent (Independent ance Committee Directors: 3) Directors: 2) (Independent Directors: 2) 6 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 MARKETS SERVED Number of Percentage Shares Virtusa markets and provides its services primarily to companies in Beneficially Beneficially Owned (1) Owned (2) North America and Europe. A majority of our revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 was generated from Forbes Global 2000 firms Name of Beneficial Owner or their subsidiaries. Five percent stockholders: Sigma Partners (3) 3,394,177 13.35% We view our operations and manage our business as one operating 1600 Camino Real, Suite 280 segment. However, total revenue is attributed to geographic areas Menlo Park, CA 94025 based on the location of the client. Information regarding net revenue Columbia Wanger Asset Management, L.P. (4) 2,123,661 8.35% by geographic regions is as follows: 227 West Monroe Street, Suite 3000 Chicago, IL 60606 Frontier Capital Management Co., LLC (5) 2,096,032 8.24% 99 Summer Street Boston, MA 02110 Year Ended March 31 2011 2010 2009 FMR, LLC (6) 1,847,300 7.26% Customer Revenue: in USD’000 82 Devonshire Street Boston, MA 02019 North America 162,528 121,727 124,582 All executive officers, directors and nominees 7,612,122 29.19% Europe 45,065 39,322 44,368 as a group (18) (13 persons) Other 10,386 3,316 3,992 Consolidated revenue 217,979 164,365 172,942 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 7 Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. • Ranked among the Top 20 IT Best Employers in India, for the second consecutive year in the Dataquest-IDC Annual Survey. Awards and Recognition The company was ranked number 15 in 2010 in the areas of HR Practice and Employee Satisfaction. • Awarded Gold for Organizational IT Security and Compliance at the ISACA Security Awards 2010 in Sri Lanka. • Recognized by Everything Channel on the CRN Fast Growth 100 list for the third consecutive year. • Laureate in the Emerging Technology category at Computerworld’s HONORS Program 2011. • Named in the 2010 Global Services 100 (GS100), an exhaustive survey conducted by Global Services in association with NeoAdvisory, a globalization and sourcing advisory firm. Companies were evaluated across various criteria including Management Excellence, Customer Maturity, Global Delivery Maturity and Breadth of Services Portfolio. • Awarded Gold for HR Practices at the HRM Awards 2010 and placed within the “Super 10” a listing of top ten best HR practitioners by Sri Lanka Association of Human Resource Professionals (HRP) and Hewitt Associates India. Additionally, the company also received a special recognition award for its Performance Management Process. • Recognized in IAOP’s 2010 Global Outsourcing 100® sub-list: the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) named Virtusa within the Best 10 Leaders for the Entertainment and Media Industry. During the year 2010/2011 Virtusa continued to garner recognition and accolades for its operations as a global IT solutions enterprise. • Certified by the Corporate Research Foundation (CRF) Institute as one of Britain’s Top Employers for 2011, the company was recognized for its outstanding HR policies and exceptional working conditions. • Ranked in 2010 FinTech 100 in recognition of its capabilities as a Top Technology Vendor serving the Financial Services Industry. • Named in Deloitte’s 2010 Technology Fast 500™ List of Fastest Growing Companies in North America. 8 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (C) Report Parameters Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. Report Parameters REPORT BOUNDARY & SCOPE well as work towards obtaining external assurance. This report also We have made every effort to submit a comprehensive report with outlines our progress in embedding the ten principles of the United regard to dimensions of scope and boundary for the reporting period. Nations Global Compact. The report covers the period of April 2010 to March 2011. MATERIALITY Principles and Reporting Guidelines: The report covers topics and indicators that reflect Virtusa’s significant Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and UN Global Compact (UNGC) economic, environmental and social impacts or that substantively influence the assessments and decisions of its stakeholders. Given the This sustainability report has been produced based on the reporting nature of Virtusa’s business -as a services company providing software framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Through development and consulting services, not all of the GRI core indicators the adoption of this universally applicable, comparable framework for are applicable or directly relevant. The following diagram outlines the disclosure of information, Virtusa strives to comply with the specific indicators that are material to our operations: “Reporting Principles” and “Reporting Guidance” in its sustainability reporting as laid out by the G3 guidelines and indicator protocols for economic, environment, human rights, labor, product responsibility Applicability Economic Social Environment and societal performance. Very Important EC1 LA1 LA4 LA10 EN3 EN4 EN5 EC7 LA11 LA12 LA13 EN7 This report conforms to the C Level of the sustainability reporting EC8 HR4 EN16 framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Refer PR5 PR8 S02 EN 18 EN19 EN29 pages 51-57 for the applicable GRI Index. It is Virtusa’s intention to SO4 gradually adjust and improve our reporting systems to allow us to report Important EC2 HR5 HR6 against a greater number of disclosure criteria in the medium term as LA2 PR6 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 9 Virtusa Campus in Hyderabad As an entity with global operations the scope and nature of disclosure STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK differs in each operational centre. However, a conscious effort has been For queries on the Sustainability Report contact: made to ensure consistency of disclosure on economic, labor, and Rasika Withanage product responsibility indicators from a global operations perspective. Marketing, Sustainability & Communications Human rights, society and environmental indicators are relevant for our RWithanage@Virtusa.com operations in India and Sri Lanka. Materiality of Disclosure Based on Operational Focus Operational Focus Area of Disclosure Global Financial, Human Resources and Human Resource Development India and Sri Lanka Societal performance – Campus Reach, Tech Reach, Digital Reach including other community based initiatives Environmental performance Code Green DATA MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES Data measurement and data collection is embedded into Virtusa’s daily operations. Specific processes aimed at the documentation of sustainability related activities is undertaken on a daily basis and are critical components of our overall administrative and operational processes. Other measures are collated on a periodical basis. CO2 emissions monitoring is carried out using the guidelines and procedures of the Green House Gas Protocol Initiative for purchased electricity, shuttle transport and business air travel. 10 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (D) Strategic Sustainability Review Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. Principles. Objectives. Priorities. efforts – primarily the core initiatives in Campus Reach, Tech Reach, Digital Reach and Code Green – Virtusa has effectively built strong credibility with its stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY STEWARDSHIP AND STRUCTURE The criticality of integrating sustainability into the overall business strategy is addressed by Virtusa through its sustainability stewardship structure. Sustainability is given leadership from the very top with Chief Operating Officer, Keith Modder leading the drive for integration of strategic sustainability into business practice. The Center Heads for India and Sri Lanka drive the sustainability efforts at each respective location. Smaller teams at each geographic location oversee and implement components of the sustainability strategy that are specific to their operations. This sustainability structure has proven to be effective not only in driving the sustainability strategy but also in creating a viable base for effective monitoring of sustainability efforts; thereby enabling Virtusa to better mould and shape the drive for long-term sustainable behavior. SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES The following diagram outlines Virtusa’s overall sustainability objectives for each of the stakeholder groups. Support and safeguard Virtusan wellbeing, Employees thereby, becoming a work place of choice. Provide a trusted channel to extend our Keith Modder, EVP & Chief Operating Officer clients CSR focus, thereby, strengthening our client relationships. Clients Work with the best interests of our clients in THE PHILOSOPHY AND THE APPROACH a way that goes beyond the realm of commercial contract. We adopt a strategic approach to sustainability. Virtusa recognizes that through the strategic alignment of corporate and sustainability objectives and the integration of sustainable concepts to core business processes, we are able to foster a strong foundation for social and Support enhancement of quality and quantity corporate value creation. This approach is epitomized in our corporate of education, thereby expanding the talent pool. philosophy to “do well and do good”, an ideology that is built on the Community precept that as a global company Virtusa looks beyond the commercial Enhance digital inclusion, thereby creating demand for technology. profit to give back to society. Virtusa’s approach to sustainability is therefore to create a positive impact through business conduct on each of the company’s key stakeholders, in a sustainable manner. Advance the industry, thereby increasing the The company’s sustainability efforts are unique in creating opportunities, Industry addressable market and better business and bridging digital divides whilst simultaneously sustaining positive environment for all. social and environmental impact. Through strategic sustainability VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 11 SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AND KEY INITIATIVES Over the years the impact of these initiatives has been pervasive Virtusa’s sustainability focus revolves around the areas of digital and profound. Through these initiatives Virtusa has set up over 70 IT literacy, education, environment and development of software for the laboratories across Sri Lanka and India, benefiting children and youth betterment of society. from a cross-section of society, and bringing greater access to IT. We have reached out with our expertise to bridge the digital divide by Through the enhancement of digital literacy, Virtusa promotes access training over 15,000 students and teachers across Asia. In addition, to technology across communities to bridge the digital divide and to we have provided over 17,200 hours of mentoring and training to enable youth to enhance their skills for life and career progression. our beneficiaries in India and Sri Lanka across a wide spectrum of Through the provision of enhanced access to quality education, Virtusa areas. As a leader in IT and corporate stewardship we have provided believes that it can play a progressive role in creating future leaders. By internships to over 500 university students in Sri Lanka for periods of supporting environmental sustainability, Virtusa is cognizant of its role three months to one year and given them the tools and the know-how as a steward of environmental practice. By leveraging technology for to be better equipped to progress in their careers. the improvement of society, Virtusa propagates the cause of “software for good”. The key initiatives that embody the areas of sustainability focus are: DIGITAL REACH Promote digital literacy through access to useful information technology and to help build a more digitallyinclusive society, thereby, improving the quality of life in the communities in which we operate. CAMPUS REACH To be the model corporate contributor to academic institutions to advance the growth of future generations of IT professionals by sharing our world-class industry expertise, while creating opportunities for Virtusans to build leadership skills. TECH REACH To apply our skills for the greater good and support various projects of social benefits. CODE GREEN In line with UN Global Compact, Virtusa will be driving several key environment initiatives, e.g., Reducing Carbon Footprint; E-waste Programs, Eco Efficiency. 12 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS • The international nature of our business exposes us to several risks, • Our revenue is highly dependent on a small number of clients and such as significant currency fluctuations and unexpected changes the loss of, or material reduction in, revenue from any one of our in the regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. major clients could significantly harm our results of operations and financial condition. • Currency exchange rate fluctuations may materially and negatively affect our revenue, gross margin, operating margin, net income • If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, our and cash flows. ability to obtain, manage and staff new projects and expand existing projects may result in loss of revenue and an inability to • Our operating results may be adversely affected by our use of expand our business. derivative financial instruments. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange • The IT services market is highly competitive and our competitors rate fluctuations or that any efforts by us to engage in currency may have advantages that may allow them to compete more hedging activities will be effective. In addition, in some countries effectively than we do to secure client contracts and attract skilled we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash IT professionals. and the exchange of foreign currencies, which could limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. • We depend on clients primarily located in the United States and the United Kingdom, as well as clients concentrated in specific • We may face damage to our professional reputation if our services industries, such as BFSI, and are therefore subject to risks relating do not meet our clients’ expectations. to developments affecting these clients and industries that may cause them to reduce or postpone their IT spending. • Acquisitions that we have completed and any future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to • Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for integrate and/or identify, divert the attention of key management and provide services to clients in the United States, the United personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and Kingdom, or other countries, which could result in lost revenue and adversely affect our financial results, including impairment of delays in client engagements and otherwise adversely affect our goodwill and other intangible assets. ability to meet our growth and revenue projections. • We may be subject to certain liabilities assumed in connection with • Changes, and proposed changes, in U.S. immigration law, if our acquisitions that could harm our operating results. approved into law, may increase our cost of revenue and may substantially restrict or eliminate our ability to obtain visas to use • We may be subject to certain liabilities assumed in connection with offshore resources onsite, which could have a material adverse our acquisitions that could harm our operating results. impact on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates. • We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and our profitability • Negative public perception in the markets in which we sell could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. services regarding offshore IT service providers and proposed anti-outsourcing legislation may adversely affect demand for our • We may not be able to continue to maintain or increase the services. profitability, and growth rates of previous fiscal years. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 13 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK • • Any claims or litigation involving intellectual property, whether we Our inability to manage to a desired onsite-to-offshore service ultimately win or lose, could be extremely time-consuming, costly delivery mix may negatively affect our gross margins and costs and and injure our reputation. our ability to offer competitive pricing. • • We may face liability if we inappropriately disclose confidential client We may lose revenue if our clients terminate, reduce, or delay their information. contracts with us. • Regulatory compliance may divert our attention from the day-to• Our profitability is dependent on our billing and utilization rates, day management of our business.The market price of our common which may be negatively affected by various factors. stock continues to be volatile. • We may be required to spend substantial time and expense before • Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may we can recognize revenue, if any, from a client contract. prevent or delay a change of control of us and could also limit the market price of our common stock. • We may not be able to recognize revenue in the period in which our services are performed, which may cause our revenue and • Our existing stockholders and management control a substantial margins to fluctuate. interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. • Unexpected costs or delays could make our contracts unprofitable. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDIAN AND SRI LANKAN OPERATIONS • Our quarterly financial position, revenue, operating results and profitability are challenging to predict and may vary from quarter to • Political instability or changes in the central or state government in quarter, which could cause our share price to decline significantly. India could result in the change of several policies relating to foreign direct investment and repatriation of capital and dividends. Further, changes in the monetary and economic policies could adversely • Adverse or uncertain conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our clients affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in and therefore our results of operations. particular. • A significant or prolonged economic downturn in the IT services • Changes in the policies or political stability of the government of industry, or industries in which we focus, may result in our clients Sri Lanka adversely affect economic conditions in Sri Lanka, which reducing or postponing spending on the services we offer. could adversely affect our business. • The loss of key members of our senior management team may • Our net income may decrease if the governments of the United prevent us from executing our business strategy. Kingdom, the United States, Netherlands, Hungary, India or Sri Lanka adjust the amount of our taxable income by challenging our transfer pricing policies. • Our failure to anticipate rapid changes in technology may negatively affect demand for our services in the marketplace. • Our net income may decrease if the governments of India or Sri Lanka levy new taxes or reduce or withdraw tax benefits and other • We may not be able to obtain, develop or implement new systems, infrastructure, procedures and controls that are required to support incentives provided to us. our operations, maintain cost controls, market our services and manage our relationships with our clients. • Wage pressures and increases in government mandated benefits in India and Sri Lanka may reduce our profit margins. • Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair our global delivery model, which could result in client • Our facilities are at risk of damage by earthquakes, tsunamis and dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenue. other natural disasters. • Some of our client contracts contain restrictions or penalty • The laws of India and Sri Lanka do not protect intellectual property provisions that, if triggered, could result in lower future revenue and rights to the same extent as those of the United States and we decrease our profitability. may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may result in loss of clients and increased competition. • Our services may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to legal liability, harm our reputation, prevent us from offering some services to our clients or distract • Any changes in U.S. corporate income tax law to impose U.S. tax management. on untaxed foreign profits could result in a higher effective income tax rate for us and adversely impact net income. 14 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (E) Management Approach Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. The underlying principle of governance and risk management at Virtusa is the belief that the Company exists to realize value for our Management Approach stakeholders. We are cognizant of the reality that value is created, preserved or eroded by management decisions across the corporate function – from strategy formulation to operational tactics. As such, Virtusa adopts a precautionary approach in risk management. The Company’s Board of Directors currently consists of eight members. Our seventh amended and restated certificate of incorporation divides the Board of Directors into three classes. One class is elected each year for a term of three years. The directors are elected by a plurality of votes cast by stockholders. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE At the annual meeting of shareholders held on Wednesday, September 8, 2010 in Westborough Massachusetts, the Company’s shareholders re-elected Kris Canekeratne and Ronald T. Maheu, both class III directors, to each serve for a three year term or until a successor is elected or qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. The Board of Directors is also composed of (i) three (3) class I directors (Robert E. Davoli and William K. O’Brien and Al-Noor Ramji) whose terms expire upon the election and qualification of directors at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2011 and (ii) three (3) class II directors (Izhar Armony, Rowland T. Moriarty and Martin Trust) whose terms expire upon the election and qualification of directors at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2012. Mr. Canekeratne is Virtusa’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board. On February 4, 2011, based on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors of Virtusa Corporation increased the number of members of the Board of Directors from seven to eight and elected Al-Noor Ramji as a class I director of the Company to serve until the Company’s annual meeting of stockholders in 2011 or until his successor is duly elected and qualified. Mr. Ramji has also been appointed to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Samir Dhir, SVP/Global Delivery Head & Head of India Operations On May 10, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company made the following promotions: Samir Dhir, who was serving as the Company’s CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT Senior Vice President, Global Delivery Head and Head of India Virtusa looks upon corporate governance as a subject, as an objective Operations, was promoted to an executive officer of the Company and as a regime to be followed for the good of shareholders, employees, under the same title; Thomas R. Holler, who was serving as the customers, suppliers and indeed, every stakeholder. It is a means by Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, was which Virtusa, over the years, has earned respect and a reputation as promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer; and a corporate of the highest standing. Virtusa believes that corporate Keith Modder who was serving as the Company’s President, Asia and governance is about promoting corporate fairness, transparency, and Executive Vice President, Global Services was promoted to Executive accountability. Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Corporate governance and enterprise risk management are core EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS components of the overall culture and business practice at Virtusa. The following table sets forth the executive officers, director nominees Whilst good governance practices define the company’s accountability, elected at the annual meeting, and the directors of the Company and responsibility and promote soundness and credibility, enterprise risk the positions currently held by each such person. management enables the company’s management to undertake a holistic and enterprise-wide risk assessment to formulate strategic risk responses. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 15 Our Audit Committee focuses on risks and issues related to accounting, Name Position internal controls, and financial and tax reporting. The Audit Committee Kris Canekeratne Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Class III also assesses economic and business risks and monitors compliance Director with ethical standards. Thomas R. Holler Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Of ficer The Compensation Committee identifies and oversees risks and issues Roger Keith Modder Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Of ficer associated with our executive compensation policies and practices, Raj Rajgopal Executive Vice President, Business Development and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee identifies and Client Services and oversees risks and issues associated with director independence, Ranjan Kalia Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treas urer and Secretary related party transactions and the implementation of corporate Samir Dhir Senior Vice President /Global Delivery Head and governance policies and our code of ethics. Head of India Operations Robert E. Davoli (1) Class I Director Audit Compensation Nominating and William K. O’Brien (3) Class I Director Committee Committee Corporate Governance Al-Noor Ramji (1) Class I Director Committee Izhar Armony (2) Class II Director Outside Directors Martin Trust (1)(3) Class II Director Izhar Armony Rowland T. Moriarty (1)(2) Class II Director Robert E. Davoli Ronald T. Maheu (2)(3) Class III Director Ronald T. Maheu (1) Member of the compensation committee Rowland T. Moriarty (2) Member of the nominating and corporate governance committee William K. O’Brien (3) Member of the audit committee Martin Trust Inside Directors The Board of Directors’ role in overseeing the management of the Kris Canekeratne Company’s risks is primarily accomplished through management’s Al-Noor Ramji reporting processes, including receiving regular reports from members of senior management on areas of material risk to the Company, Chairperson Member Financial Expert including operational, financial, legal and regulatory, and strategic The Board of Directors and its Committees and reputational risk and the assessments and prioritization of such risks. The standing committees of our Board of Directors, pursuant All of these committees are ultimately subject to oversight and direction to the respective charters, represent a key element of enterprise risk of the full Board of Directors and report directly to the Board of Directors management. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee on these matters. of the Board of Directors has been initially appointed by our Board of Directors to administer the enterprise risk management process. INDEPENDENCE OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee provides The Board of Directors has determined that Messrs. Armony, Davoli, oversight of the recommendations of management and associated Maheu, Moriarty, Trust, O’Brien and Ramji are independent within the timeline, to identify and assess the severity of enterprise risks, the meaning of the director independence standards of The NASDAQ prioritization of such risks and the development of any action plans to Stock Market, Inc., or NASDAQ, and the Securities and Exchange mitigate such risks. 16 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Commission, including Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Such stockholder communication will be forwarded to the Chairman of Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Furthermore, the the Board of Directors, as a representative of the Board of Directors, or Board of Directors has determined that each member of each of to the director to whom the communication is addressed, on a periodic the committees of the Board of Directors is independent within the basis. meaning of the director independence standards of NASDAQ and the Securities and Exchange Commission. COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Virtusa has been a signatory and a member of the United Nations EXECUTIVE SESSIONS OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS Global Compact (UNGC) since the year 2008. The UNGC is a Executive sessions of the independent directors are generally held strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning immediately after each regularly scheduled in-person meeting of the their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted Board of Directors. Executive sessions do not include any of our principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antinon-independent directors and are chaired by a lead independent corruption. Essentially a voluntary disclosure process, the UNGC has director who is appointed annually by the Board of Directors from our been adopted by corporates across the world as a common platform independent directors. for the participants to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. Mr. Martin Trust currently serves as the lead independent director. In this role, Mr. Trust serves as chairperson of the independent director The United Nations Global Compact was initiated in Sri Lanka in sessions and assists the Board in assuring effective corporate 2007/2008. Virtusa has been a member of the Steering Committee of governance. The independent directors of the Board of Directors met the Sri Lankan Network since 2010 and the Board of Directors of the in executive session four (4) times in our fiscal year ended March 31, Network on which a representative from Virtusa sits, was formalized in 2011. early 2011. POLICY GOVERNING STOCKHOLDER COMMUNICAVirtusa embodies and practices the 10 principles through its TIONS WITH THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS management approach to sustainability and sustainable business The Board of Directors provides to every stockholder the ability to and in view of its intention to adopt the precautionary approach to communicate with the Board of Directors as a whole and with individual management. With employee commitment gained through awareness directors on the Board of Directors through an established process for building and orientation of the work ethic towards the adoption of the stockholder communication. 10 principles, Virtusa has embedded the sustainability precepts laid out by the UNGC into the approach in which it conducts its daily business. Any of our stockholders who wish to communicate directly with the As a requirement of membership to the UNGC, Virtusa issues an Board of Directors or an individual member of the Board of Directors annual Communication on Progress (COP), a public disclosure to may do so by sending such communication by U.S. Mail (including stakeholders on progress made in implementing the 10 principles of courier or expedited delivery service) addressed to the chairman of the UN Global Compact, and in supporting broad UN development the Board, as a representative of the entire Board of Directors, or to goals. Our last COP was in August 2010. the individual director or directors, in each case, c/o Secretary, Virtusa Corporation, 2000 West Park Drive, Westborough, Massachusetts 01581. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 17 POLICIES THAT DEFINE THE APPROACH TO Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, formulated in 2010, sets SUSTAINABLE PRACTICE out our commitment to ensuring the wellbeing of our people and The management approach to sustainable practice is defined protecting the environment. In the reporting period, Virtusa’s SLATC and driven by a range of policies that formalize the management obtained ISO 14001:2004 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007 certification processes. At Virtusa, given the diversity of the locations of operation from the British Standards Institute (BSI) and Virtusa remains the first varying policies are adopted to ensure compliance with the legal and and only IT Company in Sri Lanka to receive this certification from the social requirements of each location. However, in terms of the policy British Standards Institute. framework for core processes, a globally applicable policy approach is undertaken. Policies that Govern Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Interest Policy Location of Applicability Employees Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Global Harassment-Free Workplace Policy Global Certification/Tuition Reimbursement Policy Sri Lanka, India, UK, USA Environment, Health and Safety Policy Global Whistleblower Policy Global Suppliers Green Procurement Policy Sri Lanka, India Policy on Procurements Sri Lanka, India Environment, Health and Safety Policy Global Customers Client Delight Index Global Environment Environment, Health and Safety Policy Global 3R policy (Reuse, Reduce, Recycle) Sri Lanka, India 18 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (F) Stakeholder Engagement Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. Stakeholder Management customers such as BT and IBM to provide a trusted channel for them to “do good” and therefore acts as a conduit for enlargement of the Virtusa partners with people, governments and NGOs who have made impact of sustainability efforts. This assists Virtusa to forge better client “doing good” their primary business. Through collaborative efforts relations and provides an accountable channel for clients to participate and engagement with these stakeholders we strive to attain better in global sustainability issues. By partnering with the government and sustainability through greater accountability and acceptability by a wider NGOs such as Sarvodaya and Rotary International, Virtusa is able to and more diverse stakeholder audience. The company engages with enlarge the scope and impact of its sustainability. Local Customers Employees Investors Government /NGOs Academia Suppliers Communities Client Delight Index Global Team MemAnnual Membership Internship program Procurement Media interactions (CDI) ber Survey General in global policy Meeting associations Internal Support Partnerships and Scholarships Group Framework collaborations with government bodies on sustainability EHS Committee Media Academic advisory interactions and curriculum enhancement programs Open Door policy Training programs for teachers and students Virtusa Group on Mentor programs Face book Virtusa Code Green and EHS Groups on Yammer VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 19 Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. or increased competition in these geographic locations or industries could result in an erosion of our client base and a reduction in our Economic Sustainability target market. Any reductions in the IT spending of companies in any one of these industries may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Asia rebounded and western economies commenced slow recovery in For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, we had revenue of $218 2010, however, many structural problems remained: Financial markets million and income from operations of $17.8 million. In our fiscal year remained weak and high unemployment persisted. The financial ended March 31, 2011, our revenue increased 33% to $218 million, year remained one of economic and commercial challenge to most as compared to $164.4 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, businesses around the world, including that of Virtusa. 2010. Our net income increased from $12.1 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 to $16.2 million in our fiscal year ended March While the United States and European economies marginally improved, 31,2011. if a weakening or slowing of these economies or a deterioration in these financial markets occurs, pricing for our services may be depressed The key drivers of the increase in revenue in our fiscal year ended and our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending March 31, 2011, as compared to our fiscal year ended March 31, significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services 2010, were as follows: and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Additionally, any prolonged recession or weakening of the growth rates and economies • Higher revenue contribution from our existing clients, including in the United States and/or Europe could have an adverse impact on two of our largest clients our revenue as a large portion of our revenue is derived from the United States and Europe. In addition, in our fiscal year ended March 31, • Broad based growth across all of our industry groups, particularly 2011, we derived substantially all of our revenue from clients in three BFSI, which grew 52% and contributed 54% of our total revenue industries: BFSI, communications and technology, and media and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 information. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, we earned approximately 54% of our revenue from clients in the BFSI industries • Larger contributions from clients located in geographies other and our revenue from this industry vertical grew by approximately than North America and Europe 52% from the prior fiscal year. Any decline in the growth of the BFSI industries, particularly the financial services industry, significant • Full fiscal year revenue contribution of clients acquired in the consolidation in these industries or decrease in growth or consolidation ConVista and InSource acquisitions in other industry verticals on which we focus, could materially reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and • Continued expansion of the markets in which we operate and profitability. If economic conditions weaken or slow, particularly in increased demand for global IT services the United States, Europe or any of the geographies or industries in which we focus, our clients may significantly reduce or postpone their IT spending. Reductions in IT budgets, increased consolidation Fiscal Year Ended March 31 (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 Revenue $ 217,979 $ 164,365 $ 172,942 Costs of revenue 134,496 94,142 105,100 Gross profit 83,483 70,223 67,842 Operating expenses 65,697 57,330 57,864 Income from operations 17,786 12,893 9,978 Other income 441 56 2,888 Income before income tax expense (benefit) 18,227 12,949 12,866 Income tax expense (benefit) 2,027 820 809 Net income $16,200 $ 12,129 $ 12,057 Net income per share of common stock Basic $ 0.68 $ 0.52 $ 0.53 Diluted $0.66 $0.50 $0.50 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 23,783,457 23,153,973 22,763,759 Diluted 24,714,808 24,032,675 24,136,716 20 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (G) Performance Indicators Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. MARKETING & COMMUNICATION ETHICS Virtusa ensures that it complies with and adheres to laws and standards Performance Indicators that are applicable in each of its operational environments/ geographic locations. We take a measured and formalized approach towards regulating our marketing and communications efforts, and follow a voluntary code to ensure responsible advocacy. CUSTOMER PRIVACY During the year under review no complaints were recorded related to breaches of customer privacy, loss of customer data, and noncompliance with laws and regulations with regard to our services. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE At Virtusa we are well aware that as industry leaders we need to lead by example. We believe in assisting the creation of pervasive empathy and we embrace the best practices which if adopted globally across the board by our peers in industry, can impact the social system, thereby creating a responsive and responsible society. The adoption of the UNGC principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption and the means by which we have integrated these principles with how we do business have assisted us to create a more transparent and compliant work ethic REPORTED INCIDENTS OF ANTI-CORRUPTION All of Virtusa’s Finance and Administrative systems are regulated to ensure that anti-corruption practices are maintained in all transactions performed within. As a direct outcome of this structured approach to ensure transparency and accountability, Virtusa recorded no instances of reported corruption. MEASURES TOWARDS ERADICATION OF CORRUPTION FROM THE WORK PLACE Virtusa has adopted a code of ethics, as defined by regulations promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Exchange Act, that applies to all of our directors and employees worldwide, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller, or persons performing similar functions. A current copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Madu Ratnayake, Vice President & General Manager Sri Lanka Ethics is available at the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://www.virtusa.com. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY and Ethics may also be obtained free of charge from us upon a request As a service oriented company, Virtusa strives towards the delivery directed to: Virtusa Corporation, 2000 West Park Drive, Westborough, of excellence in service provision. Quality service provision is one of Massachusetts 01581, Attention: Investor Relations. the fundamental pillars that assists towards defining the service ethos of Virtusa. Our global delivery process ensures quality is built into the We intend to disclose any amendment to or waiver of a provision of software development lifecycle from inception to completion. the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer CUSTOMER SATISFACTION or controller, or persons performing similar functions, by posting such Measuring and ensuring high customer satisfaction is a key delivery information on our website available at http://www.virtusa.com and/ activity at Virtusa and is defined as part of the Client Delight Index or in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (CDI) process. The CDI score has Board-level visibility and is a key performance measure. Client feedback is collected each quarter from WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY stakeholders identified for each account and a consolidated report is Virtusa adopts a whistleblower policy that encourages our employees published for each Advanced Technology Center. to report instances of corruption and behavior that contravene the code of ethics. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 21 INTEGRATING HUMAN RIGHTS TO THE WORKPLACE We recognize and adopt the universal standards as per the tenets experience. We value the positive influence a diverse workforce offers laid out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights through background, skills and experience and are appreciative of and its protocols; United Nations Convention Against Corruption, the the role a diverse workforce plays in enriching the work ethic of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International company. Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; as well as the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 and As of March 31, 2011, we had 5,056 members worldwide. the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. By integrating these Approximately 99% of our senior management are local hires. We also specific tenets of human rights into the work place and our work ethic retain outside contractors from time to time to supplement our services we have instituted a cohesive approach that identifies and examines when required. None of our team members are covered by a collective human rights practices within the frameworks of our suppliers, bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union due in large contractors and customers. part to the exceptionally cordial relations that are maintained with all employees. The participative approach to HR has assisted towards Our vendor partner selection process takes into consideration the creating this scenario of mutual trust and respect. A flat structure, an human rights best practices of potential vendors. We give preference open door policy and the Global Team Member Survey are the main to vendors who are open to the integration of a more liberal work contributors to such positive relations. ethic. The issues of forced labor and child labor are not within the purview of Virtusa’s risk framework given that our focus lies on software development. However, we are cognizant of these same risks when dealing with our suppliers and contractors across the globe. Location-wise Employee Percentages NON-DISCRIMINATION FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Virtusa follows a policy of non-discrimination and has a formal Asia 95.50% 92.90% 94.30% mechanism in place to ensure that employees have a non-biased forum US & Europe 4.50% 7.10% 5.70% to express their grievances and to report incidences of discrimination. During the year, there were no reported cases of grievances. HR Data FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Workforce 5,056 4,038 3,764 We recognize our employees as our greatest strength. Our human New hires (net additions) 1,018 274 501 capital is our greatest asset and one of the key competencies. In Attrition rate 27.7% 18.6% 35.6% view of this, we follow labor practices that are not only equitable but Percentage of female 27% 25% 26% also participative. Through this approach we give our employees the employees opportunity to determine the elements that in their opinion, create a conducive work place. We remain committed to equal employment. Our policy is to recruit and reward based on individual capabilities, merit, achievements and 22 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Training Breakdown by Category Employees are our biggest asset and thus we believe that open FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 communication is essential to our team-oriented culture. We maintain Domain 223 196 1,284.5 multiple communication forums, such as regular company-wide Leadership 158 612.5 860.5 updates from senior management, complemented by team member E-Learning 5,053.5 837.7 1,389.47 sessions at the regional, local and account levels, as well as regular Organizational 18,060.25 8,798.05 101,92 town hall sessions to provide team members a voice to communicate Process 7,671.65 6,773.8 8,695.1 with management. QA 7225 5,479 14,736.1 Soft Skills 52,27 8.4 34,300 27,886.7 The Global Team Member Survey is one of the main means of employee Technical 90,669.8 56,997.05 65,044.37 engagement through which our Human Resources team obtains (In training hours) feedback on HR processes. New employees can provide feedback through the Sixth Month Completion Survey and Confirmation Survey. Our performance management system provides for regular appraisals Throughout our locations, we have an “open door” policy where top where each team member’s performance is assessed, along management is accessible to any Virtusan who may wish to bring up with their potential. We create and manage development plans, concerns. adjust compensation and promote team members based on these assessments. EMPLOYEE CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT Training Data Our performance management system won the Special Recognition Award at the 2010 HRM Awards conducted by the Sri Lanka FY11 FY10 FY09 Total Association of Human Resource Professionals and Hewitt Associates Total Continuous Training Delivered 151779 96473 117851.6 58258 India. Total Examination Hours 16783.45 13531.05 9770.7 39609.2 Total learning Opportunities Utilized 33575 20497.5 35943 88633.5 We consistently benchmark our compensation and benefits with Total Distinct Participants 16336 12274 14956 43041 relevant market data and make adjustments based on market trends Coverage as % of Headcount 81.34 59.99 91.07 232.03 and individual performance. Our compensation philosophy rewards Average Training Hours Per Head 95.63 87.00 128.56 310.79 performance by linking both variable compensation and salary Induction Hours 15419.95 8725.55 13790 37755.5 increases to performance. Onboarding Dev 373518 110591.5 207608 691717.5 Onboarding QA 13964.5 4346 44264 62574.5 In addition to compensation, we have several awards schemes in Onboarding BA 2655 0 0 2655 place to recognize contributions at team level and individual level. Total Training Delivered 624207 266585 444403 1324787 These include the Delivery Excellence Awards, RAVE Awards, Long Service Awards and CAPs. Average Trainer Feedback 4.35 4.16 4.15 Average Program Feedback 4.33 4.12 4.10 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 23 Our Career Development Model (CDM) has been designed to support activities such as blood donation camps and collections for charitable employees in their career planning and development. We have several causes. processes in place to support employee career development and to nurture top talent. This includes formalized mentoring and role based PUBLIC POLICY training and certification reimbursement programs. We engaged with a cross-section of stakeholders to mould public policy and to directly impact the lives of those communities within Virtusa makes an organizational commitment to team members to offer which we operate. We partner with establishments that are reputed, them an abundance of learning opportunities and initiatives. Training have a long-standing relationship with communities and which have programs and opportunities cover the full spectrum ranging from the wherewithal to support us to extend our reach to communities to technology to managerial and behavioral components and use a wide whom we would otherwise not have access to. range of methodologies. In addition, we conduct a training program for all lateral hires, that teaches them our culture and value system. We Through academic partnerships we have effectively pushed the provide a comprehensive training program for our campus hires that threshold of IT education and IT literacy in Sri Lanka and India and combines classroom training with on-the-job learning and mentoring. assisted towards the creation of greater acceptance of IT as a tool for We strive to continually measure and improve the effectiveness of our economic wealth creation. training and development programs based on team member feedback. Our initiatives towards public policy have been directed through the VIRTUSA CLUB “TEAM SPIRIT” following institutions: Industry and Social Partnerships The Virtusa Club provides team members with ample opportunity to enjoy social events. The Club is open to all Virtusans, and organizes Sri Lanka India a wide range of social events and community service projects throughout the year. Virtusans also receive membership for swimming Sri Lanka Association of Software NASSCOM and Service Companies (SLASSand badminton at local clubs. COM) Hyderabad Software Exporters Association (HYSEA) American Chamber of Commerce Annual social events organized by the Virtusa Club include the Virtusa (AMCHAM) Night, celebrations for religious festivals such as Diwali, Vesak and Sarvodaya Fusion Christmas and sports events such as cricket, carrom and basketball Central Environment Authority tournaments. In addition to such social activities, the Club also organizes charitable 24 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Academic Partnerships people. Many of our executive officers are on the boards of industry associations and academic institutions and are therefore conduits in Sri Lanka India shaping public policy and in changing the framework of IT education University of Moratuwa St. Joseph College of Engineering, in Asia. Chennai University of Colombo Siddhartha College of Engineering, For example, Roger Keith Modder, President, Asia and Executive University of Peradeniya Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh Vice President Global Services, is a government nominated member University of Sri Jayawardenapura Koneru Lakshmaiah College (KLC) of of the Board of Directors of Nanco (a public private partnership for Engineering, Vijayawada University of Kelaniya Nano technology initiatives in Sri Lanka) and a member of the National Council for Economic development (IT/BPO cluster) in Sri Lanka University of Sabaragamuwa whilst Madu Ratnayake, Vice President and General Manager of University of Ruhuna Virtusa Sri Lanka, is the Director and Vice President of the Sri Lanka Uwa Wellasa University Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) for the year 2011/2012. Previously Madu acted as the Director and General Informatics Institute of Technology Secretary of SLASSCOM. He is also a member of the Sri Lanka Asia Pacific Institute of Technology Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT) Industry Advisory Board, IDM which advises on the content, quality and relevance of the degree Sri Lanka Institute of Information programs and curricula development. Technology National Institute of Business ManMadu is also a founding member of the Board of Sarvodaya – Fusion agement and was appointed Chairman in 2011. Fusion is the ICT4Dev group of Sri Lanka Institute for Advanced Sarvodaya, which is the largest NGO in Sri Lanka. Technology Education Imperial Institute of Higher Education COMMUNITY RELATIONS Virtusa’s community relations efforts are underpinned by three focal NIIT initiatives – Campus Reach, Digital Reach and Tech Reach. The collaborative impact of these initiatives been colossal to the economy In addition many Virtusans contribute to academia through lecturing or and to communities. They have paved the way in creating sustainable mentoring of university students, thereby propagating the value of IT livelihoods for those effected by them. and its capability in creating sustainable career opportunities for young VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 25 Section (G) Performance Indicators Key Initiative 1 Virtusa Campus Reach contributes to academia primarily along three avenues: ‘Student Mentoring’, ‘Internships and Career Guidance’, and Campus Reach ‘Academic Enablement’. The fundamental components of the program consist of diverse forms of knowledge sharing. Visiting lecturers from Virtusa provide insight into cutting edge technologies and the latest standards and trends in the industry, covering a wide variety of subjects like Software Architecture, Software Quality Assurance, Requirements Engineering, CMMI and ISO Standards and Project Management. TechTALKs and seminars are conducted from time to time on more focused technical aspects such as design patterns, game development, Web Services and programming languages. TechTALKs touch on non-technical subjects such as leadership and team building, public speaking, market segmenting, targeting and positioning. The workshops provide handson experience in industry standards and concepts. The program continues to maintain the bond with the students in to their final year by guiding them to relevant project ideas and providing supervision. Internships and career guidance were inspired with the intention of adding more value to the initiatives taken by universities and governing bodies to empower students. Campus Reach ensures that interns are exposed to a highly interesting industry through global experience. A selected set of students who have completed the first two years in their degree programs gain opportunity to be a part of Virtusa while studying Campus Reach is an industry-academia partnership launched by up to the point of their graduation. This converts into an educative Virtusa to set benchmarks and lead the way in establishing mutually environment for the students, ensuring that they graduate from a beneficial ties with the academia and the community, and is a strategic university with professional experience from a reputed IT services sustainability initiative designed to increase the quality and quantity organization. of IT graduates. In addition Campus Reach, creates remarkable opportunities for students to grow their leadership and other skills. With The Virtusa Academic Teaching Fellowship Programme escalates the the mission “to be the model corporate contributor to academia on impact of the program by focusing more on academic professionals growth of future generations of IT professionals by sharing world-class and curricula. The program provides opportunities to teaching industry expertise whilst creating new opportunities for innovation”, professionals to experience and grasp live project knowledge. The Campus Reach has matured efficiently since its foundation with a total program also plays an important curriculum advisory role by providing of 800 interns benefiting from it. Campus Reach has transformed it self review and direction to the curricula and potential courseware of into a unique sustainability initiative with the focus of the program on diverse IT related courses. sharing knowledge and educating skilled IT graduates. Project Components Methodology Curriculum development Curriculum development with the Open University, University of Moratuwa, University of Colombo, SLIATE and several other universities. Full subject curriculum for software quality assurance, software architecture, human computer interaction Teaching Volunteer Virtusans teach multiple subjects at many universities in Sri Lanka Teacher development Open access to Virtusa training programs for university lecturers. Funding of training seats at leading training programs for university lecturers Career guidance & awareness Career guidance seminars across the country along with SLASSCOM, Ministry of Education and ICTA to educate rural students about the possibilities of the future Student Mentoring Provide mentoring for top campus students by the Virtusa leadership team Virtusa Academic Excellence Awards Recognizes top students in leading university IT programs Virtusa Internship Program Virtusa Internship Program provides students with exposure to real-life IT projects in a world-class organization Placement Engineer Scholarship Program Financial support for deserving undergraduates. Students complete their degree along with industry exposure Knowledge Sharing – TechTALKs A program where volunteers from Virtusa conduct short seminars for university students Academic Advisory Virtusa leaders serve in many university and institute boards and academic councils to help shape their future direction 26 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (G) Performance Indicators Key Initiative 2 Digital Reach The impact of the DLC, Vavuniya can be quantified as follows: In 2010/2011 the key project objectives were to support national 20,000 training hours were provided in four months peace building in Sri Lanka. With respect to this, Virtusa sponsored 80 rehabilitees receive training each month a Digital Learning Center (DLC) in Pompaimadu, Vavuniya, equipped with 30 computers, network infrastructure and furniture. The Learning 400 students completed a Fundamentals IT course Center enabled ex-combatants to gain IT skills and knowledge, thus increasing their chances of finding gainful employment. 120 students completed the Advanced IT course Consequent to the success of the Digital Reach–Uva project in 2009, 1200 rehabilitees were released after attending the program Digital Reach ventured into Sri Lanka’s Eastern province, to donate computers to Parameswara Vidyalaya, Vavunatheevu in the Batticaloa Digital Reach aims to promote digital literacy through access to useful district. In January 2011, two more schools in the Eastern Province information technology thereby helping to create of a more digitallyreceived donations of computers. Both schools, Dematamal Pelessa inclusive society, with the objective of improving the quality of life in the Kanishta Vidyala and Karangawa Maha Vidyalaya, are in Ampara. communities in which we operate. Approximately 2500 students will get the opportunity to learn IT skills with the IT labs in these schools serving as conduits for IT awareness Since inception, Digital Reach has helped to enable IT in many rural and literacy. schools in Sri Lanka and India. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 27 Section (G) Performance Indicators Key Initiative 3 Tech Reach Tech Reach aims to apply the skills of Virtusans to support various REHABILITATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RMS) projects of social benefit. In 2010/2011, Tech Reach contributed to two projects: One Laptop Per Child and the Rehabilitation Management After the conclusion of Sri Lanka’s three-decade long conflict in May System. 2009, the rehabilitation of thousands of ex-combatants is a huge responsibility, both logistically and politically. Virtusa developed RMS ONE LAPTOP PER CHILD (OLPC) to expedite the re-integration of the rehabilitees and to manage their vocational training needs. RMS has been utilized to release 4000+ Virtusa applied its quality assurance practices to help improve the ex-combatants so far. overall product stability of OLPC laptops at zero cost to the OLPC initiative. OLPC provides each child with a rugged, low-cost, lowVirtusa’s RMS was chosen as a Laureate in the Emerging Technology power, connected laptop with content and software for self-empowered category at Computerworld’s HONORS Program 2011. The annual learning, thus reducing the digital divide. award program honors visionary applications of information technology promoting positive social, economic and educational change. Virtusa performed a combination of both software and hardware testing on the XO-1.5s laptops, and multiple versions of their customized Red Hat-based operating system. The team dedicated 40 man-months of testing that resulted in 800+ test scenarios for the laptops. 28 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (G) Performance Indicators VIRTUSA INDIA SUPPORTS DEVELOPMENT OF A COMOther Community Initiatives MUNITY HALL FOR A FLOOD AFFECTED VILLAGE In October 2009, Andhra Pradesh suffered from devastating floods that rendered thousands of people homeless. Virtusans from Chennai and Hyderabad as well as the company donated approximately $11,000 to address the immediate and subsequent needs of the flood-affected people. As part of the relief activities, Virtusa collaborated with the Jawaharlal Nehru National Youth Centre (JNNYC) to help develop the community hall in the village of Kalugotla. The foundation stone was laid on July 6, 2010. Virtusa’s support will be in the form of financial assistance towards the construction of the Community Hall. Out of the total estimated cost of approximately $14000, Virtusa will contribute approximately $10000 for the construction of this building. VIRTUSA PARTICIPATES IN EMPLOYABILITY 2010, INDIA Virtusa participated in the EmployABILITY Job Fair, a platform to bring employers face to face with qualified and skilled persons with disabilities. Over 1000 differently-abled people attended the event. Speaking on the occasion, Ajith K N, Senior Director – HR (India & ME) said “Virtusa is an equal opportunity employer, and we firmly believe in providing opportunities to the differently-abled people. Our policy of attracting and encouraging talented people is built on a framework of providing a facilitative environment, where deserving individuals are able to showcase their talent and grow in the organization.” VIRTUSAN ADDRESS ASIA’S LARGEST OPEN SOURCE CONFERENCE Chamindra De Silva Head of Strategic Initiatives, Global Technology Office, Virtusa Corporation presented on “Licensing with regards to Open Source alignment to the Cloud” at Asia’s Largest Open Source Conference “Open Source India 2010” (OSI Days). OSI Days 2010 is the 7th and latest conference in the rich legacy established by the VIRTUSA FLOOD RELIEF PROGRAM Linux Asia series of conference in India. Organised by the Forum for Open Source Initiatives in India (FOSII) and the Linux for You magazine Virtusans in Sri Lanka lent a helping hand to fellow Sri Lankans affected (part of the EFY Group), OSI Days serves as the focal point for the by floods in January 2011. Goods worth nearly US$ 3,000 were convergence of the Open Source Community and Industry in Asia. donated to a village in Ampara in the Eastern Province of Sri Lanka. The conference was targeted at the policy and decision makers in Donations made by Virtusans were matched by the company. a technological ecosystem – Government, academia, CXOs, SMEs, developers and hardcore hackers. OSI Days 2010 brought together Virtusans from Chennai ATC Volunteer to Support Tamil Nadu Stateover 3000 of the finest individuals in the open source domain together Level Sports for People with Disabilities to discuss and confer on varied and relevant topics. Virtusans from Chennai ATC volunteered to support the State-level sports meet for people with disabilities organized by the Tamil Nadu Handicapped Federation Charitable Trust. More than 800 people participated in the event, many of whom had come from rural areas. Virtusans formed the largest volunteer group, compared to a few other corporates who had offered help to coordinate the event. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 29 Section (H) Environmental Performance Thinking today. Planning tomorrow. POLICY AND GOVERNANCE Environmental Management Our environmental impact management is administered under three frameworks: MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy Our Environment Management System – certified ISO 14001:2004 in Sri Lanka. Code Green – Virtusa’s environmental driver Raw data and calculations are under 3rd party verification. In Sri Lanka, calculations have already been verified by the EU SWITCH-Asia Funded EEPEx Project. We focus on: Targeted action plans for continual improvement. Monitoring key performance indicators. Internal and external verification and audit of environmental reporting. All environmental practices detailed in this report follow this framework of management. CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT Code Green began at our Sri Lankan Advanced Technology Center (ATC) during the Financial Year 2009-2010 (FY09), to reduce our climate change footprint. At that time, we focused on managing our most obvious environmental impact: electricity usage. Today, we regulate our energy management across all our ATCs, which together comprise over 5000 employees. In the first quarter of FY09, each seat that we utilized at one of ATCs, consumed on average, 275 kWh of electricity per month. By the end of FY11, we managed a seat with an energy consumption of approximately 215 kWh of consumption a reduction of 22%. All ATCs contributed in this efficiency transformation (table: Per Capita Energy Consumption.). We achieved this by innovating locally and sharing globally, thereby, facilitating the dissemination of ideas and best practices. Some of the developments that we are most proud of are: Denver DeZylva, Associate Director-Shared Services We did not launch any of our environmental initiatives under legal or • A state-of-the-art data center that was able to sustain a client duress. Nor did we seek accolades and certifications. We began virtualization policy to reduce the number of machines. our conservation efforts only because we recognized that our business activities impact the environment; that altering our attitude and behavior • A centrally managed shutdown and hibernation policy that could result in a better future; that it was possible to do more and slashed idle power consumption of standalone machines. better with less. Table: Per Capita Energy Consumption Asia average per seat (kWh) SL average per seat (kWh) HYD average per seat (kWh) CHN average per seat (kWh) April 2008 275 279 285 260 March 2011 215 192 215 240 22% 31% 25% 7% 30 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • The enhancement and installation of precision A/C systems and We have augmented our reporting by including emissions from an A/C management system for 24x7 support service teams. business related air travel and business shuttle travel under Scope 3 of the Protocol. Land travel increased by 57% over the financial year • A procurement policy to prohibit the purchase of high energy under review (FY11) and we are reviewing targets to mitigate the impact lights and peripheral equipment. of this for the coming financial year. Business air travel decreased by 39% during the same period. • A policy to promote the continued energy efficiency of our lighting systems. We have achieved a significant reduction in air travel by providing and encouraging our employees to adopting greener alternatives such as: We strive for transparent reporting of all energy related carbon foot • Optimizing meeting room capacity and facilitating virtual printing and follow the Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol Initiative. conferencing. Accordingly, as per the Protocol, since FY11 we have begun separate calculations of our emissions related to energy under Scopes 1 and 2 • Enhancing the VOIP and audio conferencing infrastructure. to cover energy sourced from stationary combustion and purchased electricity respectively. • Expanding the potentials of video conferencing. While managing our energy and travel related climate change impact is significant to the way we engage in our corporate behavior, we Asia: Electricity Consumption also proactively promote the use of greener alternatives amongst our Asia:El ectricity C onsum ption stakeholders. Some of the cases in point include maintaining e-bike 500 charging points at our facilities, promoting the use of e-bikes for office 450 400 transportation services and raising awareness amongst our suppliers 350 regarding the use of more climate friendly products such as Energy 300 Star rated products and farmed paper. 250 200 150 ons fromAsia: Asia:Emissi Emissions Business from Business Air Travel AirTravel 100 100 50 0 90 FY09Q 1 FY09Q 2 FY09Q 3 FY09Q 4 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 2 FY10Q 3 FY10Q 4 FY11Q 1 FY11Q 2 FY11Q 3 FY11Q 4 80 70 60 Asia SL HYD CHN 50 40 30 20 10 350 331 0 300 284 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 2 FY10Q 3 FY10Q 4 FY11Q 1 FY11Q 2 FY11Q 3 FY11Q 4 280 272 275 251 250 252 222 215 242 240 Asia SL HYD CHN 219 200 150 100 50 40.00 37.71 0 35.00 32.30 FY09Q 1 FY09Q 2 FY09Q 3 FY09Q 4 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 2 FY10Q 3 FY10Q 4 FY11Q 1 FY11Q 2 FY11Q 3 FY11Q 4 30.46 30.00 25.96 29.30 25.00 25.05 23.86 20.00 19.55 15.00 10.00 5.00 0.00 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 2 FY10Q 3 FY10Q 4 FY11Q 1 FY11Q 2 FY11Q 3 FY11Q 4 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions (Scope 1+2) Emissions 1,028 tonnes CO2eq 9,553 tonnes CO2eq 10,581 tonnes CO2eq 18.9 kgsCO2eq per utilized seat 175.8 kgsCO2eq per utilized seat 194.7 kgsCO2eq per utilized seat VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 31 Asia: Emissions from Business Land Travel Asia:Emissi ons from Business Land Travel 120 We are submitting the campus for Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certification within this financial year. We are 100 targeting Platinum Certification for upcoming construction. 80 60 In the Sri Lanka facilities, we use a building management system to efficiently manage lighting, air conditioning and elevators. A compact 40 fluorescent lamp (CFL) conversion project has already been completed 20 successfully, to reduce the consumption of electricity. 0 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 1 FY10Q 2 FY10Q 3 FY10Q 4 FY11Q 1 FY11Q 2 FY11Q 3 FY11Q 4 SPREADING THE MESSAGE Virtusans from Chennai ATC Support “Save the Turtle” Asia SL HYD CHN Campaign th 35.00 On 18 March, 2011, Virtusans from Chennai ATC joined together with 32.69 30.00 the TREE Foundation, an NGO that drives turtle conservation, to save 25.00 turtles along the coastline of Chennai. Virtusans helped more than 40 hatchlings to go back to the sea where they belong. 20.00 19.32 18.36 15.00 10.61 11.02 Chennai ATC Organizes a Cyclathon 9.81 12.30 10.00 8.66 5.00 About 50 Virtusans participated in the Cyclathon, which covered a 0.00 distance of around 35-40kms. The event focused on encouraging FY10Q 1 FY10Q 2 FY10Q 3 FY10Q 4 FY11Q 1 FY11Q 2 FY11Q 3 FY11Q 4 more people to use the bicycle as a mode of transport, thus, reinforcing the importance of reducing carbon emissions and also emphasizing the importance of cycling for health and fitness. REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE Virtusans join hands with Clean Up Sri Lanka Our policy is to reduce, recycle and reuse our products, with two objectives: minimizing the adverse effects of hazardous waste and Virtusa teamed up with Clean Up Sri Lanka to create awareness and saving resources by reusing non-hazardous material. encourage participation in their launch program. Clean Up Sri Lanka provides a forum for people to learn about individual responsibility We were one of the select IT services companies to enter into a in limiting environmental mishaps and encourages volunteerism for Memorandum of Understanding with the Central Environmental cleanup activities. Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka, thereby, becoming a member of the Co-operate E-waste Management Project initiated by the CEA. We Recycling E-waste were the first IT Company to follow up on our commitment and obtain st a license to handle e-waste segregation. We were thereby able to The Virtusa E-Waste Collection Week was organized from the 21 th process, store and transport over 1200kgs of e-waste material for 25 of March, 2011 to enable Virtusans to dispose of e-waste in a way recycling as per the Basel Convention. that is not harmful to the environment. Old computers, laptops, mobile phones, CDs, televisions and other e-waste was collected during Under non-hazardous waste management, we continuously recycle the week so that they could be recycled according to international paper, plastic, glass and metal. Our Hyderabad ATC partners with the standards. ITC’s Wealth Out of Waste (WOW) project for recycling office paper waste and the revenue generated from it is used for CSR activities. GREEN BUILDINGS AND SMART CONSTRUCTION Virtusa’s new state-of-the-art Advanced Technology Center in Gachibowli, Hyderabad was inaugurated in September, 2010. Built on over six acres, the new campus supports an eco-friendly environment including the effective use of soil, landscape and water, use of efficient and eco-friendly equipment, efficient building management systems, use of renewable energy and use of recycled or recyclable material. 32 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (I) The UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact Virtusa embodies and practices the 10 principles through its The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses management approach to sustainability and sustainable business that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten and in view of its intention to adopt the precautionary approach to universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, management. With employee commitment gained through awareness environment and anti-corruption. Essentially a voluntary disclosure building and orientation of the work ethic towards the adoption of the process, the UNGC has been adopted by corporates across the 10 principles, Virtusa has embedded the sustainability precepts laid out world as a common platform for the participants to advance their by the UNGC into the approach in which it conducts its daily business. commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. Virtusa has As a member of the UNGC, Virtusa issues an annual Communication been a signatory and a member of the United Nations Global Compact on Progress (COP), a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress (UNGC) since the year 2008. made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and in supporting broad UN development goals. The United Nations Global Compact was initiated in Sri Lanka in 2007/2008 and formed as a legal entity in 2011, known as the Global Compact Network Ceylon (GCNC). Virtusa has been a member of the Steering Committee of the Sri Lankan Network since 2010. The Board of Directors of the Network, on which a representative from Virtusa sits, was formalized in early 2011. Through its work with the GCNC, Virtusa has supported and encouraged the activation of both the network and the UNGC principles in Sri Lanka. Integrating the 10 principles of the UNGC to the management approach to sustainability: Category UNGC Principle Relevant GRI General practices at Virtusa Indicators Disclosed Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the • Virtusa supports. respects and upholds internationally protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; proclaimed and accepted human rights policies. Human Rights and Principles 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of LA5, HR2 • We strive to build a company where the individual thrives association and the effective recognition of the right to in a team oriented culture that encourages clear, open collective bargaining; communication and independent thought. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of HR2 • We source our employees from wide-ranging academic and Labour Standards all forms of forced or compulsory labour; professional backgrounds, as we value the positive influence of a diverse workforce in thought, background, skill and experience Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective HR2 as well as gender, ethnicity and nationality. We have well defined abolition of child labour; and polices against discrimination. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination LA2, LA14, HR2, of discrimination in respect of employment and HR4 occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary • At Virtusa we believe that environmental accountability is an approach to environmental challenges; integral part of our corporate values. We have taken several measures to help protect our environment and make our work Environment Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to EN4, EN5, EN18 places eco-friendly while maintaining or even improving costs promote greater environmental responsibility; and and service levels. Our objective is to assess our current levels of emissions and reduce them. “Code Green” is evidence of our Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the commitment to improve our processes, combat climate change development and diffusion of environmentally friendly and protect the environment. technologies. • Virtusa’s Environmental Group was initiated on January 26, 2009. Environmental/green awareness programs, such as the Virtusa Environment Day, have been conducted in order to create awareness among the staff. • Considerable steps have been taken in order to reduce our carbon footprint within the infrastructure available. For example, the consolidation of data centers, server rooms, networks and UPS rooms in order to optimize infrastructure, installation of duplex printers along with usage tracking to reduce paper consumption. Building Management Systems (BMS) have been installed to efficiently manage lighting, A/Cs and elevator operations. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption SO2 • Finance and Administrative systems are regulated to ensure in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. that anti-corruption practices are maintained in all transactions performed within. VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 33 Section (J) Report Application Levels Report Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked 34 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Section (K) GRI Index GRI Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES Profile Disclosure Description Cross-reference/ Direct answer Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Page 04 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Page 13-14 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Page 05 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Page 04-05 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Page 05–07 ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Page 05 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or Page 05-07 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 05-07 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Page 07 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Page 05-07 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Page 05-06 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Page 08 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Page 09 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). page 17 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual, Page 09 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Page 10 3.5 Process for defining report content. Page 09 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Page 10 Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation Page 09-10 of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that Page 09-10 can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying Page 10 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Page 35 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Page 04 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible Page 04-06 & 15-17 for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Page 15-16 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive Page 15-17 members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Page 17 governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives Page 15-17 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Page 15-17 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for Page 15-17 guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Page 18 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Page 17, 22 organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizaPage 17, 24 tions in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Page 11, 18 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Page 11-12 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Page 18 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 l 35 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, Page 20 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Page 30-32 Market Presence EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant Page 22 locations of operation. Page 27-28 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Page 30-32 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Page 30-32 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Page 30-32 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Page 30-32 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Page 30-32 Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Page 30-32 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Page 30-32 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Page 30-32 EN22 COMM Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Page 30-32 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Page 30-32 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organizaPage 30-32 tion’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Page 22 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Page 22 Labor / Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Page 22 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Page 23-24 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Page 23-24 assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Page 23-24 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Page 22 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at Page 22-23 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to Page 34 the elimination of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Page 34 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. SOCIAL: SOCIETY Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Page 21 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Page 24-25 SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and Service Labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Page 21 Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including Page 21 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Page 21 36 l VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 This report is available on Virtusa’s Corporate website : www.virtusa.com © 2011 All rights reserved. Virtusa and all other related logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Virtusa Corporation in the United States, the European Union, and/or India. All other company and service names are the property of their respective holders and may be registered trademarks or trademarks in the United States and/or other countries. US Boston, New York UK Windsor, London India Hyderabad, Chennai Sri Lanka Colombo The Netherlands Amsterdam Hungary Budapest
