General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 10/2010 To: 10/2011 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). To Whom it may concern, Streamline Cartons has a continual commitment to following the initiative and its principals. The principals are considered for all company policies that are put into place. Kym Harris Managing Director & Owner 1 Human Rights Principles  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. As per the statement of support Streamline Cartons remains a strong supporter of all principles including human rights. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Active adherence to the Australian employment laws. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Periodic review of human rights adherence by senior management. 2 Labour Principles  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. All company labour rights are based on the Australian employment laws. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Consultation is taken with employees. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Periodic review of labour rights within the company by senior management. 3 Environmental Principles  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection Our goal is to have all recoverable resources recycled and to continue with zero company specific pollution. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents All cardboard and paper waste is recycled saving around 300 tonnes from land fill every year. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance Periodic review of environmental performance by senior management. 4 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. Being a small business corruption is not a high risk; but Streamline Cartons have a strict anti‐corruption stance. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. Adherence to Australian anti‐corruption laws. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. Internal review by senior management. 5
