7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Contents Message from the Chairman of the Board Sustainability committee 1 Message from our Group Chief Executive 3 Board Sustainability committee members 5 About this Sustainability Report 7 How we manage sustainability at Sanlam 9 Our material issues and highlights 13 Sustainability governance and leadership 17 Engaging our stakeholders 24 Sustainable business 29 Motivated employees 43 Dependable products and services 61 Responsible investment 75 Responsible procurement 80 Prosperous society and community 84 Healthy bio-physical environment 92 Assurance statement 102 Alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 106 Glossary 117 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Message from the chairman of our board sustainability committee Valli Moosa Chairman II am pleased to present our Sustainability Report for 2010 which details our attempts to enhance our capacity to endure. You will find our Sustainability Review in our main report, the first Integrated Report of Sanlam. This report captures some of our sustainable development highlights for the period ending December 2010 and sets the tone for our integrated reporting on our journey towards becoming fully sustainable. Our achievement during 2010 was aimed at ensuring that we have good governance and solid leadership structures to lay the foundation for embedding sustainability in our organisation. Our performance as an organisation this past year clearly demonstrates our endurance and resilience which is underpinned by our strong commitment to contribute to building a thriving South African economy and a prosperous society. 1 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Message from the chairman of our board sustainability committee continued At Sanlam, sustainable business and corporate responsibility are key parts of the company’s philosophy which is founded on an inherent belief that we are because we serve. In this context everything we do is centred on our duty to be successful in economic, social and ecological terms. The Sanlam Board Sustainability committee embraces its role to guide the company on its journey towards an ever-improving integrated approach to business. We view our role not just as an imperative delegated by the Sanlam Board, but as an opportunity to play a key part in Sanlam’s contribution to the business of creating a better world. We hope you enjoy reading our Sustainability Report. Valli Moosa Chairman 2 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Message from our group chief executive Johan van Zyl Group Chief Executive Since our establishment in 1918, Sanlam has been a consistent part of the South African business landscape. We have always taken a long-term view of how business adapts to the demands of its operating environment. Today, we see in a dynamic world an evolving set of social, economic, political and environmental imperatives that require our skillful response. For us at Sanlam, moving towards sustainability means recognising both our broader responsibilities as an organisation in society, and the new opportunities that arise with this thinking. This report outlines Sanlam’s progress in dealing with the complex set of issues and opportunities that comprise sustainable business. As our understanding of business sustainability has evolved, so too has the diversity of voluntary codes and standards. We have committed our support to a careful selection of leading international and local initiatives. These include our continued acceptance onto the JSE Socially Responsible Investment Index, our attendance to the recommendations of the King III Code of Corporate Governance, our 3 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Message from our group chief executive continued participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project and processes in place. In other instances, we have becoming a signatory to both the United Nations incorporated further sustainability issues more Global Compact and the United Nations recently into our strategy, and these still require Principles of Responsible Investment. Embodied some attention before they are addressed to our within these voluntary initiatives is an assortment satisfaction. In this report we have introduced a of good practice that has been generated by water theme in recognition of the vital role that leading practitioners in their fields of expertise. this resource plays in the healthy development of We recognise the challenges of participating in our nation. and conforming to multiple voluntary standards, Sustainability management presupposes a but we are certain that the benefits of financially successful business. Complementing participating are substantial and the returns on the material in this current Sustainability Report, our efforts well justified. our 2010 Integrated Annual Report The governance and management structures we comprehensively details our sound financial have formed provide us with a solid platform for performance reflected in a compound average our sustainability programmes. Our Sustainability growth rate of 17,6% per annum in the Sanlam Board committee reflects the strategic Group’s relative share price performance over the importance we place on this function, overseeing past five years. It is my firm belief that our achievements on environmental, social and sustainability and financial performance are transformational issues. Line management interdependent. With this in mind, I am personally responsibility falls within a dedicated Sustainability committed to integrating stakeholder and Management unit, reporting to Corporate Affairs business interests in securing Sanlam’s long-term in Group Services, with ultimate responsibility for growth. implementation devolving to the leadership of If you are reading this report, you are probably each business unit. We have invested in setting one of our stakeholders. As you learn more about up a Sustainability Management Framework our progress in becoming a more sustainable and which will serve as a knowledge hub to track our responsible business, I would welcome your activities and progress. Additionally, sustainability views on where we are succeeding and is supported by related structures such as the especially, your suggestions on how we can Group Policy Unit, the Group Ethics committee perform better. and the Group Compliance Office, among others. In striving to do business in a responsible manner, we have, over the years, addressed many of the issues that now fall within the broad definition of sustainability. At Sanlam, many of Johan van Zyl these already have mature and established Group Chief Executive 4 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Board sustainability committee members 1 2 1 Rejoice Simelane 2 Bernard Swanepoel 3 Lazarus Zim 3 Rejoice Simelane (58) Director since 2004 Qualifications: BA (Econ and Accounting); (UBLS), LLB (Unisa), PhD (Econ; Connecticut, USA) Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: Sustainability, Non-executive Directors, Retail cluster. Major external positions, directorships or associations: African Rainbow Minerals, Ubuntu-Botho Investments, Mamelodi Sundowns Football Club, Council for Medical Schemes. Bernard Swanepoel (49) Director since 2004 Qualifications: BCom (Hons), BSc Mining Engineering Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: Non-executive Directors, Retail cluster, Sustainability. Major external positions, directorships or associations: African Rainbow Minerals, Wits Business School Advisory Board, Pretoria University Mining Engineering Advisory Board, Village Main Reef Gold Mining Co. (1934), To-the-Point Growth Specialists, Savannah Gold. Lazarus Zim (50) Director since 2006 Qualifications: BCom (Hons), MCom, DCom (HC) Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: Non-executive Directors, Sustainability. Major external positions, directorships or associations: Kumba Iron Ore, Afripalm Resources, Northam Platinum, Mvelaphanda Resources, Sahara Computers. 5 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Board sustainability committee members continued 4 5 6 7 4 Johan van Zyl 5 Temba Mvusi 6 Yvonne Muthien 7 Valli Moosa Johan van Zyl (54) Yvonne Muthien (54) Director since 2001 Chief Executive: Group Services Group Chief Executive since 2003 Executive Director since December 2009 Qualifications: PhD, DSc (Agric) Qualifications: BA (Hons) (UWC), MA (Northwestern), Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: Short-term DPhil (Oxford) Insurance cluster (Chairman), Retail cluster (Chairman), Institutional Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: cluster (Chairman). Short-term Insurance cluster, Retail cluster, Institutional Sanlam Group directorships: Sanlam Investment Management cluster. (Chairman), Sanlam Netherlands Holding BV, Sanlam UK, Santam, Sanlam Group directorships: Santam. Sanlam Developing Markets (Chairman), MiWay Group Holdings. Major external positions, directorships or associations: Major external positions, directorships or associations: University Trustee and Director of Sasol Inzalo Foundation, Chairperson of Pretoria, Hans Merensky Foundation, ASISA (Association of of the President’s Advisory Council on National Orders. Savings and Investment South Africa). Valli Moosa (54) Temba Mvusi (55) Director since 2004 Chief Executive: Group Market Development Qualifications: BSc Mathematics and Physics Executive Director since December 2009 Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: Qualifications: BA, ELP (Warton School of Business), MAP (Wits), Sustainability (Chairman), Non-executive Directors, PDP (UCT) Institutional cluster. Sanlam and Sanlam Life committee membership: Retail cluster, Major external positions, directorships or associations: Institutional cluster. Lereko Investments, Imperial, Sun International, Real Africa Sanlam Group directorships: Sanlam Developing Markets, Sanlam Holdings, Anglo Platinum, Sappi Ltd. Investment Management, Sanlam Private Investments, Channel Life. Major external positions, directorships or associations: National Business Initiative, Walter Sisulu University, Bishops Cape Town. 6 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 About this sustainability report Background and scope Some 84% of South Africa’s freshwater This Sustainability Report details Sanlam’s activities systems are threatened and more than relating to sustainable development (environmental, 40% are in a critical condition. social and governance), for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010. This report is not a stand-alone document or independent of other Sanlam Group insofar as financial, economic, environmental and social reporting, and therefore should be viewed in conjunction impacts are concerned. Striving for continuous with the supporting information contained in both the improvement, our reporting processes will be further 2010 Integrated Annual Report and the relevant sections adapted and refined in the next reporting cycle and work on the Group website. is underway to develop a Sustainability Management While the scope of this report is focussed on the Framework, designed to streamline data collection operations of Sanlam’s South African businesses across Sanlam RSA for future report compilation and (hereafter referred to as ‘Sanlam RSA’), some areas of assurance. the report relate to the entire Group (local and Please note that our major subsidiary Santam international) and in these cases it is clearly identified as (57%-owned by the Sanlam Group) publishes a separate ‘Sanlam’, ‘the Group’ or the ‘Sanlam Group’. Where data sustainability report, publicly available on the Santam relates only to the international businesses, the term website (www.santam.co.za), and is therefore not ‘Sanlam International’ is used. This report does not included in the scope of this report. include the specific sustainability activities of our international businesses. Where data and statistics are About our integrated reporting theme presented, we have indicated whether these relate to Sanlam RSA, the Group, or to specific businesses only. The chosen theme – water – is in recognition of the fact Where the word ‘Group’ is used as part of a title, such as that one of the biggest challenges faced by modern ‘Group Compliance Unit, the operational area of the body civilisation is the adequate supply of fresh water. Clean is described in context. There is also a glossary at the drinking water is a basic human right; however, it is one end of the report containing a definition of each body’s that is not accessible to millions of people worldwide. In operational area. South Africa, the per capita water availability ratio is one of the lowest in the world and a large portion of Since 2009, there have been no significant changes the country’s water resources is already over-allocated, which would affect or alter our reporting. with the water infrastructure and entire supply chain The 2010 Sustainability Report, as well as the 2010 under considerable and worsening strain. Integrated Annual Report, reflect early efforts towards the The very survival of the societies and markets that the adoption of integrated reporting, as recommended by the Group serves depends on continued access to clean King III Report on Governance and the Institute of water, and their living standards and general prosperity Directors’ recent Position Paper on Integrated Reporting. can be directly linked to potable water supplies. In the However, in an organisation of such size and complexity, commercial context, the scarcity of high quality fresh and there are considerable challenges associated with such marine water as a commodity is threatening food integrated reporting. Our 2010 reporting is therefore just security, job creation, industrial development and part of a larger journey towards an integrated reporting economic growth, posing a risk to our business too. framework created to underpin our long-term viability 7 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 About this sustainability report continued Against this backdrop, we are committed to ensuring We have made reference to the GRI’s G3 indicators and that water scarcity, declining water quality and looming are self-declared level-B+ compliant, based on the constraints do not impede sustainable businesses nor information in this report, together with information in become their death knell. To this end, we have partnered the relevant sections of our 2010 Integrated Annual with and are a key sponsor of the World Wide Fund for Report and on parts of our website. Please refer to Nature (WWF) Living Waters programme which our GRI G3 Content Index on pages 107 to 116. addresses specific water management and conservation issues and also allows us to connect our environmental Report assurance and socio-economic commitments. (WWF is one of the As part of our journey towards integrated sustainability largest environmental conservation organisations in the reporting, Sanlam undertook in the previous report to world, dealing with a range of environmental issues address the issue of independent third-party assurance ranging from the prevention of the loss of species, the over material sustainability issues. protection of ecoregions, to the management of marine resouces and the promotion of sustainability practices We have commenced this process by engaging within businesses.) Ernst & Young to provide limited assurance over: > Elements of the following five key performance Reporting in accordance with the Global indicators (shaded in grey in the relevant sections) – Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Guidelines scope 2 carbon emissions, SPF and SDM adviser profile, complaints from the Ombudsman for Long Our sustainability-related reporting for the 2010 financial Term Insurance, SPF persistency rate and the number year is in accordance with the GRI G3 reporting of entry level market policies sold. guidelines as recommended by King III. > Whether the report has been prepared in accordance The Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based with the GRI G3 principles and to a B+ application organisation that pioneered the world’s most widely used level. sustainability reporting framework. GRI’s core goals include the mainstreaming of disclosure on Please refer to Ernst & Young’s assurance statement environmental, social and governance performance. on pages 102 to 105 for further details. GRI’s Reporting Framework is developed through a consensus-seeking, multi-stakeholder process, and Further information participants are drawn from global business, civil society, For additional sustainability-related information for the labour, academic and professional institutions. period under review, please refer to the relevant pages The G3 Guidelines are the cornerstone of the GRI of our 2010 Integrated Annual Report and our website Sustainability Reporting Framework. GRI recommends – www.sanlam.co.za. that every organisation uses the Guidelines as the basis For any queries relating to Sanlam’s sustainability for their sustainability report. These principles define the management, please contact: report’s content, quality and boundary, and references standard disclosure elements required in a sustainablity Sustainability Management report. +27 (0)21 947 2893 +27 (0)11 778 6390 8 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 How we manage sustainability at Sanlam Sustainability management structures, At Sanlam, sustainability has become strategy and approach part of our business philosophy and it The Sanlam Group places considerable importance is fully embedded in all elements of our business. on sustainability, demonstrated by a number of clear leadership, governance, management and co ordination structures. At Sanlam, sustainability has become part of Board committee meetings, which play an important our business philosophy and it is fully embedded in all strategic, policy, advisory, co-ordination, oversight and elements of our business. reporting role for environmental, social, governance The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for (ESG), Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment sustainability management and governance within the (BBBEE) and transformation issues across the Group. Group. This responsibility is delegated to the Board The Group Environment committee (incorporated within Sustainability committee, the Audit, Finance and Actuarial the Group Sustainability Forum and operating within committee, the Risk and Compliance committee, Sanlam RSA only), established by the Executive Human Resources committee and the Policyholders’ committee (Exco), is chaired by the Head of Corporate Interest committee that deal with matters relating to the Affairs and is also accountable to the Sustainability sustainability of our business. committee of the Board. The Sustainability Management unit reports to the Head The Sustainability Management unit provides strategic of Corporate Affairs who reports directly to the Chief direction, co-ordination and monitoring of environmental, Executive of Group Services, who is a Sanlam Board social and governance matters within the Group, while member. Both the Head of Corporate Affairs and the business units are responsible for ensuring sustainable Chief Executive of Group Services attend Sustainability investments and financial solutions. Schematic representation of Sustainability Management at Sanlam Sanlam Limited Board HR Sustainability Board Policyholders Interest’s Audit, Finance and Risk and Compliance committee committee committee Actuarial committee committee Group CE and Sanlam Limited Exco Chief Executive of Group Services Head of Corporate Group Environment Business Units Affairs committee Head of Sustainability Management Sustainable Financial Sustainable Investments Solutions Sustainability Advisory Environmental and Reporting Stewardship 9 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 How we manage sustainability at Sanlam continued Sustainability management framework targets for Sanlam RSA. Focal points for 2011 include To streamline our ability to manage and report on the implementation of new environmental targets, the non-financial performance in a coherent and co-ordinated environmental policy and the sustainability framework manner, we are developing a comprehensive process to fo the Group and issues of climate change. establish a Sustainability Management Framework for > Environmental dashboard: While this tool for Sanlam RSA. This framework will enhance our ability to managing environmental KPIs was piloted during monitor and effectively evaluate all sustainability progress 2010, further resources will be allocated to its on an ongoing basis. It will also provide the insight implementation in the coming year. needed to respond proactively to issues as they arise > BBBEE dashboard: This tracking system for broadthroughout the year. Due to be completed in 2011, this based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) process will result in a robust set of key performance indicators continues to provide Sanlam RSA with indicators (KPIs) as well as a Sustainability Dashboard (a useful data on BBBEE performance. From an tool to manage sustainability KPIs) and Risk Log (a tool information design perspective, we made for identifying, analysing and managing sustainability improvements to the dashboard, allowing the risks). application to more effectively capture the layers of businesses reporting into the scorecard and their Sustainability work during the year underlying reporting areas. In 2010, specific actions of the Sustainability > BBBEE workshops: During 2010, we engaged with Management unit included: BBBEE representatives within Sanlam RSA on a > The Sustainability Management business plan: We one-on-one basis where required. Such engagement delivered on all key areas stated in the business plan, proved highly effective and has boosted our which largely related to compliance and voluntary understanding of the reporting requirements of the reporting. Department of Trade and Industry Codes of Good Practice (the dti Codes), resulting in a more > Global Compact: Our first Communication on streamlined reporting process and improved scores. Progress (COP) report was submitted to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This included the > Retirement reform: During 2010, the Policy unit Group CE’s statement of commitment to the UNGC published a compendium on retirement reform advice principles, as well as highlights of progress made for South Africa. We continue to engage with the against the principles. All signatories to the UNGC are South African government regarding the proposed required to report on key elements of their National Social Security System, participating in sustainability reporting framework from the third year discussions and evaluating current proposals. of membership. > Sustainability reporting: Sanlam RSA is developing a > Sustainability Forum: Exco led a process of Sustainability Management Framework including a reconstituting the Group Sustainability Forum to robust set of key performance indicators that will incorporate a Group Environment committee with streamline the reporting process in 2011. representation from all business units within Sanlam RSA. Our commitment to codes and standards > Group Environment committee: The committee is On an ongoing basis, our Sustainability Management unit currently establishing new resource consumption subscribes to numerous international and locally 10 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 How we manage sustainability at Sanlam continued recognised standards and criteria to underpin our In terms of the supply of water we governance, management and reporting on sustainability. will need to embrace the fundamental concept that water does not come These standards include: from a tap, nor even a dam. Water is > King III: The South African-based businesses have provided to us by healthy and functioning ecosystems. been engaged and their King III alignment considered, resulting in a clear understanding of requirements, imperatives and their implications. We are working > Carbon Disclosure Project: On an annual basis, we to apply all the material recommendations of King III contribute to the Carbon Disclosure Project by publicly to our businesses. reporting on our direct and indirect contributions to greenhouse gas emissions, measured through our > JSE SRI Index: On an annual basis, we are assessed carbon footprint assessment. by the SRI Index review process, based on public reporting of our environmental, social and governance > UN PRI: As a signatory to the United Nations (ESG) issues. We actively participate in this review Principles for Responsible Investment, Sanlam process by responding to the JSE’s requests for Investment Management is committed to careful information. We present more detail on our 2010 consideration of social and environmental criteria in our submission in the following section. investment analyses and decision-making processes. > FS Charter and the dti Codes: Although gazetted > Energy Efficiency Accord: Honouring our commitment under s9(5) of the BBBEE Act, the Financial Sector to the South African Energy Efficiency Accord, Sanlam Charter (FSC) is yet to be finalised and gazetted as a RSA’s facilities team has researched the business case Sector Code under s9(1) of the BBBEE Act, but is for energy efficiency and has engaged with the expected in early 2011. Therefore, for the purposes Santam team on policy development. of the 2010 Integrated Annual Report and the 2010 > GRI G3 Reporting: Our sustainability actions and Sustainability Report, Sanlam RSA will be reporting reporting are in accordance with the Global Reporting against the dti Codes. Once the FS Charter has been Initiative’s G3 reporting guidelines. We are selfgazetted, we will be verified and will report declared level-B+ compliant, based on the information accordingly against the provisions of the FS Charter in this report, together with information in the relevant Scorecard. sections of our Integrated Annual Report 2010, and on > United Nations Global Compact: As a signatory to parts of the Sanlam website. the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Sanlam has committed to align its operations and strategies JSE Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) with 10 globally accepted principles in the fields of Index human rights, labour, the environment and antiAnnually, the JSE applies a comprehensive set of criteria corruption. We are required to submit a periodic to produce its annual SRI Index, which tracks the ‘Communication on Progress’ (COP) in this regard, sustainability performance of listed companies on the the first of which we submitted during 2010. We are JSE All Share Index. This year, the analysis combined also actively involved with the UNGC as part of its public information and our response to their corporate working group on combating corruption. As part of profile questionnaire. We perceive the SRI Index to be an this team, we helped develop a set of corruption important tool for the advancement of the sustainability reporting guidelines, published in June 2010. and corporate responsibility agenda in South Africa. 11 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 How we manage sustainability at Sanlam continued In 2010, Sanlam qualified for inclusion on the JSE SRI Index for the seventh consecutive year and was listed as one of the best SRI Index performers for the year. The following table presents more detail on our compliance level with SRI Index sustainability criteria for 2010 and compared to 2009, 2008 and 2007. In summary, Sanlam: > met 100% of the ‘core’ governance criteria, and 88% of the ‘desirable’ criteria; > met 100% of the ‘core’ social criteria and 90% of the ‘desirable’ criteria; > met the criteria relating to our environmental policies, systems and reporting; > was best performer in terms of the climate change indicators introduced this year. JSE SRI Index assessment criteria The Company analysis for the JSE SRI Index is based on assessment of a number of criteria in the following categories: > Environmental issues: policy, management and reporting. > Employee issues: training, employee relations, equal opportunities, health and safety, HIV/Aids. > Other social issues: black economic empowerment, community involvement, stakeholder engagement, stakeholder reporting. > Governance issues: Board practice, codes of ethics, indirect impacts, business value and risk management, broader economic issues, governance reporting. Over the past four years, the trend in Sanlam’s performance against the SRI has evidently been upward. Criteria met by Sanlam for the 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 JSE SRI Index Core indicators met Desirable indicators met 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 Governance 32 out 42 out 42 out 37 out 29 out 35 out 33 out 39 out of 32 of 43 of 42 of 40 of 33 of 37 of 36 of 44 (100%) (98%) (100%) (93%) (88%) (95%) (92%) (89%) Social 39 out 40 out 39 out 32 out 44 out 48 out 42 out 37 out of 39 of 41 of 41 of 41 of 49 of 58 of 60 of 65 (100%) (98%) (95%) (78%) (90%) (83%) (70%) (57%) Environmental Met the policy, systems and reporting criteria Climate change Achieved Best Performer level in 2010 (a new category in 2010) 12 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Our material issues and highlights Material issues 2010 performance Plans and targets Sustainability governance and leadership > Our sustainability > Sanlam helped develop a set of corruption > Sanlam plans to increase its forensic governance structures reporting guidelines, published in June 2010, as capacity, in support of a robust anti> Links to corporate part of the UNGC working group on combating corruption programme for the Group in governance and strategy corruption. 2011. > To better apply King III recommendations, some > Sanlam RSA will perform an ethical risk > Corporate code of realignments and material changes were made at assessment in 2011. Ethical Conduct the Sanlam Ltd level. > Corporate compliance > Two anti-corruption workshops were held with > Commitment to King III Sanlam RSA employees, in partnership with > Unlawful conduct, Business Unity South Africa (BUSA). corruption and money > The Group Ethics committee reviewed the Code laundering of Ethical Conduct to ensure relevance to the > Anti-corruption structure of the Group and the regulatory landscape in the jurisdictions in which Sanlam > Policy analysis and operates. engagement with government > The Group Policy unit published a compendium of work entitled ‘Five Years of Objective Retirement Advice for South Africa 2005 – 2010’, written for the benefit of South Africa’s government, labour unions, NGOs, universities, corporates and the public. How we manage sustainability > Sustainability > Sanlam RSA initiated a process of developing a > Sanlam RSA plans to finalise and management structures, Sustainability Management Framework including a implement its Sustainability Management strategy and approach robust set of key performance indicators. Framework in 2011. > Sustainability work > Our first Communication on Progress (COP) report > Further resources will be allocated to the during the year was submitted to the UNGC. implementation of the Sanlam RSA > Sanlam achieved Best Performer level for climate Environmental dashboard in 2011. > Our commitment to codes and standards change on the JSE SRI Index for 2010. > JSE SRI Index > Sanlam met 100% requirement for core governance and social indicators for the JSE SRI Index. Engaging our stakeholders > Our key stakeholder > Sanlam Group undertook strategic engagement > In 2011, we intend to develop a formal groups with a range of stakeholders at different levels stakeholder engagement strategy and > How we interact with within the organisation, e.g. from Board and policy framework. our stakeholders level to business-unit level, on an ad hoc basis. 13 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Our material issues and highlights continued Material issues 2010 performance Plans and targets Sustainable business > A diverse, sustainable > For the period December 2005 to December 2010, > Sanlam RSA is gearing resources to adapt business the Sanlam Group outperformed all other relevant to changes that the Statement of Intent > Sustainable financial and indices (Life, ALSI, Fini, Banks) by a compound (SOI), the anticipated Treating Customers operational capacity average growth rate of 17,6% per annum over the Fairly legislation and the new National five-year period. Health Insurance system will bring. > Broad-based economic > Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) reduced its policy > Sanlam will be examining overlaps and contribution lapses, surrenders and paid-ups from 7,2% synergies between businesses to ensure > A transforming in December 2009 to 5,9% for the same period efficiencies are maximised. organisation in 2010. > Focus will be directed to the formalisation > Diversifying ownership, > Sanlam generated R4,3 billion for shareholders of record-keeping systems to improve management and and retained R2,1 billion for future growth. BBBEE information consolidation. control > dti Scorecard > BBBEE plans: > Equity ownership score is 18,20 > We aim to maintain our newly (2009: 18,20). achieved level 3 status by improving > Management control score is 8,16 our systems and targets. (2009: 7,54). Motivated employees > Employee performance > Sanlam RSA’s black employee complement has now > Sanlam RSA plans to obtain accreditation > Workplace transformation reached 60% of total staff in line with our targets, as ‘Investors in People’ for the Investment and diversity and 86% of the new appointments made during cluster. 2010 were black. > The new Employment Equity targets for > Skills development and > Sanlam RSA invested R58 476 431 in employee 2012 will be finalised in the first quarter of career progression training and skills development (1,77% of the 2011. > Conducive working leviable amount, down from 1,9% in 2009). > Development is underway for a Graduate environment > Sanlam RSA invested R1 271 834 in formal Leadership Programme (GLP) for 2011. > Employee health and coaching initiatives (94 employees), and > There will be a Group-wide focus on safety R4 970 241 in management development further entrenching the business culture to initiatives (913 employees). align this to Sanlam’s business strategy. > SPF initiated a disability learnership with 18 participants. > The number of new recruits with a degree or three-year diploma has increased by over 84% since 2009. > Senior managers and staff members identified as “future leaders” completed a survey on the business culture to identify well-performing areas and areas needing attention. > dti Scorecard > Employment equity score is 6,74 (2009: 4,04). > Skills development score is 9,55 (2009: 9,46). 14 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Our material issues and highlights continued Material issues 2010 performance Plans and targets Dependable products and services > A diverse, sustainable > Sanlam Developing Markets (SDM) sold just over > Sanlam aims to grow the Sanlam Cobalt product portfolio 760 000 individual life policies in South Africa and Financial Literacy Campaign by 30% during > Broadening access to internationally. 2011. financial services > SDM activated 104 new retail stores in partnership with the JD Group. > The strength of our sales advisers > SPF increased the total complement of advisers by 12%. > Client education and > SPF runs an Internal Training Academy that cost literacy R29,2 million in 2010, as well as providing free broker > Client service levels training and examinations, which cost R352 000. > Dealing with client > Sanlam won a number of client service awards from complaints Business Processing Enabling South Africa (BPESA). > SPF’s Client Relations unit was commended by the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance for being the organisation that best supported the Ombudsman over the last 10 years. Responsible investment > ESG-based investment > Sanlam voluntarily completed the United Nations > Sanlam Multi Managers will be launching a decision-making and Principles for Responsible Investment (UN-PRI) survey new SRI product in 2011. progress against the in May 2010. UN-PRI > Sanlam Investment Management (SIM) was rated > Socially Responsible fourth out of the nine measured equity funds and Investment funds second out of the five measured bond funds according to an Alexander Forbes investment performance survey > Financing empowerment for the year ending December 2010. and investing in > SIM was proud to host the Information Management infrastructure Network’s (IMN) Inaugural African Cup of Investment > Responsible property Management conference. management > Sanlam Personal Finance launched the Empowerment Fund. > Sanlam Private Investments launched the Shariah fund. Responsible procurement > Our procurement policy > Strategic sourcing has brought about considerable > Sanlam RSA plans to implement > BBBEE procurement efficiencies in terms of cost, bringing over R180 million a web-based system that allows suppliers to in benefits to the Group during 2010. upload their own BBBEE certificates. > Enterprise development > Total unweighted procurement spend for 2010 was > Sanlam RSA is entrenching environmental R9,3 billion. selection processes. > 80,46% of Sanlam RSA’s procurement on a weighted > Further research will be done into maximising basis came from BBBEE-certified suppliers. web-based solutions that will lessen the need > Our supplier selection process now includes a for business travel. screening tool, currently being aligned with policy > There will be a particular focus requirements. on supporting the growth and upliftment of > dti Scorecard black entrepreneurs through our procurement practices, focusing on black female-owned > Preferential procurement score is 17,29 businesses. (2009: 15,46). > Enterprise development score is 15,00 (2009: 15,00). 15 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Our material issues and highlights continued Material issues 2010 performance Plans and targets Prosperous society and community > CSI and SED > CSI spend was R19,3 million, which represented > We aim to establish the Sanlam Foundation > Sponsorships that focus 0,52% of Group net profit after tax. This excludes in 2011. on society and Santam’s CSI spend. communities > The CSI unit reviewed and adjusted the CSI strategy, narrowing investments from 23 projects in 2010 to 13 projects going forward. The 2011 – 2015 CSI strategy was finalised. > Takalani Sesame reached 25 million children, and Sanlam spent over R9,5 million on this initiative in 2010. > dti Scorecard > Socio-economic development score is 2.81 (2009: 2.84). Healthy bio-physical environment > Report of the Group > The Group Environmental Policy was refined through a > The Group Environmental Policy will be Environment committee consultative process. signed off early in 2011. > Our carbon footprint > Sanlam RSA used an independent consultancy to > New resource reduction targets will be set for > Resource consumption measure the 2010 carbon footprint of its six largest Sanlam RSA. and efficiency buildings, covering 68% of total Sanlam RSA full-time > A core focus will be the positioning of Sanlam equivalent employees. RSA as a corporate leader in, and champion > Environmental targets > Sanlam RSA’s CO2 emission for 2010 calculates to of, environmental sustainability. 11,77 metric tonnes per full-time equivalent employee. > For the third consecutive year, we declared our carbon footprint publicly by submitting our 2009 data to the CDP. > Sanlam head office recycled about 61% of all waste. > Sanlam invested R3,1 million in the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) partnership. > Sanlam spent over R3,2 million on various resource efficiency initiatives at the head office. Note The material issues were identified through an internal engagement process with management. As no stakeholder engagement specific to broader aspects of Sanlam’s sustainability has yet been undertaken, these material issues have not been directly informed by stakeholder concerns. However, the various business units engage frequently with their stakeholders (as described in Engaging our stakeholders on pages 24 to 28) and these engagements inform many of the decisions made and actions taken within the business. Examples of these appear throughout the report. 16 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership Introduction Sustainability is one component of our broader approach to sound corporate Is the Sanlam business sustainable? If yes, is it governance, which forms the very contributing in a meaningful way to the sustainability foundation of the Group’s business of those who support it and keep it relevant? culture. The word sustainability is derived from the Latin sustinere, which means to hold up. In the English Board on Group-wide health, safety, social and language there are several definitions for environmental issues as well as Broad-based sustainability. Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) and In the words of our Chief Executive in the Integrated transformational progress. The committee also Annual Report, one struck a chord: “Sustainability is reports on these issues and recommends policies the Capacity to Endure.” to the Board. Is Sanlam capable of enduring? Is Sanlam assisting The committee is chaired by an independent its clients, distribution channels, employees, non-executive director, and comprises a minimum investors, stakeholders and the country to endure? of four non-executive directors. It meets four times Our results certainly show that we have endured, not a year when its members review the quarterly report only in 2010, but also in 2008 and 2009. The Sanlam and other relevant memoranda submitted by the Group has displayed consistent resilience, powered Head of Sustainability Management. Various by a robust strategy, especially in the three most sustainability issues are handled as required by other trying years. In 2008 the world’s financial systems sub-committees of the Sanlam Limited Board such came severely unglued. Our final results for 2010 as the Group Risk and Compliance committee, the confirm that Sanlam is a sustainable business that Group Human Resources committee and the has achieved growth even under the most Policyholders’ Interest committee. challenging conditions. Our strategy, which has Sustainability is one component of our broader proved resilient and sustainable, was fundamental in approach to sound corporate governance, which helping us to once again deliver a solid set of results. forms the very foundation of the Group’s business Sustainability is a key pillar of our business culture. For more information, please refer to the philosophy and growth strategy. This is clearly 2010 Integrated Annual Report, which contains a illustrated by our leadership in sustainability comprehensive overview of the Group’s corporate governance. governance, including details of Board composition, governance structures and committees, risk management, remuneration and directors’ interests. Our sustainability governance structures Links to corporate governance and Ahead of the curve, some years ago, Sanlam strategy appointed a Sustainability Board committee and other committees that cover sustainability issues, If Sanlam is to be truly sustainable, our business indicating the strategic importance that we have long model must be holistic, resting on a balanced triple attached to sustainability matters. This committee bottom line. In order to thrive with a beneficial role in monitors, oversees and advises the Sanlam Ltd society, we must not only be financially profitable, but also contribute positively to social and environmental 17 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership continued well-being. In the past, these three areas of impact, and translates these into our business culture: all economic, social and environmental, have often been Group businesses are required to subscribe to this seen as separate. At Sanlam we are learning to Code. This year’s review improved the Code by integrate all of them into our business strategy. For updating some of the values and principles to match us, sustainability is not something we are ‘adding on’ the changing regulatory landscape. The Code also to our business: it is becoming an integral part of describes Sanlam’s approach to compliance with who we are. statutes and regulations. Against this backdrop, our Sustainability Board Every second year, Sanlam RSA commissions an committee monitors sustainability-related risks and ethical risk assessment using a tool developed by opportunities, ensuring that these translate into KPMG. The 2009 assessment showed significant improved corporate governance and that they feed improvements, and the results will be analysed in into broader corporate strategies. Our Code of detail in the next assessment in 2011. This tool is not Ethical Conduct guides how line managers and widely used in South Africa, but Sanlam RSA employees conduct their work, while our returned above-average results compared to its Sustainability Management unit monitors the peers in the USA. We also participated in a local sustainability landscape, alerting the Sustainability study among 20 major listed corporations, Board committee and the Board to any conducted by Ethics SA in 2009, called the environmental, social and governance trends and SA Corporate Ethics Indicator. Although our sample developments that should inform our broader size was at the lower end of requirements, the results corporate governance and strategy. showed Sanlam RSA out-performing its peers in the banking and financial services category. Corporate Code of Ethical Conduct Should breaches of the Code of Ethical Conduct As a sustainable enterprise, the Sanlam Group is occur, relevant individuals will be investigated by committed to the highest standards of integrity and management at business unit level, with sensitive ethical conduct in dealings with its stakeholders. issues passed through the Group Ethics committee. Our Code of Ethical Conduct is overseen by the Relevant policies include the Group Disciplinary Code Group Ethics committee, under the chairmanship and the Group Financial Crime Combating Policy of the Chief Risk Officer. This committee comprises and the Group Policy on the Giving or Receipt 11 representatives from across Sanlam RSA’s of Gratifications, which are applied across the business clusters. Due to logistical constraints the Sanlam Group. Group Ethics committee does not represent all In 2010 all breaches were dealt with in the above businesses in the Group directly. Implementing the manner. Code of Ethical Conduct is the responsibility of the management of each business in the Group. Corporate compliance During 2010, the committee reviewed the Code of Our Head of Compliance and Forensics continually Ethical Conduct, a process we complete every monitors and researches the regulatory environments second year to ensure the Code remains relevant to in which we operate and provides input to the Board. the structure of the Group and the regulatory Sanlam’s Internal Audit unit also performs a relevant landscape in the jurisdictions in which we operate. audit every two to three years. Areas of importance The Code reflects the Group’s values and principles for 2010 and 2011 include: 18 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership continued > The Competition Act, including the Amendment Act of 2009 Every second year, Sanlam RSA > King III commissions an ethical risk assessment using a tool developed by KPMG. > The Companies Act 2008 > The Protection of Personal Information Bill > The Anti-Money Laundering regulations We have already committed to or implemented the following realignments and material changes: > The Consumer Protection Act > All Sanlam Ltd Board and Committee Charters and > The proposed Treating Customers Fairly our Governance Framework are being reviewed or regulations re-drafted to align with King III. > The conflict of interest provisions of the Financial > The Sanlam Ltd Board has re-arranged its agenda Advisory and Intermediary Services Act’s Code of to improve attention to broader business concerns Conduct. of governance and sustainability. From a compliance perspective, Sanlam RSA is > The responsibility of the Group Audit, Actuarial and involved through membership and active participation Finance committee now extends to sustainability with the Association for Savings and Investment in reporting in order to deliver the required Integrated South Africa (ASISA), an industry organisation that Annual Report. engages proactively with policymakers, regulators, intermediaries and consumers on regulatory and > The Group Ethics committee, a sub-committee of other important issues of concern. the Group Executive committee (Exco), ensures regular reporting to the Board to enable more The Group Compliance Office was established in active monitoring of ethical issues. 2009. Currently, the biggest challenge is to improve the process of providing the Board with adequate > The Sanlam Ltd Board compiles an ethical risk and assurance that Group-wide compliance is met and opportunity profile, assesses the company’s ethical risks are properly identified and assessed. performance and disclose findings to internal and external stakeholders. Legal cases > At least one third of non-executive directors retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Reference to the three longstanding legal cases Sanlam Ltd. involving the business during 2010 has been included in our 2010 Integrated Annual Report. > Sanlam has established a Group Compliance Unit to ensure a dedicated approach to compliance. Commitment to King III Sanlam RSA aims to apply all material principles of Unlawful conduct, corruption, and the new King Report on Governance for South Africa money laundering 2009 (King III). This demands considerable time, Management is responsible for all issues relating to effort and resources, but is worthwhile to further unlawful conduct, financial crime, corruption and enhance Sanlam RSA’s good governance principles, money laundering at Sanlam. The Group Ethics transparency and reputation. committee, the Group Compliance Office and Group 19 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership continued Forensic Services are, however, available to assist > Employee training and awareness initiatives: In and advise management on these issues. Quarterly 2010, two anti-corruption workshops were held for reports are submitted to the Group Risk and Sanlam RSA employees, in partnership with Compliance committee of the Board and the Head of Business Unity South Africa (BUSA). Sanlam RSA Compliance and Forensics conducts quarterly is also an active participant in BUSA’s Business one-on-one meetings with the chairperson of this Anti-Corruption Working Group (BACWG). committee. Direct access to the Group Chief As a global business we comply with the rules of the Executive is available when required. Group policies countries in which we operate, as well as the global are aligned with South African anti-corruption law and rules. In 2010 over R800 000 was invested in any supplier to Sanlam must have anti-corruption implementing a database tool to enable us to comply policies in place. with these rules, and a further R1,5 million is planned The Group’s Code of Ethical Conduct and its for further development of the tool in 2011. This will Financial Crime Combating Policy (FCCP) take a include developing architecture for real-time zero-tolerance stance on any form of unlawful screening and risk rating of clients. These measures conduct or corruption. Should any party be found satisfy the requirements of foreign business partners guilty, a schedule of offences prescribes sanctions on and prepare the Group for anticipated changes in the that party. No company within the Group may South African and international regulatory landscape. establish, or re-establish, a relationship with any In 2011 we will strengthen our Group Forensics individual or party in contravention of this zero function to formulate a robust anti-corruption tolerance approach. programme. We have published the Financial Crime Sanlam RSA has also implemented the following Combating Policy statement and the Code of Ethical specific measures to combat corruption and unlawful Conduct on the Group website. activities: > Gift policies: The Group Policy on the Giving or Anti-corruption Receipt of Gratifications prohibits any gifts Major anti-corruption initiatives instituted by exceeding a value of R750 (or equivalent) unless organisations such as the World Bank Institute (WBI) approved by an authorised person. recognise that in addition to the essential part played > Anonymous hotline: A hotline is available to report by governments, companies such as Sanlam accept instances of unlawful conduct and corruption. This our responsibility in combatting corruption in line is operated by an independent third party to developing countries. ensure anonymity and prevent victimisation. Sanlam is committed to sustainable and transparent > Forensic database: Sanlam Personal Finance and business. Since the end of 2007, we have been a Sanlam Developing Markets maintain a database member of the United Nations Global Compact to record all reported instances of unlawful (UNGC), and the fact that our Head of Compliance conduct. Other businesses may log these and Forensics is a member of the UNGC’s Antiincidents on their loss database which is kept as corruption Working Group means we play an active part of the operational risk function. role. Over the past few years the Working Group developed guidelines for reporting on corruption, 20 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership continued formally launched in June 2010. As a result of his leadership role, Sanlam’s Head of Compliance and Sanlam engages with society on a Forensics was invited to be a judge at the World wide variety of issues, from financial Bank 2010 Ideas for Action Competition (for to social. sustainable business practices in African corporate governance). He was invited to judge essays discussing the steps African states can take to In addition to its public engagement, the Group improve corporate governance. He also participated Policy unit undertakes a range of research that enters in a panel discussion at the 14 International th into the public domain. For example, this year the Anti-Corruption Conference (IACC) in November unit published a compendium of work entitled ‘Five 2010, debating the role of public reporting in driving Years of Objective Retirement Advice for South Africa change. 2005 – 2010’, written for the benefit of South Africa’s In South Africa, the Head of Compliance and government, labour unions, NGOs, universities, Forensics also chairs the BUSA Working Group for corporates and the public. The unit also reviewed the Business Anti-corruption, which is currently NBI’s 2025 Vision (a strategy to make incentives for attempting to re-energise the National Anti-Corruption corporations to adopt more sustainable behaviour) Forum (NACF). The NACF is a national forum tasked and compiled a four-page discussion for their annual with aligning the anti-corruption strategies of report. government, the private sector and civil society as Sanlam engages with society on a wide variety of well as creating awareness and providing related issues, from financial to social. At present, Sanlam training in South Africa. RSA is closely involved in social security and retirement reform, which addresses issues of Policy analysis and engagement with retirement funding, health, social assistance, skills government development and education in South Africa. During 2010 we were also involved in the following projects: Corporates, as self-interested entities and proactive, responsible corporate citizens, have a valuable role in > FSB (Financial Services Board): The anticipated both contributing to the national debate and in the Treating Customers Fairly legislation will ensure the formulation of policy and regulations. manner in which corporates and service providers operate is, first and foremost, fair to the client. The Group Policy unit’s role is to analyse policy and liaise with government and policymakers on matters > ASISA: Sanlam RSA provided funding and of mutual interest. Sanlam RSA is an active research for an initiative that encourages savings participant in industry associations such as ASISA at individual and household level. We were also and government-level forums such as BUSA and involved in a study with ASISA which investigates NEDLAC (National Economic Development and the cost structure in retirement policies and aims Labour Council). Such involvement for affordability and therefore broader access. drives a cross-section of policy issues across all > Adopt a Municipality: This initiative aims to these organisations. We also engage with a host of improve municipal capacity through corporate smaller, more focused organisations such as the NBI support, to improve efficiency. This rests on the (National Business Initiative). idea that both the producer and the householder will benefit from more efficient utility services. 21 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership continued > Presentations to organised groups: We gave Corporate accolades and recognition educational presentations to stakeholders including During the year, Sanlam enjoyed the following labour unions, organised women’s groups and successes in our sustainability-related activities: youth groups on topics that included finance, savings and retirement funding. > JSE SRI Index listing: In 2010, Sanlam qualified for inclusion on the JSE SRI Index for the seventh > Engagements with government: The most consecutive year and we were listed as one of the significant engagements were regarding issues of year’s best SRI Index performers. national health insurance, social security and retirement reform, appropriate investment > International Actuarial Association: Sanlam (Regulation 28 for pension funds to invest in a Chairman Desmond Smith was unanimously sustainable fashion), Treating Customers Fairly and elected the 2012 president of the International the Protection of Information Act. Actuarial Association. Looking into 2011 and beyond, we intend to maintain > Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance (OLTI): a significant influence in policy formulation and to Sanlam Personal Finance was complimented by sustain our reputation as a respected and trusted the OLTI for our consistent service to their office partner. over the past 10 years. This is the first time in a decade that the OLTI has publicly rewarded an Other leadership initiatives insurer for its service. In addition to our involvement with the United Nations > Financial Intermediaries Association (FIA) Global Compact and the work of our Group Policy Industry Recognition Awards: These awards pay unit, we are at the forefront of some other leadership tribute to those insurance product providers who initiatives: receive favourable ratings in the FIA’s annual > Through our involvement in the World Wide Fund intermediary satisfaction benchmark survey, for Nature’s (WWF) Living Waters Project and our conducted among almost 3 000 independent presence on the WWF Steering committee, we brokers. Sanlam RSA earned top position in five of continue to improve our understanding of and our the nine categories. contribution to responsible water management and > Long-term insurance category: environmental stewardship. > Product Supplier of the Year – Investment > Our subsidiary, Santam, has an industry-leading Products Recurring Premium (Sanlam RSA). role in climate change, as it started to work on an > Product Supplier of the Year – Investment environmental positioning for its business towards Products Single Premium (Sanlam RSA). the end of 2008 with the development of a policy target and business commitments. Santam > Short-term insurance category: followed this with the initiation of the Ecocentric > Short-term Insurer of the Year – Personal Journey in 2009 to foster dialogue across the Lines (Santam). short-term insurance industry with the aim of > Short-term Insurer of the Year – Commercial addressing the issues of ecological and economic (Santam). resilience. Santam is therefore committed to > Short-term Insurer of the Year – Corporate understand and analyse risk and opportunity (Santam). related to climate change through discussion with other SA insurance industry representatives. 22 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainability governance and leadership continued > Top-100 Companies survey in the Business > Investment Weekly 2010 Global Fund Manager Times: Sanlam was rated at the top of the financial of the Year: Sanlam Investment Manager’s, Kokkie services industry in the Top-40 Index (the Top-40 Kooyman, was awarded the title ‘Top Global Fund blue-chip listed companies on the JSE) and rated Manager’ in the financial category, ‘Top Financial 10 overall in this survey that rates companies in th Fund’, at a glittering gala in Royal Albert Hall in terms of the most wealth created for shareholders London. This global recognition was bestowed on over specific periods. the modest Kokkie, who was also the only > Sunday Times Top Brands survey: In the nominee from South Africa at the awards. Kokkie long-term insurance category for consumers, has managed the Sanlam Investment Management Sanlam RSA moved from fourth position in 2009 (SIM) Global Financial Fund for 10 years. During to second position for 2010. that period the Fund achieved a compound annual return of 14% in US dollar terms for investors, > Business Day Investors Monthly’s Stockbroker of despite the two bear markets that occurred over the Year: Sanlam iTrade, together with Sanlam the decade. The award-winning SIM Global Fund Private Investments (SPI), secured third place has also consistently ranked in the top three overall. financial funds over the past six years. > Investment Analysts Society of Southern Africa > Imbasa Yegolide Award (Principal Officers (IAS): Sanlam was voted the company with the Association): Sanlam received this award for best financial reporting and communications in the professional excellence in the Employee Benefits insurance sector to the investment community in Industry. 2010. This is the 10th award from IAS since our listing on the JSE 12 years ago. 23 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Engaging our stakeholders Our key stakeholder groups As a Group we recognise that our business operations affect a wide range of stakeholders and that we are accountable to all of them, not just our shareholders. We aim to set an example as a leader in accountability and transparent communication with all our stakeholders, regularly engaging with each group and building long-term relationships. We have identified the following stakeholder groups, described in more detail in the table below: Authorisers: The Board, shareholders, industry regulators and government bodies Influencers: Civil society structures such as industry associations, Non-government Organisations (NGOs), Public Benefit Organsiations (PBOs) and communities Business partners: Employees and suppliers Clients: Policyholders and investment clients The Sanlam Group’s key stakeholder engagement methods Stakeholder group Specific stakeholders Examples of engagement methods* Authorisers Shareholders/Investors There is ongoing interaction between our senior executives and shareholders and investors through our: > Investor Relations unit > Annual General Meeting and Integrated Annual Report > Shareholder/investor presentations and global financial results roadshows (two per annum) > Analyst/Investor Days (one per annum) > One-on-one interaction between investors and senior Group executives > Investor Perception Audits conducted on our behalf by a third party (Brunswick, in 2008) Regulatory bodies We co-operate with a wide range of regulatory bodies in order to help shape industry policy and improve industrywide practices and oversight mechanisms through: > Advisory groups > Task forces > Commissions of enquiry At the beginning of 2010, we established a dedicated Group Policy unit, whose areas of focus specifically include engaging with regulatory bodies and representing our position on policy-related debates and forums. Government We work alongside government advisory groups on an ongoing basis to help shape public policy, such as on the formulation of the principles for the proposed new National Social Security Scheme. Our Group Policy unit manages our relationship with government, specifically engaging government on social security and retirement reform, BEE, labour policies, trade policy, competition policy, and other policy and regulatory matters. *While many of these examples are specific to Sanlam RSA, the Sanlam Group interacts with these stakeholder groups in all countries of operation. 24 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Engaging our stakeholders continued Stakeholder group Specific stakeholders Examples of engagement methods* Influencers NGOs and universities We have long-term partnerships with a number of established NGOs such as the World Wide Fund for Nature South Africa (WWF), and universities such as Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, the University of Cape Town and the University of the Western Cape. Industry associations We actively contribute to the development and implementation of key regulations that affect the industry through various industry associations: > Association for Savings and Investments (ASISA) (of which our Group CE is the current Chairman) > National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) > Business Unity SA (BUSA) > National Business Initiative (NBI) Our Group Policy Analysis unit presents our views and represents our position at various policy debates and initiatives driven by these forums. Communities We engage with various community groups through: > Sanlam RSA’s CSI Unit and the numerous CSI projects that it supports > The Ubuntu-Botho Community Development Trust, which invests in developmental projects for the benefit of impoverished communities > Various community-based sponsorship initiatives Business partners BBBEE partners We have regular contact with our Ubuntu-Botho partners (Sanlam RSA only) and consult them on appropriate financial solutions for the emerging market through: > Our Market Development Executive and Group Account Manager: Ubuntu-Botho, who plays a co-ordination role with the empowerment group > The Sanlam/Ubuntu-Botho Provincial Advisory Boards that operate in each province, acting as a cross-selling platform > A Shareholder National Roadshow at which Sanlam RSA business units are given the opportunity to share their new products and opportunities with Ubuntu-Botho and other stakeholders > The Sanlam/Ubuntu-Botho Annual Conference which aims to identify a series of actions to ensure that the relationship continues to be productive The Umoja Electronic Newsletter, distributed bi-monthly, which provides Ubuntu-Botho shareholders with an update on Sanlam RSA’s business activities and share notifications *While many of these examples are specific to Sanlam RSA, the Sanlam Group interacts with these stakeholder groups in all countries of operation. 25 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Engaging our stakeholders continued Stakeholder group Specific stakeholders Examples of engagement methods* Business partners Employees We communicate regularly with our employees and assess (continued) our employment climate through: > Six-monthly employee performance review and appraisal sessions > Bi-monthly Headway communications and other communiqués from the Group Chief Executive > Regular executive management feedback sessions > Monthly Sandaba internal newsletter > Regular interaction and management tools via the Intranet > Annual employee satisfaction/climate surveys Intermediary sales We communicate regularly with and receive feedback from agents/brokers our intermediaries via: > A network of Broker Consultants, who maintain regular contact with all Sanlam RSA-accredited brokers > Tempo, Sanlam RSA’s monthly product-focused newsletter for intermediaries > Distribution Bulletin Board, a weekly electronic newsletter > Regular broker forums, seminars and awards programmes Retirement fund trustees We communicate with and receive feedback from our pension fund trustees through a number of mechanisms, including: > Insight, Sanlam RSA’s monthly newsletter for pension fund trustees > Trustee training sessions for pension fund trustees Suppliers We conduct annual supplier workshops and promote certain BBBEE criteria in our procurement policies. Clients Policyholders and We communicate, interact with and receive feedback from investment clients our clients on an ongoing basis through: > Our network of field force advisers > Regular correspondence, newsletters and our website > Client feedback mechanisms such as our client service unit and client contact centres > Invitations to our financial results presentations > Our Internal Ombudsman at Sanlam RSA > Client satisfaction surveys *While many of these examples are specific to Sanlam RSA, the Sanlam Group interacts with these stakeholder groups in all countries of operation. 26 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Engaging our stakeholders continued Regulatory bodies and Industry Associations with which Sanlam RSA engages Entity Description of engagement Association for Savings ASISA represents the majority of South Africa’s life insurance companies, asset and Investment in SA managers, collective investment scheme management companies, linked investment (ASISA) service providers and multi-managers. The members of ASISA have mandated this association to engage proactively with the policymaker and regulator, as well as intermediaries and consumers on regulatory and other important issues of common concern. Sanlam RSA is a member of ASISA and our Group Chief Executive is its current Chairman. Business Unity South BUSA represents South African business on macro-economic and high-level issues Africa (BUSA) that affect it at national and international levels. Its function is to ensure that business plays a constructive role in the country’s economic growth, development and transformation and to create an environment in which businesses of all sizes and sectors can thrive, expand and be competitive. Department of Labour The DoL publishes legislation that regulates labour practices and activities, and helps (DoL) to reduce unemployment, poverty and inequality through a set of policies and programmes developed in consultation with its South African stakeholders. Department of Trade The dti develops and implements national policies, legislation and regulations for and Industry (dti) consumer protection, enabling consumers to exercise their rights, enforcing business compliance with legislation and facilitating development of good business practices. To this end, the dti has sponsored key pieces of legislation, including the National Credit Act, the Companies Bill and the Draft Consumer Protection Bill. Financial Advisory and The FAIS Ombudsman considers and addresses complaints by clients against financial Intermediary Services services providers in terms of the FAIS Act. Sanlam RSA interacts regularly with the (FAIS) Ombudsman FAIS Ombud to ensure effective resolution of advice-related complaints. Financial Intelligence The primary objective of the FIC is to identify the proceeds of unlawful activities and to Centre (FIC) combat money laundering. Information obtained is shared with similar bodies in other countries, as well as with investigating authorities in South Africa. Compliance with money laundering control legislation is monitored by the FIC, which also provides guidance to accountable institutions and supervisory bodies. Financial Services The FSB regulates the non-banking aspects of the financial services industry, including Board (FSB) financial advisory and intermediary services, insurance, retirement funds and collective investment schemes. Insurance Sector INSETA promotes and enables quality skills development in the insurance sector Education Training through funding education and training in South Africa to meet the national skills Authority (INSETA) agenda and thereby contributing to transformation in the sector. For this purpose, Sanlam RSA pays regular skills development levies to INSETA. National Business The NBI is a voluntary group of leading national and multi-national companies, Initiative (NBI) collaborating to drive sustainable growth and development in South Africa through partnerships, practical programmes and policy engagement. Sanlam RSA is a member of the NBI. 27 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Engaging our stakeholders continued Entity Description of engagement National Credit The NCR was established under the National Credit Act and is responsible for the Regulator (NCR) regulation of the South African credit industry. It is tasked with education, research, policy development, registration, investigation of complaints and enforcement of the Act. National Treasury (NT) The NT is responsible for financial and fiscal policy in South Africa. In particular, it plays a critical role in developing the proposed national retirement fund reforms. Sanlam RSA is contributing to the formulation of the principles underlying the proposed National Social Security System. Ombudsman for This office mediates disputes between long-term insurers and policyholders in South Long-term Insurance Africa. Sanlam RSA liaises and co-operates with the OLTI and his office in order to (OLTI) maintain positive relationships, ensure ongoing communication and facilitate the effective resolution of complaints. Pensions Funds The office of the PFA was established to investigate and adjudicate complaints in terms Adjudicator (PFA) of the Pension Funds Act. Sanlam RSA interacts regularly with the PFA to ensure effective resolution of pension fund-related complaints. Stock exchanges Sanlam is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited (JSE) and on the Namibian Stock Exchange. We abide by the Codes of Conduct of these exchanges, which include best execution practices and ‘fit and proper’ requirements. South African Reserve The SARB is the key custodian for financial stability in the economy, the supervisor to Bank (SARB) the payments system and the custodian of foreign exchange regulations. It plays a key policy role in the pricing of capital in the economy by setting official interest rates. These determine the underlying confidence, efficiency and sustainability of the financial system, the financial sector and the real economy, all of which have a direct impact on our business. How we interact with our stakeholders The Sanlam Group undertakes strategic engagement with these stakeholders at different levels within the organisation, from Board to business unit: each level engages with different stakeholder groups. Engaging with stakeholders enables us to assess and improve our positive impact on society as well as providing opportunities for business and market development. At Sanlam RSA, interactions occur frequently on an ad hoc basis. In 2011 we intend to develop a formal stakeholder engagement strategy and framework. Sanlam has not yet undertaken formal engagement with stakeholders relating to the specific concept of sustainability or reporting issues, but we are planning methods for engagement based on King III recommendations. 28 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business Sanlam Wealth provides portfolio investment services A diverse, sustainable business and online share trading facilities for private client In Sanlam’s 92 years of operation, we have grown to investment management through Sanlam Private become one of the largest financial services companies in Investments (SPI), iTrade and Calibre. South Africa, with core operations in the life, longand Sanlam Investment Services offers collective short-term insurance, asset management and investment investments (unit trusts), multi-manager investment sectors. We cater to all segments, from large institutional management, hedge funds, investment consulting, clients and high net-worth individuals to middle-income stockbroking and investment administration. earners and the previously disadvantaged entry-level market. To target the latter, the Group has acquired a Sanlam Capital Management uses structured debt and number of companies in the last five years, such as equity transactions and associated capital market African Life, Safrican and Channel Life. We are diversifying activities to help manage risk for institutional clients geographically to ensure we also offer services to through structured debt and equity transactions, as well alternative growth markets. Our financial solutions span as derivative structuring. This business unit also numerous business lines across three business clusters: structures corporate, infrastructure and empowerment retail, institutional and short-term clusters, as described financing transactions, offers private equity investment below. For more detail on each business unit within these and manages property investments. As such, the unit’s clusters and a review of their performance during 2010, profitability comes from transactions rather than please refer to the Business Unit Reviews in the 2010 premiums and aims for a long-term average return on Integrated Annual Report. equity of 25%. Sanlam International Investment Partners (SIIP) offers a Retail cluster number of international investment products for global Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) is a major provider of diversification across asset classes, geographies, individual life insurance, savings, investment and sectors, currencies and managers, as well as some retirement solutions to the middle market, the affluent hedge funds. Formed in 2008, SIIP currently has market (Glacier by Sanlam) and the self-employed and businesses in North America, the UK, Europe and the professional market (Sanlam Cobalt). Asia Pacific. Sanlam Developing Markets (SDM) offers affordable Sanlam Employee Benefits (SEB) provides life financial products primarily to the entry-level market in insurance, investment and annuity solutions to South Africa and to all market segments in other institutions, group schemes and retirement funds, as well developing markets in Africa and India. In South Africa, as fund administration for retirement and umbrella funds. SDM’s brands include Sanlam, Channel Life and Safrican. SEB operates through four entrepreneurial divisions Sanlam UK provides life, specialist pensions, investment including Sanlam Group Benefits, Sanlam Structured management and financial advice services in the United Solutions, Sanlam Umbrella Solutions and Coris Capital. Kingdom. Short-term insurance cluster Institutional cluster Santam, 57%-owned by the Sanlam Group, focuses on Sanlam Asset Management provides local and short-term insurance for the personal, commercial and international asset management services through Sanlam corporate markets. Its client list includes the majority of Investment Management (SIM) and through its African the Top-100 companies on the JSE. asset management operations. 29 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued conservative management and a client-centric business Sustainable financial and operational model. We strive to ensure that our products satisfy capacity needs and are appropriately priced. One of the key services a business can provide to In a challenging economic environment, the only ways to society is to create financial wealth for its citizens. improve profit are cost-reduction and business growth. Sanlam’s core purpose is to be the leader in wealth Sanlam’s philosophy of business prudence ensures creation, a position only achievable through profitable quality and sustainable growth, achieved by optimisation ventures that bring sound benefits to all stakeholders. and expansion of our market presence through: While protecting communities and the environment is an > improved operational efficiencies and performance; ethical imperative, a sustainable business must have at its heart a rigorous and robust business model. There > optimisation of capital structure; can be no focus on the triple bottom line if the business > pursuit of selective add-on or diversification itself is not a viable, profitable entity. In order to survive, opportunities; and we must provide consistent economic value to our clients > transformation. and shareholders. To achieve this, we are currently focusing on growth and In order to remain sustainable, numerous risks must be capital efficiencies, that is, servicing growth from less addressed. Specifically for Sanlam Personal Finance capital. In particular, our growth strategy focuses on: (SPF), our largest business unit, these risks include: > diversification into new or under-developed markets; > The changing demographics of our target market – ensuring our business model adapts in order to > growth of alternative revenue sources; accommodate this shift; > distribution initiatives; and > The pressure on clients’ disposable income due to > managing the cost versus income ratio. forecast increases in the cost of living (increasing Capital efficiencies (distributed amongst our shareholders) electricity costs, medical aid rates etc); are gained through: > Both the volume of projects and resource constraints > optimisation of our investment profile; resulting from various cost-saving initiatives, which place strain on employees. This risk will be further > appropriate adjustment of risk-return; and exacerbated by Project Renaissance’s (IT project) > appropriate capital / risk reward. impact on capacity in 2010 and 2011; In recent years, we have responded to our clients’ > The impact of regulatory changes, in particular increased financial pressures by offering various Solvency II, on our costs and resource time as well as solutions, which have reduced the volume of lapsed the effort required to implement these changes; and policies. These solutions include giving clients a policy > IT security requirements. contribution ‘holiday’, updating the policies to ensure market relevance and assessing existing client policies so Management approach and actions as to suggest alternatives to enhance our service. Combined, these actions have greatly enhanced the As a leading financial services group, we offer a wide overall quality of our business and the Group’s brand range of financial solutions focused on enhancing our experience as a whole. policyholders’ lives. The Group’s approach is based on sound capital management principles underscored by 30 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued Performance Our 2010 Integrated Annual Report comprehensively details our financial performance and sustainability. A key proxy for our financial sustainability is reflected in the Sanlam Group’s relative share price performance over the past five years, a clear endorsement of performance for the period December 2005 to December 2010. The Group outperformed all other relevant indices (Life, ALSI, Fini, Banks) with Sanlam’s share price experiencing a compound average growth of 17,6% per annum, compared to our peers who generated a return of 5,5% – a peer out-performance rate that equates to approximately 12,1% per annum over the five-year period. While this fluctuates somewhat within a given year, the average rate underscores the level of value Sanlam creates for our shareholders. The Sanlam Group’s relative share price performance over the past five years The business continued to show resilience and the resultant growth is that of a sustainable business model. In response to this, investors have awarded the Group the highest market valuation in the South African life insurance sector (in the large to mid capitalisation range), measured on a price to embedded value metric. Persistency and lapse rates at Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) The extent to which a life insurance company retains client business is one of the best measures of success. As JP Morgan Cazenove said in September 2010, “We continue to believe there is no better value driver in the mature SA life insurance sector than client retention. High upfront sales costs on low-margin products necessitate a long-term profitable relationship with clients.” For Sanlam, better client retention boosts profitability, reduces waste and demonstrates our ability to forge strong relationships with clients. Policy retention helps them stay on track in meeting their long-term financial objectives while also keeping their vital financial protection measures intact. 31 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued Given the adverse economic conditions in recent years, one would expect policy lapse rates to have increased. However, SPF reduced its policy lapses(1), surrenders(2) and fully paid-ups(3) from 7,2% in December 2009 to 5,9%(4) for the same period in 2010. Total lapses, surrenders and paid-up trends No. (000’s) 20 15 10 5 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 2009 2010 Annualised premiums (R’m) 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 2009 2010 (1) Lapse: When a plan is terminated before the contractual end date and no value is available to be paid out. (2) Surrender: When a plan is terminated before the contractual end date, and a termination amount is paid out. There may be a termination charge applicable. (3) Fully paid-up: When the payments on a recurring payment plan are terminated, and the plan remains in force after the payments are terminated. (4) Basis of measurement: Persistency rates are defined as the number of policy lapses (excluding reinstatements), surrenders and fully paid-up policies (excluding cancellations thereof) at 31 December 2010 as a percentage of the total in-force policies as at 1 January 2010 (for SPF only and excluding annuities). 32 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued It is instructive, in these times, to compare SPF’s lapse rates with those of its peers. The graphs below make such comparisons for SPF’s average regular premium, single premium and risk product lapse rates. This shows that SPF’s lapse rates have been consistently lower than those of our peers in recent years. Average lapse rates on regular premium individual life policies: unweighted average 25 20 15 10 5 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Sanlam Liberty Capital Alliance Old Mutual Discovery Notes: Source: FSB Annual statutory reports Source: JP Morgan Cazenove, July 2010 All lapses and surrenders as % of in-force book Single premium individual life policy decrement rate: FSB statistics 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 LBH SLM OML Notes: Source: FSB Annual statutory reports Source: JP Morgan Cazenove, July 2010 33 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued Risk product lapse rate First year lapse rates (%) 25 20 15 10 5 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 SLM DSY LBH Second year lapse rates (%) 21 19 17 15 13 11 9 7 5 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 SLM DSY LBH Third year and beyond lapse rates (%) 25 20 15 10 5 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 SLM DSY LBH Notes: Source: Investec Securities 34 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued In its July 2010 analysis, JP Morgan Cazenove said, Customers Fairly legislation and the new National Health “The quality of business written by Sanlam has far Insurance system will bring increased operational costs, exceeded that of its peers in the past... Sanlam’s margin pressures and impact profitability in the insurance thorough and onerous new business production process sector. Sanlam RSA is gearing resources and adapting does slow down new business volumes, but helps to by up-scaling businesses that will benefit from these ensure that clients are sold affordable products which changes. By implementing the right systems, growing meet their needs, thereby helping to ensure client relevant client bases and moving into umbrella funds that retention is optimised and lapse rates minimised. The support smaller businesses, we believe Sanlam RSA will 2009 lapse and surrender rates were impressive in the be well prepared for the transition. light of the difficult economic and investment Over the next few years, each business cluster will environment, especially during [the first half of 2009]” independently pursue comprehensive growth strategies. In the short to mid term, we will need to address the SPF’s ODDS model challenges of a decentralised business model. For ODDS is a management tool which models the statistical example, the inefficiencies created by business overlap risk (or ‘odds’) of a new policy lapsing within the first need to be rationalised from a strategic angle. Sanlam 12 months. Developed in the 1990s in partnership with will focus on the principle of ‘doing business better’ by the University of Pretoria, this tool is embedded in SPF’s drawing clear boundaries between certain businesses quotation system in order to score each new application. and improving co-operative processes. If an application for a new policy is assigned a high score The recently launched Sanlam for Sanlam initiative aims on the ODDS model it is sent to management who make to facilitate this in order to optimise growth across the final decision on whether it will be granted or not. The business units. Specifically, the businesses will examine ODDS tool has contributed to SPF’s excellent persistency overlaps and synergies between Sanlam Personal rates in the past years. Finance (SPF), Sanlam Developing Markets (SDM) and Sanlam Investments (SI). Plans for 2011 and beyond In the long term, we will also focus on diversifying In South Africa, external regulatory measures such as the through developing new markets. Statement of Intent (SOI), the anticipated Treating 35 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued Broad-based economic contribution The Group Value Added Statement summarises our primary economic impacts on a range of important stakeholders, including policyholders, employees and non-directors, communities, suppliers, government and shareholders. The Sanlam Group value added statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 % 2009 % 2008 % 2007 R million change R million change R million change R million Premium income 51 558 6 48 719 0 48 542 10 44 077 Other operating income 3 145 21 2 604 (3) 2 690 6 2 544 Investment return 32 404 16 27 960 530 (6 504) (124) 26 999 Commission and other sales remuneration paid to agents and brokers (5 006) 9 (4 577) 6 (4 318) 18 (3 667) Wealth accumulated 82 101 10 74 706 85 40 410 (42) 69 953 Wealth distributed among stakeholders Policyholders Policyholder benefits, claims and increase in reserves 64 642 7 60 411 97 30 663 (44) 54 558 Employees and directors 4 836 21 3 994 9 3 653 4 3 499 Salaries and other staff costs 4 814 21 3 973 10 3 624 4 3 471 Directors’ fees 22 5 21 (28) 29 4 28 Communities CSI and cause-related investment 54 0 54 (2) 55 8 51 Suppliers Procurement of goods and services 3 034 23 2 471 (10) 2 745 10 2 487 Government 3 083 9 2 829 199 946 (66) 2 770 South African normal income tax 1 936 11 1 742 23 1 422 (25) 1 887 South African capital gains tax 474 (24) 624 168 (924) (332) 398 Foreign tax 347 113 163 33 123 (21) 156 Tax on retirement funds — — — 0 0 (100) 52 Indirect taxes and levies 326 9 300 (8) 325 17 277 Shareholders 4 337 32 3 276 (17) 3 960 49 2 653 Ordinary dividends paid to Sanlam’s shareholders 2 112 7 1 977 0 1 968 11 1 768 Retained income distributed due to shares cancelled 1 233 100 615 (60) 1 549 1 549 0 Income attributable to minority shareholders 992 45 684 54 443 (50) 885 Retained for future growth 2 115 27 1 671 204 (1 612) (141) 3 935 Retained earnings 1 855 31 1 415 176 (1 872) (150) 3 779 Depreciation and amortisation 260 2 256 (2) 260 67 156 Wealth distributed 82 101 10 74 706 85 40 410 (42) 69 953 36 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued In 2010, the Group’s operations resulted in substantial business partnerships will enhance our ability to benefit to our most important stakeholder groups. In provide a multicultural society with relevant products addition to the R4,3 billion generated for our and services. shareholders and the R2,1 billion retained for future growth, we: Management approach and actions > awarded R64,6 billion to policyholders in the form of Because transformation is a journey, our strategy is built policyholder benefits, claims and increases in on achieving consistent improvement. The Sustainability accumulated reserves; Management unit measures our scores and provides insight on their optimisation for all Sanlam RSA > paid R4,8 billion to employees and directors in the businesses. In 2010, our energies largely focused on form of employee and other benefits; improving BBBEE scores for skills development and > contributed R3 billion to the South African employment equity. In terms of skills development, government fiscus through various state taxes and Sanlam RSA is working on improved measurement levies; systems that will yield more accurate scores. Our > paid R3 billion to our suppliers and business 8,1 point improvement from 2008 to 2009 underlines partners; and the value in this approach. > contributed R54 million to local communities and From the following table, it is evident that an area other cause-related programmes and donations. requiring further management attention is that of employment equity. This has called for fresh focus on The proportional distributuion of wealth to our various some of the minimum thresholds, specifically those for stakeholdres is reflected in the graph below: senior management. That said, these are close to the Summary of wealth distributed (%) sub-minimum threshold. Our main challenge in this area 5,3 2,6 3,7 Policyholders is the attraction and retention of the right skills and 3,7 0,1 Employees and directors human capital. 5,9 Communities Suppliers Sanlam RSA has also focused on improving preferential Government procurement scores that decreased in 2009 largely due Shareholders 78,7 Retained for future gtrowth to poor measurement within our smaller subsidiaries. Accordingly, attention has turned to streamlining systems for capturing BBBEE credentials, which in turn will allow A transforming organisation for more informed choices when selecting suppliers. In South Africa, economic transformation is both a As a wider group of companies now captures their social and a business imperative. From an ethical BBBEE data, focus is on the formalisation of recording perspective, it is necessary to correct the wrongs of systems to improve information consolidation. the past by focusing on equal inclusion of all The information is 100% aligned to the dti Codes individuals in the economy. From a business requirements and we expect reinstatement of the perspective, diversity within the organisation and in our FS Codes in early 2011. 37 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued Performance In 2009, we successfully achieved our target of a higher level-4 score, but the goal for 2010 was a level-3 rating. The table below presents our unverified dti Scorecard data for the year to December 2010 and the equivalent verified scores for 2008 and 2009. dti Scorecard (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Exercisable voting rights in the hands of black people Exercisable voting rights in the hands of black women Economic interest of black people Economic interest of black women Economic interest of other specific Equity ownership 20 black beneficiaries 18,20 18,20 16,65 Ownership fulfilment Current equity interest Black new entrant involvement in ownership (bonus points) Other black beneficiaries’ involvement in ownership (bonus points) Exercisable voting rights of black Board members Black executive directors Management control 10 Black senior top management 8,16 7,54 7,74 Black other top management Black independent non-executive Board members (bonus point) 38 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued dti Scorecard (continued) (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Black disabled employees as % of all employees Black senior management employees as % of all employees Black middle management Employment equity 15 6,74 4,04 3,83 employees as % of all employees Black junior management employees as % of all employees Exceeding EAP targets in each category (bonus points) Skills development for black employees as % of leviable amount Skills development for black employees with disabilities as % of Skills development 15 9,55 9,46 1,36 leviable amount Number of black employees (as % of total employees) participating in in-service training programmes BBBEE procurement spend from all suppliers as % of total procurement spend BBBEE procurement spend from QSEs or EMEs as % of total Preferential procurement spend 20 17,29 15,46 17,56 procurement BBBEE procurement spend as % of total procurement spend from suppliers that are: – >50% black owned; or – >30% black women owned Enterprise 15 Average annual value of enterprise development development spend as % of net profit after tax 15,00 15,00 15,00 Socio-economic 5 Average annual value of sociodevelopment economic development spend as % of net profit after tax 2,81 2,84 3,04 Total score 77,74 72,54 65,18 39 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued We achieved our goal of a level 3 BBBEE contributor broad-based group of black shareholders. This status based on our transformational efforts in 2010. shareholding was 12,76% at the close of 2010. We continue to make progress on our Management However, based on measurement criteria prescribed composition which directly affects both the by the dti Codes with specific reference to the Management and Employment Equity elements. exclusion of Mandated Investments and Foreign We further maintained our investment in the Business Operations from the denominator, the development of staff and black staff in particular. Group’s black ownership is close to 20%. The implementation of our new procurement policy Ubuntu-Botho partnership and a greater focus on supplier transformation resulted in an increased score under the procurement element. This venture has helped us fast-track our transformation into an organisation that is a true Our Socio-Economic Development spend is aligned to representation of the communities in which we our social, environmental and business development operate. The UB consortium has three anchor inititiatives. Higher net profit after tax figures resulted in shareholders: a decrease in our achieved score for 2010. > Sizanani-Thusanang Helpmekaar led by Patrice Plans and targets for 2011 and beyond Motsepe (55%) Our strategic objective with regard to the BBBEE > Sanlam/Ubuntu-Botho Community Development scorecard is to maintain the level 3 contributor level Trust (20%) achieved in 2010. A more representative workforce > The Broad-based Empowerment Groupings (25%) and investment in our people remain our primary focus for 2011. The Broad-based Empowerment Groupings comprise 12 provincial companies (11 are public companies and We will further refine our measurement and reporting one is a private company, each with an average of 70 on the BBBEE performance of underlying businesses shareholders), a national company of women who own within the Sanlam Group in an effort to highlight areas and manage small and micro enterprises and three of non-compliance, but also to share best practice and trusts (churches, women and youth). There are two lessons learnt between businesses. unions, NEHAWU and SADTU, through their Our long-term vision is to move from a regulated investment companies, NEHAWU investment Holdings input-based measurement system to a more and SADTU investment holdings, which are part of the meaningful outcome-based measurement of empowerment groupings. There is also a company transformational initiatives which will provide a better with shareholders comprising kings and chiefs across understanding of the impact that BBBEE has on all the country called Nkosi/Kgoshi. A provincial advisory stakeholders. board facilitates provincial cross-selling between Sanlam businesses whilst also assisting shareholder Diversifying ownership, management business growth. and control Expanding shareholding to microand small Management approach and actions businesses also gives the Group access to a significantly expanded base of potential clients. This Sanlam’s Ubuntu-Botho (UB) empowerment partnership affords significant insight into local markets transaction in 2004 transferred 10% ownership to a 40 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued and the ability to quickly identify market opportunities that call for development of new products, which complements our client-centric strategy. As a result, our access to new audiences via a broad-based consortium of organisations (including trade unions and community organisations) has seen us grow into a more sustainable entity in addition to significantly increasing our share price since 2004. A formal set of processes and interactions between the Sanlam Group and the UB shareholders illustrates a strong level of commitment to the Group’s growth: > UB has its own Board and administration office while the Group has a Group Account Manager: Ubuntu-Botho, who is our co-ordinator with the empowerment group. > The Sanlam/UB Provincial Advisory Boards operate as a cross-selling and business development platform. > A Shareholder National Roadshow gives Sanlam RSA’s business units the opportunity to share their new products and explore potential synergies with UB and other shareholders in South Africa. > The Sanlam/UB Annual Conference aims to identify a series of actions to ensure continued growth of the relationship. > Provincial penetration studies and an annual Group Market Development Conference aims to disseminate market intelligence among the business leadership across all regions. > A quarterly lead-generation process tracks potential business generated via UB. > The Umoja Electronic Newsletter updates shareholders on Sanlam RSA’s business activities and share notifications on a bi-monthly basis. Performance At the end of 2010, our BBBEE ownership score totalled 18,20 based on the verified score from 2009. As nothing has changed significantly over the past year, this is the best indicator of BBBEE ownership at the time of writing this report. The unverified score for 2010 is 18,20. The 2008/2009 increase was largely attributable to the improved measurement of the underlying shareholders within the UB structure. dti Scorecard – equity ownership (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Equity ownership 20 Exercisable voting rights in the hands of black people 18,20 18,20 16,65 41 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Sustainable business continued In terms of transforming control of the organisation, the Group is performing relatively well. The Board currently comprises three black females, five black males, one white female and eight white males. Owing to a decrease in the number of black board members from 2008 to 2009, attributable percentage voting rights decreased in 2009, hence the slight decrease in this score. However, the number of black executive Board members increased in 2009, leading to the increase in the score relating to black executive management. During 2010, alignment of the definition of executive management to the provisions of the dti Codes resulted in a positive effect on Sanlam RSA’s scoring. dti Scorecard – management control (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Exercisable voting rights of black Board members Black executive directors Management control 10 Black senior top management 8,16 7,54 7,74 Black other top management Black independent non-executive Board members (bonus point) 42 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees RSA, chaired by the Head of Group HR, to discuss Introduction day-to-day operations and issues. Sanlam RSA Our successful business relies on an engaged, also has a Category Advisory Board (CAB) to motivated and capable workforce. Sanlam’s manage demand and supply issues related to employees are representative of our target market, HR service delivery. and possess important skills to help us understand At an operational level within the Group, in general this market. These factors are critical to ensuring each business unit has its own set of support our sustained competitive edge in a radically services, which include an HR unit. Sanlam has changing world. four business level HR managers who oversee Accordingly, the Sanlam Group strives for a SDM, SPF, Sanlam Investment cluster, and working environment that is conducive to attracting Santam, and one who oversees the Group Office. skilled and diverse people and encourages them to Group HR has a number of internal consultants reach their potential. We go to great lengths to and support staff who focus on Group-wide provide a compelling employee value proposition, strategic projects and compliance with labour through which we: legislation and regulatory codes. Business HR > recognise employees as our most important managers do not report to the Group HR, but work asset; within a framework of ‘loose’ and ‘tight’ principles and report back to the heads of the respective > focus on transforming our workplace and businesses. ‘Loose’ principles are discretional, and promoting its equity and diversity; ‘tight’ principles include generic issues such as > offer training, learnerships and skills Group benefits (e.g. medical aid and pension development and ensure a sustainable ‘talent funds). pipeline’ through career progression, leadership development and succession planning; Employee performance > foster a cordial and conducive working What our employees achieve in their individual environment; and roles has a direct influence on the operational > take care of employees’ wellness and promote a successes of the business. The Sanlam Group healthy work-life balance. encourages individuals to savour the Our skills strategy is a careful blend of employing responsibilities and challenges of their careers and the right people, in the right numbers, in the right we aim to create an environment in which places and at the right time. To achieve this, the employees are nurtured and guided on how to right structures need to be in place. At the Group apply their skills for maximum advantage. level, human resources (HR) are governed through Competitive remuneration packages and employee three key mechanisms. The Board has a dedicated value propositions aim to keep employees sub-committee for HR issues, which meets four motivated and incentivised while fostering a more times a year. The HR forum holds monthly and invested attitude and work ethic. ad hoc meetings with all heads of HR at Sanlam 43 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Management approach and actions Workplace transformation and There are three key mechanisms with which we diversity aim to stimulate employee motivation and productivity: Management approach and actions 1. General performance development process: In our federated business model, different skills Agreed deliverables are contracted with each are required in different areas of the business. employee and supported by a feedback Employment Equity (EE) plays an important role, process that runs throughout the year. and our Human Capital Transformation Strategy Performance against these deliverables is linked and EE plans are carefully guided by the to annual remuneration and short-term requirements of the Department of Labour and the bonuses. dti Codes and rooted in our traditional values of ethical behaviour and respect. Some key principles 2. Business critical performance development of this strategy include: process: Specific business-growth targets are linked to the deliverables of those employees in > creating an enabling work environment positions directly influencing business conducive to attracting, developing and retaining performance. Rewards are based on the the right human capital, with specific focus on business achieving these targets. the designated groups; 3. Supporting initiatives: Measures such as > advancing an organisational culture that wellness programmes and various educational embraces diversity and fosters inclusivity; initiatives are in place to motivate employees. > encouraging consistency and integrity in all Within the limits of an approval framework, management and HR practices; employee-related decision-making is decentralised > promoting proactive and forward thinking when as far as possible and employees are encouraged addressing EE and skills development; to be accountable for their deliverables. Sanlam > planning for flexibility and adaptability to ensure RSA requires all its business clusters to be alignment with the ever-changing business accredited as ‘Investors in People’— an environment; and international standard that guides employee > supporting, monitoring and evaluating the performance and development processes. delivery of the processes and structures Currently only the investment cluster is not necessary for transformation. accredited, and this will be a focus over the next few years. All appointments are strategically aligned to our transformation goals. A highly defined and selective Plans for 2011 and beyond recruitment process exists, with selection criteria We will continue to optimise our existing set against clearly defined job descriptions. performance incentive mechanisms by focusing on engagement, motivation and retention. 44 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Governance Capital Transformation Strategy remains in place and the EE component of this strategy informs the businessThe Group Chief Executive (Group CE) holds specific EE plans. The plans have a validity of three years ultimate responsibility for transformation within and performance is measured annually against the the Sanlam business and communicates progress targets (both qualitative and quantitative) as set in the to the Board via the HR and Sustainability previous year. As part of this, the business units develop committees. The Group Employment Equity processes to address weak areas so as to meet targets. Consultative Forum (GEECF), which is relevant to Progress is measured quarterly and reported to the Sanlam RSA only, reports directly to the Group CE Board. The EE plans have defined recruitment strategies and its members also oversee the implementation and performance against the EE targets is linked to our of the EE plans within the business. They have a bonus calculation processes. consultative and monitoring role within the The current EE plans were reviewed and approved by the business and act as a conduit to the Group CE Director-General of the Directorate of Employment Equity for all the business cluster EE forums. Individual within the Department of Labour towards the latter part businesses also have their own EE forums, which of 2010. These plans are valid for the period from report into the cluster-level forum. The forums have 1 September 2009 to 31 December 2012, with the 2012 different meeting frequencies, some meeting targets set against the baseline as at March 2009. monthly. The Sanlam GEECF meets bi-monthly However, the targets were reviewed during the latter part and on an ad hoc basis when necessary. Groupof 2010, and new targets will be finalised during the first wide transformation progress is communicated by quarter of 2011. At the start of 2012, Sanlam RSA will perform a Group-wide barrier analysis to identify any the Group CE through the monthly communiqué, areas requiring attention, which will then inform the new Headway. EE plans going forward. Policy, plans and employment equity targets Sanlam RSA’s policy on employment equity was approved early in 2010. Our Board-approved Human 45 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Employment equity targets for 2012 (actual Sanlam RSA workforce numbers) Foreign Male Female nationals Occupational Felevel A C I W A C I W Male male Total Top management December 2010 Profile 1 0 0 5 0 1 0 1 0 0 8 December 2012 Goal* 1 0 0 5 0 1 0 1 0 0 8 Senior December 2010 management Profile 29 33 25 347 10 15 16 99 3 1 578 December 2012 Goal 34 35 33 320 18 18 20 110 5 0 593 Professionally December 2010 qualified and Profile 90 93 54 433 29 70 38 407 5 2 1 221 experienced specialists and December 2012 mid-management Goal 79 75 46 281 47 66 37 224 2 2 859 Skilled technical, December 2010 academically Profile 522 321 134 1 133 466 487 132 1410 21 5 4 631 qualified workers, junior manage­ December 2012 ment, supervisors Goal 492 292 164 1 111 275 286 126 930 3 2 3 681 Semi-skilled and December 2010 discretionary Profile 1 080 292 56 84 1 983 709 97 652 4 13 4 970 decision making December 2012 Goal 917 431 31 82 1 535 648 88 471 2 0 4 205 Unskilled December 2010 and defined Profile 41 21 0 7 86 48 1 8 0 0 212 decision making December 2012 Goal 31 34 1 8 53 57 2 14 0 0 200 Note Targets are under review in relation to Department of Labour classifications In the last quarter of 2010, a decision was taken to reflect the Sanlam Exco members only as top management, in line with the Department of Labour’s classification, resulting in the reduction in the number of top management staff. 46 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Employment equity targets: 2009 to 2012 (percentage of Sanlam RSA workforce) Current (31 December Occupational level Measures 2010) 2009 2010 2011 2012 Top management Black 25,00% 25,71% 25,00% 25,00% 25,00% Female 25,00% 20,00% 25,00% 25,00% 25,00% Black female 12,50% 8,57% 12,50% 12,50% 12,50% Senior management Black 22,15% 20,20% 22,24% 25,38% 26,70% Female 24,39% 22,73% 24,45% 26,23% 27,55% Black female 7,09% 4,38% 6,11% 8,12% 9,52% Middle management Black 30,63% 31,46% 34,72% 38,09% 41,33% Female 44,72% 42,46% 42,57% 43,16% 43,54% Black female 11,22% 12,16% 13,91% 15,92% 18,04% Junior management Black 44,53% 37,68% 40,15% 42,24% 44,27% Female 53,98% 46,90% 45,94% 44,79% 43,94% Black female 23,43% 16,01% 17,16% 17,42% 17,99% Semi-skilled Black 84,85% 82,18% 83,99% 85,50% 87,28% Female 69,50% 69,70% 68,04% 66,49% 65,21% Black female 56,12% 53,59% 53,81% 53,92% 54,05% Unskilled Black 92,92% 94,00% 89,50% 89,39% 89,00% Female 67,45% 68,63% 66,50% 64,65% 63,00% Black female 63,68% 63,24% 59,50% 57,58% 56,00% Total Black 60,07% 57,02% 59,15% 60,96% 62,72% Female 58,40% 55,54% 54,52% 53,45% 52,57% Black female 36,04% 32,70% 33,44% 33,72% 34,10% 0,27% 0,31% 0,34% 0,40% People with disabilities Black 0,23% 0,24% 0,22% 0,24% 0,27% Female 0,13% 0,19% 0,14% 0,15% 0,17% Black female 0,03% 0,12% 0,14% 0,15% 0,17% When the targets were set using the March 2009 complement as a baseline, the aim was to increase the current total black staff complement from 54,08% to 62,72% by December 2012. As of December 2010 the black:white ratio was 60:40. As discussed above, the 2011 and 2012 targets are in the process of being reviewed. 47 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Disability Race and gender are not Sanlam RSA’s only diversification measures. EE plans include disabled persons and we are engaging business units to identify opportunities for the disabled to advance their careers within the business. During the year, Sanlam Personal Finance (our largest business cluster) initiated disability learnerships with 18 participants, with a view to creating career opportunities for the disabled. Diversity awareness To support the progress made in workforce transformation, Sanlam RSA endeavours to facilitate cultural awareness, tolerance and acceptance in the workplace. Each business has unique diversity issues and there are ongoing businessspecific initiatives that include training and the celebration of diversity, such as diversity days. During 2010, we focused on disability awareness, which particularly supports Sanlam RSA’s drive to appoint more disabled staff and increase this staff complement. The businesses undertake surveys each year to measure diversity awareness, the results of which show steady improvement. Performance Employment equity statistics for our workforce The table below shows the total number of Sanlam employees (including those with disabilities) across the different race groups (African, Coloured, Indian and White) at the various occupational levels, as of 31 December 2010. Sanlam Group staff complement as at 31 December 2010 Foreign Male Female nationals FeOccupational level A C I W A C I W Male male Total Top management 1 0 0 5 0 1 0 1 0 0 8 Senior management 29 33 25 346 10 15 16 99 3 1 577 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 90 93 54 433 29 70 38 407 5 2 1 221 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 522 321 134 1133 466 487 132 1 410 21 5 4 631 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1 080 292 56 84 1 983 709 97 652 4 13 4 970 Unskilled and defined decision making 41 21 0 7 86 48 1 8 0 0 212 Total permanent 1 763 760 269 2 008 2 574 1 330 284 2 577 33 21 11 619 Temporary employees 15 7 0 1 15 8 5 16 0 1 68 Grand total 1 778 767 269 2 010 2 589 1 338 289 2 593 33 22 11 688 Note A = African, C = Coloured, I = Indian and W = White. 48 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Sanlam RSA’s black employee complement has now reached 60% of total staff (compared to 56% in 2009, 53% in 2008, 46% in 2007). This is in line with our targets and we believe we have a good retention rate due to our competitive employee value propositions and remuneration packages. We have made significant progress in diversifying the profile of our Board and staff in general. Group HR continuously monitors the employee profile of Sanlam RSA to ensure that appropriate action is taken in order to reach the EE targets. The table below shows the total recruitment figures for Sanlam RSA across the different race and gender groups and various occupational levels for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010. Sanlam RSA recruitment figures, 1 January to 31 December 2010 Grand Occupational Male Female Foreign total Grand total level A C I W A C I W M F All Black White Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 9 6 4 20 5 5 0 5 0 0 54 29 25 Professionally qualified, experienced specialists, midmanagement 19 19 10 57 12 6 9 31 1 0 164 75 89 Skilled technical, academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and super­intendents 207 73 36 149 185 90 23 122 5 2 892 614 278 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 766 93 36 29 1214 155 26 62 2 5 2 388 2 290 98 Unskilled and defined decision making 23 9 0 4 45 17 0 0 0 0 98 94 4 Grand total 1 024 200 86 259 1461 273 58 220 8 7 3 596 3 102 494 49 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Sanlam RSA’s employment rate was 19,5% higher than in 2009 (3 008 new employees). Of new appointments made during 2010, 86% were black. Specific recruitment ratios at the various occupational levels have been set in consultation between the Heads of the businesses and the Group CE. The table below indicates the agreed and achieved black:white recruitment ratios. Agreed black:white Achieved black:white Occupational level recruitment ratio recruitment ratio Top management 50:50 No appointments were made Senior management 50:50 54:46 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and 60:40 46:54 mid-management Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior 66:34 69:31 management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 90:10 96:4 Unskilled and defined decision making 90:10 96:4 There were no appointments made during this period and therefore no movement reported. Across Sanlam RSA, R177 967 was spent on diversity initiatives during 2010, attended by 2 361 staff members. These initiatives included an outing to a township, a debate by two popular South African figures on transformation in the country, and a series of workshops and discussions on understanding and managing diversity. Discrimination-related grievances Sanlam RSA reported two cases of sexual harassment and unacceptable behaviour. These were isolated cases which were not raised as formal grievances and the matters were satisfactorily resolved. 50 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Our performance against the dti Scorecard The following table shows Sanlam RSA’s performance against the employment equity component of the dti’s BBBEE Scorecard for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010. This data is yet to be verified but will be published on our website once our verification process is complete. dti Scorecard – employment equity (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Black disabled employees as % of all employees Black senior management employees as % of all employees Black middle management Employment equity 15 6,74 4,04 3,83 employees as % of all employees Black junior management employees as % of all employees Exceeding EAP targets in each category (bonus points) There has been a positive increase in the EE score. The focus on increasing black headcount during 2010 will remain key for 2011. 51 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued address the culture and working environment, and Skills development and career progression implementing initiatives to make the employee value Management approach and actions proposition more lucrative. At Sanlam RSA, the Senior Manager of Employment Sanlam identifies key individuals for their contribution to Equity and Skills Development draws up the workplace the company, and aims to retain their skills through skills plans which consolidate the individual business specific retention initiatives. The majority of these plans. She also chairs the Group Learning and initiatives are centered on remuneration such as bonus Development Forum, comprising the Heads of Training packages. Currently the value of these initiatives is in the Development for each business, which aims to identify region of R90,5 million. training requirements that will assist in meeting the Currently, turnover statistics across the organisation are strategic requirements of the businesses. The Forum satisfactory with the highest success at a more senior discusses changes to the Skills Development legislation level (across all demographics). Retention is more and identifies the associated impacts on the business. challenging among the lower level positions, because The Senior Manager of Employment Equity and Skills such employees tend to leave more readily for even a Development reports quarterly on Sanlam RSA’s skills minimal salary increase. Turnover of staff in commissiondevelopment issues to the Board and annually to the based roles also tends to be higher than their salaried Insurance Sector Education and Training Authority, counterparts. However, this is an industry trend and not INSETA. unique to the Group. Business unit skills development plans address specific skills requirements, ranging from general business skills Career progression to highly specialised skills. All line managers have their The Sanlam Group aims for transparent internal own training budget. Each employee engages with advertising of positions. Employees selected for management regarding their training and development promotion receive additional training and mentoring and plans in order to maximise performance in their current new employees can receive additional training, such as position and to ensure their skills set will facilitate career coaching, where the need arises. There are robust progression. employee development processes for talented senior At present Group HR is focused on repositioning the employees, such as the ‘buddy system’ for recently workplace skills plans and improving capacity to record promoted senior managers, which pairs them with an and report on training interventions across the business. experienced colleague, and the Coaching for High This has proved to be challenging in the past and has Performance programme at Sanlam Investments. resulted in lower-than-realistic dti Skills Development scores. Succession planning This is an important issue as we must ensure suitable Retention replacements for key managerial positions. The Sanlam While recruiting the right people is critical for business Group has different approaches for filling the various success, it is equally important to retain staff long enough positions but all follow the basic premise that it is each to effectively develop the business. Group HR manager’s responsibility to ensure he or she has a continuously monitors the situation and takes action to successor. The unit and cluster CEOs oversee such address retention. This includes effective monitoring succession plans. Succession pools exist within the top through reporting, identifying specific initiatives to four levels of the organisation, which involves identifying 52 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued staff able to lead at a more senior level. This is monitored and facilitated by Group HR in conjunction with the Group CE. Once identified, individuals are monitored on an ongoing basis. Should they fail to perform as required, they are removed from the pool and other potential candidates are added. Performance Up-skilling our workforce Skilled technical, professionally qualified, senior management and top management are some of the areas where the financial services sector lacks skills. We therefore have a strong focus on employing people with the necessary skills and qualifications. The table below shows the numbers of Sanlam RSA employees who had a degree or three-year diploma in 2010. Sanlam RSA employees with a degree or three-year diploma: 2010 Black White Total Average Average Average Number age Number age Number age Male 391 34 573 43 964 39 Female 510 32 528 40 1 038 36 Total 901 33 1 101 42 2 002 38 While the total of 2,002 has decreased slightly from 2,019 in 2009, the number of new recruits with a degree or three-year diploma has increased by over 84%. Sanlam RSA new recruits with a degree or three-year diploma: 2010 Black White Total Average Average Average Number age Number age Number age Male 114 32 91 38 205 35 Female 128 30 47 33 175 30 Total 242 31 138 36 380 33 While the overall average age of new recruits is 33 years, the average age for black recruits is 31 and for white recruits 36. Close to 64% of our new graduate and diplomate recruits were black staff members, an increase of almost 7% from 2009. Amount spent on training and skills development During 2010, R58 476 431 was spent on training and skills development within Sanlam RSA. Of this amount, 53% was spent on black employees. This includes a combination of development programmes and technical and desktop training. This figure amounts to 1,77% of the leviable amount, compared to 1,9%(5) in 2009, of which 0,94% was spent on black staff members. (5) This figure has been restated to exclude Santam’s training figures which were included in 2009 reported figures. Santam reports separately from Sanlam. 53 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Our performance against the BBBEE Scorecard dti Scorecard – skills development (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Skills development for black employees as % of leviable amount Skills development for black employees with disabilities as % of Skills development 15 9,55 9,46 1,36 leviable amount Number of black employees (as % of total employees) participating in in-service training programmes Initiatives were put into place, largely focused on robust record-keeping, during 2009 to ensure that a significant increase in the score was achieved and to ensure that we are continually improving in the area of Skills Development. Training programmes offered by Sanlam Some of the training and skills development programmes offered by or facilitated by Sanlam during 2010 included the following: Development Number of programme Target audience Objective participants EE ratio Coaching for High Middle and senior To equip managers with managerial and Performance management coaching skills with the aim of enhancing the performance of their teams. 21 19% Assertive Leadership Junior and middle To assist in turning assertive behaviour into Programme management a habit, proactively encouraging focus on results and optimal co-operation with others. 20 50% Building Leadership Junior management Capacity To impart critical leadership skills. 14 64% Leading Edge Potential future To equip future senior leaders with leading leaders edge skills and experience. 6 67% Development All employees A combination of varied external Programme programmes which aims to sharpen management and leaderships skills. 31 52% 54 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Training programmes offered by Sanlam (continued) Development Number of programme Target audience Objective participants EE ratio Technical Induction All non-investment To broaden understanding of investments, professionals investment terms and the role of each investment business. 81 58% Senior Management Middle to senior To achieve and sustain trend-setting Development management performance through high quality leadership, Programme (MDP) management of change and a keen understanding of the functional aspects of management in the financial services industry, by equipping senior managers with the necessary knowledge as well as leadership and change management skills. The programme focuses on translating learning into improvement in the workplace for both the individual and the organisation. 52 62% Team Leader Team leaders and A generic programme with a focus on Programme junior management people management, interpersonal skills such as handling mistakes and conflict, giving feedback, handling different personalities and achieving expected results. 52 52% Learnership Unemployed To provide an opportunity for learners with learners disabilities to gain skills within the industry with the view of employing them on a permanent basis. 19 89% Learnership RFA Employed learners To expose learners to generic competencies required in the management and creation of wealth including Long-term Insurance, Short-term Insurance and Collective Investments and to allow for specialisation to meet the needs of different work roles. 14 % Alchemy Talent Sanlam Glacier To develop Sanlam Glacier staff (new and Development employees existing talent) at a business and personal level. The programme includes structured facilitation on pertinent business topics, and the application thereof within the Glacier environment. It also includes the support of a mentor and coach for the year. Involvement in a project is central to the programme, through which participants contribute to one of Glacier’s key strategic initiatives for the year. 8 75% Management Management A combination of workshops and courses to Development levels build management skill capacity. 58 22% sessions 55 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Training programmes offered by Sanlam (continued) Development Number of programme Target audience Objective participants EE ratio Leadership Junior and middle To equip recently appointed managers with Development management professional development and enhanced practice development. 250 50% Leadership Capacity Managers and To enhance the leadership skills of Building specialist managers. 146 23% Coaching and Junior and middle To provide junior to middle management Mentoring management with skills to coach their direct reports. 31 58% Fast tracker Middle To develop employees to senior Programme management management level and bridge the competence gap between middle and senior management. 21 52% Sanlam RSA spent R1 271 834 on formal coaching initiatives during 2010. Ninety-four members of staff participated of which 41% were black. Management development initiatives cost Sanlam RSA R4 970 241 for 913 staff members, of which 42% were black. Sanlam RSA awarded 296 bursaries to both staff and external candidates, at a cost of R4 120 590. A total of 24 internships cost the business R801 500, and R1 192 894 was also spent on 40 learnerships this year. Plans for 2011 and beyond Development is underway for a Graduate Leadership Programme (GLP) for 2011, which will focus on identifying highpotential graduates within the organisation in order to quickly and efficiently develop them. The programme aims to accelerate the development of leadership skills and competencies of our young graduates rather than focusing on technical or management skills. Conducive working environment Sanlam’s makes a considerable effort to ensure that our working environment is conducive to attracting and retaining high-performance individuals, while also identifying initiatives that develop a culture that embraces diversity and a working environment that is enjoyed by all our staff members. Management approach and actions Upon appointment, Sanlam RSA employees participate in the Group Orientation Programme which is followed six months later by a meeting with the Group CE. This offers employees a valuable forum in which to share feedback on their experiences, and provides the Group CE with the opportunity to obtain insight into the culture of the organisation. The Group CE personally addresses the issues that arise. New employees also attend business specific orientations, which are evaluated six months after completion by way of a survey. Based on survey feedback, we determined that employees often do not understand many of the agreements they sign upon their appointment. To rectify this, the level of detail shared at these orientation sessions has been improved. 56 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued We are also improving employee understanding of > Employee Perceptions the company’s benefits structure and we held training > Employee Satisfaction sessions throughout the year on this topic. The > Climate and Culture Sanlam Group offers a comprehensive range of benefits in the form of retirement fund, medical aid > Investors in People. and group life cover, so it is important that our The Group manages its own grievance procedures employees understand the value and the conditions by facilitating consultation between our employees of these correctly. and our organisation through various formal and There are numerous other day-to-day benefits offered informal mechanisms. This procedure is to Sanlam RSA employees, including a countrywide communicated to all employees via the intranet. employee assistance programme (EAP) for Grievances are monitored by HR in terms of employees and their immediate families, shops and frequency and level of escalation. At Sanlam RSA, conveniences at our head office, access to loyalty the incidences of CCMA (Commission for programme discounts, and focused wellness Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration) cases are interventions. minimal (44 for the year), and therefore we do not see them as materially significant. During 2010, senior managers and staff members identified as ‘future leaders’ in the Sanlam Group In our federated business model, employee completed an organisational culture survey, called the interaction and engagement tend to be decentralised, Beehive Survey. The results indicate the extent to but we do have Group-wide communication channels which an organisation has developed in moving including: towards a culture that is more inclusive, people> Our internal newspaper Sandaba (lauded as one of driven and client-centric. This shift increases the Top Five Corporate Publications of 2009 in the employee engagement and therefore, performance. SA Publication Forum awards). The survey has been conducted since 2004 and > Monthly Headway communication from the shows a steady improvement on all parameters. Group CE. These improvements ensure a more engaged workforce leading to better performance of the > Executive management feedback sessions. company. > Communiqués from the Group CE. We are seeking to develop ways of improving > The Sanlam intranet site. participation, and our Sanlam for Sanlam initiative is > Employee satisfaction/climate surveys. focused on facilitating collaboration between business units. > Business-specific internal publications. A number of other surveys were conducted during the year, on the following topics: > Wellness > Remuneration and Benefits 57 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Performance Group employee turnover statistics: 2010 Occupational Male Female Foreign Grand level A C I W A C I W M F total Black White Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 4 3 2 23 2 2 0 6 0 0 42 13 29 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 9 5 14 41 8 3 7 30 2 0 119 46 73 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 133 53 31 174 95 58 23 164 3 2 736 393 343 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 774 71 22 23 1158 117 24 78 1 0 2 268 2166 102 Unskilled and defined decision making 27 9 6 7 66 16 1 6 0 1 139 125 14 Grand total 947 141 75 268 1 329 196 55 284 6 3 3 304 2 743 561 The overall termination rate for Sanlam RSA was 28,65%. While this figure may appear to be high, it is due to high turnover amongst the commission-based staff, which is a normal trend in our industry. If they were excluded the turnover rate would be 15,42%. The rates for black and white staff turnover are 20% and 10% respectively – excluding the commissioned staff. Employee turnover has increased by 5,34% since 2009 (23,31%). This is partly due to the inclusion of employee statistics from Coris Capital, MiWay and Blue Ink, which were not included in 2009, and partly due to the inclusion of temporary staff in the employee headcount. Sanlam RSA spent approximately R1 924 922 on the Employee Assistance Programme in 2010. Over the year, the Sanlam Group distributed 13 685 copies of Sandaba (an in-house magazine) and 8 990 copies of Tempo (an intermediary magazine). Plans for 2011 and beyond During 2010, Sanlam RSA undertook a process of re-educating staff on the medical benefits offered, in order to address common misperceptions about these. During 2011 there will be a Group-wide focus on further entrenching our business culture in order to further align this with our business strategy. 58 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued A Wellness Task team comprising wellness Employee health and safety managers from across Sanlam RSA meets Management approach and actions regularly to discuss feedback from testing, to Sanlam RSA’s Wellness Strategy forms an identify health risks and to formulate ongoing important component of the Sanlam Employment strategies to handle health and wellness issues Value Proposition and aims to help employees that may impact the business and its people. achieve a healthy work-life balance. During 2010, the wellness programme focused on The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) forms stress management through the Revived and part of the Wellness Strategy, offering employees Resilient programme. A series of talks was and their families a variety of voluntary services. presented and a self-help e-learning programme Approximately 8,1% of employees made use of was made available through the intranet. The these during 2010. uptake of this programme has been pleasing. Sanlam RSA’s wellness programme has clear We are currently developing a managed healthcare objectives, positioning it as part of our overall initiative for staff which will be available in 2011. approach to employment. Specifically, the wellness This initiative is again voluntary but will be more programme aims to: proactively supported than our current initiatives. > strengthen Sanlam’s employment brand by HIV/Aids positioning the Group as an organisation that cares about the wellbeing of its employees; Although we are in a low-risk industry, Sanlam acknowledges that HIV/Aids is an epidemic that > empower and encourage staff to maintain their has potentially significant impacts throughout the wellbeing and their productivity levels; South African economy, including on our business. > integrate the Group’s various wellness Experience has shown that a considerably higher interventions thereby enabling a consistent HIV test rate is achieved when it is part of a holistic wellness offering across the organisation; health offering, which is why testing is at the core > reduce absenteeism and sick leave; and of our wellness offering. > improve employee morale to positively influence A well integrated HIV/Aids support process is the overall employment experience. available to all Sanlam RSA staff members. In addition to this all new staff members receive These services are complemented by a variety of HIV/Aids training as part of their induction process. health tests (blood pressure, BMI, cholesterol, diabetes, HIV/Aids) and wellness presentations on issues such as substance abuse and depression, as well as our medical aid benefit. 59 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Motivated employees continued Performance Sanlam RSA’s Lighter Side of Life challenge was completed in March 2010. This voluntary programme focused on healthy weight loss through sustainable changes in lifestyle and was supported by medical supervision and counselling. After six months, the top three contenders had lost 59,6 kg, 34,7 kg and 32,9 kg respectively. Out of the 25 participants, 18 lost more than 10% of their body weight, and cumulatively the group lost 461,5 kg. According to the Medical Nutritional Institute, these results are well above average. During 2010, the uptake of our wellness test offerings at Sanlam RSA was as follows: % employees tested Blood pressure 14,22 Cholesterol 14,39 Glucose 14,39 BMI Index 14,39 HIV testing 5,17 During the wellness campaign 742 staff members were tested for HIV, of whom seven tested positive (1%). No specific HIV/Awareness programmes or events were held. However, a very informative 90 minute session on the subject is included in the Group Orientation programme, which 928 Sanlam RSA staff members attended in 2010. 60 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services A diverse sustainable product portfolio Our approach and actions Historically, the insurance industry has been perceived The low-income sector represents at least 75% of the as a purveyor of products that are sold as opposed to South African market, yet remains acutely under-serviced bought. With an improved level of education, today’s in terms of appropriate risk, savings, investment and clients have more financial savvy, and have a greater retirement products. Through SDM (operating as Sanlam choice of financial products and ways to source them. Sky Solutions in South Africa), we have, in recent years, There has also been a convergence of products within put great effort into providing tailored products to the the financial services industry and an increasing demand previously disadvantaged in the entry-level market and for products that are easier to understand. Combined lower LSM (living standards measure) groups with with an inherent mistrust or suspicion of financial monthly household incomes up to R10 000. Funeral institutions, these developments have forced companies policies remain by far the greatest area of demand in to adapt, creating more diverse products and better this market, but we also offer savings and short-term distribution strategies to remain competitive. insurance products at this level. For a business to be financially sustainable in the long We have worked hard to develop robust distribution term, it must consistently offer products and services channels to reach these market segments. SDM’s that both stand the test of time and yet remain relevant multi-distribution model increases exposure through today. five channels: agency, broker, group benefits, retail, and network marketing (Channel4Life). Broadening access to financial services SDM also focuses on reaching clients in a number of Millions of South Africa’s poor continue to be excluded African countries and in India. In contrast to South Africa, from products and services. The issue poses a very real these countries are poorly serviced in terms of financial threat to national development and security, and products in all market segments. SDM’s focus in these consequently to every local business. By extending our countries therefore spans the full spectrum of income coverage to include this group, Sanlam RSA will not only groups. contribute to South Africa’s economic upliftment but we will also create important new market opportunities and Agency and broker effectively place ourselves in a prime position poised for further growth. Within Sanlam RSA, the agency and broker models are currently the strongest performing channels. Using a One of our business units, Sanlam Developing Markets face-to-face sales method, a basic needs analysis and (SDM), specifically focuses on improving access to advisory service are supplied directly to the client. Both financial services in entry-level markets in South Africa channels focus on the government (civil servants) and and internationally. It strives to incorporate lower-income commercial markets. While funeral cover is the most groups into the mainstream economy and helps them successful product, we also offer retirement policies, better provide for their families. If satisfied and served savings plans and hospital plans. Agency and broker well, these customers will remain loyal and committed distribution have the strongest presence in the Eastern to our brand as they advance to higher incomes and Cape and KwaZulu-Natal but recent growth plans focus achieve greater personal wealth. on expansion of all provincial markets in South Africa. 61 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued Group Benefits Network marketing The lower end of the entry-level market is best Focusing largely on funeral policies, Channel4Life is a approached through our Group Benefits model, multi-level marketing scheme that offers policyholders which utilises various affinity groups such as the Zionist an opportunity to become business owners (network Christian Church and funeral parlours to reach potential owners) who earn a referral fee on each policy they refer. clients. Group Benefits also accesses clients through Referral fees (commission) can be earned on up to eight formal corporate relationships (for example, through levels of paying clients within their network. employers, banks and intermediaries). Over the past few years, the business has increased its rural presence in Safrican areas where lack of infrastructure has traditionally Safrican Insurance is a registered life company with prevented access to many services, particularly among a full life licence. Its focus area of business is in the the elderly. To address this, Group Benefits has started underwriting of funeral insurance, largely in the lowto employ shipping containers as rural service stations. income segment of the market. Its target market is The community is trained and employed to operate largely organised groups, such as unions, church these containers, collecting premiums and processing organisations, employer groups, etc. claims almost immediately via mobile technology. Low operational costs allow us to keep premiums to a SDM in other developing countries minimum, which suits the lower end of the entry-level In the other developing countries in which we operate, market. Group Benefits currently has 62 branches, called SDM is working hard to continue improving Sanlam’s Ubuntu Points, throughout rural areas in KwaZulu-Natal, market share by establishing more viable life businesses. Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West and the Northern This is effectively broadening access to financial services Cape. across most market segments and SDM has already established operations in Botswana, Kenya, Tanzania, Retail Zambia, Ghana, Uganda and India. During the year, On the retail side, SDM’s partnership with the JD Group we identified opportunities in Malawi, Nigeria and aims to distribute financial products to the local entryMozambique. Wherever SDM operates, we work with level market. During 2010, products were distributed to local regulators to build the industry and improve its the JD Group client base via outbound calls and via the maturity, thus playing an important role in local skills JD Group club card membership, providing development. approximately 30 000 new low-cost funeral policies a month. More recently, we began selling face-to-face SPF opening doors through Russels retail stores in the JD Group on a pilot At the close of 2010, a new range of retail funds catering basis. Expansion in this area will occur brand by brand. to previously disadvantaged individuals interested in In partnership with Shoprite, we have launched our new investing in empowerment transactions and community I-Cover product through their South African retail stores. upliftment projects was launched by SPF. The fund aims This is an off-the-shelf insurance product, packaged as a to allow previously disadvantaged clients to participate in starter-pack. Clients simply activate the policy via a call listed and unlisted empowerment transactions, with centre. exposure to socially responsible investments and community builder property, through a collective investment-type mechanism. 62 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued SDM is also investigating the potential for offering Performance and plans personal loans to segments of the entry-level market, Sales figures for SDM initially to current clients, and later expanding into a full product offering. We have run successful pilot schemes During 2010, SDM sold just over 760 000 individual life at the upper end of the entry-level market. policies in both South Africa and internationally, contributing to a growth in file size (number of policies on During the past year, we opened eight new sales offices the books) in most of the areas in which we operate. in different life channels across the country. A nationwide Particularly encouraging are the sales volumes in some of consolidation of our service centres is currently the smaller businesses we operate, such as those in underway. Ghana and Zambia. These new business volumes can be In general, market research shows Sanlam’s presence is broken down as follows: strengthening. SDM aims to further enhance its position through a continued focus on relationship building Sales volume for SDM amongst prospective clients. South Africa 378 639(6) Rest of Africa 247 047 The strength of our sales advisers India 135 320 Our SPF, SDM and Sanlam UK business units rely Total 761 006 extensively on intermediaries (advisers and brokers) to distribute products and services throughout our areas of Basis of measurement: The total number of individual life policies sold (6) by SDM to the entry-level market during the financial year ending operation. Skilled advisers and brokers elicit confidence 31 December 2010 in South Africa. The entry-level market is defined and help build a trusted reputation for our brands, which as individuals in a household that have a household income of between R1 000 and R10 000 per month. is essential for the sustainable growth of our businesses. It is therefore crucial to ensure that our employees and Product distribution in SDM intermediaries, as brand ambassadors, are well equipped During 2010, SDM established one new service centre in to provide responsible and appropriate financial advice to South Africa bringing the total number to 20. However, our clients. Accordingly, we need to ensure that our Sanlam RSA is increasingly integrating all client servicing, adviser and broker profiles are aligned with the markets regardless of market segment. Therefore, entry-level they serve, and we must equip our intermediary market clients will increasingly be able to access any salespeople with ongoing training and development service centre for policy assistance. regarding product knowledge and regulatory The total number of new retail stores activated in 2010 requirements. is 104, through our partnership with the JD Group. 63 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued Our approach and actions SPF adviser profiles The tables below present our SPF adviser profile for 2010 and the profile of new advisers appointed during the year. Current profile of SPF advisers: 2010 Years of experience 0 – 3 3 – 5 5+ Total(7) Number of advisers 1 159 140 832 2 131 % black advisers 25% 16% 8% 22% % male (of total adviser complement) 59% 71% 81% 68% % female (of total adviser complement) 41% 29% 19% 32% Average age (years) 36 41 53 43 % English speaking* 52% 41% 27% 42% 65% of total advisers are based in cities and metropolitan areas * English-speakers refer to first language English-speakers. Basis of measurement: Profile of advisers in SPF and SDM based on personal information (age, language and demographic) supplied by the advisers upon (7)  appointment. In terms of demographics for the purposes of the adviser profile, black advisers are defined as only African black advisers. The figures show that there has been a slight increase in the proportion of female advisers since 2009 (3%), and a 12% increase in the total number of advisers (2009: 1 898). Profile of new SPF advisory staff appointees: 2010 Number of appointments 690 % black advisers 44% % male 58% Average age 34,3 % English speaking 60% The proportion of appointments of black advisers has increased from 36,5% in 2009 to 44% in 2010. SPF adviser training When products are altered or new ones introduced, staff and intermediaries undergo mandatory training, facilitated by the Product Support team and conducted nationwide. While we ensure both our advisers and our brokers are product trained, we are only responsible for providing them with Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services (FAIS) accreditation training. FAIS governs both groups, but brokers are responsible for their own training. However, we do ensure every year that our advisers and brokers are properly accredited, and we achieved 100% compliance in 2010. 64 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued SPF runs an Internal Training Academy that cost R29,2 million in 2010, and free broker training and examinations, which cost R352 000 last year. In addition, specific FAIS-accreditation training was offered to our advisers through three workshops, with attendance as follows: Number of Training workshop advisers RFP 1 – 2 day 309 RFP 2 – 2 day 130 RFP 2 – 4 day 380 SDM (South Africa) adviser profiles The tables below present our SDM (South Africa) adviser profile for 2010 and the profile of new advisers appointed during the year. Current profile of SDM (South Africa) advisers: 2010 Years of experience 0 – 3 3 – 5 5+ Total(7) Number of advisers 2 054 77 234 2 365 % black advisers 84% 3% 8% 95% % male (of total adviser complement) 34% 1% 5% 40% % female (of total adviser complement) 53% 2% 5% 60% Average age (years) 34 38 45 34 % English speaking* 100% 100% 100% 100% * Only capture English as the language, as all policies are sold in English Profile of new SDM (South Africa) advisory staff appointees: 2010 Total(7) Number of appointments 1 455 % black advisers 98% % male 38% % female 62% Average age 32 % English speaking 100% Basis of measurement: Profile of advisers in SPF and SDM based on personal information (age, language and demographic) supplied by the advisers upon (7)  appointment. In terms of demographics for the purposes of the adviser profile, black advisers are defined as only African black advisers. 65 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued SDM adviser and broker training Given the recent financial crisis and continued volatility of When new advisers commence their employment, they international financial markets, there is notable focus on attend a four-day Representative Induction programme, financial regulation, customer protection and a drive to which covers relevant introductory topics such as FAIS, improve financial risk management. In this context, the FICA (Financial Intelligence Centre Act), Code of Ethics, relationship between Sanlam UK’s businesses and its Company values, product knowledge, the sales process, intermediaries becomes even more important. and so on. Induction training occurs monthly at each Against this backdrop, during 2010 Sanlam UK set up branch. In addition to this, other training activities during Sanlam Distribution Services, a discreet business unit 2010 included: which aims to ensure responsible intermediation and > Further product training for current staff. focuses on cementing the relationships between Sanlam UK businesses and their intermediaries. As such, part of > Values training. Sanlam Distribution Services’ mandate is to improve the > How to complete a needs analysis. sustainability of the independent financial advisers (IFAs) We spent approximately R1 300 000 (including indirect with which Sanlam UK deals, by assisting IFAs to: costs) on adviser training for 2010. > Implement suitable business procedures; During the year, SDM undertook 14 training interventions > Adapt/change their business models to prevailing at brokerages, providing product training to a total of market and regulatory conditions; 152 brokers. We did not provide any examination > Conduct thorough client risk-profiling using Sanlam support or alternative free training this year. Distribution Services’ profiling tools; Broker accreditation for FAIS is reviewed at contractual > Support IFAs with a technical service for tax and stage, and FAIS now requires all brokers and advisers to pension planning; be FAIS-accredited by 31 December 2011. > Assist IFAs to de-risk their businesses through Sanlam UK stringent risk management techniques. The Sanlam UK cluster targets sophisticated clients and Client education and literacy focuses on wealth creation through a range of financial advisory, fund administration, long-term savings and Informed customers make better financial decisions. asset management products and services. These Given the complexities and ever-changing nature of the services are distributed either via intermediaries or financial industry, organisations and individuals alike can directly to clients, requiring sound, responsible only benefit from clients with better financial knowledge. distribution strategies and strong relationships with a Sanlam wants every customer, from the lowest tier to the range of intermediaries. highest, to feel confident in their choices about their financial future – and confidence begins with knowledge. 66 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued Sanlam Personal Finance As part of its market research, SPF determines which market segments would benefit from financial education and the level of education required. This has resulted in a number of financial literacy initiatives aimed at the middle market. SPF – Examples of expenditures on client education and literacy Programme Spend Approximate target market Description and reach Kaya FM R1 500 000 53 000 parents per week Covers more serious topics of health, (Gauteng) (household income of finances, and other household matters. between R10 000 and Each month, we conduct an educational R20 000) interview with a Sanlam spokesperson. YFM R1 500 000 768 000 singles per week Covers a variety of topics presented by (Gauteng) (household income of financial experts, e.g. savings. between R10 000 and R40 000) Ontbytsake R750 000 60 000 Afrikaans parents per SPF has a weekly interview on the week (household income of Ontbysake show on Kyknet (Saturday R20 000 – R40 000) morning). Interview content is educational and experts from our various business units have participated. E-safety R50 000 Reach unknown: Parents with Electronic newsletter on e-safety to parents, children in school (household sponsored by Sanlam Liquid. The fortnightly income of R20 000+) newsletter includes a financial education article. In addition, we have distributed numerous public relations articles on topics such as budgeting, teaching children to save, savings planning for a child’s education, and improving personal financial management, in publications such as Daily News, City Press, Die Burger, Move Parent and Shape. We launched a financial literacy DVD series, targeting worksites and comprising eight financial themes on topics including managing your money, budgeting and debt problems, personal goals and savings, risk management, retirement planning, tax and other employee benefits. We are currently investigating the translation of these into other official languages. Sanlam Cobalt Sanlam Cobalt Small Business has a strategic responsibility to advance our clients’ financial knowledge, with a focus on professionals and small to medium enterprises (SMEs). The more someone understands his or her personal financial situation, the more likely he or she will be able to manage it in a pro-active manner. Cobalt offers SMEs a free Business Fitness Assessment and a report based on the high-level information we gather on the business, its strategy and risks. An independent business adviser performs the assessment and the subsequent report, and then facilitates discussion about the biggest risks. This is a useful service for SMEs looking to improve their business, and allows us to highlight areas in which a Sanlam Cobalt product would be beneficial for the SME. During 2010 Sanlam Cobalt spent R100 000 on this offering. Independent business advisers provided their time free of charge. 67 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued We also launched a free business planning journal in Since its inception two years ago, the project has 2010. Sold electronically, over 11 000 copies were reached approximately 2 500 students. In 2010, we downloaded, without any supporting marketing efforts by invested R300 000 in the project itself and R50 000 on Sanlam Cobalt. the ‘life events planner’ booklet and lucky draw gifts. In addition, we circulate approximately 18 000 weekly We aim to increase the project by 30% during 2011. e-newsletters, the content of which focuses on relevant financial and business issues. Sanlam Developing Markets (SDM) A business plan development session, utilising the In South Africa, SDM invests in consumer education business planning journal, was conducted for previously programmes that equip the entry-level market (ELM) disadvantaged business students at the University of the with simple and easy-to-understand financial concepts Western Cape. in order to empower them to make better-informed decisions about their financial affairs. Sanlam Cobalt Financial Literacy SDM facilitates consumer education by leveraging the Campaign Takalane Sesame brand. Each year, we run an A few years ago, Cobalt Solutions for Professionals educational roadshow or various other events with the began researching the financial needs of student theme of savings. This year’s event included the professionals in order to develop a relevant product. non-cancellation of policies as a theme. We identified This revealed a need for financial literacy rather than and targeted client segments with high lapse rates a product, as students felt their education had not across the country and used theatre to highlight the prepared them to manage the financial risk associated importance of keeping policies active. Our client services with starting a career. staff also attend such events, handling policy-related questions on the spot. In 2010, over 40 000 people In 2009, Sanlam Cobalt launched its Financial Literacy attended the main events, and radio broadcasts reached Campaign for final-year students from various approximately 9,5 million listeners. SDM spent 2,2 million professional faculties. Students attend a presentation by on this initiative in 2010. The Sponsorship unit provided a a well-known Sanlam-sponsored speaker who explores further R200 000 to bring the total spent on the event to the key risks, pitfalls and financial choices that a young R2,4 million. professional typically faces. Attendees are given guidelines on managing such issues and we have SDM also printed over 200 000 copies of Takalani developed a ‘life events planner’ booklet as well as Sesame comic books (at a further cost of R200 000). a more comprehensive version of the lecture in DVD These illustrate issues such as ‘saving for the future and format, which support the learning process. These education’, ‘spending money wisely’, and ‘how to invest initiatives will strengthen the Sanlam brand in the money in the right savings vehicles’. These comic books long term. were distributed to schools by our sales force. The efficacy of this project requires the establishment We also provide expert advice fortnightly to the public and maintenance of strong relationships with the key through the Free State-based Radio Qwa Qwa. This professional universities. Dr Johan van Zyl (Group CE) reaches approximately 239 000 people in the entry-level supports the initiative by meeting with the vicemarket segment (LSM 3 – 6) from Phutaditjhaba, chancellors of the universities and expressing Sanlam Bethlehem and Reitz. Cobalt’s intent to support them through focused interventions. 68 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued For the third consecutive year, our Group Benefits industry, it is based on outcomes rather than rules and business also took their roadshow into rural areas. regulations. The ultimate goal is to create a culture that Through theatre, we taught people in a fun and places client needs at the forefront of every stage in the informative way about the importance of a funeral plan. product’s life cycle. This legislation is still in draft stage This initiative is part of Sanlam RSA’s culture and our but the FSB is set to release a second discussion approach to bridging the financial gap in previously document early in 2011 that proposes the way forward. under-serviced communities, honouring the principles of The challenge will be to develop appropriate the Financial Sector Charter. A variety of topics were measurement criteria. covered, including saving, investing, borrowing and Sanlam RSA’s client-centric strategy already implements budgeting. Content was written and conducted in many of the principles of the TCF so we anticipate that accordance with SAQA educational standards and the transition will be a smooth one. We currently have a delivered by SETA accredited trainers. Participants representative on the ASISA and ASSA working groups received personalised accreditation certificates for each for TCF. We also wholly support the principles of the module. Consumer Protection Act. Our client-centric strategy dictates a focus on solutions Client service levels rather than products and this attitude is encouraged We strive to improve our clients’ product access so they among our intermediaries too. We provide these partners can better manage their own financial security. This and our own advisers with appropriate levels of training involves presenting terms in a clear manner, offering them and support to reduce the risk of giving inappropriate access to more relevant information and generally advice. making it easier for them to manage their policies through expanded or refined services. Such interventions Performance go a long way towards client persistence and retention. Client-service awards Management approach and actions Sanlam RSA’s client success is evident in our persistence figures, which are among the highest in the industry. In In order to retain their business, we strive to incentivise addition, the business has won numerous awards this our clients with service excellence as well as good year: investment performance. Sound financial advice combined with an efficient and consistent after-sales > Getclosure (web-based complaint driver) rated us as service is key to the success of any client-centric one of the top five rated South African companies, strategy. awarding us a four-star ‘customer centricity’ rating for our handling of complaints in 2010. In 2010, the FSB (in South Africa) published a discussion document on its intended implementation of the Treating > Business Processing Enabling South Africa (BPESA) Customers Fairly (TCF) legislation, similar to that used in (an institution for client contact centres) awarded our the United Kingdom since 2001. A new approach to Client Contact Centre a finalist position in the 2010 regulation of market conduct in the financial services awards in three categories: 69 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued > Best SA Customer Service Centre, awarded to call Sanlam Topaz Client Contact Centre VoC score centres that exceeded client expectations. Winning Client contact centre VoC tracking 2009/2010 centres clearly demonstrated all-encompassing 60 dedication towards client service by providing key 50 business objectives for the year and results for each. 40 > Best SA Business Processing Centre: The 30 effectiveness of the business unit as a whole was 20 evaluated in terms of quality of performance and 10 objectives, and whether these were aligned to organisational goals. 0 CCC overall CCC CCC clients overall intermediaries overall > Community Spirit Award: The contact centre’s 2009 annual 2010 annual community involvement project was evaluated. Sanlam Topaz Policy Administration and Claims Our Client Service Project – Sanlam Topaz VoC score Initiated in 2008, the Client Experience project’s Administration and claims VoC score 60 objectives were to shift focus from measuring client satisfaction (the outcome) to measuring the client service, 50 complaints or claims experience as a whole. Related 40 training has focused on employee attitude towards 30 clients and improving the soft skills of staff. Our 20 measurement strategy has also changed, and we now 10 measure the following aspects: 0 > Quality of the service. Overall Fund Instalments Benefits Death Administration > Quality of the relationship. 2009 2010 > Quality of the channel. Sanlam Topaz New Business VoC score > The overall satisfaction of the channel. New business VoC score This yields our ‘Voice of the Customer’ (VoC) score, the 60 results of which are a key performance area for all 50 client-facing staff in three areas, namely Client Contact 40 Centres (CCC), Policy Administration and Claims (PAC) 30 and New Business. Globally, the Top-50 companies achieve a VoC score of 60 – 65 and our own results 20 show annual improvement. 10 0 Overall Sanlam advisors, Brokers broker consultants, distribution support staff 2009 2010 Note The main ‘clients’ in the new business underwriting and issuing process are the intermediaries (advisers and brokers). 70 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued In relation to the New Business VoC results, the average Broker score given to all the participating life companies Dealing with client complaints increased significantly by an average of 5,7 points from Management approach and actions 2009 to 2010. Sanlam Topaz increased by 7,2 points, Our complaints handling process is critical in forging increasing the gap between ourselves and our nearest lasting relationships with our clients. During 2010, we competitor from 3,4 to 5,7 points. upgraded this process to make our complaints Indicators 2010 2009 procedures more visible to clients, an exercise that included an update of our website and complaints Discovery Life 48,8 37,8 brochure. Internally, we ran a staff awareness campaign Liberty Life 39,7 40,6 to improve complaints recognition and handling, aiming for a consistent business-wide complaints experience. Momentum 42,0 43,9 We aim to resolve all complaints on entry. However, if this Old Mutual 47,0 29,1 is not possible, complaints are taken to a dedicated Sanlam 54,5 47,3 client relations consultant in the Client Relations unit, who is also the point of entry for all complaints from the Grand total 47,2 41,5 external ombudsmen (FAIS Ombudsman, Pension Funds This increase can be attributed to an increase in our Adjudicator and Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance). Service Quality Index score, achieved by Sanlam Topaz’s Media complaints are referred to Media Relations, whose strong focus on professionalism, clear communication escalation point is also Client Relations. Client Relations and accessibility to our clients during 2010. has direct access to the Complaints Resolution committee (CRC), which consists of senior people from different disciplines (e.g. Legal Services, Compliance and Making client contracts easier to read the specific business process involved) to make The Consumer Protection Act specifies that clients complaint-related decisions. If still unresolved through should be able to easily understand their contracts. Six these channels, the complaint is escalated to the Sanlam years ago, Sanlam underwent the process of translating Arbitrator, although clients can, if they wish, also lodge all standard letters and contracts into plain language. We complaints directly with him. are again in the process of further simplifying the Clients can refer any complaints to the Sanlam Arbitrator. language used in critical contracts and other areas in The Arbitrator is the final internal arbiter for investigating order to remove all ambiguity. However, it is understood and adjudicating all written complaints from our clients that clients still have trouble with comprehension, largely and policyholders and serves on the one hand to assure due to a lack of financial education, an issue we believe clients of Sanlam’s concern for fair treatment, and on the the industry should take responsibility for. This has been other to raise questions that can lead to improvements in a factor in shifting our focus to financial literacy the way we do business. This process ensures clients education. For more information on these initiatives, are treated fairly and serves to prompt questions and please refer to the section on ‘Consumer education feedback that have the potential to improve the way we and literacy’. do business. 71 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued While the Sanlam Arbitrator’s decision is fully binding on Sanlam RSA, if not satisfied the client can escalate the matter to the relevant external ombudsmen or pursue other legal means. Where ordered to pay compensation, we thoroughly investigate all determinations. As part of this process, relevant remedial actions are taken to prevent recurring complaints. Where required, processes are changed or further training is provided. Some cases may also lead to disciplinary action. While the process described above is specific to SPF, it is also relevant for SDM and Sanlam RSA as a whole. The difference is that each business cluster has its own internal complaints unit, which the CCC feeds with cluster-specific complaints. This internal complaints unit then researches the issues within the relevant business units and reverts directly to the complainant. SPF and SDM each have their own Client Relations unit that handles third party complaints. Sanlam also has a Policyholders’ Interest committee (PHI committee), which reviews and monitors all policyholder-related decisions and related matters in the Group at a strategic level. The committee was established in response to increased consumer activism and questioning of the insurance industry’s value proposition and business models as they relate to clients. The PHI committee enables the Sanlam Limited Board to monitor how effectively we are meeting our obligations to our policyholders/clients. Performance In 2010, most complaints raised by clients fell into the following categories: Client complaints 2010 SPF (excludes Glacier, includes those fielded by the Sanlam Life CCC and other processes) SDM Complaints about bad service 15% 5% Complaints about cost structures and fees, particularly in connection 12% 4% with the premature termination of policies Complaints about investment returns and policy/investment payouts 6% 4% Complaints regarding death claims 5% 32% Complaints regarding benefit claims 4% 12% Complaints regarding the advice given when the policies were sold 13% 11% Complaints regarding the premiums paid for policies 18% 24% Issues in respect of policies ceded to other parties 1% 0% Clarity regarding the meaning, terms and conditions of policies 8% 8% Complaints referred to other departments 18% n/a 100% 100% 72 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued The tables below show the total and average monthly number of complaint interventions referred to the various Ombudsmen by SPF and SDM, from 2007 to 2010. Note that each ‘Complaint intervention’ recorded below represents a complaint moving between SPF and the relevant Ombud, or SPF and the client. This means that SPF records the number of times a complaint moves between the business and the Ombud, even if it is a single complaint, and therefore that the same complaint will be counted more than once if the client reports through more than one channel. This gives the business a sense of the efficacies of both its own internal complaints resolution scenarios and its engagements with the Ombud’s office. SPF: Total and average monthly complaint interventions referred to Ombudsmen: 2007 – 2010 SPF (all) Ombudsman for Pension funds Sanlam arbitrator Long-term insurance adjudicator FAIS Ombudsman Average/ Average/ Average/ Average/ Year Total month Total month Total month Total month 2007 634 53 345 29 276 23 20 2 2008 631 53 229 19 594 50 82 7 2009 760 63 292 24 703 59 79 7 2010 590 49 323(8) 27(8) 405 34 118 10 %2010 / 2009 78 % 111 % 58 % 149 % Basis of measurement: The number of total and average monthly complaints received from the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance by SPF and SDM (8) during the financial year ending 31 December 2010. The number of SPF complaints received by the FAIS Ombudsman increased by 49% between 2009 and 2010. The numbers have in general shown a gradual increase since the initiation of the office in 2004, and this increase is viewed as a natural trend. Complaints to the FAIS Ombudsman averaged around 10 a month over the year and when compared to the number of policies being written each month, we do not consider this a cause for concern. Of the SPF complaints that went to the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance, only 17% were decided in favour of the complainant. This was substantially lower than the same decision rate (46%) for the industry. Sanlam Life complaints made up only 5% of industry complaints to the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance, which was substantially lower than our market share (24%). SPF’s Client Relations unit (which handles the bulk of SPF complaints) was commended by the Ombudsman for Longterm Insurance at their 25th birthday function for being the organisation that best supported the Ombudsman over the past 10 years through the prompt handling of complaints and by providing fully substantiated responses. 73 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Dependable products and services continued SDM: Total and average monthly complaint interventions referred to Ombudsmen: 2007 – 2010 SDM Ombudsman for Pension funds Long-term insurance adjudicator FAIS Ombudsman Average/ Average/ Average/ Year Total month Total month Total month 2007 414 35 6* 0.5* 24* 2* 2008 536 45 4* 0.3* 55* 4.5* 2009 776 65 18 1.5 34 3 2010 648 (8) 54 (8) 9 0.75 120 10 %2010 / 2009 84 % 50 % 353 % *These figures exclude the data for Channel Life Basis of measurement: The number of total and average monthly complaints received from the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance by SPF and SDM (8) during the financial year ending 31 December 2010. The number of complaints dealt with through the FAIS Ombud in 2010 is almost four times that recorded during 2009. This is largely as a result of a six to eight month backlog of complaints experienced by the FAIS Ombud offices during 2009. In addition, at the start of 2010, approximately one third of SDM’s complaints related to fraudulent and fictitious policies. On investigation, it was discovered that certain brokers in informal communities were fabricating new policies as a means to generate extra revenue for themselves. This resulted in a spike in complaints to the FAIS Ombud offices. To curtail such fraud, SDM has implemented new processes including stronger verification procedures upon policy initiation, effectively reducing such complaints to less than 5% of the total complaints received. SDM’s average resolution time for dealing with external complaints (to the ombudsmen, and adjudicators) is currently 98 days compared with an industry average of 124 days, while the average resolution for internal complaints is four days. Three claims cases were referred to court last year. The first was settled before reaching court. The second concerned a complaint that was incorrectly made before the claim was submitted to SDM and is still to be settled. The third relates to a Group Benefit that was not paid out and SDM is, at the time of publication, still defending this in court. 74 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible investments responsible investors as a journey, not an event. As part ESG-based investment decision-making of an incremental approach, we decided to focus first on and progress against the UN Principles for governance issues. In 2006, we constituted a committee, Responsible Investment (UN-PRI) the Corporate Governance unit, to drive SIM’s A strong case is being made internationally for large responsible investment initiatives. Comprising senior institutional investors (such as pension funds and other investment professionals and company secretarial staff, asset owners) to put pressure on investment companies the unit meets every second month. to change their operating practices to incorporate Through this unit, SIM codified its philosophy on proxy environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) voting and created guidelines for our analysts to follow considerations into their investment decisions and when voting proxies. We consulted with clients and had products. As one of the largest institutional investors in the guidelines approved by the SIM board. We maintain a South Africa, we therefore recognise that we have an log of all resolutions voted upon, and provide a listing of obligation to focus on socially responsible investment all resolutions declined (with reasons) in our client practices. quarterly communications. Management approach and actions We have also developed a scoring method to evaluate In 2007, Sanlam Investment Management (SIM) signed and measure governance risk relating to company up to the UN-PRI. As a signatory, we have undertaken to boards. This score serves as one input into our adopt the six principles and to report on our progress in investment decision-making processes and is particularly this respect. useful when deciding between two or more potential investments that deliver similar returns. In 2009, we also UN Principles for Responsible Investment developed a policy for responding to requests to approve > Incorporate ESG issues into our investment analysis incentive and retention schemes. This has led us to and decision-making processes. engage with several company boards regarding their remuneration practices. > Be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. The environmental and social components of the ESG framework are more challenging as there is currently no > Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the legislation to provide guidance. South African legislation entities in which we invest. also prohibits collaborative efforts, which makes it > Promote acceptance and implementation of the challenging to implement the UN principle that Principles within the investment industry. recommends companies work together to enhance their > Work together with other companies to enhance our ability to implement the other principles. However, effectiveness in implementing the Principles. through ASISA, the investment industry is addressing this issue by developing an industry forum as a platform for > Report on our activities and progress in implementing regulated collaboration. Under ASISA’s guidance, a local the Principles. Code for Responsible Investing (CRISA) has been Committing to the UN-PRI’s responsible investment formulated. SIM appointed a representative to serve on practices presents considerable challenges which will be the ASISA working group that developed CRISA and is incorporated over time. We understand our duty to be now also a signatory to the CRISA code. 75 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible investments continued One of the challenges associated with implementing ESG management in the context of sustainable development criteria is that these might, in certain instances, conflict and aligning the investment process to the values of with our client investment mandates. Consequently, we socially and environmentally aware investors. This fund are currently verifying whether we are operating within the holds assets to the value of R57,4 million. constraints imposed by our client mandates. After this process, we will inform our clients in detail about our SIM SRI Bond Fund responsibility-oriented activities on their behalf. To fulfil The SIM SRI Bond Fund is an actively managed socially our mandates, we will also need to develop policies on responsible investment bond fund that strives to make a environmental and, possibly, social aspects, where these significant contribution to social and economic upliftment are not covered by laws, charters and codes. through investments in listed fixed income instruments. Overall, we are pleased with our progress towards This fund holds assets to the value of R133,9 million. implementing the UN-PRI principles, and we voluntarily Africa Sustainability Fund completed the UN-PRI survey in May 2010 (only required of signatories in their fourth year of participation). Administered by Sustainable Capital, this fund provides long-term investors with equity exposure to African In September 2010, SIM was proud to host the companies (excluding South Africa) within a responsible Information Management Network’s (IMN) Inaugural investment framework at relatively low cost. Sustainable African Cup of Investment Management conference. IMN Capital identifies and integrates proprietary research on is a global investment forum that runs investment environmental, economic, social and governance issues management conferences, designed to educate investors into the investment research process to enhance the so they may not only survive but also thrive in investment risk-adjusted performance of investors’ portfolios. management. Sanlam provided seed capital in support of this fund. Socially Responsible Investment funds Sanlam Multi Managers SRI Fund Management approach and actions Over the past few years, Sanlam Multi Managers has Sanlam RSA is committed to developing a range of been actively seeking opportunities to incorporate SRI actively managed funds that bring about social and options into their funds. At the same time, much work economic change through active engagement. In recent has been done in developing an understanding of what years, we have noticed a growing interest in SRI funds SRI should mean to South African investors. The local with some consultants now pro-actively seeking these for context has less focus on typical ESG factors and more their clients. There is now a variety of SRI-type funds on products that bring real benefit to grassroots within a number of our business units. communities through high-impact, targeted return investments. The challenge is how best to create an SRI SIM SRI Equity Fund fund that includes high-impact targeted investments that The SIM SRI Equity fund is a socially responsible equity are important in the South African context but avoid tying fund, committed to driving shareholder activism within up funds for long periods. The answer will be a fund that South Africa. This fund has an active investment combines highand low-impact investments, resulting in approach, putting the process of successful investment a more liquid SRI fund, a product we will launch in 2011. 76 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible investments continued Sanlam Private Investments’ Shariah Fund Sanlam Private Investments has introduced a tailor-made investment solution in compliance with Islamic Shariah guidelines, a fund aimed primarily at those of Islamic faith. Built on Shariah principles and with a strong ethical foundation, this fund has no dealings with organisations involved in alcohol, tobacco, gambling, armaments, pornography or pork products. As Shariah law forbids payment or receipt of interest, financial institutions are also excluded. The Shariah solution is based only on equity investments and a limited core of acceptable financial instruments. Any interest and impermissible income will be ‘purified’ during the audit process and donated to charity. Sanlam Shariah Fund Compliant and non-compliant investment sectors Compliant investments Non-complaint investments > Technology > Banks > Healthcare > Insurance > Consumer products > Brokerage and securities firms > Basic industries > Alcohol > Mining and manufacturing > Gaming and casinos > Energy > Hotels > Transportation > Musical instruments > Telecommunications > Entertainment, movies, theatres and film distribution > Natural resources > Pork and meat packaging industries > Construction > Home loan companies > Education > Tobacco > Selected utilities > Pornography > Selected real estate, and Real Estate Investment > Amusement and recreation Trusts (REITS) > Commodities and agriculture > Arms and weaponry > Information technology > Advertising and media Before an investment can be included in the Shariah Fund it is thoroughly evaluated: > Companies are screened to confirm that their products comply with Shariah standards. > Ratios such as debt to equity are measured to ensure they are within acceptable limits. > Riba (interest) is avoided. > The correct financial instruments (largely equities) are confirmed. > The investment’s overall soundness is then critically reviewed. > Only after this process is the investment accepted as being Shariah compliant. > Auditing and income purification on a regular basis. 77 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible investments continued Sanlam Personal Finance’s Empowerment Fund A new range of retail funds that allow previously disadvantaged individuals to invest in empowerment transactions was launched in October 2010. The funds provide exposure to socially responsible investments and community builder property. Clients participate in the funds through a collective investment mechanism which will be constructed from the following asset classes: > private equity: including BBBEE financing; > equity: socially responsible listed shares; > property: community builder property investments; > bonds and government bonds: socially responsible bonds; and > cash. Performance SIM’s SRI funds are performing exceptionally well. According to an Alexander Forbes investment performance survey for the year ending December 2010, SIM was rated fourth out of the nine measured equity funds and second out of the five measured bond funds. Fund performance – SRI Equity Fund To October 2010 Fund Benchmark* Three months 9,26% 9,34% Six months 21,71% 21,84% 12 months 15,38% 15,39% Inception 22,72% 23,46% *Benchmark: (FTSE/JSE SRI Index – J200T) Fund performance – SRI Bond Fund To October 2010 Fund Benchmark* Three months 0,88% 0,61% Six months 10,65% 9,03% 12 months 18,41% 15,47% Inception 12,72% 11,15% *Benchmark: 67,50% BEASSA TRI OTHI | 22,50% BEASSA TRI GOVI | 10,00% STeFI Sanlam RSA’s other SRI-type funds have not been in existence long enough to present meaningful performance data or commentary. 78 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible investments continued Financing empowerment and investing in fund targets investments in small and medium infrastructure enterprises within the food and agriculture sector. Sanlam RSA and the Kellogg Foundation are the anchor investors Management approach and actions of the fund. The Agri-Vie Fund made two new According to the Financial Sector Charter (FSC), investments during 2010, bringing the total so far to four. ‘empowerment financing’ includes the provision of Sanlam Private Equity (SPE) made three follow-on finance for, or investment in, the following: investments in black-empowered companies during 2010 transformational infrastructure in underdeveloped areas, to strengthen and stabilise the balance sheets of these agricultural development for emerging black farmers, empowerment companies and to facilitate further growth. low-income housing and black SMEs, and BBBEE Owing to the low returns in infrastructure investments financing. Although the FSC is not yet finalised, Sanlam and their long-term nature, SPE did not identify any RSA is committed to the Charter’s principles. appropriate opportunities for such investments during For all BBBEE financing, our investment mandate 2010. requires that the target risk and return considerations and investment merits must supersede all other Responsible property management considerations when determining investment viability. This Management approach and actions ensures that when considering empowerment financing, the target rate of return is of paramount importance. Sanlam RSA has approached the issue of responsible Much of our empowerment financing occurs through property management by appointing specialist private equity buy-outs and growth financing investments consultants to look at ways of managing our property across all sectors. All investee companies must portfolios based on ‘greener’ principles. Although the demonstrate that some or all of their black staff will green building concept encompasses more than just benefit, directly or indirectly, from Sanlam RSA’s energy management, energy consumption constitutes investment. one of the largest considerations. We have therefore decided to focus initially on this aspect. Our approach to infrastructure financing is the same as for BBBEE financing in that if the investment thesis In 2008 we appointed PEC Group to assess our property allows for the hurdle rate of return to be met, the portfolio’s energy efficiency and to consider potential investment will be allowed. savings. Over the past two years, the PEC Group has focused mainly on council electricity bills and recoveries Investment activity from tenants. In addition, they have tested energy-saving The Agri-Vie fund achieved its final close in at the end lighting, remote-controlled air conditioning systems and of 2010, having raised USD$ 109 million for investment in roof and pipe insulation. When the tests are complete, a agri-businesses across sub-Saharan Africa. The principle cost-benefit analysis will be presented to our property investment thesis of this fund is food security, and the management company. 79 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible procurement As a large organisation, Sanlam is responsible for Management approach and actions wide-ranging environmental and social impacts. Sanlam’s current procurement approach is one of Procurement offers us the opportunity to improve our pro-active cost reduction and avoidance through the direct and indirect impacts on natural resources and strategic management of all operations. This is managed communities, through consciously selecting supplies and by the Head of Group Procurement and ultimate suppliers that minimise their own adverse environmental responsibility rests with the Chief Executive of Group and social effects. In the South African context, this Services. The Group Sourcing unit has four sub-units: includes a focus on BBBEE suppliers. claims, category management, operations and Since the Group Sourcing unit became fully functional, governance, and sourcing development. The Category procurement has become considerably more proactive Advisory Board (CAB) oversees the optimisation of five and strategic, making decisions and stimulating category management sourcing areas for the Group: behaviour that reduces costs to our business, the > Marketing environment and communities. Strategic sourcing means > Travel that we look critically at purchasing needs and formulate smarter ways of sourcing, including a greater focus on > Human resources BBBEE suppliers. In all supplier-selection decisions at > Professional services Sanlam RSA, we aim to: > Facilities management. > source as many goods and services as possible from Where required, the Group Sourcing unit makes strategic BBBEE-accredited suppliers and black-owned sourcing recommendations to the CAB Demand business; and Manager, who reports directly to the Group Services > select suppliers that incorporate ESG best practice executive. This provides the leadership required to drive into their operational processes. implementation and to ensure compliance with the relevant policies within all business units. Our procurement policy The recently launched Sourcing Development sub-unit An effective procurement policy can bring about is aimed at applying the benefit of Group Sourcing behaviour change that has a positive impact on the procurement deals across the Group, as these contracts environment and society, while also achieving substantial did not include all affiliate and subsidiary companies. monetary savings. While the Group Sourcing unit (which This unit is focused on bringing all affiliate and subsidiary is inclusive of Santam) procures for all businesses within companies’ portfolio administrators (including in the the Sanlam Group, the Group Procurement Policy is intermediated space) into the Group procurement relevant only to Sanlam RSA. We have aligned our policy process. Such inclusivity will allow greater cost savings with current best practice in terms of transparency of for the Group. business dealings, effective governance processes, In 2009, a range of policies was introduced with the employee conflict of interest, timely delivery and quality commissioning of the Group Sourcing unit. During 2010, workmanship and service. The policy aims to aid the focus was on entrenching and fine-tuning processes transformation by developing black entrepreneurial as well as bringing behaviour patterns in line with policy. potential and by enhancing the long-term economic For example, by creating awareness around business sustainability of all stakeholders. Sanlam International travel issues, we have influenced the ways individuals are businesses may adopt this policy adapted for their own choosing to travel. Where possible, video-conferencing business environments. 80 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible procurement continued removes the need for travel but should it be unavoidable, BBBEE procurement people fly economy class and stay at guesthouses rather than at costly hotels. Stimulation of economic activity among the historically disadvantaged sector is critical for Sanlam RSA’s growth Our supplier selection process now includes an online and South Africa’s advancement. While market forces application tool, aligned with claims business dictate transformation, Sanlam has a keen understanding requirements. While Sanlam’s procurement policy of how good management of diversity in the supply chain includes environmental criteria, in reality this is a more will benefit sustainable procurement in the long term. challenging area than first anticipated and has yet to be fully implemented. The professional services area has a Management approach and actions number of policies, currently being consolidated into a Our aim is to increase the complement of black owned single policy with a number of associated processes. small businesses in our supplier group, with specific Performance focus on black female owned companies. Accordingly, Sanlam RSA’s supplier screening includes BBBEE criteria Strategic sourcing has brought about considerable and crosschecks all suppliers’ BBBEE credentials. We efficiency improvements in terms of cost, bringing over strive to ensure that as many suppliers as possible have R180 million in benefits to the Group during 2010. Total a minimum of Level-4 BBBEE accreditation. unweighted BBBEE procurement expenditure for 2010 exceeded R9 billion. The CAB views BBBEE as critical to strategic sourcing. However, there are challenges to recording credentials in Plans and targets for 2011 and beyond certain areas. Since the initiation of Group Sourcing 18 months ago, recording credentials at business unit level In addition to embedding many of the new initiatives has gradually been absorbed by the higher-level function. implemented during 2010, in the coming year Sanlam This process is still underway and we are streamlining it RSA will entrench its environmental selection processes. through the implementation of more robust IT systems. We have a drive to identify greater efficiencies with regard On a continual basis, contracts come up for renewal and to building leases, specifically with respect to energy we review them carefully with a focus on BBBEE. Our management, with a focus on environmentally friendly BBBEE targets are also reviewed on a quarterly basis. buildings. We have also implemented further research into maximising web-based solutions to reduce the need Performance for business travel. In 2010, 80,46% of Sanlam RSA’s procurement on a Our strategic sourcing policy requires that we forge weighted basis came from BBBEE certified suppliers, stronger relationships with fewer, more strategic giving us a score of 17,29 on the dti Scorecard. In the suppliers. This necessitates a determined focus on travel category, for example, about 97% of suppliers are supplier relationship building and compliance. currently BBBEE-verified. 81 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible procurement continued dti Scorecard – preferential procurement (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) BBBEE procurement spend from all suppliers as % of total procurement spend BBBEE procurement spend from QSEs or EMEs as % of total Preferential procurement spend 20 17,29 15,46 17,56 procurement BBBEE procurement spend as % of total procurement spend from suppliers that are: – >50% black owned or – >30% black women owned The decreased score in 2009 was due to a lack of verifiable BBBEE certificates for our suppliers. In 2010, we focused on ensuring that suppliers submitted verified certificates and therefore anticipate a significant improvement in our 2010 BBBEE procurement score. The R9,3 billion unweighted procurement for 2010 translated into R6,7 billion BBBEE procurement on a weighted basis. Aproximately 30% of suppliers provided valid BBBEE certificates and of this 30%, close to 90% were level 1 to 4 BBBEE contributors with recognition levels of 100% and above. Plans and targets for 2011 and beyond To further streamline the process of recording supplier BBBEE credentials, Sanlam RSA plans to implement a web-based system that allows suppliers to upload their own BBBEE certificates. Our target for 2011 is to maintain BBBEE procurement levels in excess of 70% and procurement from Qualifying Small Enterprises (QSEs) above 15%. Achieving the minimum targets of 3% and 2% procurement from 50% black owned and 30% black women owned entities remains challenging and Sanlam RSA will focus on strategies to broaden the procurement base from these entities. Enterprise development Enterprise development is closely aligned with preferential and BBBEE-procurement, since Sanlam RSA is best able to develop small black-owned enterprises in South Africa through our purchasing power and structures. Sanlam RSA supports the growth and upliftment of black entrepreneurs in order to ensure a representative and sustainable supplier base. Enterprise development is also inherent in the Sanlam business through the provision of financial advice and assistance. 82 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Responsible procurement continued Management approach and actions Sanlam RSA assesses its entire supply chain in order to identify transformational challenges and to determine the viability of enterprise development initiatives as a solution. Whenever development of a new business area commences, our strategy includes facilitating the entry of black business into that area. This includes investing in small black businesses by assisting their cash flow through means such as soft loans and early payment terms. Over the past few years, Sanlam RSA has also privatised business service areas such as the chauffeur and shuttle service, On-Time, and the Print Shop. To promote enterprise development more broadly, Sanlam RSA runs a business-oriented educational television programme for entrepreneurs, as well as entrepreneurial competitions. Through the Cobalt initiative, Sanlam RSA provides free health checks and advice for small businesses. During 2010, we piloted a small project for suppliers, providing advice and assessing their financial needs, and this will be continued in 2011. Small businesses with cash-flow problems are also offered bridging loans. Sanlam RSA’s largest contribution to enterprise development occurs through our UB transaction, since we financed the deal through preferential loans. This deal returned full points for Sanlam RSA on the enterprise development component of the dti Scorecard. Shareholders in the broad-based UB empowerment groupings have access to capital, business advice and the opportunity to grow their businesses rapidly, aided by a provincial advisory board that facilitates cross-selling opportunities between shareholding businesses. Performance dti Scorecard (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Ave annual value of enterprise Enterprise 15 development spend as % of net 15,00 15,00 15,00 development profit after tax Plans and targets for 2011 and beyond We aim to continue supporting the growth and upliftment of black entrepreneurs through our procurement practices, with particular focus on black female owned business development. 83 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community the development of a better society. Our CSI CSI and SED objectives are to: For an economy to be healthy, it requires healthy and > invest meaningfully in the economy of the country; educated people with skills conducive to long-term sustainable growth. A growing economy also needs to > contribute to the alleviation of poverty and ensure a future supply of natural resources is available development of poor communities; and to support business processes and to maintain social > be recognised as a responsible and caring corporate stability. citizen. Sanlam RSA’s CSI (corporate social investment) and SED In line with our strategy, from 2011 our CSI programme (socio-economic development) initiatives focus not only will focus strictly on education, covering five core on education but also include environmental and HIV components: components. By investing in these areas, Sanlam RSA > Maths, science, accounting and English literacy (high not only encourages future customer loyalty and support, school learners); but we make a meaningful contribution to the society we serve. > Financial literacy (high school learners, university students, community members and public sector Management approach and actions employees); In 2010, the CSI unit continued analysing and re> Leadership development (teachers and parents); assessing its CSI programmes in order to improve > Health (HIV education at high schools); strategy in alignment with our business priorities. Our > Environment. current model, implemented in 2009, supports four focus areas and approximately 23 projects. We agreed to focus When deciding on the nature of our investments, our efforts on fewer, more strategic projects in order to be guidelines include the following: more effective, sustainable and better aligned with our > Our CSI programmes must be based on sustainable CSI investment guidelines. partnerships with communities. A large portion of the year was spent undergoing a > Grants must be for the benefit of disadvantaged project selection process. To assess each project, we individuals and communities, as defined in the dti held workshops with all relevant business units during Codes of Good Practice. which the goals and outcomes of the projects were > Grants should have a strategic value and show a considered in detail. We also consulted with external measurable social return on investment. stakeholders. Engagements were followed by a compliance workshop at which we developed a detailed > Grants should be relatively long term, covering costs assessment matrix to measure each project’s scores for a minimum of three years. against our strategic requirements. > Before any decisions are made, the CSI process must This information was also used to finalise our 2011 – first take into account the needs and concerns of the 2015 CSI strategy, the key outcomes of which are to beneficiaries. ensure a sustainable future business by supporting > The process must have specific identifiable and measurable impacts. 84 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued > There should be a monitoring and evaluation process to determine when objectives have been met. > The grant should include necessary capacity building from the implementing agent and/or beneficiaries. Specific projects have been selected, with which Sanlam RSA will be working closely during 2011 to ensure goals are met. Towards the end of 2010, we undertook the process of exiting the projects that were not selected. In 2011, the projects to be supported are: > The Steve Biko Foundation > The UWC Chair in Investments > The Thuthuka Bursary Programme > The Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University > The Regency Foundation (HIV&Me Programme) > The NBI Eastern Cape Initiative > The NBI Learnership Programme > The Sanlam/UB Schools Project > The HOPE Financial Literacy Project > The WWF Living Waters > Sanlam Happy Home (DICAG) > Abalindi Home > The Billion Child Appeal (Win-win project). Projects and performance During 2010, our CSI spend was R19,3 million, which represented 0,52% of Group net profit after tax. This included R1 million that was allocated to the various business clusters (R200 000 each) for staff volunteer projects and contributions to Takalani Sesame, and excludes Santam’s CSI spend. dti Scorecard – socio-economic development (for the year to 31 December 2010, versus 2009 and 2008) 2010 2009 2008 Total Total Total scores scores scores (data (data dti (unverified verified by verified by Element weighting Indicators data) AQRate) AQRate) Average annual value of socioSocio-economic 5 economic spend as % of net profit 2,81 2,84 3,04 development after tax 85 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued In 2010, we invested in the following projects: Project Project Project Number of 2010 name partner description beneficiaries project budget The Mentoring University of The Sanlam UWC Development 20 students in R605 000 programme Western Cape programme provides professional 2010 development opportunities for high achieving BCom graduates registered for the Management in Finance and Investments Honours degrees. The Chair in University of The Chair is responsible for the discipline n/a R408 100 Entrepreneurship Western Cape of investment risk management and presents findings to the Investment Cluster on a bi-annual basis. The Chair in University of The Centre for Enterprise Development n/a R500 000 Enterprise Fort Hare (CED) in the Eastern Cape provides Development relevant, customised and best practice solutions to small and medium enterprises. The BCom Nelson To give effect to FAIS requirements, this 28 R300 000 Financial Planning Mandela programme was designed to meet the programme Metropolitan needs of learners in the sector who require University both management and specialist knowledge and skills. The Thuthuka Universities This fund is aimed at increasing the entry Eight students R240 000 Bursary Fund – countrywide numbers and improving the academic per annum scores of black students at tertiary level by partnering with students to address their financial and other needs through a comprehensive programme. The programme brings together universities and the accountancy profession in an effective and revolutionary manner. The Nelson Nelson Bursary programme for students in their Eight students R400 000 Mandela Mandela final year of the BCom Financial Planning Metropolitan Metropolitan degree as mentioned above. University University – Black Advisers Programme The Ramakrishna/ Ramakrishna/ A home for the aged and terminally ill 10 care-givers R228 000 Abalindi Home for Abalindi Home patients in KwaZulu-Natal. and 45 the aged and patients HIV/Aids victims 86 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued Project Project Project Number of 2010 name partner description beneficiaries project budget The TsoTsa-Botshogo To improve family care and support for ± 98 within R253 000 Botshogo women and children affected by and/or the Soweto Programme for infected with HIV/Aids. area HIV/Aids infected and affected families HIV/Aids support Liv Village A village accommodating abandoned and 15 R100 000 abused children giving them opportunities to rebuild their lives through education. HIV/Aids support Cosatu HIV/Aids counselling programme run by R100 000 Cosatu for members within the Western Cape region. Below are some of our key flagship programmes that have touched our employees: The Sanlam/Ubuntu-Botho Schools Project This flagship partnership with the Motsepe Foundation has awarded R2 005 000 to 29 historically significant and disadvantaged schools to date. As part of the partnership, a donation of R75 000 is given to each school to enable them to fulfil their most pressing educational needs. The WWF/Sanlam Living Waters Partnership Our landmark commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship is expressed through our partnership with the World Wide Fund (WWF) on the WWF/Sanlam Living Waters Programme. This partnership seeks to secure the wise management of our aquatic ecosystems and resources, thereby protecting and enhancing the wellbeing of all South Africans. Sanlam contributes R3 183 000 per annum to address water scarcity in the country. The Steve Biko Foundation In July 2009, the Steve Biko Foundation, supported by Sanlam, commenced assistance to The Business Place eQonce. This organisation facilitates enterprise development initiatives in the Eastern Cape by assisting previously disadvantaged individuals wanting to either establish businesses or who already operate SMMEs. They assist with business development counselling and a wide variety of training modules. From July 2009 through to February 2010 the Business Place eQonce assisted 3 112 emerging entrepreneurs in the local community. Sanlam RSA contributed R400 000 to this project, which ends in 2011. Disabled Children’s Action Group (DICAG) DICAG is a national cross-disability organisation formed in 1993 by parents of disabled children. It addresses the needs of such children in South Africa, specifically those living with challenging circumstances. In 1999, a group of DICAG parents from rural and informal settlements around Mthatha in the Eastern Cape established the Happy Home centre, with the help of Dr Nelson Mandela and Sanlam. Sanlam RSA sponsored the purchase of the centre and has supported the initiative for over 11 years. 87 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued Happy Home cares for disabled youths and currently has we contributed R769 000 to community projects 67 residents including abandoned children, disabled Aids identified and implemented by employees in groups, orphans and children attending a local school for which also aids in not only boosting employee morale but intellectually disabled students. The school has no hostel also improving the relationships with communities in accommodation forcing many children to live with which our employees operate. relatives in nearby villages. There were occasional reports of abuse, including rape, and concerned parents saw the Ad hoc centre as the solution. The key objectives of Happy Sanlam RSA reserves a smaller portion of its budget for Home are: various small initiatives mainly from communities with > to provide an early childhood development programme urgent once-off needs. This year we funded the following for disabled children; projects on an ad hoc basis: > to provide a day-care centre to reduce the risk of rape > The Sanlam National Music Competition – R200 000 and physical abuse of disabled children; > The Farm-workers competition – R100 000 > to provide health education and skills development > Touch Africa – R285 000 through workshops; and > Wola Nani – R40 000 > to promote equal opportunities for the disabled > Emthonjeni – R60 000 children irrespective of gender, race and /or social status. > Sive Nathi – R40 000 The centre serves 68 villages and over 2 000 people. > Tygerberg Children’s Home – R50 000. The parents work as volunteers at the home and are also Plans for 2011 and beyond involved in all decision making. The community makes donations of clothing, cooking utensils and garden tools. We will continue to utilise our resources to overcome our A variety of rehabilitation and counselling programmes country’s social and environmental challenges. Our are provided and educational workshops are held for fundamental strategy is to ensure that our investments parents too, covering topics such as child abuse, causes lead to the creation of wealth for the poor communities in of disability, genetics, and how to care for disabled which we operate. To support this strategy and children. A skills development component is also internalise the management of CSI we aim to establish provided. Sanlam provides financial support to the the Sanlam Foundation in 2011. centre, contributing R200 000 in 2010. Sponsorships that focus on society and Employee involvement communities As individual members of the South African community, Through sponsorship activities, Sanlam aims to either Sanlam RSA’s employees are committed and passionate create a presence or provide an experience for the about community development. By making available a communities it assists. While such investments are budget for community development initiatives, Sanlam commercially driven, developmental elements still deliver RSA encourages employees to participate in social considerable social value and benefit to the recipients. development in their own individual capacities. In 2010, We view these sponsorships with a win-win attitude, adding real business value while also supporting socially significant causes. 88 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued For Sanlam RSA, sponsorships are a way for intermediaries to engage with various target markets. The experiences provide ‘moments of opportunity’ for the audience to take positive action towards managing their risks and finances. We select only sponsorship opportunities that speak to our target market in a positive way, aiming to have Sanlam RSA perceived as a valued and trusted partner. There are certain criteria against which potential opportunities are measured. Should the proposed opportunity promise a better return than those to which we are currently committed, the strategy is re-worked to accommodate this. Our sponsorship approach is thus kept dynamic, enhancing the Sanlam brand’s competitiveness within a tightly defined budget. Performance Our four core sponsorships have been productive in establishing Sanlam brand awareness within our target markets in South Africa and adding value to the communities in which we operate. Takalani Sesame Over the past six years, Takalani Sesame has reached 25 million children between the ages of two and nine. The show airs on SABC1 and SABC 2 channels 22 times each week as well as on six SABC vernacular radio stations, reaching 36 million viewers and listeners. Sanlam RSA and Takalani also undertook the following activations: > 54 mall activations, reaching close to 105 000 parents and children; > Six school activations, reaching close to 10 000 children and their parents; > An eight-town roadshow, reaching an audience of 22 000. In addition, in partnership with the Sowetan and Free 4 All schools newspapers, we ran either weekly or monthly Takalani life skills stories, reaching almost 1,6 million children. Takalani and Love Life also performed at the V & A Waterfront to an audience of approximately 5 000 children to showcase their work on HIV/Aids. The 2010 budget for Takalani Sesame was R9,6 million, with R3,3 million spent on communication activities, and R6,3 million on actual sponsorships. 89 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued The Sanlam Cancer Challenge The Sanlam Cancer Challenge is the biggest amateur golf tournament in South Africa with over 37 000 participants. Over the past 18 years it has helped raise R26,3 million for cancer prevention programmes and patient care. In 2010, Sanlam RSA donated over R4 million to the event, and golfers’ donations raised R2,5 million for CANSA. The Sanlam Kay Motsepe Schools Cup In 2010, we introduced a new sponsorship initiative, the Sanlam Kay Motsepe Schools Cup, a national annual soccer tournament that aims to revive the culture of school football amongst the youth. The project aims to include over 4 000 high schools from all nine provinces throughout South Africa competing at regional, provincial and national levels. This project is co-funded by Sanlam RSA, the Sanlam Ubuntu-Botho Community Development Trust and the Kay Motsepe Foundation. It helps talented young soccer players achieve their sporting dreams and aims to unite youth through a shared passion for the game while promoting sporting excellence. From a business perspective, this allows Sanlam RSA to create brand awareness amongst entry level and lower markets and non-traditional audiences. Money awarded to the winning schools is applied to enhance internal infrastructure through legacy projects at the schools, which also benefit the surrounding communities. Some of these projects include a new soccer field, computer equipment, school transport, etc. This year, Sanlam RSA contributed R2 million to the project, which involved 2 425 schools and reached 41 225 youths. This event will receive R30 million over five years, making it both the biggest high school soccer sponsorship and the highest prize money ever seen in South African schools soccer. 90 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Prosperous society and community continued Sanlam cultural sponsorships > Sanlam Novel Competition aims to develop, publish, Through art and cultural event sponsorships, we aim to market and distribute stimulating books of exceptional reposition the Sanlam brand within Sanlam RSA’s quality. It is also intended to encourage wider reading traditional target market and also transform it in the through the facilitation of outstanding literary non-traditional target markets. In 2010, we contributed standards. R4 780 000 in sponsorship money (which includes > Sanlam Prize for Youth Literature aims to promote R2 938 983 in rights and R1 841 000 in leveraging) to youth literature for the 12 to 18 age group. The the following: competition has six categories: Afrikaans, English, > Sanlam Music Competition 2010: Started 22 years Nguni languages, Sotho languages, Tshivenda and ago, the competition was devised and instituted by the Xitsonga. A total of 67 books have been awarded this Tygerberg Branch of the South African Society of literature prize. Music Teachers (SASMT) and is a national platform > Woordfees is a project in partnership with the from which to develop talent from an early age. The University of Stellenbosch that invites all cultures to project now has a specific focus on facilitating the showcase their work in Afrikaans. This includes work participation of music students from disadvantaged in drama, music, community outreach (WOW project) communities and in 2010, 80% of the contributed and poetry, amongst others. In 2010, this project amount was used for such children. drew a representative audience of over 35 000 from > Radio Sonder Grense Competition is an annual across South Africa. writing competition for radio drama that encourages > The Food Wine Design Fair held its inaugural event in Afrikaans radio dramas with true local flavour. 2010. The fair showcases South African goods and is Reaching 150 000 listeners each week, over the past endorsed and supported by the Department of Trade 12 years the competition has discovered many new and Industry. Local producers from around the country writers and local talent. presented their work to an audience of 10 000 in > Litnet is a unique South African literary online journal central Gauteng, creating awareness of their products for developing prose and poetry writers who are yet to and enabling the producers to grow their businesses, debut. It offers a writing course and promotes African create more jobs and ultimately contribute to the literature and multilingualism. Litnet has an average of South African economy. 59 950 unique visitors a month and the Facebook > Other cultural event sponsorships: We also group has 3 113 friends. sponsored the Klein Karoo Nasionale Kunstefees and the Afrikaanse Taal en Kultuur Vereniging, as well as various book sponsorships. 91 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment Our planet, once considered one of unlimited resources, Report of the Group Environment is quickly becoming one of scarcity with the committee consequences of industrial and post-industrial overShifting stakeholder attitudes towards environmental consumption now felt in everyday life. In addition to protection are driving companies to explore resource competing for natural resources, organisations are being efficiency so they can create more ecologically called to action on environmental issues, through responsible operations while also improving their bottom legislation, regulation and by stakeholder groups. line and competitive advantage. In 2010, Sanlam RSA Companies proactively managing their environmental performed a market analysis that identified environmental risks will be in a stronger position to survive a issues as one of the key drivers affecting our business transitioning economy. going forward. It is therefore imperative, from a business Environmental issues such as climate change represent perspective, for us to have a strategic approach in specific risk for the insurance sector. In many industries, addressing environmental issues. plans and predictions are formed on past lessons, a fact particularly relevant to the insurance industry given that Management approach and actions actuarial calculations rely on historical data. However, Sanlam RSA has a formally constituted Group when addressing climate change we can no longer rely Environment committee to oversee the management of on past patterns but instead we depend on models of environmental issues. The committee, which meets every the future. We therefore need a new framework and new six weeks, underwent changes during 2010 and now tools, a development that will have significant implications comprises Exco-mandated representatives from all for Sanlam. business units and functional areas. This broad We therefore have a vested interest in protecting our representation ensures that decisions taken by the planet by minimising our negative environmental impacts committee are based on a consultative process, for as thoroughly as possible. We can achieve this by which the business unit areas are responsible within their shrinking our carbon footprint, conserving our resources, respective reach. This has provided more stringent managing our waste and sourcing our supplies leadership on environmental issues and embeds such responsibly. To ensure our progress, Sanlam RSA has practices into the business more effectively. committed to the Carbon Disclosure Project – assessing The official objectives of the Group Environment and reporting on our carbon footprint changes – and we committee are to: measure our energy, water and materials consumption, taking decisive action as needed. > ensure that the business, as a global player with global economic and environmental influence, aligns with We also recognise secondary environmental impacts ‘best practice’ in environmental sustainability; associated with: > to represent business and functional areas across > our portfolio of investment properties; Sanlam RSA and to actively engage in strategic > the businesses we invest in and finance; and environmental issues on behalf of those business > suppliers’ business operations. areas, in line with the decisions and directives of the Group Environment committee; and 92 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued > to effectively position Sanlam RSA as a leader in 2011, is applicable to the different business areas and environmental sustainability in the South African enjoys firm commitment to implement the policy. financial services industry. A new procurement policy is also being drafted and will Practically, the Group Environment committee’s terms of include reference to the requirement for selecting reference require it to: suppliers with a good environmental track record. This > hold regular meetings; aspect of the procurement policy will be enhanced by the new Group Environmental Policy once it has been > play an active role in the above-mentioned meetings, finalised. against outlined expectations; The committee is also focused on developing new > participate in the ongoing process of identifying and resource-reduction targets, which will be finalised during strategically driving environmental values and targets the first half of 2011. within Sanlam RSA; > focus across business units and subsidiaries in order Associations and partnerships to align environmental strategy and practice wherever possible; Global Compact > plan and implement a co-operative relationship In terms of the UNGC membership, the Group’s first between the Sustainability Management unit and effort at reporting into the Global Compact led to a better various business areas; understanding, internally, of which UNGC principles are most relevant to our organisation. We are currently > report on progress on environmental issues and focused on the areas of labour, environment, human targets within business areas, as relevant; rights and anti-corruption. > address Sanlam RSA’s environmental footprints and explore financially sound and/or beneficial initiatives for WWF partnership the reduction thereof; Sanlam RSA’s partnership with the WWF will end in > foster an appetite for environmental stewardship as a 2011. This valuable relationship has driven the business value system within Sanlam RSA; towards better environmental stewardship in many aspects. The WWF is currently reviewing its requirements > explore new product opportunities with environmental in terms of the Living Waters project and other aspects of benefits; and the relationship, and has proposed a new partnership > understand and recommend investment decisions with Sanlam RSA based on the interest we expressed in based on environmental criteria. continuing a WWF partnership. This will be considered at Exco level as well as by the Group Environment Policies and targets committee. A new agreement is likely to be finalised In addition to finalising the terms of reference of its work, during 2011, the scope of which is likely to include: the Group Environment committee also co-ordinated a > strategic advice from WWF; consultative process to refine the existing Group > joint research into water issues affecting the business Environmental Policy. This will ensure that the new policy, and society; to be signed off by business unit heads by February > implementation of water-efficient practices; 93 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued > development of products that address risks associated Climate change with water; and Santam has taken the lead role, both in the Group and > sustainable solutions for insurance and investments the South African short-term insurance sector, in climate affected by water issues. change matters. This has also created greater awareness While the proposed Sanlam Blue Space project has not across the broader Group. It is imperative that Sanlam been formally initiated, elements of this are now being understands the potential impact of climate change on implemented as part of WWF’s ongoing work in water the business and that a strategy is developed to manage management, with our support. In addition, our the consequences thereof. As a Group, we intend to representation on the WWF Steering committee has continue our leadership role in this area within the grown, enhancing the capabilities and expertise applied industry. to developing better ways of leveraging the relationship. While there has been no product development yet (which Focusing on water was a key element of Sanlam Blue Space), the expanded Sanlam appreciates that its business activities have Steering committee is engaging with how product broad social and environmental consequences that affect development can address the most pressing of water a wide range of stakeholders, not just policyholders and issues. shareholders. Specifically, through Sanlam RSA’s In 2010, Sanlam RSA invested R3,1 million in the WWF. partnership with the WWF on the Living Waters project, By the end of 2011, the business will have invested a we now understand the looming global sustainability total of R15 196 000 in the partnership since 2007. issues associated with a compromised freshwater supply and the links to climate change. This is particularly Environmental impacts pertinent in a water-scarce country such as South Africa, In relation to environmental impacts, Sanlam RSA’s first now one of the 30 driest countries in the world, as well step has been to review eco-efficiencies and resource as many parts of Africa. We therefore aim to become a consumption in our immediate environment. The current leader in this area by focusing on heightening awareness initiatives managed by the Facilities Management team and developing solutions to alleviate the water crisis. are driving the business in this direction and are linked to employee education so that buy-in and therefore ongoing Our carbon footprint efficiencies can be achieved. We promote environmental South Africa has an extremely energy-intensive economy, awareness among clients through the quarterly Reality fuelled by carbon-based electricity. It is also a developing magazine and emails. This strategy includes linking the country, home to some of the poorest communities, magazine’s quarterly theme to a Sanlam RSA initiative, people who are likely to feel the impact of climate change such as water awareness and renewable energy, as well most severely. From a business perspective, the Ernst & as a strong focus on the WWF Living Waters programme. Young 2009 Business Risk report rated climate change The magazine currently reaches over 140 000 clients as the fourth highest business risk. As such, South quarterly. African businesses have both a responsibility and a business imperative to measure and reduce carbon emissions. 94 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued Management approach and actions This year Sanlam again participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as part of the 74% of top South African companies that are now signatories to the project. South Africa now jointly holds the fourth-highest CDP response rate globally. Our commitment to the CDP is taken seriously and, since 2007, we have been increasing the scope of our carbon footprint measurement as well as taking steps towards reduced emissions. Our 2010 Carbon Footprint Report will include measurements in six of our largest South African offices: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investment Management, Glacier, Hyde Park, Sanlyn and the Sanlam Sky building. Our subsidiary Santam measures and reports on its own carbon footprint independently. In terms of number of employees, the increase is as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of employees included in carbon footprint measurement 4 942 4 424 4 116 2 996 % of total Sanlam RSA full-time equivalent employees (FTEs) 68% 75% 68,5% 57% Our carbon footprint measurements are undertaken in full accordance with the most widely used global standard for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) accounting and reporting, the GHG Protocol. This is compatible with other GHG standards such as ISO14064. Performance Sanlam RSA’s Carbon Footprint Report will be published separately on our website once it has been completed. For the purposes of this Sustainability Report, the table below shows the results of our carbon footprint measurement for the past four years. The increase in our reporting scope each year since 2007 must be considered when comparing year-on-year emissions. 95 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued Sanlam RSA’s carbon footprint January – December 2010 versus 2009, 2008, 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 Head Office, Hyde Park, Head Office, Head Office, Sanlynn, Hyde Park, Hyde Park, Organisational SIM, Glacier, Sanlynn, Sanlynn, boundary Sanlam Sky SIM, Glacier SIM Head Office Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Scope Activity CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e 1 – Direct emissions Diesel usage in equipment owned or from: controlled by Sanlam RSA 30 34 40 32 Air-conditioning and refrigeration gas refills 0 0 0 194 Not Vehicle fleet available(10) 2 0 0 Total scope 1 30 36 40 225 2 – Indirect emissions from: Purchased electricity 44 535(11) 38 651 27 700(12) 25 919 Total scope 2 44 535 38 651 27 700 25 919 3 – Indirect emissions from: Business travel in rental cars 206,94 250,64 275 246 Business travel in commercial airlines 3 442 3 085 3 739 2 896 Hotel accommodation 173 168 155 Not reported Business travel in privately-owned Not vehicles (employee travel claims) reported 809,00 247 129 Third-party vehicle fleet 57,34 16,54 18 Not reported Employee commuting(13) 6 900 6 806 5 446 3 446 Office paper consumption 698 323 368 330 Courier information 188,19 Not reported Not reported Not reported Total scope 3 11 677 11 458,00 10 248 7 048 Other Non-Kyoto Gas 1 926 1 184 891 61 Total 1 926 1 184 891 61 Grand total 58 166,83 51 292,72 38 879 33 252 FTEs covered 4 942 4 424 4 116 2 996 Office space covered (m2) 120 872 127 348 124 124 101 250 Emissions/FTE 11,77 11,59 11,14 11,1 Emissions per m 2 0,48 0,40 0,37 0,33 Note: The 2007 – 2009 figures have been restated to be expressed as a round number, consistent with how Sanlam’s 2010 carbon footprint data was reported. Data for fleet vehicles was not available. Although this value is immaterial to the overall carbon footprint (1,84 tonnes CO2e in the 2009 Carbon Footprint (10)  Report) inclusion thereof would have made the report more complete. Basis for measurement: Scope 2 emissions based on the GHG Protocol for six buildings: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investment Management, Glacier, (11)  Hyde Park, Sanlynn and Sanlam Sky. In the 2009 report, Sanlam’s purchased electricity consumption at the head office was incorrectly reported as 100% of the total usage (34 675) whereas (12)  actual use is only 75% of the total (27 700). The other 25% is used by tenants. Employee commuting data is extrapolated from a sample of employees who undertake a survey. (13)  96 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued Sanlam RSA’s CO2 emissions for 2010 calculate to in 2010. Carbon offset initiatives are generally 11,77 metric tonnes per full-time equivalent employee or recommended in the final stages of emissions 0,48 metric tonnes per square metre of office space management programmes, as minimisation is the across the six measured buildings. preferred mitigation strategy. As Sanlam RSA is still We expanded the boundary of measurement for our focused on establishing an accurate and practically 2010 Carbon Footprint Report to include the Sanlam Sky comprehensive carbon footprint assessment and the building in Johannesburg. This meant an increase in carbon-emission reduction strategy is still an evolving fulltime employees covered. In addition, the coverage of work in progress, carbon-offsetting initiatives are not office space per square meter in Sanlam Head Office feasible at this time. We will continue to focus on increased. The operational boundary of the 2010 report reduction initiatives, education and awareness and the also increased due to the inclusion, for the first time, of monitoring of progress. carbon dioxide emissions from third party courier services provided to Sanlam. Resource consumption and efficiency Our highest carbon emissions come from electricity As a result of amendments to South Africa’s draft consumption (Scope 2 emissions). There are currently a Taxation Laws Amendment Bill 2009, anticipated energy number of energy saving initiatives under the taxes are likely to substantially increase the operational management of the Facilities team, detailed in the section costs of Sanlam RSA through associated taxes and on ‘Resource consumption and efficiency’. Employee penalties. However, proven energy savings will unlock commuting is the second-highest carbon emitting large operational cost savings. In addition, the tax activity. There are no current initiatives to counteract this allowances for energy-efficient equipment and renewable but it is an issue to be addressed in the coming year. energy technologies will add to an organisation’s bottom line. As a signatory to the CDP, Sanlam RSA is committed to submitting an annual questionnaire to the CDP, which is It is necessary for Sanlam RSA to minimise the used for industry monitoring and provides investors with environmental impacts of our resource consumption and information on greenhouse gas emissions and climate also to engage with stakeholders on issues of change strategies of organisations. In 2010 Sanlam RSA environmental importance, in order to shrink our carbon was ranked 5th overall on the CDP Leadership Index, and footprint. In addition, as a signatory to the Energy featured in the top quartile of the carbon performance Efficiency Accord, we are committed to reducing our index. fossil fuel-based energy consumption. While considered a low-impact organisation, our biggest Carbon offsetting environmental impacts result from: We do not currently offset any carbon emissions through > the buildings we occupy, the associated resources the purchasing of carbon credits. This possibility was consumed and the waste generated through daily considered at Board level and the Sustainability activities within these; and Management unit undertook a high-level feasibility study 97 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued > the carbon emissions and other environmental impacts garages and each floor. The ultimate aim is to develop an associated with our business activities beyond the energy management strategy and ensure that we boundaries of our buildings (such as business travel effectively manage systems and areas yielding the largest and employee commuting). energy savings. The HVAC system, comprising a number of chillers that Management approach and actions cool water, is our biggest consumer of electricity. It is Sanlam RSA’s resource consumption and efficiency is monitored daily and an alarm sounds when the system managed primarily by Facilities Management (who report reaches a certain level of intensity, at which point the to the Finance unit). A co-operative relationship exists chillers can be manually turned off where they are not between this team and the Sustainability unit. needed. We have also replaced the old one-speed Environmental targets for 2010 were set in 2007, HVAC motors with multi-speed motors that enable a including those for electricity and water consumption, gradual increase in energy consumption. Old air handling CO2 emissions, waste and recycled waste. These targets units are being overhauled to improve efficiency. By are being reviewed and new targets set. simply switching to a new cleaning product, air flow efficiency has been improved by as much as 25% Energy management at the head office leading to less energy being required to generate the required air flow. We currently manage our peak electricity demand in order to reduce tariffs. While the maximum demand Our elevator upgrade project is at implementation stage capacity of the building is and, by replacing our lifts’ mechanical parts, energy efficiency will increase. For example, the old motors idle 14 000kVA, we target a maximum demand of 6 500kVA when the lift is not in use whereas the new motors at any given time, that is, less than 50% of peak hibernate. On completion of the upgrade, the demand. This is achieved through careful management comparative energy savings figures will be documented. actions such as staggering the start-up of all equipment and focusing on the specific infrastructural needs at We are currently investigating the benefits of movement different times of the day. sensors attached to light fixtures at the head office and other selected buildings. Such sensors will lower energy In 2010, progress was made towards improved consumption and extend the lights’ lifespan. We are also measurement of our energy use by installing a real-time focusing on minimising energy consumption through energy management system. These meters measure the reducing heat penetration by the sun. A pilot study is general energy consumption occurring in the building but underway to measure the energy savings achievable by are also configured to reliably measure consumption of applying sun-shield glazing to buildings. specific infrastructural components such as HVAC (heating, ventilation, air-conditioning), elevators, lighting, Other housekeeping initiatives include turning lights and IT and office equipment, as well as other elements such other equipment off when idle. The related energy saving as water heating. The system is also able to measure is estimated at 591 000 kilowatt hours (kWhs) per electricity consumption per area, specifically the parking annum. As a Group, Sanlam also encourages energy efficient housekeeping behaviour at all our offices. 98 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued considered for implementation. The Facilities unit Water conservation at the head office endeavours to purchase paper only from merchants or At present, our approach to water conservation is one of mills that have an environmental policy and/or a forestry logic, good housekeeping and applying smart policy. This meets the ESG requirements of our Group management. The maintenance team responds swiftly to Procurement Policy. leaks and overflows and garden irrigation systems are From an operational perspective, there is also a drive to deactivated during winter. In summer, watering coincides minimise the volume of paper used in client with the hours in which evaporation rates are lowest. We communications. Such initiatives include an uptake in have installed manual flush systems on all toilets to electronic communication i.e. e-mail and telephonic reduce usage and dual flush systems are to be interaction. The challenge however is the lack of a introduced in the near future. client e-mail database but this is being addressed with an e-mail recruiting drive. Waste at the head office On a monthly basis, the head office recycles about 61% Performance of all waste (including food waste), which equates to During 2010, we spent the following amounts on various 10 – 15 tonnes per month. We intend to achieve a waste resource efficiency initiatives: recycling rate of 75% and we are investigating what > Lift project: R2 935 825 (completed) materials are not being recycled. For example, recycled paper hand towels could assist us with our environmental > Energy metering project: R41 040 (in progress) mandate. Recycling is managed by an external > HVAC speed drive project: R317 099 (in progress). consultant who provides our facilities team with monthly The resultant savings from these projects will be reports. measured once the systems are fully functional and We also run an ongoing paper-saving campaign and staff reported on in 2011. are asked to contribute paper-saving ideas that are 99 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued Resource consumption at the Sanlam RSA head office: 2006 – 2010 Sanlam head office 2010 2009 2008 2007 Full-time equivalent employees (FTEs) 2 982 2 913 2 967 2 996 Total Eskom energy consumption (kWh) – 100% of building 36 307 724 37 598 500 27 700 000 35 998 000 Total Eskom/FTE 12 176 12 907 9 336 12 015 Total Eskom energy consumption (kWh) – Sanlam specific (75% of building for 2007 and 2008; 74% for 2009; 92% for 2010) 33 403 106 27 822 890 20 775 000 26 998 500 Sanlam specific Eskom/FTE 11 202 9 551 7 002 9 012 CO2 emissions (tonnes) – Sanlam specific (75% of building for 2007 and 2008; 74% for 2009; 92% for 2010) 34 405t 28 658t 20 775t 25 919t CO2 emissions/FTE 11,54 9,84 7 8,65 Total water consumption (kl) 138 390 102 387 106 183 123 440 Water/FTE 46,41 35,15 35,79 41,20 Recycled water use (% of total use) None None None None Untreated water use (% of total use) None None None None Paper purchased (tonnes) 122 136 127 160 Paper purchased/FTE 0,04 0,05 0,04 0,05 Waste(m3) 180 204 172 192 Waste/FTE 0,06 0,07 0,06 0,06 Waste recycled (tonnes) 110 144 100 93 Recycled waste/FTE 0,04 0,05 0,03 0,03 Notes: (1) 2010 water is based on figures for January – October and extrapolated to 12 months using an average monthly figure. (2) Paper figures exclude printing of policy documents. 100 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Healthy bio-physical environment continued determining realistic targets, in terms of scope, scale, Environmental targets measurement methods and tracking. We intended the Setting targets for Sanlam RSA’s environmental goals new targets to be in place by the end of 2010, but given ensures progress is being made in these areas. For the the challenges in defining a robust set of targets, targets to be relevant and realistic, they should be well timelines have been extended. A longer, more inclusive informed by internal research and engagement, engagement process will also result in a greater level of processes that help to involve and convince key players staff awareness and smoother integration with of the importance of these goals. management plans. Management approach and actions Performance Sanlam RSA had environmental targets to be achieved Owing to the inaccuracies of the baseline data for the by the end of 2010, some of which were building-specific 2010 targets, we decided it was not meaningful to report (such as electricity, water and waste), while others were on these targets in this document. More detailed and business-specific (such as business travel). While we accurate reporting will occur once the new environmental have made progress, we have not met all our targets, targets are set and being measured. which raised concerns about the accuracy of the baseline data and whether the targets were actually Plans for 2011 and beyond achievable. From 2011 onwards, the Group Environment committee The Group Environment committee is evaluating the will be instrumental in ensuring strong leadership so as to 2010 environmental targets in order to determine a meet our new environmental targets. A core focus will be sound method for setting new ones. The committee will the positioning of Sanlam RSA as a corporate leader and finalise and introduce these during the first half of 2011. champion with respect to environmental sustainability. This process highlights the specific challenges we face in 101 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Assurance statement column in the tables headed Current profile of SPF Independent assurance report to the advisors: 2010 on page 64 and Current profile of directors of Sanlam Limited for the SDM advisors: 2010 on page 65; year ended 31 December 2010 > The number of total and average monthly Scope of our engagement complaint interventions for SPF and SDM referred We have completed our independent assurance to the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance for engagement to enable us to express our limited the 12 months ended 31 December 2010 as assurance conclusions on whether the Sanlam Ltd disclosed on page 73 and page 74 respectively; Sustainability Report (the Report) for the year ended > Number of individual life policies sold to the entry 31 December 2010, has been prepared, in all level market in South Africa by SDM for the 12 material respects, in accordance with the selfmonths ended 31 December 2010 as disclosed declared Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 in the table headed Sales volumes for SDM on Guidelines B+ application level using the principles of page 63; and materiality, completeness and sustainability context, and whether the following key performance indicators > Persistency rate (expressed as a percentage) for (specified KPIs) contained in the Report have been SPF, being the number of policy lapses, surrenders prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with and fully paid up policies as a percentage of total the basis of preparation as described separately in inforce policies (excluding annuities) for the the Report for each of the specified KPIs as outlined 12 months ended 31 December 2010 as disclosed in the footnotes on the same page (management’s on page 32. sustainability criteria): The specified KPIs noted above have been > Tonnes of CO2 arising from purchased electricity at highlighted for identification purposes in the Report the office buildings of Sanlam Head Office, Hyde through shading. Park, Sanlynn, Sanlam Sky, Glacier and Sanlam Our responsibility in performing our independent Investment Management (scope 2 emissions), for limited assurance engagement is to Sanlam Ltd only the 12 months ended 31 December 2010 as and in accordance with the terms of reference for this disclosed in the table headed Sanlam RSA’s engagement (including the release letter dated Carbon Footprint on page 96; 26 April 2011) as agreed with them. To the fullest > The current profile (age, demographic, language) extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume of advisors of Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) responsibility to anyone other than Sanlam Ltd, for and Sanlam Developing Markets (SDM), as at our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we 31 December 2010 as disclosed in the Total have reached. 102 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Assurance statement continued Sanlam Ltd has elected to prepare the Report in engagement. Our independent limited assurance accordance with the principles of the G3 Guidelines engagement was performed in accordance with the which was published by the Global Reporting International Federation of Accountants’ (IFACs) Initiative, of which a full copy can be obtained from International Standard on Assurance Engagements the Global Reporting Initiative’s website. (ISAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Directors’ responsibility This standard requires us to comply with ethical The directors are responsible for implementing a requirements and to plan and perform our stakeholder engagement process to identify all engagements to obtain limited assurance regarding relevant stakeholders, to identify key issues, to the Report and the specified KPIs contained in the respond appropriately to key issues identified, to Report, as expressed in this report. determine those key performance indicators which may be relevant and material to the identified Basis of work and limitations stakeholders, and to design and apply appropriate The procedures selected depend on our judgement, sustainability reporting policies. The directors are also including the assessment of the risks of material responsible for the preparation and presentation of misstatement of the subject matter and the purpose the Report and the information and assessments of our engagement. In making these assessments, contained in the Report in accordance with the we have considered internal control relevant to the relevant criteria. This responsibility includes: entity’s preparation and presentation of the Report designing, implementing and maintaining appropriate and the information contained therein, in order to performance management and systems to record, design procedures appropriate for gathering sufficient monitor and improve the accuracy, completeness appropriate assurance evidence to determine that the and reliability of the sustainability data and to ensure information in the Report is not materially misstated that the information and data reported to meet the or misleading as set out in the summary of work requirements of the relevant criteria, and contains all performed below. Our assessment of relevant internal relevant disclosures that could materially affect any of control is not for the purpose of expressing a the conclusions drawn. conclusion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal controls. Assurance provider’s responsibility We planned and performed our work to obtain all the Our responsibility is to express our limited assurance information and explanations that we considered conclusions on the Report and the specified KPIs necessary to provide a basis for our limited based on our independent limited assurance 103 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Assurance statement continued assurance conclusions pertaining to the Report and > how management has applied the principle of the specified KPIs, expressed below. materiality in preparing the Report and the Where a limited assurance conclusion is expressed, specified KPIs; and our evidence gathering procedures are more limited > the significant reporting processes including than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and how information is initiated, recorded, therefore less assurance is obtained than in a processed, reported and incorrect information reasonable assurance engagement. is corrected, as well as the policies and Our report does not extend to providing assurance procedures within the reporting processes. on prior period data, and the dti Scorecard as set out > We made such enquiries of management, on pages 38 and 39. employees and those responsible for the preparation of the Report and the specified KPIs, Our report does not extend to providing assurance as we considered necessary. on the Integrated Annual Report and the Carbon Footprint Report which have been referred to in the > We inspected relevant supporting documentation Report. and obtained such external confirmations and management representations as we considered Summary of work performed necessary for the purposes of our engagement. Set out below is a summary of the procedures > We performed analytical procedures and limited performed pertaining to the Report and the specified tests of detail responsive to our risk assessment KPIs which were included in the scope of our limited and the level of assurance required, including assurance engagement. comparison of judgementally selected information > We obtained an understanding of: to the underlying source documentation from which the information has been derived. > the entity and its environment; > We considered whether Sanlam Ltd has applied > entity-level controls; the GRI G3 Guidelines to a level described on > the stakeholder dialogue process; page 106. > the selection and application of sustainability We believe that the evidence obtained as part of our reporting policies; limited assurance engagement, is sufficient and 104 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Assurance statement continued appropriate to provide a basis for our findings and procedures did not involve consideration of these our limited assurance conclusions expressed below. matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the Conclusions Sanlam Ltd Sustainability Report or our assurance Based on the work performed and subject to the report that may have occurred since the initial date limitations described above, nothing has come to our of presentation on the Sanlam website. attention that causes us to believe that: > the Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the self-declared GRI G3 Guidelines B+ application level using the principles of materiality, completeness and sustainability context; and > the specified KPIs have not been prepared, in all Ernst & Young Inc material respects, in accordance with Director – Alasdair Stewart management’s sustainability criteria as described Registered Auditor in the relevant footnotes for the period ending Chartered Accountant (SA) 31 December 2010. Ernst & Young House Other matter 35 Lower Long Street Cape Town The maintenance and integrity of the Sanlam website is the responsibility of Sanlam management. Our 05 May 2011 105 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) Our compliance with the GRI G3 reporting requirements Based on the GRI G3 reporting requirements, we are self-declared level-B+ compliant. This is based on information contained in this web-based Sustainability Report and its supporting documents, together with other relevant information presented in our 2010 Integrated Annual Report and on the broader Sanlam Group website (www.sanlam.co.za). In other words, we have reported on all the company profile disclosures listed under Column B below (in blue) and have disclosed our broad approach to managing each of our material sustainability issues. We have reported on at least 20 specific performance indicators relating to stated material issues, with at least one from each of the economic, environment, human rights, labour, society and product responsibility categories. GRI reporting requirements for application level B (highlighted in dark blue) Report application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria G3 Profile > 1.1 listed for Level C plus: > 2.1 – 2.10 > 1.2 Same as requirement Disclosures > 3.9, 3.13 for Level B > 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 > 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 > 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured Standard Disclosures G3 Management Management Approach Management Approach Approach Not required Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category Report on a minimum Respond on each core G3 and Report on a minimum G3 Performance of 10 Performance of 20 Performance Sector Supplement* Indicator Indicators and Indicators, including Indicators, at least one with due regard to the Sector Supplement from each of: economic, Materiality Principal by either: at least one from each Performance environment, human a) reporting on the Indicator of: social, economic rights, labour, society, or b) explaining the reason for Indicators and environment product responsibility its omission 106 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Sanlam GRI G3 content index (for the period 1 January – 31 December 2010) Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of Full SR – M  essage from our Group Chief the organisation Executive IAR – Chairman’s Report IAR – Report by the Group Chief Executive 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Full SR – M  essage from our Group Chief Executive SR – Our material issues and highlights SR – Various sections on material issues Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Full SR – About this Sustainability Report SR – A diverse, sustainable business 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Full IAR – The Sanlam Group 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Full IAR – Sanlam Group at a glance IAR – Business reviews 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Full 2.5 Countries in which the organisation’s operations are Full located 2.6 Nature of ownership Full 2.7 Markets served Full 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Full 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in Full terms of size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period Full SR – Our material issues and highlights SR – C orporate accolades and recognition SR – JSE SRI Index SR – Sustainable financial and operational capacity SR – Conducive working environment SR – Client service levels Report profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Full SR – About this Sustainability Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Full SR – About this Sustainability Report 3.3 Reporting cycle Full SR – About this Sustainability Report 3.4 Contact point for questions about the report or its Full SR – About this Sustainability Report contents 107 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content Full SR – About this Sustainability Report SR – Our material issues and highlights 3.6 Boundary of the report Full SR – Background and scope 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Full SR – Background and scope of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Full SR – Background and scope leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques used Full SR – Various sections on material issues 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Full SR – Background and scope information provided in earlier reports, and the SR – S  kills development and career reasons for such re-statement progression SR – Our carbon footprint 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Full SR – Background and scope periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard Full SR – This GRI table disclosures in the report Report assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Full SR – About this Sustainability Report external assurance for the report. SR – Assurance statement 108 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Full SR – H ow we manage sustainability at committees under the highest governance body Sanlam responsible for specific tasks, such as setting SR – Sustainability governance and strategy or organisational oversight leadership IAR – Executive committee 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest Full IAR – Corporate Governance Report governance body is also an executive officer IAR – Capital and Risk Management 4.3 For organisations with a unitary board structure, Full Report state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Full provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Full the highest governance body, senior managers and executives and the organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Full body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and Full expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Full values, codes of conduct and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Full overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with international agreements 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Full body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Partial Not specifically addressed in this approach or principle is addressed by the Report, however a precautionary organisation approach is taken through risk management which forms part of the Group’s centralised function. 109 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and Full SR – Sustainability work during the year social charters, principles or other initiatives to SR – O ur commitment to codes and which the organisation subscribes or endorses standards SR – JSE SRI Index SR – Commitment to King III SR – Anti-corruption SR – Other leadership initiatives SR – A transforming organisation SR – ESG-based investment decisionmaking and progress against the UN-PRI SR – Financing empowerment and investing in infrastructure SR – Our carbon footprint 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Full SR – Our key stakeholder groups associations) and/or national/international advocacy SR – R egulatory bodies and industry organisations associations with which Sanlam RSA engages SR – Report of the Group Environment committee SR – Resource consumption and efficiency Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Full SR – Our key stakeholder groups organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Full with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Full SR – Our key stakeholder groups frequency of engagement by type and by SR – H ow we interact with our stakeholder group stakeholders 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Partial SR – Our material issues and highlights through stakeholder engagement, and how the SR – various sections on material issues organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Core economic indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Full SR – B road-based economic including revenues, operating costs, employee contribution compensation, donations and other community IAR – Business review investments, retained earnings, and payments to IAR – Financial review capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Partial SR – Healthy bio-physical environment opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations Not reported EC4 Government assistance Full No significant financial assistance received from the government 110 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Partial SR – Responsible procurement locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Full SR – W  orkplace transformation management hired from the local community at and diversity locations of significant operation Sanlam RSA employs mostly local staff EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Full SR – F  inancing empowerment and investments and services provided primarily for investing in infrastructure public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Additional economic indicators EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage Not required compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Not required economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Core environment indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Partial SR – Healthy bio-physical environment EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not reported materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source Partial SR – H  ealthy bio-physical environment Website – Carbon Footprint Report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Partial SR – H  ealthy bio-physical environment Website – Carbon Footprint Report EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Partial SR – Healthy bio-physical environment EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Not applicable in or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not applicable products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN16 Total Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Partial SR – H  ealthy bio-physical environment emissions by weight Website – Carbon Footprint Report EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Partial SR – H  ealthy bio-physical environment by weight Website – Carbon Footprint Report EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Partial SR – H  ealthy bio-physical environment weight Website – Carbon Footprint Report EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type Partial SR – H  ealthy bio-physical environment and weight Website – Carbon Footprint Report 111 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not reported EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partial SR – Healthy bio-physical environment EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Not reported EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Partial SR – Healthy bio-physical environment products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not applicable materials that are reclaimed by category EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Full No significant fines or non-monetary of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations environmental laws and regulations Additional environment indicators EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Partial SR – R esource consumption and improvements efficiency EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Not required energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Not required and reductions achieved EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Not required of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Not required re-used EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not required EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Not required managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not required conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Partial SR – R esource consumption and reductions achieved efficiency EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Not required treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Not required value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and run-off 112 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Not required products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Not required investments by type Core labour practices and decent work indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Partial SR – Motivated employees contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Partial SR – Motivated employees group, gender, and region LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Not reported bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Not reported changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Not reported and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Partial SR – Employee health and safety risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Partial SR – S kills development and career employee category progression LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Partial SR – D iversifying ownership, of employees per category according to gender, management and control age group, minority group membership, and other SR – Our sustainability governance indicators of diversity structures SR – Workplace transformation and diversity IAR – Corporate Governance Report LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Not reported category Additional labour practices and decent work indicators LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Not required not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Not required joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes 113 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not required agreements with trade unions LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong Full SR – S  kills development and career learning that support the continued employability of progression employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Not required performance and career development reviews Core human rights indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Not reported investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Not reported that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Full SR – W  orkplace transformation and actions taken diversity HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Not reported freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Full No operations have been identified for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to this risk contribute to the elimination of child labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Full No operations have been identified for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and this risk measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Additional human rights indicators HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Not required procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not required organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents or violations involving Not required rights of indigenous people and actions taken 114 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* Core society indicators SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any Full SR – Prosperous society and community programmes and practices that assess and SR – Responsible investment manage the impacts of operations on communities SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Not reported analysed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Not reported anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Not reported SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Full SR – Anti-corruption policy development and lobbying SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Full No significant fines or non-monetary of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with sanctions for non-compliance with laws laws and regulations and regulations Additional society indicators SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Not required political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Not required behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Core product responsibility indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts Not applicable of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR3 Type of product and service information required by Not reported procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Not reported voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonFull No significant fines or non-monetary compliance with laws and regulations concerning sanctions for non-compliance with laws the provision and use of products and services and regulations 115 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Alignment with the global reporting initiative (GRI) continued Extent of GRI coverage for indicator Description of indicator GRI Level B Reference/Section* Additional product responsibility indicators PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not applicable regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not required regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction, including Full SR – Client service levels results of surveys measuring client satisfaction SR – Dealing with client complaints PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not required regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Not required breaches of client privacy and losses of client data Key Full This indicator was fully addressed by Sanlam in this 2010 Sustainability Report and supporting documents, or in Sanlam’s Integrated Annual Report 2010 or on Sanlam’s corporate website Partial This indicator was partially addressed by Sanlam in this 2010 Sustainability Report and supporting documents, or in Sanlam’s Integrated Annual Report 2010 or on Sanlam’s corporate website Not reported This indicator was not covered by Sanlam in its reporting for 2010 Not applicable This indicator was not relevant in the context of Sanlam’s operations Not required This indicator was not required for conformance to GRI Application Level B SR This refers readers to coverage of the relevant indicator in the named section of this 2010 Sustainability Report IAR This refers readers to coverage of the relevant indicator in the named section of Sanlam’s Integrated Annual Report 2010 116 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Glossary Definition of the operational remits of Sanlam’s business entities referenced in this Report Global Reporting Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based organisation that pioneered the world’s Initiative (GRI) most widely used sustainability reporting framework. GRI’s core goals include the mainstreaming of disclosure on environmental, social and governance performance. GRI’s Reporting Framework is developed through a consensus-seeking, multistakeholder process, and participants are drawn from global business, civil society, labour, academic and professional institutions. G3 Guidelines The G3 Guidelines are the cornerstone of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Framework. GRI recommends that every organisation uses the Guidelines as the basis for their sustainability report. These principles define the report’s content, quality and boundary, and references standard disclosure elements required in a sustainablity report. Group Compliance Unit This unit operates both in South Africa and internationally. The office is responsible for monitoring and advising on all regulatory and legal matters impacting the company. Group Employment This forum functions only in South Africa. It advises the Group Chief Executive on issues Equity Consultative relating to the Employment Equity Act. Forum Group Environment This entity operates only in South Africa. It comprises individuals representing all Committee business units in South Africa. Group Ethics Committee Sanlam’s Code of Ethical Conduct applies to businesses both in South Africa and internationally, but representation on this committee is currently restricted to Sanlam RSA. Group Forensic Services The unit is mainly active in South Africa but also has an International interest. Its focus is on incidents affecting more than one business unit, and cases where Sanlam executives might be involved. Group HR Unit This unit provides strategic advice on human capital to the Group CE for the Sanlam Group. However, its main jurisdiction falls within Sanlam RSA, where it co-ordinates human capital and aligns the business with South African employment legislation. Group Learning and This forum functions at both a strategic and operational level in the Sanlam Group. It Development Forum co-ordinates the development and implementation of training solutions across the Group. Group Market This unit operates only in South Africa. It identifies sales opportunities from strategic Development Unit potential clients in South Africa. Group Office This office’s functions are sometimes restricted to South Africa (e.g. CSI) and at other times also include international businesses (e.g. Finance and Investor Relations). The Group Office covers all support functions (e.g. Group Finance, Group Services, Group HR etc.) and a number of these functions are grouped together under Group Services. Group Orientation This is applicable only to employees in South African wholly-owned companies. Santam Programme has its own orientation. Group Policy Unit This unit operates only in South Africa. It analyses all policies, local and global, that may impact the operations of the South African business. Group Policy on This policy is only applicable to and binding on the South African business and all its Employment Equity employees. Group Procurement This policy is currently applicable to South Africa. It has been developed by the Policy Procurement Unit in order to drive the behaviour necessary to achieve the goals of the Sourcing Unit. Group Services Division This division operates only in South Africa. However, some of the functions within it provide consulting services to the businesses outside South Africa. Group Services is responsible for the following functions: Group Marketing, Group Corporate Affairs, Group Policy, Group Compliance Office, Company Secretariat, Shared Services. 117 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Glossary continued Definition of the operational remits of Sanlam’s business entities referenced in this Report (continued) Group Sourcing Unit This unit provides a sourcing function for all Sanlam Group businesses. It advises businesses on their purchasing needs and also implements strategies for the company to reduce its procurement costs by aligning supplier needs. Group Sustainability This forum has been reconstituted and is now called the Group Environment Committee. Forum Group Sustainability Unit The focus of this unit is restricted to South Africa, but a focus on sustainability extends throughout the Group. It co-ordinates the strategy and implementation of all sustainability initiatives within the company and is also responsible for reporting on all sustainability matters. Sanlam Life A wholly-owned Life Assurance subsidiary of the Sanlam Group, consisting of Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) and Sanlam Developing Markets (SDM), among others. Acronyms AGM Annual General Meeting IFA Independent Financial Advisors AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome IMN Information Management Network ALSI Africa All Share Index INSETA Insurance Sector Education Training Authority ASISA Association for Savings and Investment in IT Information Technology South Africa BACWG Business Anti-Corruption Working Group JD Group Joshua Doore Group (Mass retailer and (BUSA) financier in South Africa) BBBEE Broad-based Black Economic JSE SRI JSE Limited Socially Responsible Empowerment Investment Index BEE Black Economic Empowerment KPMG A global company providing Audit, Tax and Advisory services BMI Body Mass Index kWh Kilowatt hours BUSA Business Unity South Africa LSM Living standards measure CAB Category Advisory Board NACF National Anti-Corruption Forum CCC Client Contact Centre NBI National Business Initiative CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation NCR National Credit Regulator and Arbitration CDP Carbon Disclosure Project NEDLAC National Economic Development and Labour Council CE Chief Executive NGO Non-governmental Organisation CEO Chief Executive Officer NPAT Net profit after tax CoGP Code of Good Practice NT National Treasury COP Communication on Progress (Global OLTI Ombudsman for Long-Term Insurance Compact) CRC Complaints Resolution Committee PBO Public Benefit Organisation CRISA Code for Responsible Investing PFA Pension Funds Adjudicator CSI Corporate Social Investment PHI Policyholders’ Interest committee 118 Sanlam sustainability report 2010 7TH PROOF – 19 MAY 2011 Glossary continued Acronyms (continued) dti Department of Trade and Industry RSA Republic of South Africa DVD Digital versatile disc SAQA South African Qualifications Authority EAP Employee Assistance Programme SARB South African Reserve Bank EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, SCM Sanlam Capital Management Depreciation and Amortisation EE Employment Equity SDM Sanlam Developing Markets ESG Environmental, social, governance SEB Sanlam Employee Benefits Exco Executive Committee SED Socio-economic development FAIS Financial Advisory and Intermediary SIIP Sanlam International Investment Partners Association FCCP Financial Crime Combating Policy SIM Sanlam Investment Management FIA Financial Intermediaries Association SME Small to medium enterprises FIC Financial Intelligence Centre SOI Statement of Intent FICA Financial Intelligence Centre Act SPE Sanlam Private Equity FS Code Financial Sector Code SPF Sanlam Personal Finance FSB Financial Services Board SPI Sanlam Private Investments FSC Financial Sector Charter SRI Socially Responsible Investment GBCSA Green Building Council of South Africa TCF Treating Customers Fairly legislation (proposed) GEECF Group Employment Equity Consultative UB Ubuntu-Botho (empowerment partner) Forum GHG Greenhouse Gas UK United Kingdom GLP Graduate Leadership Programme UN PRI United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment GRI Global Reporting Initiative UNGC United Nations Global Compact HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus USA United States of America HR Human Resources VoC Voice of the Customer IACC International Anti-Corruption Conference WWF World Wide Fund for Nature IAS Investment Analysts Society of Southern WBI World Bank Institute Africa 119 Sanlam sustainability report 2010
