Emirates Integrated Telecommunication Company, PJSC P.O. Box 502666 Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: + 971 (4) 360 0000 Email: CSR@du.ae 1 October 2011 Printed on Lenzing Top Recycling Super 150 and 300 g/m2 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Contents About our first Sustainable Development Report 1 Who we are: Vision, mission and values 2 Chairman’s Statement and CEO’s Review 4 The way we work 6 Sustainable development in focus 10 Our people 13 Our community 23 Our customers 35 Our environment 41 External review statement 46 About our first Sustainable Development Report This report describes our approach to sustainable development in a growing telecoms company. The scope of the information and data described cover operations in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and abroad: 41 retail outlets, two office buildings and five Customer Care centres: two in the UAE and one each in Jordan, Egypt and India. Our reporting doesn't include any joint venture operations or activities of partner organisations. All information in this report is subject to internal data management systems and controls. The data in the report covers the financial year January to December 2010. Information and data from 2006 to 2011 are also included. All financial data is as reported in our 2010 Annual Report. All data extracted or referenced from our 2010 Annual Report has been audited. We didn't seek external independent assurance for this first report, but we did include an external review statement. We have reviewed assurance options for our 2012 Sustainable Development Report. We follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainable Development Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) and present our report in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. 1 Who we are Materiality Materiality matrix • Emiratisation • Content standards • Business ethics • Economic contribution • Governance Very high • Privacy and security Who we are: High • Radio frequency fields • Waste • Innovative offerings • Recruitment and retention • Supply chain management • Employee engagement Vision, mission and values • Training and development Level of concern to stakeholders • Community four ‘pillars’ • Diversity • Environmental benefits • Employee well-being Medium of ICT • Customers with • Natural resources special needs • Responsible marketing • Pay by the Second billing for mobile users: it's easy to manage and fair. Our vision Low • One World Plan: a single, affordable flat rate for To enhance your life; any time, anywhere. international calls to over 190 destinations. Our mission Low Medium High Very high We opened for business in 2007 and now offer Current or potential impact on our business We want to delight our customers, be the mobile and fixed telephony, broadband connectivity employer of choice for the best talent, and IPTV services to individuals, homes and create best value for our shareholders We work with regulators and the government to shape businesses. We also provide carrier services for through business excellence and innovation, policy and legislation on sustainable development issues. businesses and satellite up/downlink services for TV and proudly contribute to the transformation of our community. We do this by using our broadcasters. We offer choice and value while we Through regular surveys, bulletins and meetings, talent, skills and energies to connect, inspire continue to deploy state-of-the art technology to keep we take note of employee issues. And we work closely and reward all we touch, every day. enhancing our services. with our external business partners to ensure they meet our high standards. By October 2011 over 5 million people and over Our brand positioning 40,000 businesses had chose to use our services For the most diverse, active and mobile Our stakeholders and become our customers. people on the planet, du is the UAE’s Materiality session with our Board of Directors and relentless pioneer of creative communications department heads, 2011 As a rapidly growing business we have over 2,000 • Employees • Other regulators/ • Community services at the best price, helping them stay people working to enhance and expand our bouquet Our sustainable development reporting is focused on • Investors control bodies: • International involved with what matters in their lives. • Chairman & BOD SCA, DFM ICT organisations of service offerings. Our people come from over the issues that will influence our decisions, actions and • Customers • Government • TRA • Main business partners 60 countries; we mirror the rich cultural diversity of performance. We mapped these issues and assessed Our brand promise their relative importance with due regard to our • Media our nation, while being able to serve our customers Add life to life. stakeholders and the financial or reputational impacts in a variety of languages. on our business. We acknowledge that the importance International engagement Our brand values Over 50% of our senior management team and of these changes over time: our mapping and analysis Confident: We take responsibility and have customer-facing staff are UAE nationals, and we took place in August 2011. Concerns that are priorities We work with the following groups to ensure impacts the courage to trust our judgement. to our business and our stakeholders form the focus and issues are understood, and to influence policies, remain committed to providing fulfilling career Friendly: We relate to everyone in a human of our reporting, supported by detailed performance legislation, regulations and initiatives impacting our opportunities for quality talent in a cosmopolitan way, by being approachable, respectful information, while issues of lower importance to our sector in advance: working environment. and compassionate. business and/or our stakeholders are covered using • Regional governmental bodies such as the Arab Honest: The basis of any successful more limited information. Telecom Ministers Council and the GCC Telecom relationship is trust, and that starts with the Why we are reporting Ministers Council. simple and straightforward truth. Each day we take into account the expectations of • Global socio-economic organisations such as the UN Surprising: We find new, different and better our shareholders and the value we can add to our Who are our stakeholders? ways of doing things, no matter how small. How do we communicate with them? International Telecommunication Union (ITU), World community. We contribute to economic development Economic Forum (WEF) and the Internet Corporation while improving the quality of life of our workforce, We affect each other. Talking and listening to for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). their families and society at large. Our slogan, ‘add life stakeholders is at the heart of what we do, every day. So we want to understand the views of people we affect • Regional industry consortia such as the Arab We connect the UAE and offer high quality, innovative to life’ exemplifies our dedication to this. We will adapt and explain how we're tackling the issues that matter Information and Communication Technologies yet affordable products and choice. all of our practices to ensure we operate in a way that to them and to us. We aim to respond to the feedback Organization (AICTO) and the South Asia-Middle Eastexceeds the public expectations of a business. As we're Some key facts about us: from stakeholders. And we incorporate these views in North Africa (SAMENA) Telecommunications Council. operating in a newly-regulated market, we endeavour to • A five year old business that's expanding rapidly. lead by example and help introduce the concept of active how we manage sustainable development issues. • Global business and industry associations such as corporate responsibility in the UAE and the Gulf region. Talking with investors and customers is part of our the GSM Association. • Listed on the Dubai Financial Market since April 2006, with current market capitalisation of over We'll be issuing an annual Sustainable Development everyday business and we communicate with them • International government agencies such as UAE AED 3.75 billion. Report to demonstrate these commitments and to through our retail outlets, contact centres, online social embassies and foreign embassies in the UAE. • A retail network of 41 shops across the UAE, 3000 monitor our performance over time, with respect to media platforms and customer research. We interact 2 authorised dealers. relevant laws, norms, standards and voluntary initiatives. with people who live near our network operations. 3 Chairman’s message CEO’s review There’s something endlessly invigorating about being involved in an enterprise Success means happy customers and satisfied employees, being effective in serving that’s as exciting as du. Forever evolving, much like the country we’re so wider needs and being competitive in serving business needs. Success means proud to call home, our company has proven itself capable of going beyond a positive impact on the country in which we operate, our region and our expectations. We’re making good on our promise of enriching and enhancing your planet. We are steadily achieving successes such as these. We are passionate about telecommunications experience, and we’re giving back to the communities who have challenging ourselves to improve our business, our services and our colleagues. supported us in all we have done to date. And in order to make a difference, you have to start from within. Our employees are the engine that drives our company. Our excellent results have We’ve grown into an integral part of the UAE’s flourishing society, and it’s been our only been achievable due to the quality, commitment and enthusiasm of our staff. pleasure to be able to offer our customers the best services at the best prices, but we We are fulfilling our commitment to provide a healthy working atmosphere for our wouldn’t be able to do it without the multi-cultural team that makes up our corporate Ahmad Bin Byat Osman Sultan colleagues. We are, for example, the first UAE company in the telecoms sector family. I’m pleased to say that our workforce is made up of some of the most talented Chairman Chief Executive Officer to provide an on-site employee health clinic. And we are on a journey to being an individuals that the UAE has to offer and it is their dedication to making our company ‘employer of choice’ for UAE talent. Our employee engagement has improved since the very best, that has driven us forward to such a premier position. 2009, placing us near the top quartile of companies worldwide. Our Emiratisation programme (see p14) has delivered strong results. Of the total workforce, 23% are We’re proud of our past, but we’re also excited about the future, and the opportunities Emiratis, of which one in three is an executive manager. we see to align our products and services with the needs of society. We’ve established a reputation for behaving in a responsible, ethical and transparent way. The sustainable We are working to operate to the highest levels of environmental performance, starting development of our business depends on having the foresight to tackle the important with small gestures such as online billing, to piloting intelligent energy management issues; human rights, ethics, climate change and respect for the community, to ensure in our base station sites, which will be installed at 100 similar sites by the end of 2011, we can continue to serve our customers for generations to come. achieving fuel savings of more than 50%. And we have a new solar-powered base station on Sir Bu Nair Island; we’ll be doing more of this at similar sites. We participate We’re at the start of a journey on sustainable development. This is a journey in programmes such as Dubai Municipality’s Clean Up the World initiative, the World that we must take together, with our employees, our customers, our suppliers, Wide Fund for Earth Hour and the United Nations Environment Programme’s World our local communities; everyone who is touched by our business. I believe that Environment Day. our approach to doing business, our commitment to communications and our transparency can build and sustain the trust that is necessary to bring people Our contribution to the development of our nation and its vibrant cultural heritage along with us on our journey. is vital for us. We run campaigns to encourage the correct use of Arabic, such as our work with Kalimat Publishing. Our ‘Life of the Emirates’ television series brings to life If we succeed on our sustainable development programme, we will generate our illustrious history and traditions. We run campaigns through the holy month of new revenue streams for the business through increased revenues, lower costs, Ramadan to encourage the spirit of this all-important time in the Islamic calendar. increased customer loyalty and most of all, the respect of society as a responsible And to help develop our nation’s youth we recently set up a ‘Life Skills’ course, company that ‘adds life to life’. which offers final year Emirati students the chance to hone skills needed for life at work in their future careers. Last, but by no means least, we have our dedication to our customers. We deliver quality mobile, fixed line, internet and television services that are fully compliant with the UAE’s regulatory requirements. We pride ourselves on the innovative communications packages to suit the entire range of the UAE’s varied populace. Not only do we offer competitive prepaid and postpaid mobile options, but we developed the Alo SIM card, specifically tailored to the needs of expatriate labourers. We are also working with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority and British Telecom, to extend our services to those customers with speech impediments. It is impossible to include the entirety of our efforts towards sustainable development in one simple communication, as it is a hugely diversified project that is constantly evolving. We have undertaken a formal internal process to select what this report covers, which included a dedicated session with the Board of Directors and executive management. Our report shows how we operate to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, to which we have been a signatory since 2008. As a company, we are steadfast supporters of all initiatives that will lead to the betterment of our community, our country and our planet. As individuals, we are eco-aware, and doing our bit to ensure a cleaner, greener, better world for now and the future. 4 5 About us Executing our strategy: the Balanced Scorecard Our strategic priorities are shown as 14 Strategic Objectives over four layers of the Balanced Scorecard (BSC). The Objectives are grouped into three themes. The CEO communicates a review of progress on the BSC to all staff annually. We're reviewing how to embed sustainable development priorities such as energy The way we work management into the overall corporate scorecard. The Balanced Scorecard (BSC) is the mechanism by which we execute our strategy. Each Theme contains Strategic Objectives that have actions attached to help us reach our goals and realise our corporate vision. The themes that we Governance focused on in 2011 are: Corporate governance is the set of processes, customs, policies, laws and institutions affecting the way a corporation is directed, administered or 1. Enrich customer experience controlled. The role of corporate governance has seen strong development 2. Improve profitability and productivity in our organisation since start-up in 2006. As we grow, the role of corporate 3. Create a high performance organisation governance must also grow so that the interests of the various stakeholders involved are aligned with the new levels of responsibility and accountability The 14 Strategic Objectives were defined across the four layers of the BSC (Financial, we will continue to face. Customer, Operations/Processes, and Growth and Learning). Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are used to track performance against the Objectives. Target-setting What does this mean in practice? Governance begins with an autonomous, is then carried out. We have cascaded the BSC throughout our company and committed and engaged Board of Directors. They enforce a strict code of performance is reviewed on a monthly basis. The Performance Appraisal System business ethics and compliance standards. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) used to assess staff performance is directly linked to the Balanced Scorecard and has ultimate accountability for our sustainable development performance. the achievement of our 14 Strategic Objectives. Along with the executive management team, the Board defines our business objectives, which in turn align with the nation’s growth strategy. Did you know that the way we govern exceeds what’s recommended by the Dubai Strategic themes and objectives 2011 Financial Market, ESCA (Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority) and Balanced Enhance your life, international best practice? We want our level of transparency and disclosure to Vision Scorecard 2011 any time, anywhere the market to be the best in the region. The Board, chaired by Ahmad Bin Byat, Financial meets once every two months in line with ESCA requirements. In 2010, the Board Financial Profitable growth Improve Improve capital and Gross profit of Directors met seven times during the year, exceeding the minimum ESCA (Gross profit) cash flows operating expenses efficiency EBITDA Free cash flow requirement. In line with best practice, the roles of Chairman and CEO are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities. The Board, holding overall responsibility for Enrich customer experience Improve profitability and productivity Customer our sustainable development performance, receives a formal update on sustainable Customer satisfaction; Customer Improve customer Improve brand Improve customer mobile and fixed development each year. experience (CEP) loyalty lifetime value Customer lifetime value We commit to bringing sustainable development performance indicators to the Operations / Process Operations/ heart of our balanced scorecard and we're assessing the best way to create Deliver consistent Reduce burdency and Customer experience index Improve measurability Improve cross intentional customer eliminate non-value and decision support functional alignment a formal senior management body to guide our future sustainable development process experience by segment adding activities systems of core process across channels target-setting. We have set up policies, recommended by the ESCA, on Corporate Social Responsibility (available on our website), Share Dealing, Related Party Create a high performing organisation Growth and Learning Transactions, Whistle-Blowing, and Anti-Harassment & Bullying. Growth and Emiratisation Enhance organisation's Employee engagement Learning Improve employee and Make execution and Increase capabilityIn 2010, we were highly commended in the S&P/Hawkamah regional corporate partner engagement core competency driven Emiratisation capabilities and productivity governance rating. We were rated fifth in the region, and we scored highly for our approach to risk management and environmental improvement with a recommendation that we improve our sustainable development communications. Privacy and security (data protection) Customers’ privacy and security is paramount to us. In fact, we regularly win Risk factors awards for the diligence with which we protect our customers. When we launch Our internal audit and risk management teams specialise in recognising new risks a new product, we test it to ensure it provides a secure experience for our and managing existing ones. Our executive management team regularly reviews customers. Day-to-day, data is well protected and traceable. If you're worried the company’s Risk Register for potential risks and mitigation action plans. about data protection, take note of the following: Our enterprise risk management framework is consistent with international best practice. A number of corporate risks relate to sustainable development, such • Our Customer Protection Centre team monitors and helps prevent any attacks as business continuity, compliance with international standards, anti-corruption, or malicious activity affecting customer data. security or operational risk. • Our Security Monitoring Centre helps us prevent fraud. Our systems consider risks relating to all stakeholders and act like a radar, alerting • Our Security Incident Response Team is responsible for technical security on 6 us to those which are imminent. our network, reacting quickly to any instances of revenue fraud, abuse or spam. 7 About us About us Our financial performance Business continuity The UAE’s National Crisis and Emergency Management Authority requires that telecommunication services are not cut off unintentionally. New requirements for all telecoms companies aim to ensure levels of service are maintained in the event Revenue growth (AED million) Mobile and fixed subscriber growth (Thousands) of a national crisis. We have a responsibility to provide resilient and rapid support to certain civil services. We aim to be fully compliant with these new regulations by 6000 8000 December 2011. 7000 5000 7074 6000 561 4000 5000 5339 406 4000 3000 Responding to increasing demand 3951 280 3000 2000 4333 As part of our long term investment plan, we decided to build a new 2000 3477 customer contact centre this year in Fujairah which is fully managed and 162 2466 1000 1537 1000 operated by UAE nationals and initiated another in Jordan to support our 1223 0 existing call centres in the UAE and Egypt. This strategy enables us to cope 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 with peaks in demand. We enjoy a reputation for good levels of service, in part due to our investment in localised networks and immediate access Fixed Mobile to support through our call centres. Our relationship with customers is of the highest importance, and we'll continue to invest in new capacity and improvements to customer service. In the 4 years to 2010 since we started operations, we have grown from: AED 1.5 billion revenues in 2007 to AED 7.1 billion revenue in 2010. Our Corporate Social Responsibility policy Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy aims to deliver our commitment This equates to: to sustainable development with integrity. It covers all elements of our approach a cumulated annual growth of 68%, one of the highest levels for the telecoms to sustainable development including an objective to achieve alignment with sector in the entire region. ISO26000 in the near future. Our approach to CSR shows how we work with businesses, communities and governments to help advance the economic, In 2010 we achieved: environmental and social well-being of the UAE. We believe the benefits of our highest ever EBITDA of AED 2 billion and engaging in CSR and sustainable development are: an increase of 132% in net profit before royalties of AED 1,226 million from • Improved financial performance, reduced costs, improved profitability. AED 528 million in 2009. • Reduced risk exposure. In 2010, the number of new mobile subscribers joining us was: • New products, innovation and new markets. 856,000, taking our mobile base to over 4.3 million subscribers. • Better recruitment and retention performance. By the end of 2010, we held a market share for the mobile market in the UAE of: over 40%, according to figures released by the Telecommunications Regulatory • Enhanced corporate reputation. Authority (TRA). • Improved government relations. • Reduced regulatory pressure. Net revenues for our fixed line business, including fixed telephony, TV and broadband grew by: 23% year on year to AED 1,146 million for the year 2010 compared to AED 932 million in 2009. For our shareholders, underlying earnings per share increased by: 85% to AED 0.24 in 2010 compared to AED 0.13 in 2009. In summary, Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Company PJSC (‘du’) financial results for the year 2010 showed record revenues and strong customer additions. The company also finished the year with free cash flow positive status for the first time since its inception (AED 33 million as at the end of 2010), a major milestone in our development. Our ownership structure du is 39.5 percent owned by Emirates Investment Authority, 19.75 percent by Mubadala Development Company PJSC, 19.5 percent by Emirates Communications and Technology LLC and the remaining stake by public shareholders. It is listed on the Dubai Financial Market (DFM) and trades under the name ‘du’. 8 9 Sustainable development in focus Sustainable development in focus Sustainable development in focus Mobile phones can help save energy is being used. ‘Demand management’ to use and demolition. Energy-modelling software Mobile health is an area of eHealth providing health systems automate the feedback process by can help architects determine how design influences services and information via mobile technologies such natural resources allowing appliances such as refrigerators to reduce energy use. as mobile phones. According to the World Health What if we could channel the technology we use in their load at peak times. Buildings equipped Organization (WHO) the use of mobile and wireless A completely networked home would integrate the our business to combat environmental degradation with solar energy can even act as a source of technologies to support the achievement of health devices, appliances and services found in homes so and climate change? Facing up to energy-environment energy to the power grid when the demand is low. objectives has the potential to transform the face of that the entire domestic living space can be controlled challenges means some game changing: it means Such grid-connected systems generate electricity health service delivery across the globe. We already centrally or remotely. This kind of centralised taking a careful look at how efficiently we all for your home or business, and revenue from the offer a number of mobile healthcare services (see p19). management will allow our domestic appliances use energy. Information and communication excess power fed back to the grid. and services to communicate with each other and technologies (ICT) and the internet are part of the • Smart logistics and transport: Global goods make decisions on our behalf such as selecting TV problem but they're also a crucial part of the solution. transportation is growing rapidly as a result of programmes, suggesting which groceries to buy, SOS SMS: Touching lives through digital As a global society, if we can change the way we use mobile campaigns: globalisation and global economic growth. As fuel monitoring and managing energy consumption technology, we could potentially reduce annual man• Our SMS to donate service lets mobile costs and taxes rise, the need to run more efficient for optimum efficiency, controlling environmental made global emissions by 15% by 2020 and deliver customers make charitable donations during logistics operations is increasingly important. conditions and delivering news and information energy efficiency savings to businesses worth over Ramadan, in cooperation with the UAE ICT can improve the efficiency of logistics operations to us wherever we are and whenever we need it. Red Crescent. AED 2,300 billion.[1] in a number of ways. These include software to For example, in a truly smart home, your refrigerator • Somalia SMS campaign – so far we have The biggest gains are in smarter power supply, improve the design of transport networks to allow would know what it contained and would be able given AED 2 million to “A’inouhum” and buildings and transportation. In parallel, rising energy the running of centralised distribution networks to communicate that information to you. You might “Suqyahum” to fund emergency aid for demands of ICT infrastructure need to be dealt with and to run management systems that can facilitate even be able to telephone your refrigerator or send Horn of Africa countries, and we facilitated to lower the environmental impact of ICT products flexible home delivery services. Smart transportation it an email to find out what food to buy on the way a donation drive amongst staff and mobile and services. Opportunities for ICTs in this challenge customers: a further AED 751,000 was raised. systems are a powerful way of organising traffic home from work. But there's a flip side: the devices might include: more efficiently and reducing CO2 emissions. In the must be easy to control, as they themselves use • We supported the nationwide, government driven humanitarian campaign Aid Them, future, we'll be able to predict traffic patterns and energy. Mobile phone chargers continue to consume • De-materialisation: The substitution of energywhich supported the people of Gaza with prevent jams before they even arise. energy when left idle and plugged in: two-thirds of an SMS campaign. We managed to raise hungry products and services with ‘low carbon’ the energy used by chargers is wasted in this way. AED 263,000 through SMS and we doubled alternatives, e.g. replacing face-to-face meetings Some newer appliances, such as TV set-top boxes, the sum collected. The campaign was run in with video conferencing, or paper with ebilling, Smart homes have actually been designed to be left on conjunction with the UAE Red Crescent. can help cut carbon emissions. Currently, the largest ICT has transformed the way we live, work, learn to download updates as they become available. • Our broadcast services division has opportunity for de-materialisation (or virtualisation) facilitated the free uplinking of Dubai’s and play. And it will continue to do so. The term A second flip side is the electronic cabaret of personal is teleworking – where people work from home International Holy Qur’an Awards for the ‘smart buildings’ describes a suite of technologies gadgets that means obsolescence and electronic waste. rather than commute to an office. past 3 years. used to make the design, construction and operation Such waste requires complex and costly treatment. • Smart grids and smart power systems: in the of buildings more efficient, that are applicable to energy sector can help improve energy distribution both existing and new buildings. These might run and energy use patterns. A ‘smart grid’ is a set heating and cooling systems according to occupants’ The digital doctor: ICT and health of software and hardware tools that enables needs, or software that switches off all PCs and ICT plays an ever-increasing role in healthcare. generators to distribute power more efficiently. monitors after everyone has gone home. ICT-based Thanks to ‘eHealth’ doctors can access patients’ This means fewer power stations are needed, monitoring, feedback and optimisation tools can medical records more easily, get immediate access fewer harmful emissions are produced and it puts be used to reduce energy use at every stage of a to test results from the laboratory, and deliver the customer in control of their energy use. ICT is building’s life cycle, from design and construction prescriptions directly to pharmacists. The introduction crucial to a smart grid. Smart products, such as of eHealth services is facilitating access to healthcare, intelligent electricity meters, allow consumers to whatever the geographical location, thanks to track how much energy they use. This in turn helps [1] The Climate Group and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative innovative telemedicine and personal health systems. (2008), SMART 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the the power company to better understand where information age. 10 11 Our people Our people principles govern how we work The first principle is respect and fair treatment – creating a sense of family, sharing any problem and celebrating success. Equal opportunities are as important. We foster a workplace free from harassment. Security and discretion are core in this super-competitive business. And your health and safety are as important to us as they are to you. We want our employees to flourish and achieve their own professional goals through our process of performance management and appraisal. Facts and figures • Headcount: approximately 2,000 full time employees (permanent) in 2010. • Top five nationalities are Emirati, Indian, Pakistani, Filipino, Jordanian (share of total workforce). • No serious harm to employees or contractors at any operations under our control, 2006-2010. Key issues In this section • Employee engagement 14 Employee engagement • Emiratisation 14 Emiratisation • Diversity 16 Diversity • Training and development 16 Training, learning, growing 18 Safety • Business integrity 19 Well-being • Safety and well-being 20 Recruitment and retention • Recruitment and retention 21 Business partners in our supply chain • Supply chain 13 Our people Our people In 2011, we launched our UAE National Call Centre in Fujairah, creating an opportunity for employment across the Northern Emirates. Employee engagement In 2011, we were acknowledged by HH Shaikh Mohamed Bin Rashed with the • Our “360⁰ Your Voice” survey is a primary tool to encourage engagement. accolade of the Dubai Human Resources Appreciation Award. • Results of studies by Gallup have shown that our employee engagement We're also reaching private and government colleges and universities, enabling improved over the past two years and is in the top quartile of regional companies. us to further fulfill our commitments to the community. • An impressive 91% of employees participated in the survey in 2010. Summer Training Program: Every year we provide opportunities for UAE nationals • Our Top 50 Managers on engagement ratings show as strong, correlation students to work for 2 months in different departments. between high levels of engagement and high performance. Work Skills Program: Our UAE National Development team works with colleges • The ‘Best friend at work’ question scored highly. and universities to offer students about to graduate with training to improve • We engage through a wide range of programmes, from coaching to focus technical skills and personal development. groups, and from ‘barrier assessment’ to ‘strength finder assessment’. We're proud that almost 120 students have participated in 2010, and the target • We work continuously to further enhance engagement at each team level for 2012 is 200. by focusing on team and individual needs as well as providing employee development programmes. Work Experience and Internship: Young UAE Nationals can join us on short term projects. Our National Development team members keep in touch with all interns to guide their progress. Executive Emiratisation Overall employee Emiratisation UAE national student interns 30 64% 24 67% 25 77% 80% 20 15 13 36% Emirati 15 33% 20% 23% 7 Expatriates 10 5 2009 2010 2009 2010 5 0 Emiratisation National skills development is 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 at the heart of our commitment to society and we would like to Sponsorship: We're a proud sponsor of academic programmes and events to help position ourselves the telecoms develop UAE National students’ skills. Over the last 3 years these have included industry's “Employer of Choice” a joint IT open day at Al Ain Women’s College (2009), a student graduation project for young Emiratis. at the University of Sharjah (2010) and the construction of a high tech interactive job interview room at Dubai Men’s College (2011). We have a formal 5 year strategy for focusing on current employee Guest Speaker Sessions: We're committed to delivering major lectures and succession, recruitment and seminars at colleges and universities. Last year, our senior managers devoted community support. To enable us 33 hours to provide tailor-made sessions, covering various areas subjects such as; to reach our strategic and operational targets we work closely with a number of HR, PR, engineering, telecommunication and marketing. private and government universities locally such as; higher colleges of technology, Career Fairs: We ensure we're available at all major career fairs in the seven Emirates, Zayed University, Khalifa University and the American University of Dubai. providing the opportunity for direct interaction with Emirati youth. Our ongoing Emiratisation programme has delivered tangible results; of the total workforce in 2010, 23% are Emirati (up from 20% in 2009), of which one in three managers in our executive team is a UAE National. To maintain and develop our Emiratisation initiative, we've launched Masar: our national development career path program, enabling us to create successful and promising careers for all young Emirati talents, with classroom sessions, on the job training and other activities such as Al Multaqa (our networking platform that invites an inspirational guest speaker allowing for effective knowledge transfer) and our ongoing community support initiatives. 14 15 Our people Our people Diversity Since 2007 we have harnessed diversity to help develop our business, and so Long-term aim: To be ‘employer of choice’ for the talented UAE labour pool. consolidate the growth of skills in the UAE telecoms sector. Over the years the Short-term focus: Gearing up the systems and intellectual capital to help us achieve the long-term aim. distribution of nationalities in our workforce has broadly mirrored that of the Progress: Our new processes are being implemented, our employee engagement is good, UAE in general. In 2010, the UAE’s population was estimated at 4.9 million, of which we are constantly reviewing how to improve and look forward to reporting further details in 2012. around 20% were Emiratis, while the majority of the population were expatriates. We employ an incredible number of nationalities in our workforce – 67 at the last Target In 2010 count. After Emiratis (23%), the top five nationalities are Indian (17.7%), Pakistani (8.5%), Filipino (8.0%), Jordanian (6.8%) and Egyptian (5.2%). Our Equal Agree a structured approach Personal Development Plans for all employees to employee training and – partially achieved. Opportunities Policy is aligned to our national development approach: we give first development on career Introduction of a collaborative learning programme preference to qualified UAE national candidates in filling vacant positions whilst progression, leadership and – partially achieved. in all other respects we endeavour to be an equal opportunity employer and will customer service awareness. Set up a talent management development framework not discriminate against age, gender, colour or religion in reaching the selection – achieved. decision. We’re happy to report no instances of discrimination in 2010. Roll-out company-wide customer experience training – partially achieved. Provide personal leadership training for all employees Training, learning, growing – ongoing. Long-term aim: To be ‘employer of choice’ for the talented UAE labour pool. Management training for all employees – ongoing. Short-term focus: Gearing up the systems and intellectual capital to help us achieve Maharaat 2011 training list for all competency levels the long-term aim. and functions – achieved. Progress: Our new processes are being implemented, our employee engagement is good, we are constantly reviewing how to improve and look forward to reporting further details in 2012. Knowledge centre: a physical and digital library – achieved. Development for all Improve recruitment Revise corporate induction programme – achieved. induction process. Talent pool Executive Management Associate Well-being Qiyada Nokhbaa + Mustaqbil GT+Tamayaz+Bedyaya Ready for tomorrow? Our leadership development Developmental We understand the world is changing. Our people need to be able to respond to both change and the the complexities of change. Leadership is an essential part On-target staff Executive education External > MBA of ensuring our teams achieve this. For Directors and Senior Managers > Best practice conference > Engineering > Advanced certification > Technology we have training support for our future leaders. The number of people attending management and leadership training has remained stable at more than 3,000 person-days of leadership training delivered in 2010 and 2011. Later in 2011 we'll Supervisory Heart, mind, launch a new Executive Leadership Programme. Induction and job specific Role specific Role specific and management body, spirit Know-how and skills certification development All staff Induction including HSE Performance management We are du Great leader Great manager Business ethics, code of conduct As you can imagine, the type of business we’re in line managers, HR, and the Audit Committee. is super-competitive and seems to change almost It is the responsibility of HR, together with the line Our reputation as a responsible employer helps us in the highly competitive every day. So being discreet is one of the most managers, to ensure that all employees receive recruitment market to attract the best talent. important aspects of our job. That’s why we ask training as per the code of ethics at induction. our employees to respect confidentiality as a This is followed by extensive guidance to employees We provide training and we encourage employees to develop their careers. As our mandatory part of their job. If someone witnesses and contractors on how to report and deal with CEO reiterates, they're crucial to the success of our business. The graphic shows any instances of fraud, we’d like them to report it allegations of fraud during employment. Our Fraud that for each grade of employee, and for each stage of learning, there is a training on whistle.blowing@du.ae Our Fraud Investigation Investigation Management policy and Whistleopportunity to suit. Some are internal such as induction training, others are external Management policy aims to prevent, manage and Blowing policy have been published on our such as a university degree. control fraud in our operations. The policy covers intranet. Our operations are carried out in theft, misuse of funds or other resources, and accordance with all laws, rules and regulations Our learning and development also touch our personal lives. Our focus is on more complicated crimes like false accounting applicable in the UAE. We have a zero tolerance ‘total well-being’ with every employee given access to e-learning, a gym and pool and the supply of confidential or false information. policy with regard to corruption in relation to du and classes such as yoga. Key stakeholders involved are the Revenue or any of the du employees and will proactively Assurance and Fraud Control Division, TSRM combat anti-competitive behaviour or similar (Technology Security and Risk Management), practices within our company should such our CEO, Internal Control, business heads, practices ever occur. 16 17 Our people Our people Safety Well-being Long-term aim: Everyone goes home safe and well every day: employees, business partners, Our organisation is probably the safest, most health-conscious company in the UAE. customers, visitors. Short-term focus: Understand our current status, know where the gaps are, and set up We want our colleagues to achieve the right work-life balance, to use the flexitime systems that work. system, and the ten types of leave available. We’re very strict about our fire safety Progress: If managing sustainable development is a journey then we're at the ‘take-off’ stage. procedures, as we are with other hazards, and if our colleagues become ill because of something in the workplace, we have actions and policies in place to ensure their Target In 2010 interests are put first. A Departmental Needs Analysis matrix to be To identify a baseline level of HSE completed to determine the business needs Well-being check-up #1: training needs, Oct 2011. regarding HSE training completed ahead Not many telecoms companies have of schedule. a free clinic! Set up in our head office Complete risk assessments at 50% Target relates to all data centres and core sites of sites by end of 2011. work started in July 2011. in 2010, it offers medical services, The matrix will determine health risks associated health check-ups, recommendations, Set up health risk matrix, by end 2011. with each task/ job category at du ongoing, referrals and therapeutic treatments. new target. Prescriptions can be arranged and Schedule bacteriological testing protocol for food delivered to employee desks. The clinic Ensure safe food and safe drinking areas, drinking water points and test air quality at water and clean indoors by end 2011. promotes total wellness which can offices ongoing. help reduce absenteeism and increase Develop procedures that address the risks in the Assess security risks within the retail employee satisfaction. It’s quick, retail and office facilities, including a responsive and office facilities, by end 2011. Medical consultation at du clinic identification and communication system ongoing. it’s free and it works: we have added Incident response completed for Response to include control measures track and another clinic at our offices in Dubai least 20% of incidents reported, monitor all occupational health incidents recorded Academic City. by end 2011. ongoing, new target. Well-being check-up #2: Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy ensures a safe working Hypertension, diabetes, obesity and smoking are not a recipe for success! We run environment for our employees and visitors. We run our HSE work using one awareness days on each topic. We ran two ‘Drop of life’ blood donation campaigns management process which merges ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 and which in 2011 attended by over 500 employees. We offer free hearing, vision and blood identifies relevant risks for us. Specifically on safety we ensure: tests, and we survey stress levels and give guidance on healthy eating. Feedback from • Training and communication to encourage a personal responsibility for safety. our colleagues has been extremely positive. • Emergency coordinators are in place and qualified (medical, fire and security). Well-being check-up #3: • Ergonomic ways of working are in place for our staff. We’re the only telecoms employer • Indoor air quality is assessed for carbon dioxide levels, carbon monoxide, in the UAE to offer gym facilities, temperature and relative humidity, volatile organic compounds, dust, bacterial a swimming pool and a subsidised and fungal content. restaurant for our colleagues. In 2010 we took part in the Global • Drinking water quality is assessed for bacteriological, chemical and Corporate Challenge® (GCC), Legionella risks. a global initiative to get office-bound • Food preparation in our catering service is hygienic. employees exercising, while building teamwork and a positive competitive spirit. Each of our 245 competitors’ Gym facility at du’s main office progress was recorded automatically on the GCC website via a pedometer. ’A little bit of friendly competition is the ideal motivation to get people up and moving, which is why we participated in the GCC’ says Dr Mansoor Anwar, Director, Medical and Occupational Health Services. 18 19 Our people Our people Recruitment and retention Business partners in our supply chain We take great pride in being considered a UAE ‘Employer of Choice’ for the We purchase goods and services from over 700 active business partners. best Emarati talents. You’ve read about our activities at major career fairs, open Our Sourcing Policy standardises our procurement in the interests of improving days at colleges and universities, evening seminars and summer training for Life transparency in our supply chain management. The Policy makes clear reference Skills. Once we invite a candidate to join us, our Masar Development Programme to our policies relating to health, safety and risk management and also to our code institutionalises the first steps of his or her career through a carefully devised of ethics. It allows us to prefer Emirati Social Welfare Organizations without going programme of induction and development. In the first 6 weeks, the recruit will through a formal tendering process (see also p14). receive general training such as Telecom 101, problem solving, team building and writing for business. The next 5 weeks will see them joining in at a call centre and In our tendering process, we specify our expectations of business partners relating retail store, or franchise. Once they have joined a department in the company, to health and safety, depending upon the nature of the project. Our supply chain the recruit will begin mixing their work assignments with tasks relating to brand management includes our outsourced logistics team which manages the warehouse, advocacy, performance reviews, sustainable development initiatives, coaching and inventories, and stocks. Our business partners are defined stakeholders in our mentoring. We have exceptional training in our Masar Development Programmes business (see p3). More widely, we engage with them on sustainable development that include Bedaya, Tamayz and Graduate Trainees, with continuous education and ethical matters, as the need arises. and other training such as Maharat, Baseline and Power Hour. Rest assured we aim to retain the talent we find! And in the case of many of our recruits, Total GTs in managerial roles within 3 years. 140 Masar programme for graduate trainee 120 128 GT development model 100 80 74 Induction On job I On job II On job II On Job II model 1 60 6 weeks 40 41 1. GT/Corp orientation 4 weeks • In functions • Technical trainings • On job training for 2. Think on your feet • Retail sales (front related to final unit if needed for the final job 33 3. Rounded thinker or back office) the OJT 20 4. Team building • Orientation per 5. Self management 1 week the division in 6. Communication • Contact centre related area 0 7. Power reading Brand 2007 2008 2009 2010 8. Business writing Graduation 9. Fin for non fin. Ambassador 10. Problem solving 11. Performance mngt. Unit profile CSR initiatives 12. Telecom 101 13. Presentation skills GT Turnover On job assignment 14. GT presentations 15. Retail induction Joining the department Selection by line manager Performance review Performance review Coaching Coaching Coaching Coaching Performance review GT presentation 27% Al Multaqa Al Multaqa Al Multaqa Al Multaqa 30% Lunch Lunch 22% Junior On job assignment 20% Ambassador du mentoring programme 10% 8% Please read the related sections of this report about well-being, safety, security, 5% benefits, personal development, opportunities and engagement. We have 14 policies that guide how we select and recruit: examples include external sourcing, 0% reference checking, terms of employment, induction and probation. 2007 2008 2009 2010 We're glad to report that we have cut the attrition of junior level staff by 50% since 2009 by offering new career development programmes in 2010. Overall our turnover is stable: our new data show a rate of 10.8% in 2010, up slightly from 9.9% in 2009. We will carefully track the performance on this and respond accordingly. 20 21 Our community Our goal is for our neighbours and nearby communities to be healthy and prosperous To do this, we must be constructive, business-like and focused. We want to go beyond charity by addressing the root causes of community issues. So we provide tools, skills and information to members of the community to help make a difference at grass roots level. We run events such as blood donation campaigns, educational programmes and youth enterprise events. For each programme or campaign we try to ensure we can track progress, that there is a difference made by each dirham invested. We aim to use hard and fast measures to show progress in our communitiy work. Facts and figures • Our Ramadan projects and Iftar tables provide 3,000 meals every evening – a mainstay event for us. • Diverse, compelling cultural events since 2007 – with 21 community projects already in 2011 in Sharjah. • Funding and expertise for a university media lab in 2010. • Another memorable Imagine Cup supporting education, and a partnership with Kalimat Publishing to enhance children’s passion for reading Arabic books. • Shelter youth enterprise incubator continues apace, and further support for the Zayed Giving Initiative. • Drop of Life success continues – more blood donated than last year. Key issues In this section • Our four CSR pillars: Heritage 24 Heritage and culture and culture, Education, 26 Education Stars of the Future, and 28 Stars of the future Developing our society 30 Developing our society • Economic contribution 32 Economic contribution • Disadvantaged customers • Radio frequency fields 33 Disadvantaged customers 33 Radio frequency fields 23 Our community Our community Ramadan This cornerstone of the Islamic way of life aims to encourage CSR: Our four pillars charity throughout the month. Customers can give to charity using an ‘SMS to Donate’ service in collaboration with the UAE As a house sits on its foundations, so our Red Crescent Society. Donors corporate responsibility work since 2007 is can select who they support: orphans, mosque-building, underpinned by four key pillars – Heritage providing Eid clothing and Iftar meals, and Sadaqa (voluntary Islamic giving). and culture, Education, ‘Stars of the Future’ We also set up three Mawaed Al Rahman (Iftar Tables) in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and and Developing our society. Sharjah, each near a mosque in order to cater for those performing the evening Maghrib prayer. These meal distribution points are open to the public, offer free Iftar meals, feeding over 3,000 people every evening – seated and takeaway! We also asked our colleagues and friends to volunteer their time and money and this year, we were happy to see 51 volunteers joining hands and helping us distribute meals to the needy every day in Ramadan. Our Graduate Trainee also supported this initiative as an important component of their development. Iftar for orphans In 2008, we invited 200 orphans aged 5 12 to our staff Iftar gatherings in Dubai and Abu Dhabi. In 2011, we invited 20 orphans aged 4 15 to our Dubai staff Iftar. They enjoyed fun and educational activities. • Children meet our employees and families and join them in funbased competitions. • Traditional story-telling, arts and crafts, environmental awareness and competitions take place. • Freej characters meet the children (see p29). 1. Heritage and culture • Each child receives a du school bag and stationery kit. We support and encourage Emirati traditions. What is a culture without its people? So we give back to our host communities and other stakeholders. We want to Art and sustainable development – Maraya Art Centre, Sharjah leave a lasting impression with all of you, we want to make a difference – whether We love working with community projects that foster creativity and innovation. it’s making the person at the next desk smile, promoting the arts and cultural The Maraya Art Centre in Sharjah nurtures creativity, ingenuity and art in young education or reviving lost traditions. people in the UAE. We measured the effects of our support at Maraya: they ran 21 events in the first 8 months of 2011 to raise awareness of issues such as Middle du on air Eastern heritage, collective cultural memory, road safety and social justice. In 2007 – 2008, we supported a ‘Life of the Emirates’ television series to generate awareness and interest around local culture and history. Aired on two UAE channels UAE National Day campaigns and aimed at educating Emirati youth about their ethnic background and introducing Over recent years we’ve provided all manner of entertainment, from songs performed expatriate residents to the country, they were presented in both Arabic and English by Hussain Al Jasmi and our own talented staff members, to festively-dressed du and featured the values, traditions and customs that set the Emirates apart. stores across the country, where free UAE flags are handed out. We initiated an inter-department competition awarding the best three floors which came up with the most creative decorative themes that reflect the UAE culture. We’re proud to be 24 patriotic, and we want everyone else to get into the mood too! 25 Our community Our community The Imagine Cup; you win, we all win We want to encourage creativity and imaginative thinking, and by partnering with Microsoft’s Imagine Cup competition, that’s exactly what we're doing. Established in 2003, the Imagine Cup is a way for students to compete in developing technology. Over 325,000 took part last year! At stake is the prestigious Cup trophy and the chance for the winners to make a name for themselves in the technology market. Past winners have landed fantastic internships, or even started their own technology business. We help creative college students in the Gulf to create a new era of mobile applications, as part of the Mobile Development Software Design category. Teams that win the regional finals not only receive their prize, they receive a special bonus prize from us too! Our partnership has helped momEcare come to life. It’s a mobile application, a server at the United Nations and a website. It directs information on maternal health and treatment to pregnant women globally, and it allows direct contact for advice. Our management We believe it's vital for our senior staff to pass on their knowledge to aspiring future A story reading session by Kalimat Publishing employees. This is done through lectures at various universities around the country, where our senior staff members speak to students about their role and the industry. 2. Education Today’s youth are tomorrow’s leaders. So we're doing what we can to nurture and Partnership with Kalimat to promote the Arabic language develop creativity in our youngsters, so that the UAE of the future will continue to locally and regionally be a flourishing independent nation. We’re forever on the look-out for novel, creative We’ve teamed up with Kalimat, and academic ventures to assist, and so the list of establishments we support is known for publishing Arabic children’s constantly expanding. And what’s studying without the internet? We offer broadband books, in order to promote literacy to various educational establishments to help students study more effectively. in our national language while also The high-speed connectivity allows real-time video streaming and other online needs. fostering a love of Arabic language and literature. Our collaboration aims to nurture a passion for reading du media lab at Zayed University amongst youngsters. We’ve also To act on our vision of developing the most talented media professionals in the supported several local events, Middle East and North Africa region, we signed an agreement with the Minister such as book readings and signings, illustrators’ workshops and book fairs, of Higher Education and Scientific Research to provide a package of equipment and engaged our employees and their families too. and support for a multi-media laboratory at the College of Communication and Media Sciences in the Dubai and Abu Dhabi campus of Zayed University. We have A formal analysis of impact shows that this partnership helped in spreading a love of provided funding, technological support, the expertise of our executives and reading and of the Arabic language amongst children and families. Web traffic for the internship opportunities for the students. The Dubai branch launches later in project has increased. The facebook group has grown. During 2009 – 2010 Kalimat 2011 and we aim to repeat the initiative in Abu Dhabi next year. was present in 33 bookstores in the UAE and 29 stores in other Arab countries. New stores holding the publications in UAE include Giant Bookstore, Kan Yama Kan, Dar Al Hidaya, Mothercare and Toys R Us. Outside the UAE, stores are in Saudi Arabia, AUD and Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Jordan and Kuwait. Communication School In keeping with our aim for improving conditions for students across the UAE, Arabic language campaign we’ve partnered with the American University in Dubai (AUD) and Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid School for Communications (MBRSC), providing them with a high-speed, As part of an ongoing effort to promote the Arabic language throughout the UAE, 100 MB broadband internet connection to support the new multimedia programmes we undertook a campaign to correct commonly-used words which have been that the university offers. Our broadband will improve bandwidth-intense activities, misapplied in recent times. This ran throughout print media and on the radio to capture such as video streaming. the widest audience possible, promoting the proper usage of our national language. 26 27 Our community Our community Mohammed Saeed Harib: Entrepreneur, cultural heritage When we got wind of Freej, the Middle East’s first 3D-animated series, we knew we had to be part of it. In order to support the creator, Emirati Mohammed Saeed Harib, we offered him a deal and we haven’t looked back since. Meaning ‘neighbourhood’ in the Khaleeji dialect, Freej is a familyfocused show that tells the story of four old Emirati ladies, Um Saeed, Um Saloom, Um Allawi and Um Khammas, who live their lives in a traditional manner, in their secluded neighbourhood. Their values are continuously being challenged by the ever-expanding Dubai city, and the women must handle the social and cultural issues that come with an increasingly globalised society, which they do with a hearty dose of wit and irony and, of course, a good cup of coffee. Sheikh Majid Awards honouring young entrepreneurs Initiatives such as the Majid Bin Mohammed Youth Media Award Shelter Dubai are vital to the development of our country’s young people, and as 3. Stars of the future such we’re pleased to say that we’ve supported the effort since 2010. The next generation of Emirati media Shelter: incubating ideas professionals are nurtured and encouraged by such awards, and we The UAE is full of enterprising individuals like to think we’re inspiring them to be something more through participating in keen to make an impact on local society. such an event – it’s certainly a boost for them, as it gives them the opportunity So when Emirati twins Ahmad and Rashid to develop the skills needed to enter the media sector as knowledgeable, Bin Shabeeb developed their Shelter well-rounded professionals. initiative, we were more than eager to collaborate in order to give the budding entrepreneurs a boost. Initially based in Supporting the artistic talent within the UAE Dubai, Shelter has expanded across the We’re proudly associated with UAE and is now run out of the Maraya Art Centre in Sharjah. Other new locations our appointed brand ambassador, are now in the planning phase. We support Shelter in bringing entrepreneurs Ahmed Bukhatir, the popular together to get their strategies and plans off the ground. It’s unique in the region nasheed singer whose community as a community enterprise workspace. Information on training programmes, values are aligned with our own. regional conferences and other opportunities are readily available, alongside a café In Ramadan 2010 we collaborated and library. The facility is spawning green initiatives, energy-saving technologies during the launch of his album, and alternative energy projects. Recent events in 2010 and 2011 have welcomed Moments with Allah. Proceeds from 250 people in total. www.shelter.ae downloads of the album were donated Since 2009 Shelter has issued more than 100 day passes per week, and 600 to charity. We recognise there is an abundance of talent in the UAE, some of annual memberships. Graduates of Shelter are equipped with the skills and which is already known, and some of which is simply waiting to be discovered. connections to move on to bigger and better opportunities within the region; We’re keen to help all gifted Emiratis make a name for themselves. for example a World Wide Fund for Nature local hub and the Duplays Internet Sport and Social website. Follow us on Twitter @shelterdxb and @shelterMaraya 28 29 Our community Our community Our fund raising for humanitarian causes The extent of our community projects reaches beyond the borders of the UAE, as we strive to help needy communities overseas, too. Humanitarian causes in various countries have been the focus of fundraising initiatives, with money going to the Red Crescent society, which distributes to those most in need. We've donated to the Pakistan earthquake/flood appeal, Gaza humanitarian support, and the recent Somalia famine relief (see p11). Promoting health in society Pink Ribbon Walkathon Our Pink Ribbon Week raised funds and awareness for breast cancer. Our Safe and Sound Pink Ribbon Walkathon has grown into a successful annual event, thanks to the commitment of our employees and their families to raising 2011 blood donation campaign (Drop of Life) awareness and funds for breast cancer. Everyone who participates 4. Developing our society pays a contribution to the cause. Drop of Life (Yearly blood donation campaigns) Musahama Our Drop of Life campaign was It’s all about lending a hand. supported by more than 500 Musahama (www.musahama.ae) employees, 265 of which were blood is our guide to the non-governmental donors in 2011 (up from 33 in 2008). organisations (NGOs) of the UAE, The event was run with the Blood a simple platform for information on Donation Centre at Al Wasl Hospital, NGOs and voluntary work within the Dubai. 29 employee volunteers country. We launched it along with helped give a total of 80 hours to the the UAE’s Ministry of Social Affairs event. Thalassemia patients were in 2009. It’s off to a good start and the recipients of 60% of the donated has stimulated some highly interactive workshops that teach the NGOs how to blood, while the rest was used by the Trauma Centre. 90% of participating get the most out of it. employees said they’d gladly do it again next year! What made this campaign even more special is that we took ten thalassemic kids Zayed Giving Initiative to a day out at Kidzania edutainment centre. Some of our senior management In line with the principles established by the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan al Nahyan, joined the fun as well and enjoyed fun activities with the children. the founder of the UAE, and continued by HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed al Nahyan, President of the UAE, the Zayed Giving Initiative has made significant humanitarian contributions to the local and international community since its inception in 2003. More than 50,000 volunteers who have helped over 100 million people in Arab and African countries through a number of voluntary and humanitarian programmes. The Zayed Giving Initiative is a massive contributor to community services and volunteer work throughout the health, education, environment and culture sectors. At its core are two separate programmes: a sustainable development training initiative and a volunteering guidance offering. As part of our commitment to giving back to our society, we supported the Zayed Giving Initiative by supporting the organisation’s Abu Dhabi CSR Conference 2010 as the Official Telecom Partner. The conference’s aim was to create awareness of the strategic advantages of sustainable development. 30 31 Our community Our community Our economic contribution Expatriate labour We work tirelessly to contribute to the UAE economy and our main contribution Our social development activities are inclusive. We engage regularly with expatriate has, of course, been the creation of jobs by establishing a significant labour communities through sports events, road shows and drop-in centres. telecommunications company. A key contribution to our national and local During the Alo launch (p37) we organised outdoor movies and sports activities at economy has also been through our Emiratisation programme described on p14. various labour settlements. We sponsored a cricket tournament run by the Dubai Around half of our senior management team and ‘front of house’ staff are labour community’s labour committee attended by 800 construction workers UAE nationals and our new call centre in Fujairah is 100% Emirati-run. Overall, from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and other nations. Joining them was the Director we're 23% Emiratised, with a target to increase this to 38% by the end of 2015. General of the Dubai Naturalisation and Residency Department, other government Our Masar Graduate Training Programme equips young nationals with the skills officials and several of our colleagues. A kiosk was set up at the tournament to offer for a career with us. In June 2010 we awarded our first franchise licence to AST players a chance to pick up Alo prepaid mobile SIM packs, designed specifically Telecom LLC, to open a licensed du store in Dubai. The deal was made through to meet the needs of the UAE’s expatriate labour workforce. A total of 77 players the Hamdan Bin Mohammed Bin Rashid Programme for Young Business Leaders participated in seven teams. Players from the winning teams received mobile with the aim of boosting entrepreneurship among young Emiratis. This first-ofhandsets and other prizes from us for their ‘pitch-perfect’ efforts. its-kind franchise scheme is in line with our Emiratisation strategy, giving local entrepreneurs the chance to develop our country's SME business sector, thereby enabling them to contribute to the UAE's economy. We have seven franchise Radio frequency fields partners operating ten franchise locations with five more under construction. We use state-of-the-art technologies which In our model, 70% of the franchising is owned by local partners. In total 101 sales ensure our base stations operate well within executives are employed. the International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) safety guidelines. A country’s telecommunications infrastructure is important as clean air and The locations of our masts and transmission fresh water. It’s certainly part of UAE’s overall strategy to attract businesses sites are governed by Telecommunications and tourism: the economic growth of a country is related to its ‘tele-density’. Regulatory Authority (TRA) regulations. A recent We're recognised for our excellence in delivering business value through IT. survey by TRA, as part of the Non-Ionising Our technological contribution is significant, ranging from 2G and 3G investment, Radiation (NIR) Technical Survey Project, found setting up the fastest IP core infrastructure in the Middle East, broadband in the that our base stations adhere to international Dubai Metro and wireless connectivity at key sporting events. best practice and don't emit electro-magnetic fields beyond the permissible levels. Sites were Our royalty payments surveyed at random but the study focused on particularly sensitive areas near schools, Our payment of royalties to the Federal Government became effective in January 2010. playgrounds, hospitals and maternity centres. As the year ended on 31 December 2010, the royalties were payable at 15% of our These results are also in line with the view of the net profit before any distribution which translated into over AED 183 million paid as World Health Organization (WHO) which declares royalty. The ongoing royalties for subsequent years will be advised to the company no convincing scientific evidence that the weak in due course. signals from base stations and wireless networks cause adverse health effects. Nonetheless we remain vigilant and our performance will continue to improve as we modernise our equipment and introduce new services. Disguised masts blend with the environment. 32 33 Our customers Creating a real and honest dialogue We launched our mobile services across the UAE in 2007 followed by fixed telephony services in 2008. We also provide internet, fixed line and pay TV services to selected residential and business clusters in Dubai. In 2010, we had over 4.7 million mobile customers. Mobile and fixed line subscriptions are up 22% and 25% respectively since 2010; our share of the mobile market is approaching 50%. We have an open dialogue through social media platforms and reach our customers via monthly e-newsletters. Our corporate customers are invited to our Business Leadership annual events to discuss fresh insights into modern enterprise. We run customer advisory boards at least twice a year; the last Executive Insights event in 2010 attracted 40 business leaders to discuss customer behaviour and expectations. Finally, our Business Xchange ICT forums for CIOs focus on cost, quality and customer satisfaction. Facts and figures • Innovation at work: state-of-the-art mobile health services. • Pioneering responsible marketing approaches to disadvantaged customers. • Serious attention to preserving customer privacy. • Education on content standards to help parents protect children. Key issues In this section • Product innovation 36 Product innovation and innovative offerings • Responsible marketing and 37 Responsible marketing – special customer needs disadvantaged customers 38 Privacy and security (data protection) • Privacy 38 Anti-spam policy • Content standards 39 Content standards 39 eBilling 35 Our customers Our customers Product innovation and innovative offerings We’ve introduced several firsts to the nation: a number booking campaign Mobile health is cost effective and attractively priced – typically around AED 1 a day. for individuals and business at the early stage of launching our mobile services, It allows innovation in how to manage care and helps cut public healthcare costs. Pay by the Second billing system, Mobile TV, Mobile payments and an innovative Remote monitoring reduces hospital visits and waiting times. In a survey of recharge card (called WoW) that gives you four recharging options. We're proud doctors, 88% said they would like patients to monitor their health at home; to be amongst the first in the world to introduce the fastest network of 42 Mbps. tracking weight, blood sugar, blood pressure and exercise levels. Healthcare We're also playing our part as an Emirati company and have introduced an Emirati trends including ageing population, stroke, cardiac disease and increasingly mobile plan a plan, which is tailored to meet the specific needs and lifestyle of UAE stretched healthcare services, are all areas that can derive direct and significant nationals. However, our role doesn't end there. We actually donate 5% of our users' benefits if technology solutions around telemedicine can be built with partners. monthly fee to a social cause within the UAE. For business customers, we're the first If we want ‘care anywhere’ to be a reality, then you’ll see that telecommunications worldwide to offer bandwidth on demand for our enterprise clients, along with the can make it happen (See also p11). first video network operating centre (VNOC) in the UAE. We're concerned about the environmental and cost implications of frequent business travel, so we launched Business Omnipresence, a technology that enables video conferencing across 75% believe that mobile technology will be used in healthcare by 2015 the world. Our closed Business User Group, a Preferred International Destinations and 72% believe that most health insurers will pay for mHealth (Informa services and a range of segmented propositions are some of our offerings to large Telecoms and Media and 3G Doctor, 2009, sample 1800). enterprises and SMEs that help them increase productivity as well as save costs. With our wireless technology, users of Dubai Metro can enjoy seamless connectivity In 2011 we prepared the new UAE national programme “Your Health on the go. Our Broadcast Services division brings scalable media technology in Your Hands” to coincide with Women’s International Health Week. platforms and solutions to the broadcasting community through our teleport partner Launching the programme, his Excellency Dr. Hanif Hassan Ali Al Qassim, Samacom and our Master Control Room facilities. Every company wants to grow UAE Minister of Health, said “The Ministry welcomes such important and be profitable, but we're committed to doing so responsibly. Reliable networks, ideas and initiatives that aim to enhance health and awareness among clear pricing, privacy protection and customer safety are paramount – responsible UAE nationals and residents”. marketing is about earning trust and making decisions in line with our values. We're committed to water-tight protection of the personal data of our customers. Innovative technologies: video conferencing Our new video conferencing service offers corporate customers more convenience Mobile health has arrived and a cost-effective solution for business communication and collaboration. Over the last two years we have injected a boost into how we help our customers And at-home video conferencing over IP will allow family members far apart to maintain or improve their health. The aim of our mobile health programme (mHealth) connect through the TV screen, bringing the telecommunications experience alive is to give life-saving information over the fastest network in the region. Mobile phones and making it fun for everyone. and medical help are more joined up than ever before. Doctors reach patients electronically. Information is shared more effectively between employers and Responsible marketing; special customer needs insurers. Healthcare delivery is more connected. Consumers are better informed about medical services and they are taking more responsibility for health. We offer Echo of Silence: The Telecommunication Regulatory Authority (TRA) and Ministry three key mobile health services (see graphic): of Social Development launched the Echo of Silence project to help those with hearing and speech disabilities to integrate further into society using advanced • Health Text: offers text-based tips, suggestions and advice for a healthy lifestyle. technologies and training programmes. Naturally we opted to get on board and du customers can subscribe to Quit Smoke, Live Well and Lose Weight. offer our customers and the community the opportunity to keep in touch and gain • Health Call: the UAE’s first 24/7 medical call centre with US company Mobile more freedom and independence in their lives. Doctors 24/7 offers round-the-clock access to a qualified doctor for immediate Alo: We all like to be taken care of, help and ongoing hospital advice. especially when we’re working away • Health Link: remote monitoring systems in the management of chronic illnesses from home. The large expatriate labour such as diabetes, obesity and respiratory and cardio-vascular conditions. community in the UAE has different needs resulting from more limited economic and educational means. Smart Health© We worked with the Permanent Committee of Labour Affairs in Dubai to create Alo; a unique, easy and Health Text Health Call Health Link convenient Pay as you Go® service that helps people to stay in touch with their loved ones here and back home. It’s a prepaid mobile line designed to address the communication needs of the labour SMS-based wellness and Mobile Doctor 24/7 Chronic care remote community in the UAE. The Alo brand was developed according to the diverse cultural lifestyle content services Physician call centre Health Management outlooks and lifestyles: no lump sum upfront or renewal fees are charged. They pay smaller amounts monthly, and an initial credit of AED 10 is included. All calls are Launched with Strategic partnership Our pilot partnership World Health Day being implemented with Ericsson charged by the second and not rounded off to the next minute. SIM cards are free. Such labourers come from different countries so language can be a major barrier 36 37 Our customers Our customers for them. So we operate Alo in five languages (Arabic, English, Hindi, Bengali and Anti-spam Malayalam). Users of Alo can access a free helpline to the Permanent Committee of We launched our anti-spam filter in 2011 in compliance with the TRA enhancement Labour Affairs in Dubai. The labour committee will also keep in touch by providing of the National Anti-Spam Filter. Every consumer and enterprise mobile customer them with notifications, changes in labour laws and news via SMS. We also set up is entitled to: kiosks where they’re needed in the labour communities of Sonapor and Jebel Ali. Finally, if users are out of credit then they can make two national calls that could be • Automatic spam blocking – where we strive to filter all spam messages to the charged next time a top-up is made. best of our ability. • Manual, personalised blocking of spam – giving the customer the flexibility to block Our Alo customers are from those bothersome messages. This service is free of charge and is available to all our mobile subscribers by default. It’s all part of our efforts to improve the customer experience. 1% India 1% Pakistan Bangladesh 2% A safety net for young and vulnerable customers Nepal Philippines 41% 2% Threats evolve quickly and are eternally updated so we're constantly reviewing Egypt our approaches to safe telecommunications and internet use. “We appreciate all Sri Lanka 5% We aim to educate parents on safe social networking, illegal content, the support we Afghanistan cyber bullying, and the risk of publishing personal information online. have received from There are a number of steps we take to ensure compliance with fundamental du as our partners 23% content standards: in this pioneering initiative to better • We hold regular meetings with the NMC (National Media Council) fulfil the needs of the in order to stay up-to-date with their guidelines. labour workforce. 25% We're committed to • We receive approval on all new content activities through the TRA. improving the quality • Content censoring is also conducted in line with TRA regulations. of life of the labour segment in the UAE, • Competitions and promotions are approved by our specialists. whose valuable Privacy and security for data protection • All Islamic content is checked with ICAD (Islamic Affairs and Charitable contribution to Activities Department). nation-building We protect your privacy through a series of security measures that help prevent we recognise unauthorised access to your data. These security measures help to protect • We provide parental control, allowing parents to hide or lock TV stations and appreciate. against the loss, misuse and alteration of any information we're responsible for. they don't want their children to access. With the launch of We'll never ask you for personal information, including credit card details, via email. Alo we have also If you encounter any such emails, please report this to customer.care@du.ae opened a new line We offer a wide range of simple and pragmatic advice on how to protect one’s of communication eBilling to help simplify your life own privacy and that of others. Respect for privacy is an integral part of our Security between the labour Standards Global Security Policy. Specifically, we comply with TRA requirements Our electronic billing system offers a new, easy and paperless option for our workforce and our on the protection of personal data. Responsible marketing guides ensure that customers to receive their bills. Bills are now online, payments too. eBilling is committee and we're environmentally responsible, too. No printing, no paper and no postage can mean personal data is never used for commercial purposes unless customers have given here to listen to their lower environmental impact. their consent. Customers receive a comprehensive range of security solutions feedback. We highly recommend Alo to all that help facilitate electronic exchanges whilst providing end-to-end protection. With an average of four pages per paper-based consumer bill, our 400,000 the companies who Practical advice is regularly dispensed to customers to heighten their awareness of postpaid customers would consume 19 million sheets of paper. employ such expat risks and promote safe, responsible uses that will help protect their personal data. http://www.du.ae/en/bill-payments/e-bill labour workers.” Private individuals and business may consult the “Protecting yourself” guidance or our Business Services Security blog with information on security issues and allows General Mohammed experts to discuss their experiences and best practice. A number of articles and Ahmad Al Marri, videos have been posted, to raise awareness among internet users of safe use of Chairman of the social networking sites. We're pleased to report that we face no investigation for Permanent Committee of Labour Affairs (Dubai) complaints relating to breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data. 38 39 Our environment Our environment sustains our lives and must be protected for future generations We’re committed to minimising our impact on the environment at a local, regional and global level. Environmental stewardship for us is a story of formalising the great initiatives and programmes initiated since 2007 into a cohesive approach that allows us to monitor progress along the way. We’re in the early stages of introducing a systematic programme for improving our environmental performance. We’re complying with all relevant legislation and we’re seeking to achieve continual improvement in our performance, focused on our two key impact areas: energy and waste. We aim to review how we gather relevant data over the coming year, to ensure we have robust systems in place. Other areas such as water conservation and responsible sourcing will be increasingly covered in our approach. Efficient use of energy is a high priority across our operations. Efficiency gains are helped by, for example, careful temperature control of base stations and energy management in our offices. We’re improving our understanding of where we are on energy efficiency and we’re installing alternative sources at many of our sites. We believe that there’s an important role for businesses to play in helping reduce waste in the UAE, and we’re committed to playing our part. Crucial to this are good management systems, partnerships and supplier engagement. On greening our offices and retail outlets, we’re increasing awareness through the company to give all colleagues the opportunity to understand and act on waste, recycling, energy efficiency and other sustainability choices. Facts and figures • 50% energy savings from smart energy management on sites. • AED 2 million investment on solar initiatives. • 33.7 tonnes of waste recycled in the first half of 2011 at our main offices in Dubai. Key issues In this section • Management approach 42 Energy; a top priority • Energy 43 Cutting waste • Waste 45 A greener office • Green offices 45 External campaigns 41 Our environment Our environment Energy consumption Solar solution for Sir Bu Nair base station Our energy management initiatives must reduce energy consumption, use We have a fully functional, solar-powered sustainable technologies and find new ways to promote sustainable development. project on Sir Bu Nair Island. We're looking Our top priority over the coming year is to establish a robust baseline of energy for opportunities to introduce solar power consumption data, starting with our offices. Over the next year we will review how energy generation equipment in our networks, we apply this to our other operations; for example network facilities and equipment. particularly at remote sites which are off the electricity grid. Using solar power at these Long-term aim: Improve energy efficiency, cut energy costs and reduce greenhouse sites will reduce or eliminate the need for diesel gas emissions. generators, resulting in significant energy and Short-term focus: Understand our current status, know where the gaps are, set up systematic management approaches. CO2 savings. Progress: Currently we're at the ‘take-off’ stage in our work, piloting important projects, showing positive initial results. Following its switch-over in 2011, Sir Bu Nair Island was the first site in our network to Target In 2010 use solar power. We're planning to use solar Reduce our fleet energy use and We're reviewing our target on this ongoing. power at two more sites in 2011 and four carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by more sites by the end of 2012. In total we're switching vehicle types hired. spending more than AED 2 million on these Solar Solution for initiatives, but we expect to achieve payback To obtain a baseline level of energy Work continues at our warehouse, DAC 8/9 and consumption for office facilities. Al Salam offices, as a baseline. Energy use levels Sir Bu Nair Island base station on this investment within 4 to 10 years, sourced from meter readings ongoing. depending on the loads required at each site. Cutting waste A lower carbon vehicle fleet Long-term aim: Reduce waste from our operations, and enable increased recycling of our We use a lot of road-based business travel and logistics. As part of our energy customers’ waste. reduction work, we're reviewing how to reduce CO2 emissions and the target Short-term focus: Understand our current status, know where the gaps are, set up a systematic management approach. we should apply (see targets table). For example, we're examining the use Progress: Previous programmes show pockets of good results, we're formalising our of lower emission fleet vehicles: a fleet management business partner has been approach to waste management, working with suppliers on active projects, and seeing some selected because they offer more efficient engines. We anticipate reporting further strong employee and customer engagement. progress in our next report. Target In 2010 Energy efficient networks To recycle at least 50% of old Programme focus is on offices and network printer cartridges. operations only ongoing. By the end of 2012, we will have a hybrid power system and smart energy management controllers in place at more than 100 of our base transceiver station To recycle at least 50% of old This is to be calculated on the number of cartridges (BTS) sites. This is expected to reduce our fuel consumption by more than 50%. printer cartridges. purchased against the number recycled. As a minimum 50% must be recycled through The hybrid solution consists of a new, more energy efficient generator, backed a recycling programme ongoing. up with a series of storage batteries. Power is supplied in two cycles, either by the generator, or by the batteries. This process is governed by the smart controller To implement recycling programme We're obtaining procurement figures for paper to optimise efficiency. Given the fuel savings, the approach should yield cost for wastes (paper/plastics, cans, for the identified sites ongoing. bottles etc.). To attain at least a 50% savings of more than 35%, and will pay for itself within 3 years! Most importantly, recycling of paper waste for office the system is expected to reduce energy consumption by up to 50%, resulting in facilities and warehouse. significant reductions in CO2 and other emissions. To identify and establish a mechanism Collect and record all the data and proof of good Mobile phone base stations require air conditioning to keep equipment cool to handle eWastes/ Hazardous disposal on waste management for hazardous enough to work properly. Working with our equipment suppliers, Nokia Siemens wastes generated, by recycling or wastes identified through facility maintenance safe disposal methods. services ongoing. Networks, we worked out that temperatures in our base stations can safely be raised from 23° to 30° Celsius, saving up to 20% energy in the process. We have quite a story in the UAE and a great opportunity as a company to make a difference. The UAE faces one of the world’s highest per capita waste production levels. For example, Abu Dhabi’s average annual per capita household waste stands at 730kg, with Dubai following closely at 725kg. This compares to 450kg per capita for the United States, and 270kg for Japan. Much is being done by local municipalities to improve recycling and waste minimisation. 42 43 Our environment Our environment Our intention is to address this challenge and support meaningful initiatives. A greener office Across our operations we’re introducing measures that aim to reduce, reuse We’re working with our supplier Hewlett Packard (HP) to recycle at least 50% of and recycle the amount of waste generated. Our recycling programme is one our old printer cartridges. Going beyond this, we’re also looking to tackle paper example of this. Recycling is just one simple act that triggers awareness in all of us. overuse in our offices by introducing double-sided printing as the default option Although there are national regulations in the UAE to encourage recycling, across all printers. We’re targeting a 30% reduction in the use of paper and plastic our employees are delivering their side of the bargain by increasing their amount beverage cups by the end of 2011, by offering ceramic coffee mugs to staff and of recycling. Over the coming year we will review the feasibility of gathering data changing our vending machines to include ‘no cup’ options. We’re also aiming on the amount of waste generated by our offices and network facilities, and how to implement a company-wide recycling programme for office facilities and our much of this waste is recycled. “There is a need for warehouse to recycle at least 50% of paper waste. Throughout our offices we’re On hazardous and electronic wastes, we have a target to obtain data on all us to do our part to sensitised to the need to conserve water resources – a clear issue for the hazardous waste removed from our offices and warehouses by the end of 2011. help decrease the UAE, where private businesses are developing a number of initiatives. Employees are We’re investigating the possibilities of using specialist licensed suppliers to manage amount of waste also increasingly being made aware of the electronic waste minimisation and recycling all such wastes, by using recycling or safe disposal as appropriate. The supply chain going into landfills options available. Outside the office, at the six careers fairs we have run in 2011 so far, project in progress involves collection, storage, data cleaning, reuse and disposal. across the UAE. we’ve provided electronic means for candidates to provide their CV details. You can make a What we do with our waste difference through External campaigns the smallest of Earth Hour: We support Earth Hour, the global initiative to engage people on things – recycling the issues of climate change and the wastage of resources. Dubai was the first • Reuse envelopes, use address labels. just one tonne of Arab city to declare support for Earth Hour. Thousands of people took part • Minimise use of disposables. paper avoids enough in a ‘Lantern Parade’ in Dubai from 8 9pm on 29 March 2008 to mark the • Provide can crushers. garbage to fill two event. During the hour-long event, exterior lights were switched off on Dubai’s • Use cleaning products cautiously. telephone booths, famous landmark – the Burj Al Arab – while the streetlights on certain roads were and enables more dimmed. We sent an SMS to all of our 1.4 million mobile subscribers on that date, • Set up a green ideas scheme and offer prizes. paper to be made encouraging them to participate in this event. • Recycle all waste paper (with Union Paper Mills). from the same Clean up the World: We were honoured for our participation in this campaign at • Recycle toner cartridges (with HP Planet wood fibre.” a special ceremony hosted by the Dubai Municipality. The campaign was designed Partners programme). to inform and engage people in environmental programmes and activities • Recycle glass, metal, packaging, flourescent tubes, Hala Badri, organised by the Municipality. It ran from 18 21 November 2008 and the event batteries, furniture, IT. Executive Vice President, Brand and attracted 20,000 volunteers from 309 private sector organisations. Together we • Use recycled paper. Communications collected more than 4,150 tonnes of waste! • Print and copy double-sided. World Environment Day: We celebrated the United Nations World Environment Day (WED) in June 2010 with our ‘For a Better Tomorrow’ campaign. We pushed this message hard; cotton bags replaced plastic bags in our retail outlets from that day in June last year. http://www.unep.org/wed/ We recycled 33.7 tonnes of waste in our HQ Figures January June 2011 Paper Recycling: During 2008 we took part in the Emirates Environment Group’s National Recycling Campaign. And we came first in two categories: paper and cans! We contributed a total of 14,790kg of paper, twice as much as Aldar who came second with 7470kg. 35% In the can collection campaign, we won first place with a total of 80kg, three times more than City Centre Hotel with their total of 26kg. 63% Cardboard 1% Plastic Mixed recyclables Waste paper 1% 44 45 External Review Using the Global Statement Reporting Initiative (GRI) It is well known that GRI’s Application Levels indicate the extent to which the GRI Guidelines have been applied in a report. They communicate which part of the Reporting Framework has been addressed – which set of disclosures – varying with the different levels (see table). Application Levels reflect the degree of transparency in reporting, they do not give an opinion on the sustainable development Scope performance of the reporting organisation, nor the quality of the report. Our report Two Tomorrows was asked by du to provide a Review Statement, summarising our observations on the company’s first Sustainable Development Report, and suitability meets Application Level C of GRI G3.1 – this assessment has been checked by a third of reporting and data collection systems for assurance in future reporting years. party. Our GRI Index is available on our website, and will help act as a gateway Two Tomorrows was engaged by du to advise on the structure and contents, gather information and write the report. This statement is not intended to provide assurance to our sustainable development reporting. over the report contents. Observations on the report This first Sustainable Development Report marks an important first step in the evolution of du. It’s a demonstration of du’s intentions as a responsible company that aims for positive impacts on societies, economies and the environment. Report application level C C+ B B+ A A+ du have recognised the essential importance of ensuring that the report reflects all of the most relevant issues for the business, and its stakeholders. The involvement of the Board of Directors in the process for agreeing on the relative materiality of issues to be included in the report demonstrates the commitment of du to producing a complete and balanced account G3 Profile Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement OUTPUT of their performance. Disclosures 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B 2.1 2.10 1.2 The process of reporting can be a catalyst for change. du plans to build on its current 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 understanding of stakeholder expectations and concerns, by conducting additional dialogue 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 with representatives of specific stakeholder groups. Future reports could articulate how the company understands stakeholder viewpoints on key performance issues and strategy. This could be achieved through inclusion of observations and quotes from representatives of stakeholder groups on specific issues, to illustrate the outputs of dialogue between the Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured company and its stakeholders during the year. Standard disclosures We confirm that we have checked that the report meets the requirements of the GRI G3.1 Not required Management approach Management approach Guidelines, Application Level C. G3 Management disclosures for each disclosures for each OUTPUT Approach indicator category indicator category Observations on the suitability of reporting and data collection systems for assurance in Disclosures future reporting years It is understood that du intends to obtain independent assurance over the contents of future sustainable development reports. This is a very positive objective, and demonstrates the company’s commitment to complete, accurate and balanced reporting. In preparation, we recommend that du considers developing a clear set of key performance measures, and associated targets. The process for agreeing on these measures and targets will need to ensure the commitment of all relevant business units. We recommend that arrangements Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Report on each for collating energy consumption data should be introduced across the company as a matter G3 Performance of 10 performers of 20 performance core G3 and sector of priority, to enable reporting of performance in future years. Enhancements to the systems indicators, including at indicators, at least one supplement* indicator OUTPUT for collating other performance data can also be progressively introduced. Indicators & Sector least one from each of: from each of economic, with due regard to the With these steps, du will continue to be seen at the forefront of sustainable development Supplement economic, social and environmental, human materiality principle reporting amongst telecommunications sector companies in the region. Performance environmental. rights, labour, society, by either: a) reporting Indicators product responsibility on the indicator or b) Two Tomorrows Group Limited explaining the reason for its omission. August 2011 Two Tomorrows is an international consultancy that helps companies to *Sector supplement in final version perform better and create value by doing business in Jon Woodhead a sustainable way. Group Director 46 www.twotomorrows.com 47 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Recognition As a signatory to the UNGC since 2008, we present in our report selected information that shows how we implement the ten principles 2011 relating to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption • Award for excellence in procurement practice: Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply. that are core principles to the UNGC. The UNGC requires a Communication On Progress (COP) to encourage companies • HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Patrons of the Arts. to fulfil social responsibility goals and to promote stakeholder • Network Security Project of the year award: Network World Middle East Awards. engagement. Our Sustainable Development Report is created in • Best Social Media Campaign Award for Ramadan: Internet show. accordance with the COP regulations. We will continue our efforts to enhance the reporting level for each principle. Central to our COP are our decision-making processes and systems of governance for 2010 corporate sustainable development, our community and employee • Abu Dhabi CSR Conference Award. stakeholder engagement and our Board level participation in the reporting materiality process. The complete COP can be found • HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Patrons of the Arts Award in recognition for projects such as Shelter, Freej and Life in the UAE. on our website. • Innovative Project of the Year, awarded by Cisco Networkers: Mobility for Dubai Metro – WiFi Solution. • Recognised as a UAE Superbrand. • Motorola’s Global Telecom Business Award for Metropolitan Infrastructure Innovation. • Dubai Women’s College Employer of the Year Award. • iCMG Security Architecture Excellence Award. • Awarded first place: EEG’s paper recycling campaign competition. • Rated fifth in the region in the S&P/Hawkamah ‘regional corporate governance’ rating. • Recognised by Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) as supporters of Dubai Award for Sustainable Transport. 2009 • Lifetime Achievement Award for our CEO: CommsMEA Awards. 2007 • Best Brand: Telecoms World Awards Middle East. • Gold Award for Best Art and Cultural Event: Middle East Event Awards. 48 49
