CSR Report 2011 ic e ! e ls so n r in th e ri ve r fe l w a te T h e co o C le a n a n d co o l! It fe e ls so good! Editorial Policy Lion views its CSR Report as an important tool allowing the ● Third-party reviews by outside experts have been included to Company to communicate its CSR initiatives and draw on provide an objective assessment of the report. ● The booklet has been certified as a Color Universal Design and stakeholder opinions while furthering corporate activities. CSR Report 2011 details adhere to the following compiled to reach as many people as possible in an easy-toeditorial policy. understand manner (Japanese only). ■ The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007) of the Japanese ● The role of CSR communication tools was reaffirmed by opinions Ministry of the Environment and the Sustainability Reporting voiced in the “Third-Party Review” of CSR Report 2010 and Guidelines (2006) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were the Stakeholder Dialogue. Lion aims to provide stakeholders a referenced during compilation and editing of the report. choice of tools in consideration of their objectives, focusing on ■ All pages of the report and past reports are available on Lion’s the coverage, the message (Lion’s unique CSR activity), and the website (the GRI Content Index is also provided). appearance (easy-to-understand at the intuitive level). URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/html/soc_csrf.htm ● The CSR Report explains Lion’s approach to CSR and reports ■ Lion publishes a Site Report that introduces the environmental on activities during 2010, primarily CSR initiatives undertaken activities of each individual business location for residents living in through business activities. Coverage is expanded on the vicinity of our facilities and plant tour participants. Company’s website. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/ (Japanese only) ● Lion celebrates its 120th anniversary in 2011 and two special Environmental data for overseas plants is available on the features “Culture Bearer for Oral Hygiene” and “Culture Bearer for Company website. Cleanliness” look at the history of the Company’s contribution to URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/html/soc_csrf.htm society through business, and provide insight into future activities. CSR Communication Tools CSR Report Website (CSR Section) The purpose of the CSR Report is to communicate what The aim of the CSR section of Lion’s website is to ensure corporate social responsibility (CSR) means to Lion and to timely and appropriate disclosure of information required outline Lion’s CSR activities. It provides an overview of the by customers, experts and all other stakeholders. As well as Lion’s approach to CSR and describes activities carried out providing more detail than the booklet, the website is also during 2010. Contents covered in greater detail on the designed for greater visual appeal. Company website are marked with a Web . URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ (Japanese only) CONTENTS 【Coverage】 Social aspects of this report deal mainly with Lion Corporation. Corporate Data… ……………………………………………… 2 Environmental data coverage extends to the entire Lion Group. Message from the President… …………………………………… 4 Lion Group Lion Corporation, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., Lion Packaging Co., Lion and CSR………………………… 6 Ltd., Lion Engineering Co., Ltd., Lion Dental Products Co., Ltd., Lion Trading Co., Ltd., Lion Hygiene Co., Ltd., Lion Business Service Co., Stakeholder Dialogue… …………… 9 Ltd., Lion Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Lion Logistics Service Co., Ltd., Lion Cordial Support Co., Ltd., Issua Co., Ltd., Ipposha Oil Industries Special Features… ……………… 10 Co., Ltd., Lion Akzo Co., Ltd. Special Feature 1: Culture Bearer for Oral Hygiene… ……………… 10 Special Feature 2: Culture Bearer for Cleanliness…………………… 14 【Period Covered】 January 1-December 31, 2010 (In places, activity reports refer to 2011 initiatives.) CSR Management………………… 18 Corporate Governance / Establishment of Internal Control Systems / Risk Management / Information Security / Promoting Compliance Customers and Lion……………… 20 Maximizing Customer Satisfaction / Approach to Safety and Reliability / Responding to VOC Employees and Lion……………… 24 Approach to Utilization of Human Resources / Human Resource Diversity / Promoting Work-Life Balance / Human Resource Development / Employee Health Management / Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives Shareholders/Investors and Lion…… 30 Information Disclosure and Communication Business Partners and Lion……… 32 Realizing Sustainable Procurement / Evaluating Raw Material Suppliers from a CSR Perspective / Fair Transactions with Manufacturing Partners / Teaming Up with Competitors on Delivery / Working with Wholesalers and Retailers on Store Presentations Society and Lion… ……………… 34 Lion’s Social Contribution Activities / Promotion of Skywater Harvesting / Lion Forest in Yamanashi — A Five-Year Review / Social Contribution Activities (2010) / Activities of Lion Foundation for Dental Health / Contributing to Society through Products The Environment and Lion… …… 38 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions……………………………… 44 Eco Leaflet Effectively Using and Recycling Resources… ……………………… 45 Considering the Environment from a Product-Oriented Perspective…… 46 The compact Eco Leaflet explains Lion’s environmental Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances……………………… 50 activities to customers and all other stakeholders in a Fostering Environmental Awareness within the Lion Group straightforward manner using diagrams and illustrations. and Environmental Communication… …………………………… 51 (Japanese only) Biodiversity Initiatives… ………………………………………… 52 Third-Party Review… …………………………………………… 54 Editorial Note… ………………………………………………… 55 CSR Report 2011 1 Corporate Data Corporate Name Lion Corporation ● Financial Summary (Consolidated) Address 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Net Sales Japan (million yen) Foundation October 30, 1891 400,000 Capital ¥34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2010) 341,717 338,236 350,000 330,380 321,947 331,100 President Sadayoshi Fujishige 300,000 Employees Consolidated: 5,972 Non-consolidated: 2,456 (as of December 31, 2010) 250,000 Net Sales Consolidated: ¥331,100 million 200,000 Non-consolidated: ¥255,760 million (for the term 150,000 ended December 2010) 100,000 Plants Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant 50,000 (Odawara City), Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) Research Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Honjo (Sumida-ku), Odawara Facilities (Odawara City), Fukushima(Yabuki-cho) Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka Operating Income (million yen) 12,000 10,036 10,500 10,000 8,905 ● Net Sales Breakdown by Business 8,277 8,000 Other businesses Health Care Products 6,000 ¥6.6 billion（2.0%） ¥133.6 billion（40.4%） 4,000 Chemical Products 2,000 ¥25.0 billion（7.6%） 343 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) Household Products Oral Care Products ¥165.6 billion ¥58.9 billion （17.8%） （50.0%） Ordinary Income Living Care Products (million yen) Consolidated Beauty Care Products 12,000 11,795 ¥45.2 billion net sales (2010): ¥34.3 billion 11,145 （13.6%） 10,104 ¥331.1 billion （10.4%） 10,000 Pharmaceutical 8,000 7,603 Fabric Care Products Products ¥120.4 billion ¥40.4 billion 6,000 （36.4%） （12.2%） 4,000 2,427 2,000 ● Net Sales Breakdown by Location 0 Rest of Asia 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) ¥50.2 billion （15.2%） Net Income (million yen) Consolidated 7,000 net sales (2010): 6,041 6,000 5,540 5,423 5,465 ¥331.1 billion 5,000 4,000 Japan 3,040 3,000 ¥280.8 billion （84.8%） 2,000 1,000 * National and regional categories are based on geographical proximity. * Major countries in Asia other than Japan are, Thailand, Korea, and China. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) 2 CSR Report 2011 ● Main Lines of Business Advanced oral care products to help customers stay healthy Oral Care Products Main Product Categories Toothpastes, toothbrushes, mouthwashes, and other dental products Health Care Products Hair and skin care products for health and comfort of body and mind Beauty Care Products Main Product Categories Shampoos, conditioners, hair-styling products, hair-nourishment treatments, hand soaps, body washes, men’s cosmetics, and antiperspirants Pharmaceutical Products A well-rounded range of brands to meet growing self-care needs Main Product Categories Analgesics, cold remedies, eye-care products, gum disease treatments, denture products, anti-inflammatory poultices, gastrointestinal medicine, skin-care products, fever cooling sheets, tonics and nutrients, insecticides, and prescription drugs Fabric Care Products Products you can relax with for keeping your clothes clean and making them a pleasure to wear Main Product Categories Household Products Laundry detergents, fine clothing care products, pre-care products, bleaches, fabric softeners, and maintenance products Living Care Products Products useful for clean and comfortable living and dining Main Product Categories Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, and cooking aids Custom products tailored to meet individual needs Special Sales Main Product Categories Novelty items, gift items, and mail order items Performance chemicals based on interface science for a safe, sound, and clean global environment Chemical Products Main Product Categories Surfactants, fatty acid nitrogen derivatives, glycerin, fatty acid methyl ester, and electro-conductive carbon Surfactants Precision parts cleaner and target items Conductive carbon and application products CSR Report 2011 3 Message from the President Lion’s CSR Activities Endorse a New Brand of “Happiness” A Society Offering Spiritual Richness and Security The Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011 caused immeasurable damage like nothing we have ever experienced before. I take this opportunity to offer prayers for the deceased and extend my heartfelt condolences to all victims. Lion was also affected, suffering damage to products which had moved around inside warehouses, and partial damage to plant facilities. Lion produces numerous necessities for living within toiletry, over-the-counter drug and functional food business segments, and as such bears a social obligation to supply those products. We had to embark on an all-out recovery effort and by the end of April had almost completely restored frameworks for supplying products. To hard-hit communities we provided relief funds and supplies, including hygiene products, toothpaste and detergents, to the value of ¥100 million. Lion will continue to provide support through the provision of products and cooperation with volunteer activities. And in anticipation of power shortages in Japan this summer, Lion has moved quickly to enforce power-saving measures, which include in-house generation of power at plants and overhauling the working week for offices. Japan now needs to look ahead to the future and try to build a society resilient to disasters, where people feel secure and live in harmony with the environment. So rather than restore everything to its earlier state, we should instead focus on new community creation. “Resilient to disasters” is anticipating and ensuring readiness for all kinds of risk by establishing robust systems and frameworks. “Harmony with the environment” means a safe and secure recycling-oriented society achieved by keeping earth, water and air clean. Founded in 1891, Lion marks its 120th anniversary this year, and for that we must thank everyone with an involvement of interest in our activities. For 120 years, Lion has engaged in business based on a strong commitment to society in keeping with the Company Motto, “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love.” We have been consistent in our desire to serve society followed up through lifestyle recommendations and innovative ways 4 CSR Report 2011 to convey information. water for example. Lion believes our service to society is required now Lion’s business also has an inherent link to water and we more than ever. We will undertake a fundamental are putting effort into the protection of water resources. We review of corporate activities, rebuilding our product have been maintaining forests in the city of Yamanashi since development framework and business systems as we set 2006 as a way to protect water resources and commenced out to create a society where people feel secure. biodiversity surveys in 2010. This year, 2011, is International Year of Forests. Lion’s Corporate Human Resource Diversity Social Responsibility (CSR) If Lion is to fulfill its role in the creation of a society where people feel secure, each and every employee has Support for the well-being of humans and nature to be able to fully demonstrate their talent. This is an age Lion’s role is to help create a sustainable, recycling-oriented of diversity, and looking at the Lion Group as a whole society offering spiritual richness through our support for we see the employee makeup has changed in terms of human comfort and nature’s comfort. Health, comfort age, gender, nationality and employment style. For the and the environment are the key concepts of our three Lion Group to grow even more, or simply because our visions — becoming the number-one company in the new business is closely tied to people’s daily lives, it is crucial comfortable lifestyle support industry; becoming a leading that everyone in this diverse work force is able to work company in environmental friendliness; and building a with enthusiasm and vitality. Lion will make an all-out dynamic corporate culture. effort to diversify human resources so we can make great Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, people are strides as a company where individuality abounds and likely to place greater priority on the quality of life. They will vitality overflows. seek not only physical health, but to stay healthy in body and mind supported by family and social bonds; and not Future CSR Activity just temporary comfort, but sustainable, environmentallyfriendly lifestyles. Lion is focusing increasingly on markets outside Japan, Lion has accumulated a wealth of experience over the especially in Asia where we aim to be the number-one past 120 years as a culture bearer for oral hygiene and company in oral care and laundry detergent businesses. cleanliness, and I am certain that by continuing to put In 2009, we declared support for the United Nations forward lifestyle recommendations based on new values, Global Compact. Our support is ongoing and we will be anticipating changes in mentality and behavior, Lion can looking to enhance CSR efforts in Japan and overseas. achieve sustainable growth. Lion places high value on CSR communication and we will continue meeting the needs of society through prompt A Leading Company in Environmental Friendliness information disclosure and dialogue with stakeholders In 2010, Lion set new environmental targets. Our CO2 while aiming for continued growth as a corporation. emissions reduction targets are 30% or more by 2012, and 40% or more by 2020, compared to the 1990 level, and progress has been good with targets for 2010 achieved. Lion is also increasing use of plant-based ingredients — we were the first in the world to industrialize use of detergent ingredients made from palm oil (MES) and coconut oil (MEE) — and introducing them to markets around the world. Lion products are developed in line with the Lion Eco Standards, our aim being to create products that allow customers, in Sadayoshi Fujishige their daily lives, to help protect the environment, by saving President and Chief Executive Officer CSR Report 2011 5 Lion and CSR Business Activities Supporting Healthy, Comfortable and Sustainable Life Lion’s CSR Approach years later, in the Company Motto. We believe it is our social responsibility to support healthy, comfortable and The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced to sustainable life through our business activities, with each the Company’s founding spirit of working for the benefit and every employee acting in accordance with the Company of people and society. This spirit lives on today, 120 Motto and the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior. Company Motto Lion Corporation positions “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love” as fundamental to its management, and thus contributes to the enrichment of the happiness and lives of people. Management Philosophy 1 We bring together the power of our personnel, the power of our technology and the power of our marketing, as we provide superior products that are helpful in the daily lives of people. 2 We respect the “Spirit of Tenacity and Creativity” that we have maintained since our founding, as we continue developing our business. 3 We deeply appreciate all those who extend their valuable support to us, as we prosper together through sincerity and mutual trust. Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior (Established on January 1, 2003 Revised on January 1, 2008) We, Lion Group, shall, in addition to being economic entities designated to pursue profits through fair competition, keep ourselves as social entity which must make a contribution to society at large. We shall respect human rights and conduct ourselves with initiative in a socially responsible manner toward the creation of a sustainable society, observing both the spirit as well as the letter of all the laws and international rules without harming the public interests both in Japan and abroad in accordance with the following 10 principles. 1. Principal Mission 6. Contribution to the society 2. Compliance with Public Rules 7. Confront Antisocial Activities 3. Disclosure 8. Contribution in Foreign Countries 4. Environmental Issues 9. Practice of Corporate Ethics 5. Promotion of Working Environment 10. Resolution of Problems 6 CSR Report 2011 ● CSR Framework Sustainable corporate and social development Stakeholders Lion Customers p.20 Business activities (1) Health, Comfort, Environment Employees p.24 Shareholders/Investors p.30 Communication Establishment of a foundation Dialogue (3) for business (2) Business partners p.32 Cooperation Company Motto, Management Philosophy, Local communities p.34 Lion Group Corporate Behavior Global environment p.38 Global Compact Business activities (1) Establishment of a foundation for business (2) Business activities supporting healthy, comfortable and Lion’s CSR approach is based upon the Company Motto, sustainable life are the basis of Lion’s corporate social Management Philosophy, and Lion Group Charter for responsibility. Celebrating the 120th anniversary of its Corporate Behavior. Lion has also been participating, founding in 2011, Lion has long been a culture bearer since 2009, in the United Nations Global Compact, for oral hygiene and cleanliness, assisting healthy and an international framework for promoting sustainable comfortable living through the development of lifestyle growth. This is an opportunity for Lion to assume even practices such as tooth brushing, laundry, dishwashing, greater responsibility and leadership, and we are advancing and the washing of vegetables. Consumers are beginning activities in order to fulfill the 10 Principles. Efforts are to value spiritual richness over material wealth — also being made to enhance corporate governance and “health” refers to the mental as well as the physical, compliance the foundations for CSR management — to while “comfort” is experienced as a positive outlook on ensure we have the trust of society (see p.18). life and living, not just in terms of our physical senses. Lion emphasizes consistent performance of good lifestyle Dialogue (3) habits as a means to attaining sound body and mind, and Customers, employees, shareholders and investors, comfort, which extends to one’s social and environmental business partners, local communities, and the global well-being. To mark Lion’s 120th year, CSR Report 2011 environment are our stakeholders. By responding contains a special feature summarizing past and current to society’s needs through information disclosure to initiatives (see pp.10-17). stakeholders and dialogue, Lion aims for sustainable development of the Company and society. Lion views dialogue with stakeholders as a valuable opportunity to contrast corporate direction against the CSR Report 2011 7 needs of society and confirm we have the sence of ●Selected Events Involving Dialogue with Stakeholders balance of a good corporate citizen. Opinion exchange (2010) takes numerous forms. Related Stakeholders Event pages Customers ・Stakeholder Dialogue P9 Employees ・Labor-Management Meeting — ・Interaction with directors at Shareholders and P30 shareholders’ meeting Investors P31 ・Participation in events for investors ・Lion-kai general meeting Business partners P33 ・Lion Marketing Communication 2010 Local ・Plant tour P36 Plant tour communities ・Events at individual business locations (Odawara Plant) ・Participation in environment-related events Global ・Environment-related dialogue P51 environment with communities * “Global environment” refers to dialogue relating to environmental protection. Lion’s CSR Activities and Issues (2010) Category Objectives Major Activities Management See p.18-19 ・Ensure two-way communication ・Strengthened CSR communication through cooperation between corporate Customers ・Strengthen quality assurance systems for overseas products communication divisions ・Substantiate customer perspectives (e.g. Stakeholder Dialogue (p.9); participation in Eco-Products fair (p.51)) ・Establish good working environments Employees ・Achieved targets of Next Generation Support Act Phase 3 Action Plan (p.26) ・Secure diverse human resources Shareholders and ・Increase number of long-term shareholders ・Held briefings for individual investors (approx. 1,700 investors in total) (p.30) investors ・Increase number of individual investors ・Received two awards for investor relations website (p.30) Business partners ・Promote CSR procurement ・Continued implementation and analysis of business partner questionnaire (p.32) ・Increased number of schools participating online in Mass Tooth Brushing Exercise for ・Foster awareness of oral health Society School Children (p.36) ・Strengthen nature protection activities ・Added biodiversity aspect to forest maintenance activities (p.35) Environment See p.38 onward Issues Approach In 2010, Lion primarily set out to achieve main objectives The first international standard relating to social established for each stakeholder category. Issues responsiblility, ISO 26000, was released in November remain in regard to initiatives for major objectives, 2010. Lion’s current CSR activities conform, and will particularly overseas; for example, targeting customers continue to conform, to stances taken in this standard. — strengthening quality assurance systems for overseas Lion intends to use ISO 26000 as a checklist for taking products and substantiating customer perspectives — stock of the Company’s CSR activities relating to seven and business partners — encouraging responces from core subjects — corporate governance, human rights, questionnaires and fully enforcing procurement principles. labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development — as a way to determine the current status of initiatives and identify issues that need to be addressed. 8 CSR Report 2011 Stakeholder Dialogue What Are Some CSR Activities that Customers Expect Lion to Pursue? Purpose Outline Date: December 4, 2010 Lion has held the Stakeholder Dialogue since 2008. In 2009, Venue: Lion Corporation (Hirai Office) dialogue on safety and reliability was held with experts in the area of consumer lifestyles. The need for greater information Participants: disclosure and better communication was recognized and 65 customers who are readers of the Lion Letter we are pushing ahead with related efforts. e-mail newsletter (male or female, aged up to their In 2010, we invited customers, who are highly valued 70s, and mainly women aged in their 30s to 50s) stakeholders, to tour a Lion facility, learn about our Schedule: environmental protection and social contribution initiatives, (1) Tour of the Communication Center and offer their opinions on our CSR activities. (2) Explanation of environmental protection and social contribution activities (3) Customer ranking of activities that Lion should Selected Opinions pursue (questionnaire) (4) Q&A and summary ● I learned a lot and found it very interesting. It gave me assurance and a sense of affinity with Lion. Participants from Lion: ●I Corporate Communication division (CSR Promotion enjoyed learning about Lion’s activities. Department, Customer Center, Public Relations ● Lion is making an effort and should do more to communicate Center), Research Planning and Administration this. You need to enhance information disclosure via TV and Department of Research and Development Headquarters your website. Themes: ●C  SR communication: Collect and distribute about ● I hope Lion continues this event. I would like to take part again. CSR activities, etc. ●E  nvironmental protection activities: Eco Lion activities, etc. ●O  ral health: Social contribution activities relating to Response to Feedback oral health, etc. From this year’s Stakeholder Dialogue, we realized customers are very interested in environmental protection and social contribution activities conducted through products and customer interaction. But we also discovered that activities have not been adequately communicated to customers. Our response has been to upgrade the CSR section of Lion’s website, which is a vital medium for communication. Previously based upon the content of the CSR Report, we have tried to make the website’s CSR Experiment demonstrating the Inspecting the rooftop biotope section visually more accessible for people who are not solubility of active ingredients in BUFFERIN cold medicine necessarily experts. Besides further enhancements to the website, we are looking to strengthen communication with customers through appropriate outlets, including e-mail newsletters, TV commercials and stores. Explanation of environmental A draw was held to give away protection and social contribution Lion-chan mascot merchandise activities CSR Report 2011 9 Special Feature 1 Culture Bearer for Oral Hygiene ——From Oral Hygiene to Systemic Health, Japan to the Rest of Asia—— Oral hygiene is Lion’s core area of business. Over the years, Lion’s efforts to communicate information about oral we have developed many dentifrices providing new value health closely follows the history of the Company’s for Japanese people to match changes in their lifestyles. dentifrices and other oral care products. Alongside development, effort has also been directed Together with the history of Lion’s business, this into communication. Lion has helped to promote good special feature provides insight into activities that Lion, health among Japanese people by working to entrench as a leading company in oral care, has carried out to tooth brushing habits, providing them with correct promote oral health among Japanese people, and information about teeth and oral hygiene. The story of outlines a direction for future activities. Founding Promoting Oral Hygiene Western dentifrices were first introduced to Japan and manufactured on a large scale around 1872. From 1895, living conditions began to dramatically transform. Dietary habits also changed, but while more people were taking an interest in oral hygiene, dentifrices were not necessarily satisfactory. Consumers and stores wanted products that were of good quality and cheap. ● Development and launch of high-quality, low-cost Lion Toothpowder Consulting reference books, company researchers worked night and day studying the ingredients and content ratios of dentifrices collected from across Japan and the world, and after much trial and error, they managed to create a new product in 1896. Lion Toothpowder ● Musical troupe undertakes promotion In 1898, a musical troupe was formed to distribute tooth powder samples and call attention to its quality. Parades were held across Japan. This ambitious effort helped spread word about Lion Toothpowder and sales gradually expanded with backing from provincial distributors. ● Social contribution activities through products Promotional activities by this musical troupe were the precursor to the use of songs in Packets of Lion Toothpowder with charity coupons printed on the back — the Japanese TV commercials. Company’s original social contribution activity — went on sale in 1900. Customers could send coupons to a charitable organization of their choice, such as an orphanage, and Lion would provide a donation according to the number of coupons received. The aim of the program, which continued for 20 years, was to foster the idea of charitable giving among citizens and help establish a permanent foundation for charity projects. ● Establishment of a production system In 1897, the Koishikawa Factory replaced the original Shinjuku Factory as the main plant for dentifrice manufacturing and by 1907 had a reputation as one of Japan’s Charity coupons printed on the leading dentifrice plants. The plant produced dentifrice of world-class quality and back of the packet was often visited by inspection parties from overseas. 10 CSR Report 2011 Teaching Tooth Brushing Educational card included with Kodomo Toothpowder Growth for children Habits from a Young Age Understanding it important for the prevention of caries to acquire tooth brushing habits from an early age, Lion commenced dental examinations and educational activities (provision of information). These activities evolved into current activities of the Lion Foundation for Dental Health. ● Kodomo Toothpowder for children launched A supplement picture picturre book that comes with the product.This is the root of how Lion In 1913, Lion launched Kodomo Toothpowder, Japan’s first dentifrice for children promotes implementation and available nationwide. understanding about oral hygiene that can be easily understood by children. ● Educational activities for children In addition to children’s favorite colors and flavors, ways to appeal to the minds of children using supplements like picture books and educational cards were thoroughly researched. To mark the development of seven sizes of toothbrush for infants to elementary school children, a calligraphy competition was held and some 500,000 submissions were received from across Japan. The initiative helped entrench habits featuring in the submissions such as brushing teeth before going to bed. Lion Dental Clinic for Children ● Establishment of the Lion Dental Clinic for Children In 1921, the Lion Dental Clinic for Children — Japan’s first — was established with the objective of enforcing tooth brushing and caries prevention among children. Besides dental examinations, the clinic worked to promote implementation and understanding about oral hygiene through training courses for oral hygienists (dental hygienists) who would enlighten and spread information about oral hygiene activities. Educational activities through Lion Health Car Lion Foundation for Dental Health* Caries Prevention Initiatives for Children (Establishment in 1964-March 2011) *Established as an incorporated foundation. A public interest incorporated foundation since 2010. Mass Tooth Brushing Oral Health Activities for Oral Health Activities at Exercise for School Children Mothers and Children Kindergarten and Schools 1932-March 2011 1964-March 2011 1964-March 2011 (Originally the Mass Tooth Brushing Drill for Children) 67 occasions 1,101,689 participants* 23,087,501participants* 740,050 participants* in total in total in total *Total number of children *Total number of children and parents *Total number of children, parents and supervisors CSR Report 2011 11 Delivering World-Class Mass Production Products to All Japanese Citizens White & White Amid A internationalization and trade deregulation, Lion set out to produce w world-class quality toothpaste. Expanding the target market, the Company sought tto reduce costs through high-volume production and sales. ● Production system enhancement T production system was deemed insufficient for providing products throughout The Odawara Plant in 1964 JJapan and new plants were constructed — Odawara Plant (1964) and Akashi Plant ((1969). State-of-the-art automation equipment was incorporated into production lines. ● Development of easy-to-use packaging White & White, a product for making teeth shine and preventing staining, was introduced in 1970. This toothpaste was sold in a revolutionary laminated tube that retained quality over long periods and was easy to use right to the end. Promoting Oral Health Expansion with Science and Greater Scope Clinica Clin nica Oral health problems increased with the diversification of people’s lifestyles from the 1960s. With a third of Japan’s population said to contract pyorrhea, people began to seek different qualities in their toothpaste. Products based more upon scientific research were required. Dentor ● Product development based on oral health problemss Lion launched one new product after another, including Dentor (1964), for prevention of pyorrhea, Clinica (1981), containing enzymes for breaking down plaque, and the Dentor Systema series (1993), for prevention of periodontal disease. ● Provision of information through advertising General knowledge about pyorrhea, plaque control, “Do your gums bleed when you bite an periodontal pockets, and other aspects of oral apple?” The advertisement for Dentor told customers how to check for pyorrhea. hygiene improved as Lion conveyed information The Dentor Systema series through product advertising. 12 CSR Report 2011 Culture Bearer for Oral Hygiene ——From Oral Hygiene to Systemic Health, Japan to the Rest of Asia—— Mouth Future From Oral Hygiene to Systemic Health Lungs (respiratory disease) Heart (vascular disease) Pancreas (diabetes) Bearing responsibility to promote oral hygiene, Lion has helped to establish tooth brushing habits and reduce caries cases among children in the 115 years since Uterus (underweight/pre-term birth) introducing its first dentifrice product. Because it has recently been revealed that periodontal disease influences systemic illnesses such as diabetes and arteriosclerosis, we now look to actively incorporate knowledge relating to oral hygiene and systemic health into product development. Lion also aims to deliver Bones (osteoporosis) new value, contributing to healthy smiles, healthy eating and a positive outlook on life through healthy mouths. From Japan to the Rest of Asia In the rest of Asia, however, there are still many regions where tooth brushing habits are not well established. Tapping experience from promoting oral hygiene in Japan, Lion aims to do the same across Asia and become the number-one oral care company in the region. Toothbrush and toothpaste donations to Asian countries Supported by Lion Aims of the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH) Lion has been carrying out oral health activities since the LDH aims to raise awareness about the vital role Taisho period (1912-1926). LDH took over these educational mouths play in our lives — for eating, talking and activities in 1964. In addition to promotion of tooth smiling — and implements brushing habits and education about caries prevention activities under the carried out since establishment, LDH has expanded the “Ken-Ko-Bi” concept, scope of activities to include prevention of periodontal stressing that maintaining disease and now strives to promote the oral health of a healthy body and mind consumers in all life stages, from infants through to the begins with the mouth. elderly. In recent years, the importance of maintaining a healthy mouth has been emphasized by the spread of the 8020 Movement* and revelations about the relationship * The 8020 Movement urges people to look after their mouths so they between periodontal disease and systemic health. will still have 20 teeth when they are 80 years old. Taking LDH’s Oral Health Activities to the World Oral health activities teaching matters such as the health activities. The foundation believes this expertise importance of tooth brushing and the prevention of dental would benefit the oral health of people all over the world. conditions have international appeal—many people are in LDH plans to use the skills and know-how developed need of oral health guidance. through oral health activities in Japan to actively pursue LDH has acquired a wealth of know-how and skills activities overseas and contribute to the promotion of oral relating to oral health throughout a long history of oral health particularly among people across Asia. CSR Report 2011 13 Special Feature 2 Culture Bearer for Cleanliness ——From Human Comfort to Nature’s Comfort, Japan to the Rest of Asia—— Lion supplies many kinds of detergent, including laundry dry r detergents like TOP, as well as soaps, shampoos, and 1891 (Founding)-1940s household cleaners. Over the 120 years since the Company’s founding, from the days when notions about hygiene were weak through to the present day, we have helped instill a culture of cleanliness in society through the provision of products and educational activities. Washing with Detergent This special feature explains how Lion’s products have (Early Notions About Hygiene) addressed the various issues that surface as society develops, how they have contributed to the development of a culture of cleanliness, and the kind of initiatives Lion The Company sold its first soap product in 1893. In has in store for the years ahead. 1920, we introduced the plant-derived laundry soap, Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap with its superior detergency and light odor. This was the first time in Japan that plants were used as a raw material for soap, and “plant-derived” used as a selling point. From the 1920s, laundry demonstrations were held around Japan; laundry was not yet a common practice at the time. In 1937, the Company published a manual on Standard home laundry procedures, written from a scientific perspective, and it was used as a text in a number of girls’ schools. Ever since, Lion has conducted educational activities, teaching laundry techniques from a scientific perspective, to help promote laundry as a practice (see p.17). In 1951, Lion launched Japan’s first fatty alcohol-based synthetic detergent, Lipon. Enabling easy rinsing, Lipon was introduced as a versatile detergent that could be used for laundry, dishwashing and many other purposes. 14 CSR Report 2011 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s Hygiene Reform in Postwar Japan Response to Water Environment Issues (Eradication of Parasites) (Foaming of rivers and lakes and eutrophication) The Japanese diet began to westernize during the The use of synthetic detergents became popular in the 1950s, and people started eating vegetables and other 1960s with the widespread use of electric washing food raw. But dishes were washed with cleanser or machines. However, rivers where household soap, and vegetables only with plain water. At the time, wastewater gathered were covered with foam due to residual agricultural chemicals and parasite eggs from the low biodegradability of these detergents and organic fertilizers were often present on vegetables. incomplete sewer systems. Around 30％ of the population was infected with Furthermore, eutrophication became an issue at Lake roundworm eggs. Biwa during the 1970s. Fertilizers for fields, livestock excretion and other living drainage were affected but one of the causes was thought to be phosphorus 1956 included in laundry detergents. Lipon F was introduced ● Roundworm Egg as a neutral detergent Prevalence and Neutral that could be used to Detergent Production 1962, 1980 (%) (x103 tons) wash both vegetables 30 60 In response to these issues, Dash, a detergent using and dishes. The product AOS* that decomposed easily in rivers with excellent earned the top biodegradability with excellent defoaming features, was recommendation of the 20 40 developed and went on sale in 1962. Japan Food Hygiene In 1973, a phosphate-free detergent was introduced Association and was ahead of competitors. Additionally in 1980, Murin TOP, 10 20 endorsed by the Ministry a detergent where enzymes and zeolite were blended to of Health and Welfare in create a phosphate-free detergent that greatly enhanced a notice issued at around cleaning power, became a big hit. With efforts from the 0 0 the same time. Neutral 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 entire industry, the problems of foaming and （year） detergents enjoyed an eutrophication were headed for convergence. Neutral Detergent Production explosion in popularity * Alpha Oleﬁn Sulfonate. Roundworm Egg Prevalence as a result, and within 10 years of the launch of Lipon F the roundworm Dash Murin TOP egg prevalence had dropped from 30％ to around 2％. Lipon F CSR Report 2011 15 1990s 1 2000s Petroleum Resources and Food Poisoning Cases Raise Need Resource Conservation for Disinfectants As with the oil crises of the 1970s, consumers in the In 1996, Japan was hit by a series of food poisoning 1990s recognized environmental issues such as global incidents involving the O157 strain of the E. coli bacteria, warming as problems carrying consequences for both and interest in disinfectants jumped. During the 1990s their immediate lifestyles and the world at large. and the 2000s, zoonoses (diseases communicable from Corporations initiated efforts to reduce use of animals to humans) and other infectious diseases that petroleum and other fossil resources, and effective spread across borders resource utilization became an additional consideration became a hot topic for consumers of daily items like detergent. among consumers worldwide. Awareness about cleanliness, today a 1991,1992 means for countering During this period—in 1991, Lion’s 100th year—the new influenza Company constructed a new plant in Sakaide, Kagawa strains, is growing. Prefecture, to make surfactant ingredients from plant-based palm oil. At the same time, Lion expanded its lineup of products that could be advertised as containing plant-based ingredients. The new products 1997 were Spark (launched 1991), a laundry detergent Lion responded with a new medicated soap brand — containing MES*1, and Shokubutsu-Monogatari (Plant KireiKirei — which is now widely used. Educational Story) (1992), a beauty soap made using 100％ activities using picture books and kamishibai (lit. paper plant-based ingredients. A TOP brand laundry theater) storytelling to encourage hand washing were detergent using 75％ plant-based surfactants, launched also implemented for children and their mothers, in 2006, won the 16th Grand Prize for the Global helping to newly establish hand washing routines. Environment Award*2. *1. MES: Methyl ester sulfonate KireiKirei Medicated KireiKirei Medicated *2. Grand Prize for the Global Environment Award URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/press/html/2007006f.htm Liquid Handsoap Foaming Hand Soap Shokubutsu-Monogatari Spark (Plant Story) 16 CSR Report 2011 Culture Bearer for Cleanliness ̶̶From Human Comfort to Nature s Comfort, Japan to the Rest of Asia̶̶ 2010s 120 Years and Counting… From Human Comfort to Nature’s Comfort Water Resources and Major Water Lion has continuously contributed to comfortable lifestyles Use Reductions Combating Odors through washing practices in various situations. Now, with establishment of a sustainable society a pressing issue, Lion will push ahead with efforts to reduce Lion research shows that consumers are extremely sensitive environmental impact, use of sustainable ingredients, to how washed clothes smell. Meanwhile, consumers are and research into methods for cleaning the environment, more aware about global environmental issues, and the primarily water, air and earth. spread of environmentally friendly household electrical From Japan to the Rest of Asia appliances has ● Desired detergent benefits and In April 2011, CJ Lion Corporation of Korea introduced triggered functions 20 40 60 80 100（%） two highly concentrated laundry detergents — Liquid growing interest 0 Power Beat 1/3 and Powder Power Beat 1/2. Lion aims to in save Removes stains 86 Removes odors 60 become number-one company in the rest of Asia, too, electricity and Removes sebum 52 particularly in the laundry detergent business. water in the No odor when half-dry 44 Lion is also introducing hand washing education home. (Source: Lion, September 2009; 824 respondents) undertaken in Japan to the rest of Asia (see p.37). Through products and educational activities, we will contribute to 2010 cleanliness in the In 2010, Lion launched TOP NANOX, a laundry detergent lifestyles of Asia’s containing a new surfactant, MEE*, made from consumers. Beat brand laundry detergents plant-based ingredients. TOP NANOX breaks down nano-level stains invisible to the naked eye, removing ers both odors. As detergent residues are effectively a l A cti v ities for Consum removed due to excellent defoaming properties, less Education water and electricity is required for rinsing. Container Besides the sale of detergent detergent, Lion also offers o lifestyle size, too, has been halved due to greater concentration, recommendations and educational activities, for example reducing the environmental impact of container by suggesting methods for extracting the greatest benefit manufacturing and product transportation. from products and incorporating them into daily life. * MEE: Methyl ester ethoxylate These functions are undertaken by our research institute. Lion’s initiatives also have ripple effects for the industry, and we contribute to efforts by the Japan Soap and nd Detergent Association (JSDA) to tackle environmental tal and TOP NANOX safety issues and educate consumers through the provision of research data and other knowledge. 1933 Family Laundry Information Service Center established hed 1936 Lion Laundry Science Laboratories established 1957 Lion Laundry Science Laboratories changed its name to Household Science Laboratories The present Now known as the Behavioral Science Research Institute stitute * In addition to the above, Lion joins the JSDA in addressing common environmental issues. CSR Report 2011 17 CSR Management Strengthening Activities Central to Manage CSR Activities to Earn Society’s Trust Corporate Governance Web resolution on basic policy concerning internal control over financial reporting. Evaluations of internal control effectiveness are carried out by the Auditing Office, which reports findings to Basic Approach the president and corporate auditors, as well as on a Lion’s top priorities for corporate governance are regular basis to the Board of Directors. Areas requiring increasing management transparency, improving the improvement are communicated to concerned divisions efficiency of supervision and decision-making and and the progress of improvements is verified. ensuring compliance. In 2010, Lion’s internal control over financial reporting By strengthening and improving its corporate governance was deemed effective. A report on internal controls was system, Lion aims to enhance its corporate value. submitted to the Prime Minister in March 2011 together with the Company’s securities report. Corporate Governance System * Basic Internal Control System Policies URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0501f.htm Lion has adopted a system of executive officers in order to strengthen managerial decision-making and executive functions. Supervision of management is conducted Risk Management Web through a corporate auditor system. Supervision and monitoring of management was enhanced with the installation of four independent directors Lion is building up a management framework for dealing (two external board directors and two external auditors), with all the major risks that could occur in its business. who satisfy the criteria of having no conflict of interest with Deliberation focuses on issues with a large impact on ordinary shareholders, as set by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, management, particularly the lowering of risks resulting and through regular meetings held between the president from accidents or disasters and the prevention of productand all external directors to exchange information. related problems and establishment of initial response plans. Furthermore, a Management Evaluation Committee was We are also advancing deliberation on ways to ensure set up in October 2003 to ensure that evaluations and business continuity in the wake of a large-scale disaster, opinions by outside experts are reflected in management. including seismic strengthening of office buildings and Countermeasures against large-scale purchasing of plants and alternative arrangements for execution of Lion shares (anti-takeover measures) were introduced headquarter functions and backup production at other after approval at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders plants in times of disaster. held in 2009. When the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in March 2011, a disaster response task force headed by Establishment of Internal Web the president was set up at Lion’s Tokyo headquarters in line with the Earthquake Response Manual. After initially Control Systems working to confirm employee safety and conditions at Systems and provisions have been put in place to affected facilities, the task force set about formulating ensure the appropriateness of Lion Group operations and implementing recovery plans for affected plants, as in accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the well as executing a pre-determined business continuity Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act.* plan to ensure delivery of products as quick as possible. With regard to systems for evaluating and auditing internal control over financial reporting, as prescribed Information Security in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Lion and the Lion Group have been establishing controls at company-wide and business-process levels since July Lion has established a number of guidelines and 2006. In December 2008, the Board of Directors passed a regulations to prevent information leaks. They are a 18 CSR Report 2011 Lion Headquarters basic policy on information management, information maintenance and strengthening of compliance systems. management regulations, privacy regulations, information The fiscal 2010 survey (conducted in March 2011 with a t n security regulations, and guidelines for management 94％ response rate from around 4,000 employees) drew e m e of information technology and equipment. Employees opinions on a range of issues including problems with g a n a also undergo e-learning programs each year to enhance work environments. M R prevention of leaks. S C ● Percentage of Employees Who Received Survey Feedback Privacy Protection 0 20 40 60 80 100 (%) Lion has established a privacy policy* and specific 2007 56.0 % 42.6% 1.4% guidelines for management of personal information in accordance with Japan’s Act on the Protection of Personal 2008 72.5 % 26.5% 1.0% Information enforced in April 2003. The Company has 2009 80.3% 19.3% 0.3% been implementing these in a proper manner while pushing ahead with establishment of related in-house 2010 87.7% 12.0% 0.3% systems and education programs. (FY) Feedback received Not received No response * Privacy policy URL http://www.lion.co.jp/pp.htm Contact for Enployee Consultation Promoting Compliance Web and Internal Reporting An internal reporting system, the Heart Hotline, has been The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the set up as point of contact for employee consultation on director responsible for corporate ethics, works to foster instances of non-compliance they have discovered and compliance awareness within the Lion Group. which cannot or should not be reported through normal The basis for compliance is the Lion Group Charter channels. A pamphlet distributed to all employees, for Corporate Behavior. This is distributed in pamphlet including temporary employees, tells them about the form to all people working for the Lion Group and system and its rules, such as instructions for making made publicly available via the Lion’s website. An annual contact and prohibition of unfair treatment of employees program of employee awareness surveys and regular using the system. Business partners can also use the educational activities is also implemented, the latter hotline and contact information is available on the including e-learning, lectures by outside speakers, and Company’s website. various training courses conducted at each workplace In 2010, there were nine instances of consultation or and according to rank. reporting, but no instances of grave misconduct were found. In 2010, rank-based training was complemented by an e-learning course on mental health, and the Legal Support ● Heart Hotline – Consultations and Notifications (2010) Caravan, a legal education program facilitated by Legal Other Power harassment behavior Department personnel and outside legal experts as teachers, 44% 22% was implemented for 48 departments and divisions. Compliance Awareness Surveys Total cases: Personnel/labor All Lion Group employees are asked every year to 9 management issues complete a compliance awareness survey. Findings are 11% reported to management and feedback is provided to individual divisions in order to communicate issues within Accounting/asset management issues the same workplace or company. This contributes to the 22% CSR Report 2011 19 Customers and Lion Developing Safe and Reliable Products for responding customers’ demands Maximizing Customer Web Furthermore, we endeavor to provide clear, easy-toread labeling so customers will understand features of Satisfaction products and correct usage. Lion carries out quality assurance activities at all stages, In manufacturing, standards and specifications are from the very beginning of the product creation process established to ensure quality of design is achieved. In through to use by the customer, in order to turn out trial manufacturing, the quality of raw materials, quality products the customer will be satisfied with. Specifically, in manufacturing, and manufacturing feasibility and by identifying key requirements for each stage — product marketability through consumer testing are confirmed. planning, product development, manufacturing, sales, In manufacturing, quality is managed within each process, and responding to customers — we are constantly and products that have passed inspections stipulated in pursuing new heights of customer satisfaction. standards and specifications are shipped with data such In product planning, customer opinions and market as manufacturing date and raw materials identifiable survey findings on awareness and needs are analyzed and for each lot. Manufactured products are stored in considered before concepts are formed. Quality objectives warehouses and shipped on a first-in, first-out basis, for ensuring customer satisfaction are set. with freshness managed according to pre-determined In product development, quality objectives are shipping deadlines. considered in technical terms, as quality of design. The Products shipped from plants reach customers via quality of developed products is verified in respect to wholesalers and retailers. Information for customers seven parameters: (1) function/performance; (2) usability; relating to product features and usage is provided to (3) safety; (4) product stability; (5) environmental these wholesalers and retailers. Information about friendliness; (6) appearance (including design); and products is also conveyed via displays and samples, (7) compliance with laws and self-imposed standards. as well as newspapers, television and other media. ● Flow of Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinion Customer satisfaction maximized Customers Customer support Developing safe, high-quality products Management 1 Product planning 2 Product 3 Manufacturing 4 Sales Customer opinions and development Raw materials and Product information market survey findings are Quality objectives are processes are managed is communicated in reflected in planning in the translated into technical to lead manufacture of an accessible form of quality objectives that parameters as quality of products with consistent manner to ensure will ensure customers are design. The product is quality. knowledge about fully satisfied. developed. features and usage. All employees acknowledge customer satisfaction as the starting point for realization of a happier lifestyle. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing improvements to products, Lion creates products that heighten the satisfaction of customers. 20 CSR Report 2011 Features and functions of products are explained to customers ● Developing of Safe, High-Quality Products Product planning Designing products that will give customers greater satisfaction Customer Analysis/ Planning Discussion/approval opinions deliberation proposals Product Planning Meeting Preparing Executive Committee Marketing research product proposals n o i Market L analysis ●Marketing d n research findings a s r Customer ●Concept e m research ●Target quality level o t s u C Product development Building safety and quality into products Deliberation on Deliberation on and Outcome of development is contents and containers checking of labeling approved after discussion Verification of quality Production Engineering Meeting Outcome of development is approved after discussion. Function/performance Usability Product Planning Meeting Safety Commercialization of product is approved after discussion. ・ ・ Executive Committee ・ Commercialization of product is finalized. Quality Verification Meeting Process Safety When starting development, the suitability On completion, the Verification Meeting of quality objectives and matters deemed suitability of the developed Safety assurances for manufacturing crucial to development are verified. product is verified. processes are verified. Manufacturing Verifying quality in mass production Preparations Manufacturing Storage (shipment) Quality evaluation in Verification of raw trial manufacturing material quality Verification of marketability Quality is managed in each process. Products are managed to ensure freshness. Sales Providing information on product quality Information is provided to wholesalers Information on products is and retailers to ensure communication made available via displays, of product features and usage to samples, and newspapers, customers. television and other media. CSR Report 2011 21 Customers and Lion Approach to Safety Web Responding to VOC Web and Reliability Lion evaluates the safety of raw materials and safety VOC*1 from customers are recorded in a privacy-protected during product use to ensure customer peace of mind. database, and then they are made available to the entire company via an information sharing system after personal Safety of Raw Materials information is removed and are emphasized for making The quality and stability of raw materials are approved improvements and developing new products. only after implementation of supplier surveys and VOC deemed to have an especially strong influence confirmation of past performance, compliance with laws, on customer satisfaction are reported to management regulations and industry standards, and environmental as the VOC daily letter, and planning divisions head compatibility. Before use, raw materials undergo quality efforts to improve quality through quick deliberation and inspections using parameters and testing methods implementation of solutions. according to category — drugs and food; quasi-drugs In January 2011, a toll-free consultation line was and cosmetics; or miscellaneous. opened. The number to call can be found on Lion’s website*2. Safety During Product Use *1. VOC Voice of Customer Envisaging various usage styles, Lion conducts safety *2. Contact information evaluations of products based on a policy of averting risk URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/contact/ through product design. Evaluations employ check sheets for confirming ● Flow of Response to Customers whether safety, even in the case of “mistaken use,” Product development and improvement has been achieved through product design. Even in the VOC case of “irregular use,” we evaluate whether risk has Inquiries daily letter Directors, Customer Center Comments corporate auditors, been minimized and whether the risk is acceptable and Customers Requests executive officers evaluation results are reflected in product safety, for example with inclusion of sufficient warnings on labels where necessary. Reply VOC meeting Guidance and advice from standpoints envisaging Action Entire company various usage situations are provided through Quality Verification Meetings, comprising members of other different divisions. The aim is to prevent damage caused by product use and lapses in the safety confirmation process. Information Database sharing system Flow of VOC ● Scope of Safety Confirmation Reckless Unforeseeable and Overview of Inquiries and use unreasonable usage Complaints During 2010 Foreseeable usage, but defying Around 90,000 inquiries and complaints were received Lower risk to acceptable Irregular accepted norms (overly excessive in 2010 (a 3％ increase from 2009). Overall, 82％ were level and provide warnings use use, or use for purposes very different to those intended) inquiries about product usage, outlets selling Lion products, product safety and so on; 8％ were product Usage not as intended complaints, relating for example to dissatisfaction with Mistaken by Lion but which use must be expected effects after use or flavor and scent; 10％ were related to Required Safety product problems, such as damage to flooring caused Assurance by detergent. Normal Usage as intended Opinions and notifications from customers are valuable use by Lion and as such are communicated to related divisions for incorporation into future products and service. 22 CSR Report 2011 Quickening Response with VOC Daily Letter Fostering a Culture of Utilizing In 2010, 242 VOC daily letters were issued — 103 inquiries, Customer Opinion 96 product complaints, and 43 product problems. In the Lion is working to foster a corporate culture whereby case of product complaints and problems, the division all employees, not just product development personnel, in charge determines and reports on whether and what consider and act upon customer perspectives. In 2010, measures are required, and when to implement them. continuing from 2009, around 10 mid-career researchers, The quality assurance division follows up on progress made. and around 60 additional employees at director level or During 2010, 122 items were completed. higher from across the organization, fielded telephone calls from customers as part of an exercise learning the Customer Opinions Used in importance of thinking from a customer’s perspective. Communicating Information Information is also shared by Customer Center staff, Lion’s online customer support*1 page provides answers who circulate around departments to report on customer to frequently asked questions, solutions to problems and opinions. We will press ahead with efforts to change the examples of improvements made in response to customer awareness of employees in order to deliver products and n o i opinions, and is viewed by many customers. services created from a customer’s perspective. L d n The Lion Kids website*2 targeting children of a s r e elementary school age or older was upgraded in 2010. m o t The website, which is a fun way of teaching children s u C about Lion’s products and the processes involved in bringing products to shelves, was awarded the Grandprix in the student category of the 4th Japan Web Grandprix. Lion will continue to send useful information to customers. Verifying the effects of training by director Ensuring Satisfaction with Customer Support [Measure 1: Questionnaire on customer support and the website] In 2010, we asked around 400 customers who had Online customer support contacted us to complete a questionnaire which, in addition to questions asked in the past concerning the quality of *1. Customer support URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/ our response to inquiries, asked for opinions on the online *2. Lion Kids website customer support service. While respondents were mostly URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/kids/ satisfied with the content of the online service, some said the information they wanted wasn’t there or they didn’t know where to find it. We will improve the service more Recall Status for Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray accessible by reflecting in these opinions. Voluntary recalls of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray for Flying [Measure 2: Call center training] Bugs and Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray for Creeping Bugs Call center training is implemented to cultivate skills have been implemented since August 27, 2007, in response to combustion incidents. for retrieving information about problems customers As of March 31, 2011, the rate of recalled products are having that is useful in ensuring products are used was 45.6%, or 1.48 million products. Please make sure appropriately and easily, as well as skills for engaging in to return these products if you have any. communication with customers in order to ask about the background to inquiries or complaints. A questionnaire Contact number for Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray returns: Toll-free phone: conducted after the training revealed more than 90% 0120-670-225 (in Japanese only) of customers were satisfied with the service, and more Hours: 9a.m. to 5p.m. (except Saturdays, Sundays and information was received as a result. Information public holidays) provided by customers will be used to improve products and service. CSR Report 2011 23 Employees and Lion Creating a Bright and Dynamic Workplace Approach to Utilization of Human Resource Diversity Human Resources Lion’s founder used to say, “Employees are partners in Lion has embraced diversity among employees ever since the Company.” This idea is reflected in the Lion Group its founding. Management has sought to fully utilize its Charter for Corporate Behavior, which refers to respect workforce, passing down a philosophy of encouraging for “human rights” and respect for the ”diversity, individuality, which contributes to business growth. individuality and personality” of employees. Lion respects Lion has stepped up efforts in this area, reaffirming the the individuality and personality of all employees and importance of diversity in light of major changes in the helps them to hone their skills and abilities and stay composition of the workforce and the need to respond healthy in body and mind. Efforts are also being made swiftly to changes in the business environment. We in line with the Behavioral Guidelines to eliminate all believe a combination of top-down direction, in the form discrimination and ensure that employees can feel joy and of a declaration by the president, and recommendations contentment in their jobs. from employees is vital for instilling diversity management Issues in the workplace relating to human rights in the corporate culture and generating results. are ascertained through annual risk management and compliance activities, and internal audits. Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee Fair Treatment of Employees Lion set up the Diverse Human Resource Promotion Lion ensures fair treatment and tries to make working Committee in 2010. Three working groups have also for the Company rewarding for all employees. Systems been established to consider areas that Lion considers of management by objective and self-assessment are particularly important — female employees, rehired employed for determining treatment for employees, retirees, and temporary employees. and a framework is in place for providing feedback from Working groups involve opinion exchange among regular evaluations and interviews by superiors to increase employees, in the case of working groups on female the understanding and motivation of each employee. employees and rehired retirees, or managers, in the case of the working group on temporary employees. Working Promoting Amiable groups form proposals for promoting the active participation Labor-Management Relations of diverse human resources and deliver recommendations Lion organizes regular dialogue between employees and to management for incorporation into activities. management, placing importance on relationships of trust. Labor-management meetings encourage mutual understanding through reporting on business conditions and exchange of opinions about working environments. One recent outcome, continuing since 2009, has been a consensus on the joint pursuit of initiatives relating to work-life balance. Operating under a union shop agreement, Lion and its workers’ union endeavor to build upon amiable labormanagement relations. The working group on female employees 24 CSR Report 2011 New employee training former employees to rejoin the Company and apply Employee Motivation Consultation Center their skills. Anyone can apply, regardless of the reason Under the notion that employee motivation comes from for resigning, length of service, or time elapsed since their ability to apply their talent, the Employee resigning. Rehired employees can choose to participate in Motivation Consultation Center was established in either a Return to Career scheme, rejoining as a regular February 2011 to help employees develop a positive employee, or a Return to Job scheme, allowing them approach to their careers. greater flexibility as full-time non-regular employees. The center fields telephone inquiries from Lion Taking advantage of this system, two former employees (including employees dispatched to affiliated employees rejoined the Company in 2010. companies) and temporary employees, and provides advice and information as required. ● Employee Data 2008 2009 2010 (Male) 1,934 1,883 1,873 Regular employees Employee Motivation (Female) 546 566 583 n Consultation Center o i (Male) 57 40 49 L New employees d n (Female) 25 31 25 a s e e Rehiring of Employees on Retirement Rehired retirees (No. of people) 87 125 147 y o l (%) 3.4 4.9 5.6 p m In April 2006, Lion began rehiring employees who E Temporary employees 205 264 255 reached the mandatory retirement age. Three systems are Female employee ratio 22.0 23.1 23.7 in place: rehiring for standard jobs, whereby employees (No. of people) 32 32 34 apply for a desired position from a list provided by the Female managers (%) 4.7 4.8 5.1 Company; rehiring for highly specialized jobs, whereby (No. of people) 45 48 44 the Company appoints employees with indispensable Disabled employees (%) 1.8 2.0 1.8 knowledge and expertise; and rehiring for management (No. of men) 3 5 3 positions, whereby employees continue to apply their Childcare leave users (No. of women) 36 38 35 management expertise in a managerial role. Presently, (Male) 0 0 0 Reduced hours approximately 64％ of retiring employees have applied for childcare (Female) 34 40 48 for reemployment. Average overtime per month (hours) 10.7 10.3 9.9 Employing People with Disabilities Annual paid leave used (%) 45.2 48.6 51.9 Departures within three (No. of people) 8 6 5 Lion wants employees to be able to fully apply their talent years of entering Company (%) 3.8 3.0 2.6 regardless of any disability. While immediate superiors * “New employees” includes new employees hired mid-year. of disabled employees provide care in the form of * Numbers and ratios for rehired retirees from past years have been revised consultation, there is an established mentality of support due to a change in tabulation method. Ratio of rehired retirees = [No. of rehired retirees] ÷ [No. of regular employees and rehired retirees] at Lion to which everyone in the workplace subscribes. The disabled employee ratio in 2010 was 1.8％. Establishment of System for Rehiring Promoting Work-Life Balance Former Employees Lion wants former employees who left the Company to Lion strives to build environments where employees can return to work and contribute their services once again, work dynamically and deliver results, placing value on drawing on their career experience. In May 2009, we balance between work and private lives. introduced a system for rehiring employees who resigned for personal reasons. The aim of the system is to urge CSR Report 2011 25 Employees and Lion Lion’s support is comprehensive and employees are Support for Childcare and Nursing Care Web assured their chances for promotion or development will Lion enhanced its support framework following revisions not be hindered as a result of childbirth and childcare. to the Childcare and Family Care Leave Law* in June 2010, newly establishing nursing care leave and enabling men to take childcare leave on more than one occasion. Next Generation Support * Childcare and Family Care Leave Law: Act Phase 3 Action Plan Officially, the Act on the Welfare of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family Members Including Child Care and Family Care Leave Period : April 2009 to March 2011 “Kurumin” logo recognizing ● Support for Childcare and Nursing Care support for the next generation Goals: Paid leave from six weeks prior to birth to eight Maternity leave 1. Have seven or more male employees take childcare leave during weeks after birth the action plan period. Birth Special leave (childbirth by Two days paid leave (bonus leave) →Nine male employees took childcare leave following spouse) discussions with employees who had taken the leave, briefings to managers, and a seminar given Up to 18 months leave until the child is three years by an outside lecturer. old (paid leave for the first successive two weeks) Childcare leave Additional childcare leave for fathers after using 2. Grant one day of scheduled paid leave in 2009. childcare leave within eight weeks of their child’s birth →Raised target to “three days” in 2010 and Reduced hours Up to two hours/day reduction in the workday until achieved the target. Childcare for childcare the child finishes first grade 3. Establish an intranet environment allowing employees on Exemption Exemption from overtime for employees with a childcare leave to access corporate information. from overtime child under three years old that apply →Arrangements have been made and 11 employees -N ursing care leave provide by day to nurse injuries currently use the system. Child sickness and sickness while the child starts school (paid leave) leave Five days/year for one child or ten days/year for two 4. Introduce measures for rehiring employees who resigned for or more children that are preschool age personal reasons. Nursing care →Two employees have been rehired since Up to 93 days available to nurse each child as leave and implementation in May 2009. necessary combining nursing care leave and reduced hours reduced hours for nursing care for nursing care Nursing Nursing care Five days/year for one child or ten days/year for two leave or more children provided by day for nursing care Promoting Efficient Work Styles Accumulated -U  se accumulated annual paid leave that has leave (nursing expired (up to 60 days) for nursing a close relative We aim to create suitable work environments and ensure of close  edical and volunteer leave are available in addition to *M that work is carried out efficiently. This initiative is aided relative) accumulated paid leave. by monitoring of hours worked using an objective *In addition to the above, a system enabling restriction of work hours for recording method (time cards). To reduce hours worked childcare or nursing care purposes has been introduced in line with law. and promote energy savings, each business location designates one day a week as “no overtime day,” As a result of support enhancements and making the encouraging employees to return home on time. In programs known to employees, the ratio of female Headquarters Staff and Research divisions, a flextime employees taking childcare leave has been 100％ in arrangement is used to enable employees to have greater recent years. The number of men taking childcare leave control over their work styles. has also increased, even among varying job types, due to Efforts to create working environments where effective measures pursued since 2005. employees can work dynamically and in good health were These enhancements to childcare and nursing care implemented in the latter half of fiscal 2009. In 2010, support were implemented according to action plans major reductions in the number of employees working formulated in line with the Act on Advancement of excessively were achieved. A total of 23 non-managers Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children. worked more than 60 hours of overtime a month (a Lion has also been recognized by Japan’s Ministry of Health, 67.1-point reduction from fiscal 2008), while a total of Labour and Welfare as a company proactively supporting 87 managers remained at work outside scheduled hours balance between work and childcare since 2007. Phase for more than 80 hours a month (53.5-point reduction). 4 action plans were implemented in April 2011, through The percentage of annual paid leave used was 51.9％ joint deliberation by labor and management, as well as (6.7-point increase), indicating that employees are more consultation with employees who are parents. conscious about working efficiently. 26 CSR Report 2011 Volunteering Leave Frameworks for Developing Tenacity Lion has two volunteer leave systems: special volunteering Lion has systems in place to support employees by allowing leave (up to five days), supporting participation in them to fully develop their tenacity and creative potential. Company-specified activities; and standard volunteering Besides standard training programs, highly leave (using accumulated paid leave), supporting motivated employees have additional opportunities participation in activities of a personal interest. In 2010, 50 for skills development, including elective training and employees took special volunteering leave (77 days in total). self-development programs. The diverse lineup of self-development programs, in particular, helps employees Human Resource Development enhance their abilities. One activity is the Lion Challenge Cup, an opportunity for employees to present self-initiated group research directly to Lion executives, and we have also commenced Corporate Culture of Tenacity, Creativity, initiatives for developing human resources capable of and Learning sustaining overseas operations in this age of global business. Innovation has sustained Lion’s business activities ever since In 2010, 10 sales managers participated in a new the Company’s founding, and it is individual employees program involving an overseas retail and distribution with the ability to practice “tenacity,” “creativity,” and sector study tour. The aim of this program is to give “learning” who generate the innovation required to participants first-hand experience of different initiatives resolve business and technical issues. Lion aims to foster and distribution frameworks maintained by Western a corporate culture of tenacity, creativity, and learning by manufacturers and retailers. n developing human resources with the individual resolve o i L d to overcome problems and create new value. n a s e e Education and Training Programs y o l p m Lion conducts rank-based and specialized job-based E training for all employees, offering programs according to qualifications, position, age, and job type. Overseas retail and distribution sector study tour In 2010, leadership training was added to existing rank-based programs. The new program, in which 105 young and middle managers took part, aims to improve ● Self-Development Programs participants’ ability to response to customers and build Employees are sent to an overseas company or close-knit working environments. research institute to engage in a broad range Global human resource training Overseas job training Follow-up programs were also implemented for of jobs, acquiring knowledge and skills for a current or future position. participants of new employee and mid-career rank-based An opportunity for employees to present training programs to ensure content was adequately Presentations at knowledge or technology developed through learned and to aim for further advancements. overseas conferences work or learning in an overseas symposium as a way to nurture skills for global business. ● Standard Training Programs Employees visit Western nations with advanced distribution and retail sectors to gain Regular employees Management Self-planned overseas firsthand, real-time insight into the impact of training globalization on distribution frameworks, thus New employee training Management training helping to broaden their outlook. Rank-based training Mid-career training Employees study at a business school Study Domestic study to enhance job capability and business Sales Division training management skills. Research and study Employee-initiated research and study relating Distance learning Joint research Specialized job-based Administrative/Planning Division training groups to their work. training Research/Technical Division training An annual in-house contest whereby teams Production Division training Lion Challenge Cup present their research to executives. Financial assistance is readily provided to General education, fund self-development expenses to promote business skills, a dynamic corporate culture of tenacity, qualifications creativity, and learning. CSR Report 2011 27 Employees and Lion Employee Health Management Age 35 Health Seminar (LIS21*) Lion puts efforts into preventing lifestyle diseases and Lion views employee health as a most important asset, spotlights age 35, which is generally prior to the emergence both for the Company and for employees themselves, of health problems or health risks. Believing that the and acts in line with its Fundamental Health Management establishment of good health while still young leads to Policy. The policy places a focus on fostering a high degree prevention of diseases later on, we have been holding of self-supervision among employees and promoting overnight hands-on seminars since 2001, giving employees comfortable working environments. As a result, almost the chance to consider their own health and identify issues all employees report for annual health checkups and they need to act on with an eye to the future. individual post-checkup consultations (health guidance). The existence of well-organized health management activities involving dialogues with industrial physicians and nurses has facilitated the in-house implementation of specific health checkups and guidance for employees Soaking up forest air as part aged 40 and above, as enforced by law since fiscal 2008. of LIS21 Providing for Specific Health Checkups and Guidance * LIS21: Lion Life Innovation Seminar 21 Lion implements specific health checkups and specific health guidance for employees aged 40 and above with ● Changes One Year After LIS21 Participation the cooperation of the Company’s health insurance Participants No. with changed lifestyles % association in line with a three-year company-wide plan 2005 110 99 94.3 commenced in 2010. 2006 120 111 92.5 Preventive activities aiming to lower the risk of 2007 86 79 91.9 metabolic syndrome have been implemented since 2008 91 82 90.1 2008 and were continued in 2010. These activities have 2009 91 89 97.8 resulted in a decline in the percentage of employees * Participants who did not attend interviews with the nursing staff one found to be suffering from metabolic syndrome (under year later because they were on childcare leave, or for other reasons, are health association criteria) despite the average age of excluded from percentage calculations. The number of participants with changed lifestyles for 2008 was revised after closer examination. employees remaining roughly the same. ● Percentage of Lion Employees with Metabolic Syndrome Mental Health Initiatives Employees with metabolic syndrome (%) Lion views mental health as a major issue both in terms 2008 8.0 of running a dynamic corporation and managing risk, and 2009 6.8 directs effort into prevention of mental illness. All employees 2010 6.7 partake in annual stress surveys designed to make them notice any changes in their mental health. Results are *The percentage for 2009 was revised after closer examination. returned individually by industrial physicians or nurses who offer advice for working dynamically and in good spirits. Stop Smoking Initiative Ongoing educational programs for managers are also A stop smoking initiative is implemented together implemented each year as we believe managers have with the health insurance association. Since the end an important role to play in helping employees maintain of February 2010, support has been provided to 65 a healthy mind. In 2010, an e-learning program was employees who accepted the challenge to give up implemented to promote full application in the workplace smoking. The number of techniques learned, such as identifying early signs and of smoking areas on dealing with employees under one’s charge. company premises was Besides consultations with industrial physicians and also reduced. These nurses, in-house consultations are additionally undertaken efforts have led to a by psychiatrists and clinical psychologists. A contract has company-wide decline also been entered into with an independent organization in the percentage for providing telephone consultation and counseling for of smokers. employees and their families. Poster for the stop smoking initiative 28 CSR Report 2011 Safety and Disaster Web drills, and joint drills with municipal firefighters. The 2010 annual joint drill consisted of an exercise Prevention Initiatives in setting up a disaster response task force at Lion Headquarters and quickly restoring operations under Company-wide Management of Health, the scenario of a Tokai zone earthquake affecting the Safety, and Disaster Prevention Odawara Plant. Lion’s safety activities are constant and are based on No company-owned office buildings or plants were a company-wide principle of “safety first.” destroyed or suffered other major damage as a result of Ongoing safety management is achieved through the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, partly a health, safety, and disaster prevention management due to seismic reinforcements. Confirmation of the safety system. Activities include briefings at individual business of all employees also proceeded smoothly using systems locations of affiliated companies and research facilities, tested through drills. held since 2009, and internal audits (system audits) carried out at production sites by site representatives. ● Number of Facility Accidents/Disasters Lion always puts safety first and these initiatives will take 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 us toward the goals of zero accidents and zero disasters. 0 0 0 0 0 [Occupational Safety] No major accidents or disaster-related damage involving ● Number of Work Accidents (excl. commuting accidents) people or facilities occurred during 2010. There were no 10 lost time accidents and three accidents without lost time. 8 n Risk evaluations were carried out on an ongoing basis, o i L 6 5 d with improvements made through confirmation of past n 4 4 4 a 4 s e results. Since the establishment of a health, safety, and 3 e 4 2 y o l disaster prevention management system, risk assessments 2 1 3 3 1 p m have been steadily advanced under the charge of business 1 1 E 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) operators toward the goal of eliminating risk factors. Research Division Production Division Office Division Effort will now be made to establish procedures to ensure all areas of risk evaluation are covered, contributing to safer working environments. ● Work Accident Frequency Rate* in Production Division 1.2 1.10 [Safety of Facilities] 0.88 0.84 0.9 Facility inspections by independent organization have 0.72 been introduced and assist facility-related safety activities 0.6 0.74 0.71 in various ways. At plants with chemical reactors, safety 0.3 of facilities is maintained through inspections conducted 0.00 0.00 on a regular basis according to the level of importance. 0.00 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) In recent years, investment priorities for all Japanese Lion Chemical industry plants, including affiliated company plants, were determined based on quantitative evaluations using risk* Frequency rate: Number of people suffering lost time injuries ÷ Total working hours based maintenance methodology. Investment in facilities (unit: million hours) required to achieve safety is ensured. Furthermore, accidents caused by changes to production facilities or operating conditions are prevented by enforcing ● Hours without Accident at End of 2010 (Unit：thousand hours) confirmations stipulated in company rules. Research Division Production Division Response to Emergencies Hirai Honjo Odawara Fukushima Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi 678 55 63 11 301 292 232 84 Each business location has established manuals for ensuring the safety of workers and enabling swift and appropriate action in times of disaster. Drills are also carried out on a regular basis and include safety confirmation drills, evacuation drills, disaster leadership drills, firefighting CSR Report 2011 29 Shareholders/Investors and Lion Valuing Communication and Responding to Expectations and Trust through Business Activities Information Disclosure data and settlements of accounts in addition to an overview of business activities and performance. An and Communication investor relations e-mail service and an inquiry form Lion discloses information in line with the IR Information especially for investors are also available. The website Disclosure Guidelines*. has been independently recognized* for the quality of * IR Information Disclosure Guidelines information provided and usability. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/invest/policy/(Japanese Only) To foster better understanding of the Company by a large number of individual investors, investor relations Placing Value on Dialogue with Shareholders leaflets containing general information about the An annual general meeting of shareholders is held each Company and, for example, information about new year at the end of March at the Kokugikan (Ryogoku, product sample sets are created and distributed to Tokyo). Attendance at the 2011 meeting was 1,490 people. individual investors at events. Many questions were asked by shareholders during the For overseas shareholders and investors, we operate an meeting, and afterwards they were given the opportunity English website and publish an annual report in English to meet with directors and view a display of new products that includes a message from the president, segment to promote greater understanding of the Company. results, financial data, and other detailed information. Close communication with shareholders is also * Investor relations website awards: 2010 Investor Relations Site Ranking Excellent Website Gomez advanced through the Lion Letter and a report to Consulting Co., Ltd. shareholders, sent out in September and March, 2010 Listed Company Website Quality Ranking Excellent Corporate Website (Overall) Nikko Investor Relations Co., Ltd. respectively, containing information on earnings, new products, and other matters. Lion Letter FY2010 Interim Report to Shareholders (September 2010) Information for investors on the Company website FY2010 Report to Shareholders (March 2011) Providing Accurate Information at Right Time Enhancing Communication Tools Lion conducts a number of events to ensure that The “Investor Information” section on the Company corporate information is communicated in a precise, fair, website was created to make information available to and timely manner to investors in Japan and overseas. as many investors as feasible in an expeditious and fair Besides earnings briefings, business briefings, new manner. The section was fully revamped in July 2010 to product briefings, and other presentations to securities make it easier for shareholders and investors to access analysts and institutional investors in Japan, energy the information they need. is directed into overseas communication, including The website facilitates access to information about participation in events organized by securities companies Lion, providing materials on business strategy, financial attended by a large number of overseas investors. 30 CSR Report 2011 Annual general meeting We also hold regular Company introductions for individual investors. During introductions, we explain our Introducing New Products to Shareholders business and strategies and present a broad range of One of Lion’s most important tasks is to provide a information from environmental considerations and social consistent return to shareholders on an ongoing basis contribution activities to useful hints for living. by improving the Company’s consolidated earnings. In 2010, 11 Company introductions were held Shareholders owning 1,000 shares or more on December across Japan, attended by more than 1,700 investors. 31 each year receive a complimentary assortment of Specifically, a plant tour was conducted in Akashi predominantly new Lion products the following March. (September), during which quality control and other By introducing products we try to encourage shareholders manufacturing site initiatives were explained. Also, to become loyal Lion supporters. environmentally themed investment forums (February and August) included presentations made in person by the president and employees in charge of environmental action and product development to promote greater understanding among investors. New product sample set sent to shareholders in March 2011 s r o t s e Lion’s booth at IR Forum v nn I / o i 2010 Tokyo (Aug. 28, s r L 2010, hosted by Tuvalue d Lion is selected for the FTSE4Good Index dn l Forest Corporation) o a Series, a global indicator for socially h e r responsible investing. a h S Incorporating Feedback from Capital Markets ● Information Concerning Shares (as of December 31, 2010) An important investor relations function is to share Other corporate investors 17.92 % feedback from shareholders and investors inside the Foreign investors 4.40 % Company. Opinions received during events for individual Securities firms 0.31 % investors, results of questionnaires, and reports on Individuals, Other meetings with domestic and overseas institutional Number of Financial institutions (including treasury stock) shares 37.10 % investors are communicated as feedback to directors and 40.27 % others inside the Company each month for reflection in business activities. Number of Individuals, Other (including treasury stock) 98.44 % shareholders Providing a Return to Shareholders Securities firms 0.09 % One of Lion’s most important tasks is to provide a consistent Foreign investors 0.34 % return to shareholders on an ongoing basis by improving Other corporate investors 0.99 % the Company’s consolidated earnings. The annual dividend Financial institutions 0.14 % to shareholders during 2010 was ¥10 per share, the same level as in 2009. In 2011, we plan to add a special dividend of ¥1 to the end-of-year dividend to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the Company’s founding, bringing the total annual dividend to ¥11 per share. CSR Report 2011 31 Business Partners and Lion Contributing to a Sustainable Society in All Business Activities, from Procurement to Sales Realizing Sustainable Procurement ● Efforts in Supply Chain Management Raw material manufacturers (Raw materials procurement) Approach to CSR Procurement Lion and affiliates Manufacturing partners (Manufacturing) (Distribution) Lion carries out appropriate procurement of raw materials and finished products in keeping with its Purchasing Wholesalers Activity Principles and has promoted development of a (Sale) supply chain management system. Retailers In 2008, we formulated the Procurement Principles*, a set of CSR procurement guidelines clarifying social and environmental considerations. We even implement a Evaluating Raw Material Suppliers regular questionnaire among business partners as a way from a CSR Perspective to achieve thorough communication of the principles. * Procurement Principles Lion has always sought to establish reciprocal URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/policy/ relationships of trust with suppliers. In recent years, we have responded to the growing requirement for Business Partner Questionnaires CSR procurement by focusing on human resource To fully grasp the status of CSR activities pursued development, sending employees to participate in by business partners, Lion has been implementing a seminars on purchasing and procurement. questionnaire since 2008 based on the 10 principles of We also carry out observations of raw material supplier the United Nations Global Compact. plants at suitable intervals. Suppliers are selected after In 2009-10, we asked 481 business partners taking into account social considerations in addition to worldwide, including major partners of overseas affiliated safety, environmental adaptability, and quality. companies and Lion Group companies*, to acquaint themselves with the Procurement Principles and complete Fair Transactions with a questionnaire. Responses were received from 354 companies (73.6％ response rate at the end of 2010). Manufacturing Partners On evaluating the responses, there were no major Manufacturer selection, transaction conditions, pricing, problems for most of the companies surveyed. and other criteria are determined through fair and However, we realized efforts by three companies were transparent discussions. Maintaining and developing fair slightly insufficient. and friendly ties with manufacturing partners, based on In 2011, we will request improvements by business coexistence and co-prosperity, allows us to deliver higherpartners whose efforts were insufficient, and carry out quality products to customers in a timely manner. individual briefings and questionnaires for partners who Conformity with the Act Against Delay in Payment of did not reply. Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors is ensured * Surveyed Lion Group companies: through employee training. Related personnel participate Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., Lion Packaging Co., Ltd., Lion Trading Co., Ltd., Lion Hygiene Co., Ltd., Ipposha Oil Industries Co., Ltd., Lion Idemitsu in outside seminars on an ongoing basis and provide Composites Co., Ltd. (formerly Calp Corporation), Lion Akzo Co., Ltd., feedback to the others inside the Company in order to Lion Daily Necessities Chemicals (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Lion Chemical Industry (Taiwan) Co., Ltd., Lion Corporation (Thailand) Ltd., Southern disseminate correct information. Lion Sdn. Bhd., P.T. Lion Wings, and CJ Lion Corporation. Teaming Up with Competitors on Delivery Lion teamed up with competitors in 1989 to establish 32 CSR Report 2011 Lion Marketing Communication Planet Logistics Co., Ltd., for conducting joint deliveries to wholesalers. The philosophy behind joint delivery is, Spring New Product Presentation “Cooperate on systems, compete in the store.” Manufacturers The annual Spring New Product Presentation brings compete fairly in stores, but cooperate on logistics in order to together in one venue all our new products, from cut logistics costs, improve the quality of logistics, and address household items and pharmaceuticals, to gift products environmental issues. At the end of 2010, 18 manufacturers and products for pets. Lion researchers are on hand to were participating in the joint deliveries. provide clear explanations of products, sometimes with Fixed schedules, fixed volumes, bulk delivery, orderly demonstrations, while business divisions put forward systems, and standardization, all achieved through joint selling and presentation methods. delivery, also lead to operational improvements and efficiencies within wholesale operations. Lion Marketing Communication Lion Marketing Communication 2010 was held in July Working with Wholesalers and 2010 with the purpose of urging wholesalers and retailers to support efforts under our brand development plan. Retailers on Store Presentations Over the two days, 823 wholesalers and retailers attended Cooperation with wholesalers and retailers has been the event. To complement product features already enhanced by the establishment of the Customer known and to spur realization of our brand development Development Department, which promotes the mutual plan within stores, the event provided practical marketing communication and resolution of challenges that lie ahead. ideas and information from a standpoint looking at Consistent with these initiatives to promote mutual consumer trends. understanding with wholesalers and retailers, store coordinators from Lion Group company Lion Field [Research Presentations by the Behavioral Science Marketing Co., Ltd. regularly visit around 8,300 sales Research Institute] outlets to ascertain the needs of business partners and The Behavioral Science Research Institute reported on customers, and work to develop novel and attractive lifestyle research into ways to release psychological “brakes” store presentations. affecting recent consumer confidence and achieve fresh happiness from two angles — “Aging as it is experienced s Lion-kai General Meeting in daily life,” and “Comfort within today’s lifestyles.” r e n t r n a o i Lion’s distribution policy is founded on coexistence PL s snd and co-prosperity with wholesalers. We hold general e na i s u meetings of the “Lion-kai” forum to explain the B Company’s business, marketing, and sales strategies, as well as, through opinion exchange, to promote common awareness of one another’s roles in increasing customer satisfaction. As of January 1, 2011, 256 wholesalers were members of the Lion-kai. Research presentation Lion-kai general meeting CSR Report 2011 33 Society and Lion Bettering Society and Lifestyles in Local Communities through Health, Comfort, and the Environment Lion’s Social Contribution Activities conference and donates rainwater tanks to local communities as part of communication and education efforts. Lion’s central business themes — health, comfort, and [Sponsorship of Rainwater Network Japan National the environment — are also the foundation for the Conference] Company’s social contribution activities. We conduct Rainwater Network Japan was established in 2008 as a activities in each area, placing importance on cultivating a nationwide organization for the sharing of information mentality of wanting to get involved among employees. about rainwater utilization among citizens, government, Much energy is directed into communication and corporations and researchers. Lion has sponsored the education about oral care, as has been the case since the organization’s national conference since its inauguration. Company’s founding, and about conservation of water At the third conference in August 2010, Lion gave a environment. These efforts are directly related to our presentation on its own initiatives. business activities. See pages 10-13 for more information on communication and education about oral care. Protection of Water Resources Lion is inherently linked to water through the act of washing and we bear a responsibility to protect water National conference of environments, for example through environmental Rainwater considerations in our products. Particular initiatives we Network Japan focus on are promotion of the use of rainwater — a water resource we are all familiar with — and forest maintenance [Ryogoku Sakasa-kasa] activities in the Lion Forest in Yamanashi, which play a In June 2010, Lion and NPO People for Rainwater installed major role in the protection of water resources. a rainwater tank in front of the Kokugikan, donating it to Sumida Ward. It is called the “Ryogoku Sakasa-kasa” — Promotion of Web literally, the “Ryogoku upside-down umbrella.” The tank’s canvas roof collects rain in a tank to be used later by Lion Skywater Harvesting volunteers to water flowerbeds in the vicinity. Passers-by are The world’s water environments are in disarray, with even able to manually pump water in the tank back up to regions across the globe frequently experiencing flooding the roof in order to appreciate the water cycle. This is the and drought. Lion is promoting the use of rainwater as a first installation of a rainwater collection facility in a public solution that will take us closer to a water-recycling society. place and the first step in collaborative efforts by citizens, Sumida Ward, Tokyo, where Lion Headquarters is government and corporations to use rainwater in cities. located, is leading the way in skywater harvesting, with We will continue working with citizens and government to facilities like the Kokugikan making use of rainwater. donate suitable tanks to communities nationwide. Lion also works with the local community to promote rainwater use, and Lion facilities — the headquarters building, Hirai Office, and Lion Eco Chemicals Sdn. Bhd. in Malaysia — use rainwater for watering and flushing toilets, and as cooling water for plants. Support for Skywater Harvesting Lion supports promotion of skywater harvesting through The Ryogoku sponsorship of Rainwater Network Japan’s national Sakasa-kasa 34 CSR Report 2011 President Sadayoshi Fujishige and volunteers at the start of Phase II activities at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi Lion Forest in Yamanashi — Web Initiatives Supporting Forest Biodiversity A Five-Year Review In June 2010, Lion started joint efforts with NPO Forests serve to absorb CO2, produce clean water, and Earthwatch Japan to carry out tracking of wildlife that control flooding. In 2006, Lion established the Lion Forest will contribute to biodiversity conservation. The activity in Yamanashi with the objectives of creating benefits involves searching for signs of wildlife and recording for water environments by promoting sustainable them along with information on their location, and we management and sound development of forests, and have gathered data for studying the impact of forest fostering environmental awareness among employees. maintenance on flora and fauna. In 2010, 12 employees We are advancing forest maintenance activities by Lion volunteered for two surveys. volunteers and use of paper made from forest thinnings. Achievements Lion Forest in Yamanashi Area and [Use of Thinnings for Publications] Forest Maintenance Activities Lion creates the CSR Report, in-house magazine and The Lion Forest in Yamanashi is an expansive forest of pamphlets using thinnings from the Lion Forest in around 65 hectares (about the size of 90 soccer fields) Yamanashi under a 3.9 paper system*. Around 34 tons located in Yamanashi City, Yamanashi Prefecture. It were used in 2010. was opened as the prefecture’s first corporate forestry * 3.9 paper system Domestic forest thinnings are often not used because of the high promotion project following the conclusion of a forest transportation costs. A 3.9 paper system is an initiative whereby the party maintenance agreement. creating the publication bears the cost of transporting the thinnings. Phase I of activities from 2006 to 2010 involved thinning, planting, clearing of underbrush, and building [Contribution to CO2 Reductions] of walkways where it was urgently required. Besides In March 2011, Lion received a forest forest maintenance, thinnings are used for craftwork, and development and CO2 absorption we also conduct Forest Biodiversity surveys. As of 2010, certificate from Yamanashi around 500 people had participated as volunteers, new Prefecture after absorbing 1.7 tons employees undergoing training, or administrators. of CO2 through thinning, planting The area of maintenance will increase from 2011 and underbrush clearing activities in under Phase II and employees who have yet to take part the Lion Forest in Yamanashi during Yamanashi Prefecture will be asked to join in. fiscal 2010. forest development and CO2 absorption certificate ● Lion Forest in Yamanashi — Maintenance Area Mizukuchi, Lion Values Interaction with Local Communities n Yamanashi City o i L d n a Yamanashi City Lion interacts with residents in the Mizukuchi district y t e around the Lion Forest in Yamanashi and holds a treei c o S Yamanashi planting exercise each spring with the children of Yawata Prefecture Elementary School. Lunches are also arranged with the Mizukuchi women’s club, who teach how to make ho-tonoodles, a popular dish of the region. Ties were Lion Forest in Yamanashi hi deepened in September 2010 when the women’s club Phase I planting visited Lion Headquarters for a seminar as apart of their Phase I thinning study tour. Phase II planting Phase II thinning CSR Report 2011 35 Society and Lion Social Contribution Web Activities of Lion Foundation Activities (2010) for Dental Health In 2010, Lion again implemented a wide range of activities For many years, Lion has supported the Lion Foundation in the areas of health, comfort and the environment. for Dental Health (LDH; founded 1964), which became a public interest incorporated foundation in October 2010. ● Selected Social Contribution Activities (2010) LDH continues to contribute to society through activities ･Presented Student Best in the four areas of oral health, research, examination Poster Award (Lion Award) and treatment, and communication, in cooperation with at Japan Society on Water dental associations, universities, government authorities, Environment (JSWE) annual conference and other parties. March ● Selected Activities (2010) ･Held lessons during spring and summer holidays to teach elementary school students and parents living in vicinity of Tokyo and Osaka facilities about hand washing, tooth brushing, and Oral Health Activities for gargling (March and August) Mothers and Children LDH supports child-rearing through oral health ･Hosted 9th Lion Rugby Festival at activities for infants and their parents. Chiba Plant April 50 locations, 50 occasions Participants: 864 small children, 1,031 parents Oral Health Activities at ･Presented Lion Awards, supporting association Kindergartens and Schools activities relating to preventive dentistry and LDH provides direct guidance activities for development of young researchers (May, July, kindergarten and school children and their parents May September, and October) and supports activities of health supervisors. 488 locations, 618 occasions Participants: 4 4,029 kindergarten and school children, 2,841 parents, and 2,225 health supervisors ･Sponsored 12th Japan Water Award Oral Health Activities ･Implemented Sumida River at Workplaces Fireworks Project, inviting Advice is provided to workers, principally July residents of children’s homes to relating to periodontal disease prevention and watch Sumida River Fireworks oral health care and promotion. Festival 242 offices, 502 occasions Recipients: 29,910 August ･Provided support for Rainwater Network Japan’s national conference Oral Health Activities for Elderly ･Held science education program for elementary school students in LDH provides support for maintenance of oral Edogawa Ward, Tokyo functions so the elderly can continue to eat using their own mouths and teeth. ･Held tooth brushing lessons for children in Thailand September 57 locations, 57 occasions Participants: 1,567 Examination and Treatment Highly specialized examination, treatment, and ･Contributed to development of preventive dentistry activities of a high quality next generation through support are provided in line with the concept of risk for charity baseball event for kids control dentistry. December (Children’s Dream Fund) Recipients: 12,964 Mass Tooth Brushing Exercise for School Children ● Plant Tours in 2010 LDH holds this fun event for teaching elementary school students about the importance of oral Plant Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi total health and how to clean teeth. No. of tours 85 130 68 65 348 Participating schools: 139 (incl. online participation) Participants: A pprox. 10,000 children (incl. online), and Participants 2,056 3,365 1,815 1,915 9,151 950 students from 16 dental hygienist schools 36 CSR Report 2011 Contributing to Society Fight Against Germs Project — KireiKirei through Products The “Fight Against Germs” Project is conducted through Lion has advanced business and social contribution KireiKirei products and aims to promote hand washing, activities around three themes — health, comfort, and gargling and disinfecting. the environment. Through our products, we contribute to Consistent with hygiene society together with customers. education in the past, activities are pursued around three Support for Pink Ribbon Campaign — objectives — learning, thinking, BATHTOLOGY and communicating. Lion has been supporting the Pink Ribbon campaign The “Fight Against Germs” Project to eliminate breast cancer since 2008 through sales of our BATHTOLOGY in-bath skincare brand, which prevents skin from becoming dry after bathing. Between [Learning (at Kindergartens)] September and December 2010, we ran a campaign to The “Chase Away Germs” Rally for kindergarten children raise funds for stamping out breast cancer. A special mark aims to promote hand washing, gargling and disinfecting was included on the package to indicate our support for habits from an early age. We send kits containing stickers Pink Ribbon and a portion of proceeds was donated to and posters to kindergartens, and use fun ways to check the campaign. that children are washing their hands, gargling and disinfecting well. Between 2008 and the end of 2010, more than one million children participated at some 5,000 kindergartens. [Thinking (at Elementary Schools)] The aim of the KireiKirei “Staying Clean Together” Contest is to create opportunities for children to think about the importance of hand washing and gargling. Slogans and BATHTOLOGY body washes (two on left) and bath additives (two on right) paintings with hand washing or gargling themes were received from elementary school or younger children from across Japan. A total of 263,691 entries have been Contributing to Society through TOP received up to and including the 8th contest in 2010. The Lion TOP Eco Project is named after TOP laundry detergent. One initiative of the project is the Japan [Communicating (to Everyone)] Clean Water Foundation, whereby ¥1 is donated toward Lion donates ¥1 to the United Nations Children’s Fund river protection activities for every carton of TOP sold. (UNICEF) for every KireiKirei product sold under its “Circle In 2010, during the third such campaign, we donated of Beauty Surrounding Asia” campaign. Donations ¥10,095,168. have been used to build sanitation facilities and provide Another activity is the Waterfront Painting Contest. education on hygiene at elementary schools in Myanmar. The aim of the contest is to urge children to think about Donations made in fiscal 2010 came to ¥10,013,593. familiar water environments. A total of 6,413 submissions n have been received up to and including the third contest o i L d in 2010. Winning entries for 2010 appear on the cover of n a y t this report. e i c o S Children washing hands before a meal on Global ©UNICEF Myanmar/WASH/2010 Hand-washing Day Assistance was provided to an association promoting protection of rivers in Hasami, Nagasaki Prefecture CSR Report 2011 37 The Environment and Lion A Leading Company in Environmental Friendliness Promoting Society’s Coexistence with Nature Environmental Considerations which, after use, are easily biodegraded and do not pollute rivers, lakes or other waterways. in Product Creation The broad scope of Lion’s environmental protection Environmental initiatives are essential for a company efforts includes support for academic pursuits and like Lion providing products for day-to-day living. Lion’s research, as well as environmental activities carried out business has an inherent link to water through the with customers, and it continues to expand. act of washing, and we make efforts to reduce the Our ongoing efforts in environmental protection volume of water used and wastewater released during will contribute to the creation of a sustainable, lowmanufacturing, minimize the amount of water customers carbon and recycling-oriented society, and help promote need during use of our products, and create products coexistence with nature. ● Ongoing Environmental Protection Efforts by Lion 1960s Introduced laundry detergent with excellent biodegradability in response to foaming of rivers. 1970s Introduced phosphate-free Dash detergent containing no (1967) phosphorus, a cause of eutrophication. Murin TOP (1980) 1980s Introduced resource-efficient, low-impact compact detergent in response to global environmental issues. 1990s High TOP (1988) Introduced detergent made using renewable, carbon neutral plant-based ingredients. Spark (1991) Consideration of Water Environments in Product Development Manufacturing: Minimized water usage and wastewater release during manufacture Use: Excellent Bath water OK Minimized the amount of water required for use by customers biodegradability (water savings) TOP Platinum Clear Single rinse Bright i h W After use: Excellent defoaming (water savings) Excellent biodegradability, no impact on water environments (water savings) when released after use TOP NANOX Of Ofuro no LOOK (bath (b th cleaner) l 38 CSR Report 2011 Lion Forest in Yamanashi Lion’s Environmental Activities Environmental Management System (Eco Lion Activities) The purpose of Lion’s environmental management system Eco Lion activities are environmental initiatives Lion is to identify, evaluate, and rectify adverse effects on carries out in all its business activities, taking into the environment associated with our business activities, consideration every stage from research and development products, and services, and to facilitate ongoing to raw material procurement, manufacturing at plants, improvements in our environmental protection activities. marketing, logistics, and sales, through to household Ongoing improvements will be achieved through use and disposal. The entire Lion Group advances implementation of the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle environmental activities centering on five initiatives. in line with the Environmental Guidelines. Environmental Guidelines* Environmental Management Structure* Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of the Lion has established an Environmental Action Promotion Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, which states, Committee comprising members from production, “We shall play positive and active role in creating the administrative, sales, R&D, and headquarters staff Sustainable Society, harmonizing economic development divisions, to coordinate cooperation on environmental and environmental protection.” The Environmental matters by all employees. The committee reviews Guidelines are a clear statement about the Company’s Company-wide business activities from an environmental stance in undertaking Eco Lion activities and our efforts, protection perspective and takes steps to ensure legal among other endeavors, to develop eco-friendly products, compliance and setting of voluntary standards and targets engage in business activities with due consideration to air in addition to ascertaining progress made. and water environments and biodiversity, and to lower * Environmental management structure (Japanese only) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/management/ environmental impact throughout the supply chain. * Environmental Guidelines (Japanese only) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/guide/ ● The Five Eco Lion Initiatives Reducing greenhouse P.44 gas emissions Fostering Effectively using environmental and recycling P.45 awareness P.51 resources within the Lion Group In recognition of its advanced environmental initiatives, Lion has been certified as an Eco First Company by the Ministry of the Environment. t n e mn Considering the no oLi Appropriately r i environment v d from a productP.46 P.50 n n handling Ea e chemical substances h oriented perspective T CSR Report 2011 39 The Environment and Lion Legal Compliance Status of ISO 14001* Certification Lion complies with all environmental laws, ordinances and Lion acquired ISO 14001 group certification covering all other regulations, and we ensure thorough management its plants in July 2001. Certification was reviewed and according to our own independent standards. extended by the Japan Management Association Quality Waste treatment contractors must satisfy criteria Assurance Registration Center (JMAQA) at three-year stipulated in waste management regulations in order intervals, in May 2010. Continual improvements are made to be selected by waste supervisors at each site. The to management systems and environmental protection premises of waste treatment contractors are inspected on activities based on audit results. a regular basis to verify conformity to the criteria. * ISO 14001: A global standard governing voluntary environmental efforts by In the past, we have used equipment containing organizations polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB). This equipment is stored securely in line with legal requirements and gradually disposed of through Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO). A soil survey conducted after the closure of a research building at Hirai Office revealed specified hazardous substances, such as lead and arsenic, in concentrations exceeding limits stipulated by the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. These findings were reported to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. We will continue ISO 14001 Certificate of Registration to act appropriately in accordance with the law and in cooperation with the authorities. Wastewater is constantly managed to ensure that Internal Environmental Audits statutory limits on wastewater are observed. This involves Employees who are qualified as internal environmental improving the reliability of wastewater processing auditors after undergoing appropriate training routinely facilities, strengthening and ensuring management during implement internal environmental audits to verify total processes, and conducting emergency drills. conformity to ISO requirements and conduct management Adjustments are also being made to frameworks in reviews. Individual departments take responsibility for line with revisions to related laws — namely, the Act on rectifying any non-conformity and reporting on the Rational Use of Energy, Act on Promotion of Global improvements. The director of the board responsible for Warming Countermeasures, Pollutant Release and CSR, who chairs the Environmental Action Promotion Transfer Register (PRTR) Law*1 and Chemical Substances Committee, carries out executive environmental audits on Control Law*2. a regular basis together with safety audits. There were no infringements resulting in a fine or other penalty during 2010. *1. Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law: Officially, the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof. *2. Chemical Substances Control Law: Officially, the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc. Executive safety and environmental audit 40 CSR Report 2011 Environmental Targets ● CO2 Emissions Reduction Targets and Achievements 2012 Target: After evaluating the results of the medium-term environmental plan for the three years to 2009, we formulated a new plan for the three years commencing A reduction of compared to 1990 30% or more in 2010. When formulating the new three-year medium term environmental plan, importance was attached 2020 Target: 40% or more to relevance to business activity plans. The three main elements are as follows. ●Realizing a low-carbon society A reduction of compared to 1990 ●Enhancing Lion’s environmental management structure ●Strengthening efforts in effective use of water resources and biodiversity ● Environmental Targets and Achievements ◎ : Attained ○ : Almost attained × : Unattained Target Achievements Related Category 2012 2010 Principal measures in 2010 Attainment level in 2010 pages Reduce energy-derived CO2 emissions ◎ Reviewed laundry detergent production from business activities by 30％ or Reduce by 27％ or more (27％ reduction P44 efficiency as an energy-saving measure more compared to 1990; compared to 1990) Reduce specific energy consumption ◎ CO2 emissions Reduce by 1％ or more in logistics by 1％ or more on average Increased use of large vehicles (1％ reduction compared P44 reduction compared to the previous year each year; to the previous year) Reduce the CO2 emission rate at ◎ Reduce by 1％ or more Strengthened environmental overseas production sites by 1％ or (3％ reduction compared ― compared to the previous year management structure more on average each year NEW to the previous year) Reduce total waste generation by Waste increased from 2009 due to × 55％ or more compared to 1990; Reduce by 53％ or more market conditions leading to a decline (52％ reduction P45 in volume of items sold compared to 1990) Waste reduction Attain “zero emissions” status group-wide (Attained zero emissions* Deployed Lion’s measures at (currently 8 out of 10 sites have attained — status at 1 affiliated P45 affiliated companies that status) NEW company) Made improvements to cleaning Environmental × Reduce wastewater by 20％ or more methods, but wastewater from cleaning consideration in Reduce by 17％ or more (12％ reduction P45 compared to 2005 increased due to increased switching products compared to 2005) NEW between product varieties Reduce total PRTR substance Completed preparations for managing emissions by 45％ or more compared (42％ reduction — substances newly specified under P50 Chemical to 2005 (separate targets to be set compared to 2005) revisions to the law substance for new substances); NEW management Reduce volatile organic compound ◎ Introduced VOC recovery systems and (VOC) emissions by 75％ or more Reduce by 75％ or more (78％ reduction P50 improved product composition compared to 2000 compared to 2000) Make environmental data Environmental Carry out environmental management for overseas sites publicly Disclosed data via Lion’s website ◎ ― management according to the PDCA cycle available structure Identify and perform accounting for Identify PCB waste and book Finished booking PCB waste as enhancement ◎ P40 environmental liabilities as environmental liabilities environmental liabilities Environmental Continue to promote Eco Lion Formulate and make public a Defined policy in a revision of the awareness and ◎ P52〜53 activities policy for biodiversity initiatives Environmental Guidelines communication t n e NEW indicates new targets set for the medium-term environmental plan for the three years 2010-2012. mn no * L ion defines “zero emissions” as the achievement of a 99% or higher recycling rate for total waste generated. However, this does not include residues from oL r i i v d recycling. By 2010, 9 out of 10 manufacturing sites in the Lion Group had attained zero emissions status. n n Ea e h T CSR Report 2011 41 The Environment and Lion Environmental Accounting ● Economic Benefits (Actual Benefits) Associated with Environmental Protection Activities (million yen) Benefits Year-on-year reduction Each year, we tabulate environmental protection costs, Cost savings due to energy conservation 157 environmental protection benefits, and economic benefits Cost savings due to resource efficiency 165 (actual benefits) associated with environmental protection Savings on water and sewerage charges 3 activities of the entire Lion Group based on Ministry of Savings on waste treatment expenses* 5 the Environment guidelines. The tabulation period is * Includes sales of items of value. the same as the Company’s accounting year, JanuaryDecember 2010. ● Environmental Accounting (2010) Environmental Protection Costs (million yen) Environmental Protection Benefits Related Year-onpages Category Principal activities Investments Expenses Category 2010 year change NOx emissions (tons) 60 7 Pollution prevention SOx emissions (tons) 15 -8 Air pollution prevention, water pollution 109 272 P45 Particulate emissions (tons) 6 -1 prevention, etc. Total COD (tons) 10 -2 Energy usage (t-CO2) 105,353 -385 Global environmental protection Industrial water usage (m3) 912,708 -1,867 194 3,705 P44〜45 Energy conservation, etc. City water usage (m3) 424,235 19,388 Business area Wastewater (m3) 729,624 39,766 costs Total waste generation (tons) 8,432 321 Resource recycling Final waste disposal (tons) 202 -89 2 245 P45 Waste treatment, recycling, etc. Recycling rate (%) 95 1 (recycled volume ÷ volume consigned) Eco-friendly products Plant-based materials, biodegradable materials, compact Eco-friendly product manufacturing 1,220 5,738 products, refill products, recycled paper use, recycled PET use, P46〜49 facilities, etc. etc. Upstream/ Outsourcing fees incurred due to Japan’s Packaging materials used (tons) 65,323 -4,992 downstream Containers and Packaging Recycling Act, ― 524 P48〜49 Waste (tons) 2,292 -1,272 costs waste treatment, etc. Administration ISO 14001 renewal expenses, environmental 1 632 P40、50 costs education, publishing of reports, exhibits, etc. R&D costs Costs for developing eco-friendly products, etc. 90 1,735 P46〜49 Social activity Local environmental activities, donations, etc. 0 22 P51 costs Environmental Tax imposed on pollution performance, etc. 0 31 P40 remediation costs Lion Group total 1,616 12,904 Eco-Efficiency ●E  co-Efficiency and Environmental Impact Value (Compared to 2005) (%) Environmental impact value (compared to 2005) Eco-efficiency Lion calculates eco-efficiency according to the following 150 356 400 Eco-efficiency 333 399 formula to evaluate the efficiency of corporate activities 318 370 in terms of environmental impact. Efforts are then made 102％ 300 100 97％ to improve eco-efficiency. 91％ 83％ 79％ Eco-efficiency based on LIME improved again in 2010 200 due to a reduction in the environmental impact value*. Environmental 50 impact value 100 Outcome of business activity (net sales) Eco-Efficiency= Environmental impact value (calculated using LIME) 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) * Environmental impact value: The environmental damage expressed in * Environmental impact value is calculated using the LIME2 integrated monetary terms calculated using a Japanese life cycle impact assessment coefficient list (July 1, 2010 version). The base year for environmental method based on endpoint modeling — LIME. impact value comparison has been changed to 2005. 42 CSR Report 2011 Overview of Environmental Impact of Lion’s Business Activities INPUT OUTPUT Energy Emissions into atmosphere Total energy usage 56,995kL CO2 emissions 105,353tons (crude oil equivalent) (-434) (-385) Electricity 103,709million Wh Production activities 96,455tons (3,535,000) (431) Natural gas 12,474,000m 3 Non-production 8,898tons (-1,299,000) activities (-816) Other fuels 15,835kL NOx emissions 60tons (crude oil equivalent) (-192) (7) SOx emissions 15tons (-8) PRTR chemical 26,310kg Materials substances Raw materials 390,000tons (Lion Group) (Home products only) (47,000) PRTR chemical 97,000tons Emissions into water substances Wastewater 730,000m 3 (40,000) PRTR chemical 0kg Water resources substances Water used 1,337,000m 3 (17,000) Tap water used 424,000m 3 (19,000) Waste Industrial water used 913,000m 3 Total waste generation 8,432tons (-2,000) (321) Consigned for recycling 4,527tons (-255) Final waste disposal 202tons (-89) Logistics Logistics CO2 emissions 20,207tons (-643) Products Net sales 331.1billion yen Customers (92billion) Waste packaging 39,079tons (-25) t n e Figures in parentheses indicate change from previous year mn no oL r i i v d n n Ea e h T CSR Report 2011 43 The Environment and Lion Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Looking beyond the Kyoto Protocol, Lion is working toward a large reduction in CO2 emissions. Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions ingredients that do not lead to an increase in CO2 (carbon neutral: See p.47). In 2010, the reduction target was not achieved due to major changes in the product mix caused The Kyoto Protocol came into effect in 2005, obligating by a shift in consumer needs. Japan to reduce greenhouse gases by 6％ between 2008 and 2012 compared to 1990 levels. At Lion, too, each Total CO2 emissions, combining emissions from business individual employee is committed to reducing activities and emissions generated after product use, CO2 emissions. increased in 2010 from the previous year, with the reduction compared to 1990 falling back to 45%. Reducing CO2 Emissions from Business Activities ●T  otal CO2 Emissions Derived from Business Activities In 2010, the Production Division worked to reduce CO2 and Products emissions through persistent energy-saving measures (tons) 100％ 45％ reduction in addition to a review of laundry detergent production 300,000 efficiency and other efforts. However, CO2 emissions 250,000 at affiliated company plants increased due to a rise in 100 64％ 62％ production volume. 200,000 60％ 51 ％ 55％ Offices and R&D divisions also reduced CO2 emissions 150,000 37 46 45 Product-derived 33 39 through advancement of activities relating to the CO2 emissions 100,000 Challenge 25 Campaign — a national movement for 100 CO2 emissions the prevention of global warming promoted by Japan’s 50,000 88 85 83 74 73 from business Ministry of the Environment — and efforts such as full activities 0 observance of eco-driving when using company vehicles 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) and ongoing introduction of low-emissions vehicles. As a result, CO2 emissions were reduced 27％ in 2010 compared to 1990. Initiatives in Logistics Lion works to reduce CO2 emissions and specific energy ● CO2 Emissions Reductions and Targets consumption through efforts to improve logistics (tons) Energy-derived CO2 emissions shortening efficiency, such as （千m 3 ）水使用量 transportation ・排水量 distance COD（トン） 150,000 100 ％ using direct shipments from plants, and implementing 2,000 100 joint deliveries with other manufacturers. We are also 125,000 74％ 73％ 70％ pursuing modal shifts from1,509 1,500 transportation truck 1,422 1,365 to 1,414 75 1,320 100,000 60％ transportation by rail or ship, and obtained Eco Rail Mark 水 75,000 recognition from Japan’s1,000 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure 50 820 and Transport in 2005. 793 750 757 690 50,000 In 2010, the modal shift rate 27 for all traffic volume 23 500 21 25 25,000 was 22.0％, and 68.7％ for long-distance transport 17 over 12 C 500km. CO2 emissions in logistics were 20,207 tons, a 0 0 0 1990 2009 2010 2012 target 2020 target (year) 3.1％ reduction from the previous 2005 year. Specific 2006 2007 energy 2008 2009 （年） consumption decreased 1.3％ from the previous year, and we continued to satisfy guidelines to the revised Act Reducing CO2 Emissions after Product Use on the Rational Use of Energy by achieving a reduction of Lion looks for ways to reduce CO2 emissions generated 1％ or more on average each year from 2006. after product use through its product-related research and development activities. Specific efforts to reduce product-derived CO2 emissions include replacing petroleum-based surfactant ingredients with plant-based 44 CSR Report 2011 Effectively Using and Recycling Resources Lion promotes waste reduction and recycling, and is working to protect water resources and reduce wastewater. Total Waste Generation following the Oleochemical Division of Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. in 2008, and the Fukushima Plant of Lion Packaging by Lion Group Co., Ltd. in 2009. We will now focus on attaining groupIn 2010, the Lion Group reduced total waste generation wide zero emissions status by 2012, with attainment at to 48％ of the 1990 level (2010 target: 47％ or below). one office still required. Although waste increased due to market conditions leading to a decline in the volume of items sold, we Protecting Water Resources aim to reduce waste to 45％ of the 1990 level by 2012 through renewed efforts to ensure thorough sorting of waste and turn waste into valuable resources. Lion keeps a constant close watch on water usage and wastewater volume and works to reduce water usage ● Total Waste Generation by Lion Group through cyclic use and lower environmental impact. (tons) Improvements （千m ） 3 水使用量・排水量 to facility cleaning processesCOD and water （トン） 20,000 100％ conservation 2,000 were advanced as we set out toward 100 a new target to reduce wastewater generated by the entire Lion 15,000 1,509 Group 1,500 to 80％ or 1,422 by 2012 below1,365 1,414compared to 75 2005. 1,320 56％ 56％ However, more wastewater was generated in 2010 than 10,000 51％ 46％ 48％ 水使用量 in the 1,000 previous year due to high-mix production, 50 and the 820 5,000 Affiliated volume was still 88％ 793of the 7502005 757 level. Further 690 efforts companies 排水量 will be made27to protect 23 water resources through process Lion 500 21 25 0 improvements and other measures. 17 12 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) COD ● Lion0Group’s Water 0 2005 2006 Usage, 2007 Wastewater 2008 2009Volume, （年） and COD* Final Waste Disposal by Lion Group (1000 m 3) Water usage/Wastewater COD (tons) In 2010, the Lion Group reduced final waste disposal 2,000 100 by 97％ compared to the 1990 level, well exceeding the target established by Keidanren (the Japan Business 1,500 1,422 1,365 1,414 75 1,320 1,337 Federation), a reduction of 86％ or more by 2010 Water usage compared to 1990. 1,000 50 793 750 757 690 730 ● Final Waste Disposal by Lion Group Wastewater 500 23 21 25 (tons) （トン） 17 12 10 8,000 100％ 20,000 COD 100％ 7,000 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) 6,000 15,000 * Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): 5,000 An indicator of water 56contamination ％ 56％ measuring the amount of oxygen 4,000 required 10,000 to oxidize and break down organic 51％ substances in water Keidanren Voluntary Action Plan 2010 target 46％ 48％ 3,000 14％ 2,000 13％ 11％ 10％ 4％ 3％ Green Purchasing 5,000 ライオン 1,000 関係会社 0 0 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 （年） t Green purchasing of office supplies used by employees n e mn Company-wide is being advanced by expanding the list of no oLi r i Lion plants attained zero emissions status in 2002 and available items. The green purchasing ratio in 2010 was v d n n Ea have maintained that status since. 80％ (79％ in 2009). e h T Among affiliated companies, the Ono Plant of Ipposha Oil Industries Co., Ltd. achieved zero emissions in 2010, CSR Report 2011 45 The Environment and Lion Considering the Environment from a Product-Oriented Perspective Lion develops eco-friendly products in line with independent standards established from a perspective of life cycle assessments (LCA). Lion Eco Standards* Percentage of Products Satisfying the Lion Eco Standards When developing products, Lion considers the environment The number of products manufactured by Lion (excluding in terms of both product composition (contents) and pharmaceuticals) satisfying criteria for at least one Lion containers and packaging. The Lion Eco Standards, Eco Standards area of evaluation is rising steadily. This established from a perspective of LCAs (See p.49), define currently applies to 63％ of all items, or 82％ in terms of an “eco-friendly product” as a product that satisfies sales value. the criteria of at least one area of evaluation based on a quantitative assessment of environmental impact in ● Eco-Friendly Product Ratio and Percentage of Sales the following stages: (1) raw material procurement; (2) (%) packaging material procurement; (3) manufacturing; (4) 100 83 81 80 82 logistics; (5) household use; and (6) disposal. 80 68 71 Lion recognizes the need to lower as much as feasible 60 the impact of products on the global environment 59 60 63 63 55 throughout their entire life cycle, and is therefore 40 51 committed to the development of eco-friendly products. 20 * Lion Eco Standards (Japanese only) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/lioneco/ 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) ％ of sales ％ of products ● Areas of evaluation for the Lion Eco Standards * Products satisfying criteria for at least one Lion Eco Standards area of evaluation Stage Evaluation area 1 Raw material Use of plant-based raw materials Environmental Considerations in procurement Use of sustainable raw materials Product Component Development Lion is promoting development of product components Use of recycled materials Packaging that meet environmental challenges such as global warming Use of sustainable materials 2 material Use of plant-based materials prevention and water environment protection. Prime procurement Use of biodegradable materials examples of this approach are the development of methyl ester sulfonate (MES) and methyl ester ethoxylate (MEE). Lion was the first in the world to carry out industrial Energy savings and reduction of water usage production of MES, a plant-based surfactant with and wastewater during manufacturing 3 Manufacturing Reduction of chemical substances use excellent detergency and biodegradability. MES is used in Reduction of waste TOP Platinum Clear and other Lion laundry detergents. MEE, which even in small amounts has high detergency, is used in TOP NANOX. 4 Logistics Compact size, high concentration Environmental considerations in products containing MES and MEE are introduced on Lion’s website. Energy savings during use (power savings) 5 Household use Organic substance release per use Reduction of water usage (water savings) Reduction of packaging and refill availability 6 Disposal Reuse and recycling of packaging, other 46 CSR Report 2011 Superior Properties of MES Web 3. Excellent Detergency Increasing the cleaning power of detergents reduces the amount required per wash. This means less organic 1. No Increase in Atmospheric CO2 matter is released, reducing the impact on water After use, surfactants are decomposed in the environment environments. The current TOP Platinum Clear product to become CO2 and water. When surfactants made from contains MES, which has excellent detergency. plant-based ingredients are decomposed, they do not release any additional CO2 into the atmosphere (they are ● Organic Matter Released Per Wash Cycle carbon neutral). The surfactant MES, made from plant Organic matter (g) （トン） based ingredients, does not add to the amount of CO2 in 50 20,00 the atmosphere. 40 40 Detergent per wash cycle 40 15,00 (g/30L of water) ● Carbon Neutrality 30 28.0 25 10,00 Light Energy CO2 No increase 20 Photosynthesis in total CO2 20 O2 5,00 10.4 10.3 10 4.7 0 Soap powder The fully phosphate-free High TOP TOP Platinum Clear Murin TOP (1988) (Present) Released into air (Year introduced) (1980) Plant-based ingredients MES has other superior properties, including the ability to retain high detergency in hard water and compatibility with enzymes that break down stains. Product made from Biodegradation plant-based ingredients Post-use Ecological Risk Assessments ● Comparisonof CO2 emissions related to Surfactants are released into the environment after use. laundry detergent Lion helps the Japan Soap and Detergent Association 0 20 40 60 80 100 (JSDA) conduct concentration surveys and ecological risk High TOP, 1990 (main cleaning ingredient is assessments of four types of surfactant in river systems in petroleum-based) and around Tokyo and Osaka (four times a year) TOP Platinum Clear today 51％ (main cleaning ingredient is reduction (See p. 52-53). plant-based) Raw material procurement Transportation Biodegradation after use As the developer of MES and MEE, Lion independently and manufacturing surveys and evaluates concentrations of the surfactant * CO2 emissions per wash cycle (1990 = 100) in the same public waterways to verify their negligible impact on ecosystems. The Company’s efforts to minimize environmental risk are ongoing. 2. High Biodegradability After use, surfactants are broken down by t microorganisms in the environment (biodegradation). n e mn Since MES is easily biodegraded, it will not remain in the no oLi r i environment for a long time. v d n n Ea e h T CSR Report 2011 47 The Environment and Lion Reduce “3Rs” for Reducing Containers and Packaging Lion actively promotes implementation of the “3Rs” (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) as a container and packaging Smaller Products and Innovations in material reduction initiative. Container Design The Lion Eco Standards (See p. 46) provide for Lion is working to reduce container and packaging container and packaging reductions, prescribing related material usage by increasing the concentration of products criteria under stages (2) packaging material procurement, such as laundry detergents, dishwashing detergents, and (4) logistics, and (6) disposal. fabric softeners, and making containers smaller. Although more plastic was used in 2010 compared ● “3Rs” for Reducing Containers and Packaging Materials to 2009, total container and packaging material usage decreased by 3,801 tons to 60,841 tons due to a reduction in usage of all other materials. Lion will continue efforts to reduce container and R Reduce packaging material usage by making products smaller educe Reduce usage by reducing and innovating with container design. the size and quantity of containers ● Making Products Smaller and packaging Higher concentrations enable sm smaller containers Reuse Reuse Expand the range of refill products ・Halves the amount used ・Same number of wash cycles Earlier product TOP NANOX Container weight 118g 76g Recycle Recycle Use recycled materials where possible Reuse ● Container and Packaging Material Usage by Lion More Refill Products (tons) total Using refills means original plastic bottles for products can 80,000 69,343 70,212 67,720 64,642 60,841 be reused several times. Containers of refill products also 1,035 901 567 use less material than the original containers, and they 486 11,111 9,485 472 are lighter and smaller, helping to reduce the amount of 60,000 11,140 9,789 Metal 8,252 Glass waste generated by households. 15,141 16,505 15,283 13,533 11,700 Paperboard 40,000 26,714 28,794 26,072 25,538 24,838 Corrugated 20,000 fiberboard 15,342 14,527 14,658 15,296 15,579 Plastic 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (year) Refill products 48 CSR Report 2011 Recycle Environmental Considerations in Chemical Products Business Use of Recycled Materials Environmental Solutions Business [Use of recycled resins] Besides the home, Lion provides eco-friendly products PET resin recycled from plastic drink bottles constitutes meeting the diverse needs of various industries. The 20％ or more of material for containers for products such Company’s Chemical Products business undertakes this as the dishwashing detergents CHARMY Awa no Chikara function, and engages in developing and providing (Power of Suds), Charmy V Quick, and Charmy Mild. industrial chemicals. In addition to plant-based Measuring spoons for powder laundry detergents make ingredients like fat and oil derivatives and surfactants, use of recycled resin from old washing machines and an extensive range of products are supplied. They other electrical appliances. include precision cleaning agents and electroconductive materials for information and electronics industries, products for paper and pulp, and chemicals for civil engineering and construction. In this way, providing highly functional industrial chemicals across a broad spectrum of industries, Lion is supporting global efforts to reduce environmental impact and creation of a sustainable, recycling-oriented society. Eco-Friendly Chemical Products Product containers made using recycled PET resin [Transformer Oil Derived from Plant-based [Use of paper made with recycled pulp] Ingredients] White paperboard made with recycled pulp is used for The majority of chemical products are made from containers and packaging for such products as toothpaste petroleum, but Lion seeks to make effective use and detergents. It is stated clearly on powder laundry of renewable resources even in the production of detergent containers that the recycled pulp content is at industrial chemicals and proactively engages in least 70%. development of products made from plant-based Corrugated boxes used for transporting products have ingredients such as coconut oil and palm oil. a 94% recycled pulp content. One successful product we have developed is high-performance transformer oil (palm or coconut fatty esters) for use in transformers at plants and substations. This oil is highly biodegradable and received Eco Mark environmental certification. Product containers made using recycled pulp Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) The importance of quantitatively evaluating the environmental impact of products at each stage from Transformer raw material procurement to disposal through life cycle assessments (LCA) is being increasingly recognized. [Lowering Environmental Impact with Lion is also advancing LCA efforts that encompass Water-Based Detergents] t the concepts of carbon and water footprints. CrossIn the manufacturing of electronic and information n e mn functional initiatives by related departments in this area devices, environmental concerns have led to calls for no oL r i will allow further enhancement of our eco-friendly i v d detergents that can replace CFC-based detergents and n Ean product lineup. e chlorinated solvents. Lion has developed and supplies h T a water-based detergent that contains no petroleumbased solvents. CSR Report 2011 49 The Environment and Lion Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances Showing consideration to safety and the environment in all processes from product development through to use and disposal, Lion works to ensure strict chemical substance management and to reduce chemical use. Approach to Chemical Web in accordance with the law after ascertaining volumes manufactured or imported, usage, and other data. Safety Management Chemical substances are indispensable for people to [Voluntary initiatives for preventing air pollution] lead comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing manage chemicals, however, can result in accidents that emissions of chemical substances that cause air pollution, put human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In including nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), addition to compliance with related laws and regulations, particulate matter, and volatile organic compounds Lion strives to ensure strict management of chemical (VOC). In 2010, we managed to reduce VOC emissions substances at all stages from product development by 78% compared to 2000, thereby attaining our 75% through to use and disposal in accordance with our own reduction target. independent standards. Transportation Product Development [Provision of safety information during [Selection of chemical substances for use in products] transportation] The type and quantity of chemical substances to be used in a “Yellow Card*” and “Container Yellow Card*” systems product are determined during the development stage. The are used when transporting items such as raw materials properties of a substance are not the only consideration. and intermediate products. These cards are distributed to We also examine safety and environmental impact. carriers and attached to freight, and provide emergency procedures and other information to refer to if an Production accident occurs. [Compliance with PRTR Law*] * Yellow Card and Container Yellow Card systems Yellow cards for emergency contact purposes. Printed on the cards to Each year, Lion declares release and transfer volumes for ensure readiness in the case of a chemical spill or other accident during chemical substances targeted by Japan’s Pollutant Release transportation is information such as chemical substance properties and emergency procedures. Yellow Cards are held at all times by freight and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. In 2010, release and carriers. Container Yellow Cards are attached to containers holding transfer volumes of substances newly included under chemical substances. The cards are created according to independent standards determined by a large group of chemical manufacturers. revisions to the law were also ascertained. * PRTR Law Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law Use and Disposal Please see “Post-use Ecological Risk Assessments” [Compliance with Chemical Substances Control Law] on page 47. Japan’s Chemical Substances Control Law was overhauled in 2009. Previously, only certain chemical substances Chemical substance management data for the Lion manufactured or imported had to be declared. From Group can be viewed on Lion’s website. 2011, all chemical substances need to be declared (but only if one ton or more is manufactured or imported). Lion will file declarations for all covered chemical substances ● Lion's Chemical Substance Management 1 Product Development 2 Production 3 Transportation 4 Use and Disposal (See p. 47) Safety verification and management Measurement and reduction Provision of information relating of chemical substances contained of chemical substance releases to safety and handling in raw materials of chemical substances 50 CSR Report 2011 Fostering Environmental Awareness within the Lion Group and Environmental Communication Lion endeavors to heighten environmental awareness among employees and to communicate environment-related information to society as a whole. Fostering Environmental Awareness development to disposal. For the 7th Sakai-Senboku area Responsible Care within the Lion Group dialogue meeting held in February 2010, Lion organized a tour of the Osaka Plant and introduced the Company’s Regular Environmental Education business activities and environmental initiatives. and Communication In December, Lion participated in dialogue with Environmental education is conducted on a regular basis consumer groups, hosted by the RC Committee, where for all employees. we gave a presentation on environmental considerations Education provided during 2010 included programs incorporated into our detergents. for new employees, employees in charge of waste management, employees in charge of chemical substance Environmental Activities for Wholesalers management, and internal environmental auditors. and Retailers An additional eight employees took part in an internal Lion’s environmental activities were introduced to environment auditor training seminar. wholesalers and retailers at Lion Marketing Communication In-house media were also used to increase employees’ 2010, a briefing on marketing measures, in order to knowledge and concern for the environment, for convey to them our commitment to environmental example by introducing environmental activities pursued considerations throughout the supply chain. A magazine by individual departments. for wholesalers belonging to the Lion-kai forum also introduced the Company’s environmental initiatives in an Environmental Communication article on water environment protection activities. Participation in Environment-Related Events Lion wants many people to know about its environmental activities. At Eco-Products 2010, Japan’s largest environmental fair, we introduced efforts such as considerations for the environment through products, water environment protection activities, and biodiversity initiatives. We also participated in environment-related exhibitions Kyoei, a magazine held in areas near business locations, including Ecomesse for Lion-kai wholesalers in Chiba 2010. Environmental Communication Using Posters Posters illustrating Lion’s CSR activities are produced and used as a tool not only for employee education, but also for communicating our environmental activities to visitors to the Company. Eco-Products 2010 Interaction with Communities and Organizations t n e mn Lion participates in activities of the Japan Chemical no oLi r i Industry Association’s Responsible Care (RC) Committee, v d n n Ea through which the chemicals industry strives for ongoing e h T improvements to safety and environmental considerations CSR activity throughout the life cycle of chemical substances, from posters (2010) CSR Report 2011 51 The Environment and Lion Biodiversity Initiatives Lion advances biodiversity conservation efforts from two angles: biodiversity considerations in business activities, and protection of rare species. Approach to Biodiversity Conservation a leading role in tackling such issues as pollution and eutrophication of waterways linked to the use of detergents. Considerations toward biodiversity are Lion attaches a priority to incorporation of biodiversity paramount and Lion will incorporate them at stages considerations into its business activities and has assumed throughout the product life cycle. ● Lion's Biodiversity Conservation Initiatives Biodiversity considerations Raw material in business activities procurement Disposal ● Use of plant-based Eco-friendly activities at each stage ● Excellent materials helping from raw material procurement to disposal biodegradability to conserve biodiversity e.g. Procurement of palm oil e.g. Consideration of Production Household use water environments ● No air or river ● Lowering per-use pollution volume ● Water savings Distribution Sales Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oil Surveying Environmental Impact Production of palm oil is steadily increasing, and demand As Lion’s products end up being discharged into rivers, growing, due to high productivity and the ability to harvest streams, and other waterways after use, we assess them throughout the year. Downsides to the development of new during the development stage to confirm they are safe plantations, however, are the clearing of tropical rainforests and for the environment. We also gather data on residual the shrinking of wildlife habitats. quantities of detergent constituents in water samples taken Lion has been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable from rivers and streams to check that the environment has Palm Oil (RSPO)* since 2006. Plantation audits and certified palm not been harmed. Thus far studies have found that the oil distribution commenced in 2008, but Lion will continue to risk of wildlife being harmed is extremely low. work with concerned organizations such as the RSPO to promote Lion is not the only organization engaging in safety sustainable palm oil procurement and use of certified palm oil to assessment and confirmation. Besides acquiring and prevent unregulated development in palm oil producing nations. applying the latest information and technology available in * RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) Japan and overseas, we disseminate our own information, URL http://www.rspo.org/ contributing to safety advancements. (See related information on p.47) 52 CSR Report 2011 Raising Employee Awareness as part of its contribution to local communities and to society. Employees participate in these activities as through Nature Protection Activities volunteers, and that experience makes them more aware Alongside business activities, Lion engages in activities of environmental matters as they go about their jobs. like forest maintenance and breeding of rare species ● Lion’s Nature Protection Activities Breeding of Sakawa Breeding of Fireflies River System Killifish The Odawara Plant The Odawara Plant raises registered with a fireflies using clean water propagation program for available at the plant. the endangered Sakawa River system killifish in 2003 and breeds the fish on plant premises. Maintenance of the Lion Support for Sea Turtle Forest in Yamanashi Protection As a stage for fostering Under the guidance of the environmental awareness non-profit organization Sea among employees, forest Turtle Association of Japan, maintenance is incorporated Osaka Plant plays a lead role into new employee training. in activities to protect the (See related information on endangered loggerhead p.35) sea turtle. Eco First Companies Association Activities The Eco First Companies Association, an independent Edo River organization run by companies recognized by Japan’s Jisui Bridge Arakawa River Ministry of the Environment (MOE) as front-runners in Tama River environmental action, held a COP 10* partner event, an Hamura Weir Kanamachi MOE-supported Living Things Ecotowaza (Eco Proverbs) Sasame Bridge Contest. Judged and supervised by the Japanese Society Tokyo of Paroemiology, winners of Eco First Companies Tamagawara Bridge Association Prizes (first prizes), association member prizes and other awards were selected from a large Den-en Chofu Weir number of submissions. Awards were presented at a Hirakata Bridge t ceremony during another COP 10 partner event, Messe n e Yodo River mn Osaka Nagoya. The association also held an open symposium no oLi Sampling points r on biodiversity in Nagoya where biodiversity initiatives of i v d n n * Lion takes samples at the same locations as the JSDA. Ea member corporations were introduced. e h T * COP 10 The tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity CSR Report 2011 53 Third-Party Review Hopes for the development of open stakeholder dialogue Matters following the recent disaster are even worse. For that reason, The themes of the two special features in Lion’s CSR Report for 2011, corporations are going to have to play different roles in society than the 120th year since the Company’s founding, are “Culture Bearer for in the past. As President Fujishige declared in his opening message, Oral Hygiene” and “Culture Bearer for Cleanliness.” They are enjoyable Lion must undertake a fundamental review of corporate activities and pieces describing the CSR mentality in place right from the Company’s rebuild the Company’s product development framework and business establishment. From the Stakeholder Dialogue, too, we can appreciate systems. Stakeholders will identify with that sort of information. I the value that Lion places on communication with people who actually also hope you will use the CSR section of your website effectively to use the products, because customers from the general public were outline new initiatives you were unable to cover in this report. invited to take part, not experts, as is often the case. The article tells us these stakeholders feel Lion’s environmental protection and social Further enhance energy conservation through power-saving contribution activities have not been adequately communicated. efforts this summer Communication today is evolving constantly with the ongoing In the wake of the recent disaster, the Government has initiated a development of information and communication technology. power-saving campaign. Lion deserves praise for responding quickly Some business administrators who are quick to catch on to such to social needs, joining other Eco First Companies in promising the developments and hope to benefit from online word-of-mouth are Minister of the Environment to reduce power consumption by 15%. beginning to engage in direct dialogue with stakeholders using social The timing of notification about this commitment via your website media platforms like Twitter, communicating current initiatives that was also good. Looking ahead, even if corporations do successfully way. You could say more people are seeking out things they can reduce power consumption, supply in periods of high demand will identify with. I think Lion should take time to examine the forms still have to be complemented using fossil fuels, generating a lot of of media stakeholders turn to for information and use for day-toCO2 emissions. The rate of CO2 emissions will change as a result. day living, which may not be mass media outlets like television and The disaster may fundamentally alter the environmental programs newspapers, and to build a framework for open dialogue. of corporations. Social needs for renewable energy are likely to rise, too. As such, this is the ideal time for companies to strengthen their The Great East Japan Earthquake has altered approaches to CSR environmental positions. As a leading company in environmental Many people died along the Pacific coast of Iwate, Miyagi and friendliness, I trust Lion will take positive action. Fukushima Prefectures as a result of the massive earthquake and tsunami which hit East Japan in spring 2011. Persistent earthquakes and radioactive contamination are making the path to recovery difficult. On the other hand, the disaster has led to a jump in social awareness among citizens. Many have donated relief funds and volunteered their services, or have thought hard about what they can do to support affected communities. After the 1995 Great Yutaka Kamioka Hanshin Earthquake, numerous non-profit organizations emerged to Representative Director take up services that government authorities were unable to fulfill. EOL International (NPO) Lion’s Response It has been Lion’s belief that values and ideas about happiness have of lifestyles through development and provision of water-saving and reached a major turning point. People want spiritual richness, not power-saving products. material wealth; quality, not quantity. The Great East Japan Earthquake has caused a dramatic change in mentality, and people are thinking In order to fulfill our social responsibility, Lion has to be able to hard about the way society and corporate activities should be. Since accurately identify changing social needs through communication the disaster, the desire for sustainable living offering spiritual richness with stakeholders. With that in mind, we carried out our first ever has strengthened, and as the president declared in his opening direct dialogue with customers on CSR activities. Discovering that message, Lion, too, will rebuild its product development framework information has been inadequately conveyed to customers in the past, and business systems as we set out to create a society where people we know we must strengthen CSR communication via our website. feel secure. The CSR section of our website will be enhanced as an interactive medium with benefits in terms of coverage, speed and visual appeal. We have also put in place frameworks for providing ongoing human support to affected communities in addition to relief funds and The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced to the Company’s supplies. Lion supports employees who wish to engage in volunteer founding spirit of working for the benefit of people and society, and activities by enforcing a special volunteer leave program and bearing this spirit lives on today, 120 years later, in the Company Motto. transport and accommodation costs. Activities of these employee We believe it is our social responsibility to support the realization volunteers are already underway. Their experiences will be shared of healthy, comfortable and sustainable living through our business internally to expand the scope of participation, and efforts will be activities. Lion will press ahead with its activities while listening to the communicated to people outside the Company as well. opinions of stakeholders. We agree with your comment that very different corporate initiatives dealing with global warming and other environmental issues are required as a result of the recent disaster. Not only will Lion enforce emergency power-saving initiatives, we will also accelerate studies Shuichi Ota into the use of renewable energy and effective use of rainwater, Director, Lion Corporation stepping up our efforts toward realization of a sustainable society. Responsible for Corporate Communication (Public Furthermore, we intend to actively support the environmental efforts Relations, Consumer Service, CSR Promotion), of households, helping to improve the environmental compatibility Personnel, General Affairs, and Investor Relations 54 CSR Report 2011 Editorial Note The Great East Japan Earthquake struck as we were founding, we included special features recounting the history preparing this report. The words “sustainable society” of our business from a CSR perspective. Our corporate seem so much more relevant now than before the disaster. activities are CSR activities. We will continue to enhance the Mentalities will have to change, and corporations will be CSR Report as an effective tool that will remind employees required to bear even greater responsibility toward society. of Lion’s inherent CSR spirit, present right from the start, The amount of CSR information we need and would like allow them to engage that spirit, and through dialogue to disclose is increasing, and utilizing the website allows endeavor toward sustainable growth together with society. us to improve coverage. On the other hand, we wanted this CSR Report to demonstrate Lion’s stance of supporting healthy, comfortable and sustainable living through our business activities. To mark the 120th year since Lion’s CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation CSR Report 2011 55 Front cover: Overall winners in the Lion TOP Eco Project Waterfront Painting Contest “The cool water in the river feels so nice!” by Ami Oogushi (Shizuoka Prefecture) “Clean and cool! It feels so good!” by Rie Ando (Kyoto Prefecture) Lion Corporation Published: October 31, 2011 CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation Inquiries: CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation (Social Responsibility Promotion Team/Environmental Conservation Office) 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Tel: +81-3-3621-6611 Fax: +81-3-3621-6269 Website: http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Next scheduled publication: October 2012 In recognition of its advanced environmental initiatives, Lion has been certified as an Eco First Company by the Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
