Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 sustainability.thalesgroup.com CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 3 INTRODUCTION 5 BUSINESS ETHICS Ethics: a corporate strategy 8 Preventing corruption 14 Extending ethics to the supply chain 16 Complying with export control regulations 18 GOVERNANCE Regular exchanges with investors 22 Audit and internal control 24 SOCIAL Developing human resources and preparing employees for tomorrow’s challenges and opportunities 28 Developing people and anticipating change 28 Understanding job families to secure career development 29 Promoting equality, diversity and work/life balance 30 Promoting quality of life in the workplace 31 Supporting the employment of people with disabilities 31 ENVIRONMENT A proactive environmental policy 34 Climate change 35 Preserving biodiversity 37 Eco-design 38 COMMUNITY Donating time and money to local communities 42 FOREWORD The 2010 Corporate Responsibility report is an update to the 2009 Corporate Responsibility report and illustrates Thales’s leadership in a number of corporate responsibility areas. An accessible PDF version of the report is available on the dedicated corporate responsibility internet portal at: http://sustainability.thalesgroup.com In-depth information as well as the latest news and data concerning ethics and corporate responsibility can also be found on the portal. Thales’s annual report, which presents the Group and its financial data, can be downloaded from: http://www.thalesgroup.com/Group/Investors KEY FIGURES A GLOBAL LEADER DEDICATED TO SECURITY. With operations in 50 countries and 68,000 employees, Thales is a world leader in mission-critical systems. The Group provides integrated solutions and equipment to meet the security requirements of government and private-sector customers in the aeronautics, space, transport, defence and security markets. 13.1 13.1 Revenues in 2010 BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS Order intake in 2010 68,000 25.4 EMPLOYEES including 22,500 engineers and researchers BILLION 2.5 EUROS Order book at 31 December 2010 BILLION EUROS Research and development (almost 20% of revenues) 2 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Luc Vigneron Chairman & CEO of Thales Ethics and corporate responsibility are central to the products and services we sell. But the ethical the transformation strategy I am pursuing at Thales. standards we work to, and the business practices With its focus on risk prevention, a proactive ethics we choose to adopt, are also becoming a crucial and corporate responsibility policy is a crucial plank success factor and one that Thales intends to in our overall risk management strategy. I attach the leverage as a competitive advantage in the utmost importance to ensuring that all aspects of marketplace. the Group’s business activities are conducted with It is important to remember that corporate absolute integrity. responsibility is a collective achievement, a measure This policy is also a key driver of the Group’s of the commitment of each and every Thales performance. In our globalised environment, employee at all levels of the organisation. This latest customers, shareholders and society at large edition of the Corporate Responsibility report is both expect the business practices of companies to be a reflection of the strategic priorities I have set for beyond reproach. Thales and an illustration of the wide-ranging actions Our future success hinges on the performance that individual Thales employees are engaged in on of the technologies we develop and the quality of a daily basis. Corporate Responsibility 2010 3 PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBILITY. Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. It seeks to align business operations and strategies everywhere with ten universally accepted principles. About 6,100 companies around the world have signed the Global Compact. Thales signed up to the Global Compact in 2003 and has adopted its ten principles. In 2009, Thales renewed its commitment to the UNGC and its principles. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 18, 19, 22, 42, 43 Principle 2 and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 18, 19, 22 Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 23, 24, 28, 29 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 24 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 24 Principle 6 and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 24, 29, 30, 31 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 34 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 34, 35, 37 Principle 9 and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pages 8, 9, 11, 16, 22, 36, 38, 39 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Pages 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 22, 24, 25 4 INTRODUCTION Bernard Rétat Chairman of the Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee Throughout 2010, Thales pursued the far-reaching The Committee continued to engage in proactive dialogue transformation set in motion by the new leadership team, with stakeholders, cooperating with numerous NGOs bringing a number of substantive changes to the way the including Transparency International, and took this policy Group is organised. Enshrined in Vision 2015, the changes a step further in 2010 by organising Thales’s first-ever are a response to the realities of globalisation, the need Corporate Responsibility Investor Day. The event was for clearer, more structured relationships with customers attended by representatives of the financial and extraand partners, and the belief that constant innovation not financial communities, including analysts, researchers only new technology but innovation in every aspect of the and socially responsible investment fund managers. business is critical to the Group’s continuing leadership Key sector-wide initiatives in 2010 included the creation, in its core businesses of defence, security, aerospace and with strong support from Thales, of the International transportation. Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC) by the ASD1 As part of this process of transformation, Thales has in Europe and the AIA2 in the United States. The Forum reaffirmed and reinforced its commitment to ethical will pursue work on the Global Principles of Business business conduct and corporate responsibility, making the Ethics launched by the two associations in 2009 and Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee one of the prepare for possible adoption by other countries. The three mainstays of corporate governance alongside the first IFBEC conference took place in Berlin in January Executive Committee and the Risks and Internal Control 2010, with a second event in Washington, DC in June. Committee. The Committee is entirely composed of Further sessions are planned in 2011. senior executives and its membership has been reviewed Also in 2010, the Committee stepped up employee to reflect the international dimension of the Group and training and awareness efforts and republished the better represent the interests of all Thales stakeholders. Code of Ethics, which is issued to all employees of Thales To support growth in emerging markets, the Ethics companies around the world. & Corporate Responsibility Committee has reviewed the This Corporate Responsibility report for 2010 shows company’s use of commercial intermediaries to reflect how Thales is responding to the key strategic challenges changes in the business and economic environment. it faces. It is absolutely crucial for Thales to conduct Company-wide guidelines on Business Advisers and Key every aspect of its business with complete integrity and Industrial Partners were issued in 2010 as part of a transparency and in accordance with strict principles of process of continuous improvement that began with the ethical conduct. The report confirms that the Group is publication of the Good Practices Handbook in 2000 and resolutely engaged in an authentic process of continuous the Best Practices Handbook in 2007. The directives are improvement aimed at consolidating its relationships of intended to ensure that Thales can capture new business trust and transparency with all its stakeholders. effectively while managing risks and ensuring compliance with the highest standards of ethical conduct. 1 AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe 2 Aerospace Industries Association of America Corporate Responsibility 2010 5 BUSINESS ETHICS ISSUE 1 THE BUSINESS PRACTICES OF COMPANIES HAVE COME UNDER INCREASING SCRUTINY IN RECENT TIMES. STAKEHOLDERS ARE MORE CONCERNED THAN EVER WITH ETHICAL CONDUCT, TRANSPARENCY AND SUSTAINABILITY AND HOW THEY RELATE TO A COMPANY’S BUSINESS PERFORMANCE. COMPANIES IN TURN HAVE REALISED THAT BUSINESS ETHICS GOES WELL BEYOND CORPORATE RHETORIC AND CAN CREATE REAL VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS. A STRATEGIC VISION THAT EMBRACES A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE IS NOW CONSIDERED CRITICAL TO ANY COMPANY’S LONG-TERM SUCCESS. 1 BUSINESS ETHICS ETHICS: A CORPORATE STRATEGY. In 2000, Thales established a formal corporate The Ethics and Corporate Responsibility Department responsibility policy with a strong focus on the implements the policy defined by the Committee. prevention of corruption. The policy enjoys the The department is headed by a Vice President support of the Group’s most senior management reporting directly to the Senior Vice President, and is continuously improved to respond to an Audit and Internal Control (who reports to the evolving and increasingly complex environment. To Chairman & CEO); the Vice President, Ethics and meet these challenges, Thales maintains a dedicated Corporate Responsibility is also member of the organisation and is developing a stringent internal Risks and Internal Control Committee. The Senior control policy, continuously improves its processes Vice President, Audit and Internal Control has and training programmes, and has procedures in overall responsibility for risk management, making place to sanction employees who infringe on the ethics and corporate responsibility an integral part Group’s ethics policy. of the Group’s overall risk management system. The department also maintains the Code of Ethics, One important aspect of Thales’s continuous which lays down the general practices and values improvement process is an active involvement in that underpinning the Group’s operations. industry, intergovernmental and non-governmental working groups and task forces. By partnering with the United Nations, Transparency International, the ASD3 and other organisations, Thales stays abreast In 2010, Thales reviewed the make-up of regulatory or normative changes, shares best of its Ethics and Corporate Responsibility practices with other industry players and anticipates Committee. It is now more representative future changes. Through these working groups and of all the company’s stakeholders and better task forces, Thales has led or contributed to the reflects its international dimension. development of common industry-wide standards and guidelines such as the OECD4’s Best Practices Guidance and the Global Principles of Business Members of the Committee: Ethics signed by the ASD and the AIA5. • Chairman: Bernard Rétat • General Secretary: Dominique Lamoureux A robust organisation • Stakeholder representatives: Thales has put in place a robust organisation to help Sandrine Bouttier-Stref Environment embed a culture of corporate responsibility within the organisation worldwide, develop and implement Didier Brugère French institutions the ethics policy and monitor its implementation. Victor Chavez United Kingdom Confirming that ethics and corporate responsibility Jean-Claude Climeau Financial markets are central pillars of Thales’s corporate strategy, the Ethics and Corporate Responsibility Committee Olivier Conrozier International customers is one of the three bodies that steer the Group, Marc Darmon Audit and internal control alongside the Executive Committee and the Risks Jérôme Dufour Media / Communities and Internal Control Committee. It is responsible for staying abreast of developments in ethical Patrick Fournié Suppliers / Industry standards and for defining the Group’s corporate Sylvie Lucot International customers responsibility policy. Anne de Ravaran Human resources Rodney Willis United States of America Dominique Lamoureux 3 AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe VP, Ethics & Corporate 4 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Responsibility 5 Aerospace Industries Association of America 8 An international network of Ethics Officers is Code of Ethics responsible for deploying the ethics policy into Thales units worldwide. They ensure that employees To help foster a culture of accountability, Thales in their respective units receive adequate training maintains a Code of Ethics. The rules published in and information; they answer questions about the Code are not a substitute for the national and compliance with the Thales Code of Ethics; and international legislation applicable in each country. most importantly, they adapt the ethics policy Rather, the Code lays down the guidelines of to local legislation and norms, for example with behaviour applicable within the Group and covers respect to gifts, hospitality and whistleblowing four areas of particular importance: procedures. It is also the role of the Ethics Officers •R  esponsibility towards customers to respond to and report possible infringements and suppliers of the Code of Ethics to the Ethics and Corporate • Responsibility towards the Group’s employees Responsibility Committee. •R  esponsibility towards shareholders and An Ethics Alert system has been set up across Thales financial markets to enable every employee to obtain information and •R  esponsibility towards the environment, advice on the Code of Ethics. Any employee can also community and company. confidentially report any infringement of the Code of Ethics that could engage the company’s liability. The Code of Ethics is published in seven languages (French, English, German, Italian, Spanish, In 2010, Thales redesigned the Corporate Portuguese and Dutch) and is available to all Responsibility section of its corporate web­­ employees in both print and online (intranet) site and launched a dedicated portal versions. http://sustainability.thalesgroup.com, to increase its visibility. This portal provides visitors with Welcome Conventions complete information on Thales’s policies, access to various reports, and articles and news items Thales runs an induction programme for newly covering the Group’s initiatives in business ethics hired professionals and managers. These Welcome and sustainability and highlighting the critical role Conventions are designed to introduce new hires to the that corporate responsibility plays for the Group. Group’s business activities, organisation and values, and provide them with the opportunity to network Raising awareness with colleagues from around the world. Sessions have taken place in France, Australia, Canada, India Thales regularly runs awareness campaigns through and Algeria, and ethics and corporate responsibility, e-mail messages, intranet news, a dedicated website along with other important topics for the Group, are and articles in the employee magazine. The Group covered systematically. The Vice President, Ethics also organises specific training modules, events and Corporate Responsibility makes a presentation and publications to provide employees with more on Thales’s ethics policy and the Group’s business in-depth knowledge and a clearer understanding of environment, and explains the direct correlation Thales’s ethics policy. between ethics and competitiveness. Corporate Responsibility 2010 9 1 BUSINESS ETHICS E-learning In addition to face-to-face trainings, Thales offers its employees a wide range of self-paced online courses. In 2009, the Group introduced an e-learning course on ethics and corporate responsibility. Despite the wide availability of off-the-shelf ethics e-learning products, Thales chose to design its own course in order to adapt the content to the company’s culture, business activities and environment. Available in French and English, the course comprises three 30-minute modules and includes real-life scenarios, in the form of “serious games”, to help employees recognise and deal with potential situations that they could encounter during their work. In 2010, 12,000 employees (which equates to 18.2% of the all employees) completed the three modules. Intranet Face-to-face training Thales maintains an ethics and corporate Face-to-face training themed around business responsibility website on the Group intranet, where ethics is available at Thales University campuses employees can view the latest news, learn more worldwide. Each course is carefully tailored to about Thales’s approach and policy and download the needs of different groups of employees and booklets, tools and other documents. The site also their roles within the organisation. For instance, offers employees a chance to learn more about customer-facing or supplier-facing employees are the Ethics Alert system and who to contact for required to follow courses on ethical business information and advice or to report any infringement conduct. Employees working in marketing and sales of legislation or the Code of Ethics. are encouraged to complete a four-hour class called “Business Ethics and Preventing Corruption”. This All employees can freely download the following training, which is conducted by a former sales and guides and booklets on the intranet: marketing director, is themed around the prevention • Thales Code of Ethics (seven languages of corruption in everyday business. It helps promote available) a set of simple but important behaviours that are • Conduct guides (e.g. Gifts & Hospitality endorsed by the company as well as providing Guidelines) basic insights into legal aspects of these issues. • Reference guides (e.g. Business Ethics) Between 2008 and 2010, 2,400 employees took • Policy highlights (e.g. Thales prevention the course, which will eventually become mandatory of corruption policy) for thousands of employees. • Selected conventions and legal texts on The theme of business ethics is also embedded combating bribery (e.g. OECD) in the Group’s other training programmes. The • Professional standards (e.g. ASD Common subject was first introduced in 2000 in training Industry Standards, ASD-AIA Global Principles) programmes on compliance with export control and • Training toolkits (e.g. RESIST). anti-corruption regulations. To support the Group’s efforts to go beyond compliance and establish ethics and responsibility as a shared corporate value, ethics awareness has also been introduced in several training programmes in areas such as purchasing, marketing and sales, and programme management. In 2010, the subject was also introduced in the customer support services training programme. To deliver a consistent message, Thales has commissioned two multilingual trainers specialised in ethics to conduct the same face-to-face training sessions at Thales University campuses around the world. Ethics Officers also conduct occasional training sessions or make presentations within their country of operations when needed. 10  elping to establish H Summit held at the United Nations in New York. global ethics standards The Group was credited in the UN Global Compact’s 2008 annual review and in the Global Compact for Thales is a leading member of major aerospace and Development report in 2010 for its efforts to extend defence task forces on business ethics, and has received international recognition as a responsible its corruption prevention policy to its suppliers and company that is committed to the continuous subcontractors. improvement of the way it conducts business. In Organisation for Economic addition to improving its internal processes, Thales Co-operation and Development partners with international, intergovernmental and non-profit organisations as well as industry Thales collaborates with the OECD, particularly associations to promote the sharing of best through the organisation’s Business and Industry practices and develop sector-wide standards. Advisory Committee (BIAC), on issues relating to public PARTNERSHIPS AND INITIATIVES Thales works closely with many institutions to promote business ethics, help fight corruption in business, and improve export control mechanisms. These include: •U  nited Nations • UK-based Defence Industry Anti• Organisation for Economic Corruption Forum, A | D | S Supply Chain Co-operation and Development 21 Task Force, UK Defence Industry (OECD) Business Ethics Forum, Institute of Business Ethics • European Commission • Ethics Network Australian Defence • International Chamber of Commerce Industry (ENADI) • AeroSpace and Defence Industries • French aerospace industries Association of Europe (ASD) association (GIFAS) • BUSINESSEUROPE • International Committee of the French • Aerospace Industries Association Employers’ Organisation (MEDEF) of America (AIA) • French-based Study Centre for • US-based Defense Industry Initiative Corporate Social Responsibility (ORSE) on Business Ethics and Conduct (DII) • Transparency International. United Nations Global Compact procurement and the implementation of the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention. The Group worked with the Thales has been a proud OECD to develop the addendum to the convention, member and supporter of the known as Annex II (or Best Practices Guidance on United Nations Global Compact Internal Controls, Ethics and Compliance), aimed since 2003 and has adopted at helping companies, especially SMEs, establish its ten principles in the areas measures for preventing and detecting the bribery of of human rights, labour, the foreign public officials in their international business environment and anti-corruption. transactions. It also includes guidelines for international Each year, Thales voluntarily organisations and professional associations that reports to the organisation on its progress (actions provide assistance to companies in these efforts. undertaken, performance indicators) in incorporating Although not legally binding, this document can help the principles. companies establish effective internal controls and Thales is an active member of the UN Global Compact’s compliance programmes for preventing and detecting 10th Principle Working Group on Supply Chain, whose the bribery of foreign public officials, and thus support core objectives are to: companies in their efforts to comply with existing legislation or future laws such as the UK Bribery Act •e  stablish guidelines to help companies extend and its Adequate Procedures provisions. anti-corruption measures to their supply chain (auditing, selecting and training suppliers; Thales has also been closely associated with the OECD’s encouraging suppliers to improve their antiwork on facilitation payments, which are authorised corruption measures) in some national legal systems but are controversial •p  rovide tools to help small and medium-sized and should be progressively eliminated from trade enterprises (SMEs) develop robust programmes practices. Additionally, the Group collaborates to prevent corruption. closely with non-governmental organisations (NGOs). For instance, Thales is a member of the Defence In 2010, the Working Group officially launched its Against Corruption initiative, which is led by the UK Guide for Customers and Suppliers during the Leaders chapter of Transparency International. Corporate Responsibility 2010 11 1 BUSINESS ETHICS AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe and Aerospace Industries Association of America Thales is committed to sharing its experience and These non-binding principles demonstrate the best practices with industry partners to develop industry’s commitment to ethical business conduct sector-wide guidelines, recommendations and and aim to help companies to develop a competitive common standards that help to establish a level advantage over those that fail to apply the same playing field. criteria of integrity to their business practices. The Group is a founding member of the ASD’s To encourage continuous exchange between Business Ethics Task Force. After comparing industry players as well as with their customers the existing corporate responsibility polices and and civil society, the ASD and AIA held the first procedures, in 2007 the task force published a International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct set of standards known as the Common Industry for the Aerospace and Defence Industry (IFBEC) Standards. These guidelines address both broad in Berlin, Germany, in 2010. Thales is a founding matters of business integrity and issues specific to member of the forum and co-chaired the first the aerospace and defence sector. The document edition, which brought together representatives of has been signed by the ASD’s 30 member trade major global aerospace and defence companies and associations and by more than 400 companies national business associations as well as leaders in Europe. In 2010, the task force was upgraded of major institutions such as the OECD, NATO, to a permanent body called the Business Ethics the US Air Force, the European Defence Agency Committee, which is chaired by Thales and reports and Transparency International. The forum is now to the ASD Board. set to meet regularly. The second edition took place in Washington, DC in June 2010 and further The Common Industry Standards are currently editions are scheduled for 2011. being updated to take into account the OECD’s Good Practice Guidance on Internal Controls, Ethics and Compliance and the UK Bribery Act. The UK act requires voluntary self-disclosures if a case of THALES SUPPORTS corruption is discovered, and the implementation of an appropriate corporate policy to prevent corrupt THE UN’S PROPOSED practices. ARMS TRADE TREATY Following the establishment of the Common Industry Thales supports the adoption of a binding Standards, the ASD and its US counterpart, the AIA, and enforceable global Arms Trade Treaty. teamed up to develop worldwide standards. The two The Group shares the ASD’s conviction industry associations signed the Global Principles that such a treaty could help monitor new document in 2009. Developed under Thales’s challenges relating to the globalisation of leadership, the Global Principles currently address the supplier base for conventional arms four issues: and to the threat from the emerging • zero tolerance for corruption proliferation of small arms. An Arms Trade • use of advisers Treaty will help strengthen export control mechanisms and extend them to emerging • managing conflicts of interest countries, which have not yet adopted • respecting proprietary information. strict policies, and who will, in the near future, become exporters themselves. To ensure the success of the proposed treaty, the threat from small arms proliferation should be addressed, since these are the main weapons used by combatants in civil conflicts and wars. 12 European Commission and European Union Nations pass export control legislation in order to protect their national security and to help fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Many different control mechanisms co-exist, some of them multilateral and others extra-territorial. With the globalisation of production and the emergence of new threats, there is a risk that such national laws will become less effective and less relevant. There is thus an opportunity to develop a global legal framework that takes into account the increasingly International Chamber of Commerce global dimension of companies’ production Thales is a long-time member of the International operations, while at the same time, helping to Chamber of Commerce’s Anti-Corruption Task Force. combat new threats such as terrorism, asymmetric The Group actively participated in the development warfare and cybercrime. of RESIST (Resisting Extortion and Solicitation Thales has pressed the case for the modernisation in International Transactions), a tool designed of export control provisions through the creation to help employees of exporting companies respond of a “Certified Enterprise” standard for companies appropriately to a variety of solicitations. Launched in that manufacture and sell sensitive goods. In 2002, 2009, the development of the tool was spearheaded Thales introduced this idea as a way to decrease by the International Chamber of Commerce, administrative and legal obstacles to intra-European Transparency International, the United Nations Global transfers of defence products and technologies Compact and the World Economic Forum. while preserving national sovereignty over decisions The RESIST training toolkit complements companies’ on exports of sensitive technologies. existing compliance, anti-bribery and corruption Thales has proposed that nations consider prevention programmes, and focuses on solicitations harmonising criteria for issuing export licences from public officials and foreign customers. RESIST while increasing transparency and informationprovides 22 real-life scenarios from a range of sharing between member countries. This would business processes and proposes mechanisms for require the creation of a “general licence” to control coping with solicitations from a business partner or internal transfers and exports among democratic public authority. The scenarios were based on the best countries. Under the proposed arrangements, practices and experiences of multinational companies, general licences would allow the free movement including Thales, and are divided into two categories: of goods and technologies within and between • solicitation in the context of the procurement “certified” international companies. process (7 scenarios) The idea was adopted by the European Commission • solicitation in the context of the implementation in 2005 and in 2009 the European Union issued process and daily operations (15 scenarios). directive 2009/43/EC to simplify the terms and An e-learning course on RESIST is currently being conditions of transfers of defence-related products developed and will be available in French and English. within the European Union. Corporate Responsibility 2010 13 1 BUSINESS ETHICS PREVENTING CORRUPTION. In today’s global marketplace, Thales’s growth is New anti-corruption processes increasingly driven by emerging markets. To better meet the demands of customers based in these for a new business model markets and to develop long-term relationships with With the implementation of the new business model in them, Thales has had to adapt its business model 2010, Thales is gradually shifting from a predominantly to strengthen its local presence both commercially export-driven company to an organisation built around and industrially. an “importing model”. The Group is developing strategic According to Transparency International, the relationships with Key Industrial Partners6 (KIPs) in risk of corruption is greater in emerging markets countries where it has limited industrial presence, than in mature ones. Successfully doing business helping it not only to operate closer to its customers in emerging markets thus requires a company but also to meet national security requirements such to adapt its anti-corruption processes to new as compliance with export control regulations. In environments. Thales adapted its risk management addition, being an importer reduces although clearly tools in 2010 to further strengthen its corruption does not completely overcome the risk of corruption. prevention programme. Despite the benefits of establishing industrial partnerships, KIPs can also bring reputational, legal Continuous improvement or financial risks to Thales if these partners are not of the anti-corruption programme carefully selected and managed. These risks are especially significant in countries which do not share Bribery and corruption are major risks for multinational companies, especially those involved the same level of maturity regarding the prevention of in public procurement contracts. Passive corruption of public officials or private parties. A KIP corruption (solicitation, extortion or bribery on the can be held responsible for violating anti-bribery laws demand side) is still widespread in countries with and regulations, as can companies and individuals who weak governance. Corrupt practices can expose order, authorise, assist or conspire to help the KIP in a company and its officers to criminal and civil committing such a violation. sanctions and cause the company to be blacklisted Thales is aware of this risk and has processes and in certain markets. procedures in place to mitigate it. Its corruption To mitigate these risks, Thales established prevention policy is fully in line with the rules and best a corruption prevention policy in the late 1990s practices defined by national anti-corruption laws and and has since been engaged in a continuous international conventions, and goes well beyond those improvement process. The policy is part of the requirements in many cases. Group’s overall risk management strategy and is In 2010, the Group published a new guideline entitled embedded within the Group’s business processes. “Instruction for Qualifying, Selecting and Managing Key It enjoys the full support of the Chairman & CEO and Industrial Partners”. The document outlines a strict and the Group’s senior management team. comprehensive qualification process that includes legal A dedicated organisation, headed by the Vice due diligence, operational and technical assessments, President, Ethics and Corporate Responsibility, leads and recommended management procedures. Any the effort to implement and improve processes risk factor identified is referred to senior management and to develop tools and training programmes. As for further scrutiny and decision. Certain risk factors, part of the Group’s Compliance Programme, audits defined as show stoppers, automatically terminate the are performed regularly and sanctions apply if any application process. Show stoppers can include lack instance of non-compliance with anti-bribery rules of transparency in the ownership of an organisation and regulations is discovered. or potential conflicts of interests. 6  ey Industrial Partners are country-specific sustainable industrial companies identified by Thales as critical to business capture. They may K act as prime contractors, co-contractors, suppliers, licensors, distributors or members of joint ventures or public-private partnerships with Thales companies 14 In order to better meet the needs of customers Appointing and Managing Business Advisers”, and increase their level of satisfaction, Thales describes how to identify, select, appoint and pay has built a more customer-centric organisation. these advisers. As part of Thales’s risk-based Internal organisations and processes have been approach, only duly designated, empowered and harmonised across the Group to improve the experienced entities have prerogatives over the customer experience, and each customer now has selection and payment of Business Advisers. one primary point of contact – the Key Account The stringent selection process includes the Manager – from the bidding phase through to submission of company registrations and all other project completion. The Key Account Manager official documents, including annual reports, and all serves as the customer’s ambassador within Thales the information submitted is systematically doubleto ensure that individual customer requirements checked by a third party. Any risk factor identified are fully understood. is referred to top management for further scrutiny Under exceptional circumstances, Thales employs and decision. As in the KIP procedure described the services of Business Advisers7 to support its above, this instruction includes strict definitions of business development efforts by providing in-depth show stoppers and other risk factors. knowledge of new markets. Because they operate The two guidelines have been approved by the in close proximity to potential or current customers, Executive Committee and submitted to the Board there is a potential for conflicts of interests or of Directors’ Audit Committee. They are regularly the suspicion of corruption. Business Advisers, as reviewed and improved to enhance procedures and well as other third parties such as Key Industrial internal control mechanisms. The instructions are Partners, can be held liable for violating anti-bribery an integral part of the Group’s business processes laws and regulations. and are thus deployed throughout the organisation. Thales has established a dedicated procedure and They provide a clear definition of the roles and published a new guideline for employing Business responsibilities of Thales entities and managers to Advisers. This document, entitled “Instruction for ensure the strict separation of powers. “BUSINESS ETHICS AND PREVENTING CORRUPTION” TRAINING PROGRAMME Thales has developed a four-hour face-to-face training programme on the prevention of corruption in everyday business. It aims to promote a set of basic but important behaviours that are endorsed by the Group and to provide basic insights into the legal aspects of these issues. As it is impossible to establish a full list of real-life scenarios and solutions, the course aims to provide employees with the tools they need to identify and deal with situations effectively as they arise. The classroom training is conducted by a former sales and marketing director on several of Thales University’s worldwide campuses. A total of 2,000 employees were trained between 2000 and 2001 and 2,500 were trained between 2008 and 2011. A further 3,500 employees from the most exposed job families (Marketing & Sales, Bid and Programme Management and Purchasing) are expected to complete the course between 2010 and 2012, with 4,000 employees from other job families completing it between 2013 and 2014. 7  usiness Advisers are any individual or legal entity acting as a consultant, expert, lobbyist, sponsor, representative, introducing broker, or B any third party. Corporate Responsibility 2010 15 1 BUSINESS ETHICS EXTENDING ETHICS TO THE SUPPLY CHAIN. Seeking long-term partnerships The measurement of supplier performance is based on suppliers’ self-assessments using a survey Thales seeks to establish long-term relationships comprised of 16 questions: nine on labour standards, with its suppliers. The Group develops and three on the environment, two on governance, one on manufactures integrated solutions comprised business ethics and one on export control. of subassemblies, subsystems or complete systems, many of which are purchased from Since 2010, a separate questionnaire relating outside suppliers. As a result, suppliers make an to the environment has also been part of the substantive contribution to Thales’s added value procurement process. Suppliers are required to and ability to deliver customer satisfaction. complete a self-assessment to analyse the maturity of their environmental management systems and Thales selects its suppliers according to clear and to engage in a process of continuous improvement. transparent procedures. All suppliers can access During the procurement process, purchasing information – including the Group’s purchasing managers take environmental factors into account policy, supplier selection process, technical data and and can exclude suppliers who fail to meet certain details of requests for proposals – on its Supplier environmental criteria. Online web portal. They can also contact Thales’s Purchasing Department online and receive timely By the end of 2010, more than 900 Thales suppliers responses to their enquiries. In 2010, the Supplier had signed the Purchasing and Corporate Responsibility Online internet website was visited 129,332 times. Charter and filled in the assessment questionnaire. This represents 31% of the target. On this basis, During the selection process, Thales not only takes suppliers’ overall environmental, social and governance into account the quality and cost of the proposal performance stands at 9.3 on a scale of 10. but also carefully reviews each supplier’s corporate responsibility policy. As a signatory to the United H  elping suppliers align Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest their practices with the Thales corporate responsibility initiative, the Group requires its suppliers to adhere to the principles of corporate corporate responsibility policy citizenship in respect of the following areas: Thales is taking steps to help suppliers, especially • labour standards • corporate governance small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), • the environment • business ethics improve their corporate responsibility policies and • export control. processes. The Group is an active member of the SUPPLIERS’ ESG PERFORMANCE Global Compact’s 10th Principle Working Group on All suppliers are required to sign Supply Chain, whose core objectives are to: Average of mark out of 10 Thales’s Purchasing and Corporate • develop guidelines to help companies extend 10 Responsibility Charter and answer 9,7 9,4 anti-corruption measures to their supply chain a detailed questionnaire, both 8 8,6 (auditing, selecting and training suppliers; 7,9 of which form an integral part encouraging suppliers to improve their anti7,3 of the supply contract. The 6 corruption measures) questionnaire is designed to assess suppliers’ commitment • provide tools to help SMEs develop robust anti4 and performance in key areas corruption programmes. 2 of corporate responsibility and In June 2010, the Working Group officially launched helps identify related supplier its Guide for Customers and Suppliers during the 0 risks. It also aims to help Leaders Summit held at the United Nations. During Labour Environment Corporate standards Governance Business Ethics Export Control suppliers align their policies and the summit, the UN Global Compact also released internal processes with the set its Global Compact for Development. This report 918 suppliers have signed the Purchasing & Corporate of principles that Thales has Responsibility Charter and have completed the questionnaire. addresses ways for companies to support the Average supplier performance is 9.3 (max. = 10). adopted. development objectives of the United Nations, and 16 in particular the eight Millennium Development Goals, which UN member states have undertaken to achieve by 2015. Thales and its Purchasing and Corporate Responsibility Charter are featured as an example in the publication, indicating that the Global Compact considers this initiative to be a positive contribution to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Thales’s Purchasing and Corporate Responsibility Charter was also cited in the Global Compact Annual Review in 2009. The report highlights actions undertaken by over 5,900 companies and 1,500 civil society partners to demonstrate their commitment to the principles of the Global Compact. Supporting innovative SMEs Fair relationships with suppliers Thales has long-standing relationships with many Thales seeks to build equitable relationships with innovative SMEs, several of which are considered its suppliers, formalising this commitment in 2006 strategic partners or have expertise deemed with the signing of the Pacte PME (SME Pact) in critical to Thales’s product offering. In France, SMEs France, in which the Group undertakes to: account for over 40% of all Group purchasing. • develop fair and balanced relationships As a result, Thales is engaged in a permanent • share best practices by setting up working groups effort to identify innovative SMEs. France’s • provide feedback high-tech clusters, for example, offer excellent • provide support to help SMEs grow opportunities for the Group to develop partnerships and improve their performance with various innovative suppliers. Thales has an • advise SMEs of available financing active involvement in several regional, national and opportunities or options. international competitiveness clusters, including: In 2010, Thales signed a Good Business Practice • Aerospace Valley Charter in France to support the ethical treatment • ASTech Paris area of suppliers. Along with the twenty other large • Cap Digital Paris area companies who signed the Charter, Thales agrees to: • Mer PACA and Bretagne • create lasting relationships with SMEs • Pegase • facilitate collaboration with strategic suppliers • System@tic Paris-Région. • reduce risks of mutual dependence It is in Thales’s interest to ensure that SME partners • consider the total cost of a purchase, and not remain financially healthy, retain their capacity for only the apparent price, when selecting a supplier innovation and pursue their corporate development. • consider environmental impacts In France, for instance, Thales supports innovative • take into account the SME’s territorial suppliers by providing them with information on responsibility, by seeking to contribute as much government aid (e.g. financial aid, tax credits) and helping as possible to the economic activity of the them with the corresponding application procedures. geographic area in which it operates As an example, Thales has partnered with OSEO, a • ensure that purchasing managers are professional French government agency that aids small businesses, and ethical (fairness, objectivity, integrity). to provide SMEs with accountable advances. Under this arrangement, SMEs in the aerospace sector can This Charter has been fully integrated in Thales’s receive accountable advances for commissioned R&D worldwide purchasing policy. The Group is now work. In such a case, OSEO would advance 40% of the establishing a structured action plan for deployment amount needed for the specific project and Thales and putting indicators in place to measure would advance the remaining 60%. performance. ENCOURAGING INNOVATION BY SMEs In 2010, Thales created an Innovation Awards contest at UAV Show Europe, the leading exhibition for the UAV (Unmanned Air Vehicle) industry. The purpose of these awards is to encourage and promote innovation by SMEs working in the field of miniand micro-UAVs. In addition to an overall innovation prize, the awards recognised two projects specifically for their contribution to sustainable development and system innovation. Rewards included both a cash prize and publicity for the SMEs and their work. Although the awardees were not Thales suppliers, the Group recognised them for their dynamism and innovation, and their work is of considerable interest to Thales. There are plans for the Thales Unmanned Air Systems Innovation Awards to become an annual event. Corporate Responsibility 2010 17 1 BUSINESS ETHICS COMPLYING WITH EXPORT CONTROL REGULATIONS. Potential legal and political risks various national authorities. In today’s fast-paced and highly competitive global market, failing to obtain Breaching export controls can have serious the required export licence in a timely fashion can consequences for a company. Depending on the have a negative impact on a company’s business. nature of the violation, sanctions can include It is therefore important to be considered a reliable heavy fines, imprisonment of company officials and trustworthy business partner by the regulatory and prohibition of future exports or imports by the authorities. company. A significant proportion of Thales’s products and Two categories of products are regulated under solutions rely on items that are bought in from export control laws: outside suppliers. The Group must therefore remain • components, equipment and technologies that constantly aware of the export constraints on are specifically designed, developed or modified purchased items, with particular reference to those for military purposes of US or Japanese origin. Every year, the Group • civil components, equipment and technologies purchases well over €1 billion of goods of US origin that can be used or diverted for military that may be subject to the extra-territorial export purposes (including nuclear, chemical, biological control regulations of the United States. Thales warfare and missile technology) or for terrorism also takes particular care to ensure that items of (dual-use items). Japanese origin are not affected by Japan’s longstanding prohibition of the use of such items for Thales develops electronic systems for both military military purposes. and civil applications. The export of defence and dual-use items is subject to prior authorisation A  Group-wide export compliance by the government of the country of operation or country of origin. organisation Since exports account for over 40% of Thales’s Thales has a Group-wide export compliance revenues, many of the Group’s business activities organisation that has been progressively developed are dependent on obtaining export licences from over a number of years. Due to its importance for the Group, export control policy is defined at corporate level and then deployed in business units worldwide. The corporate team coordinates a global network of 250 compliance officers in a combination of full-time and part-time roles. Exporting countries maintain their own national export control departments to provide national expertise at the local level. These local entities work closely with the corporate team to ensure consistent implementation of Group policy and procedures. The Group has also designated an in-house specialist with expertise in US export controls to provide Thales companies with ready access to practical advice on interpreting US controls. The Group Export Compliance Committee meets quarterly to bring together the export control officers for all major exporting entities, including national representatives from thirteen countries and key corporate stakeholders (e.g. Corporate Responsibility, Purchasing, Internal Audit). 18 The committee is responsible for the flow-down each year as part of the Thales Group compliance of information and new tools to the local export programme, making it possible to track compliance compliance officers in their organisations. It also measures and performance on a year by year basis. reviews progress against the objectives of the Regular export control audits are carried out by Group’s compliance improvement programme, the Audit and Internal Control Department to verify approves proposals for further improvements, the existence and efficacy of appropriate control shares best practice and addresses any other measures. When appropriate, external audits are issues of common concern. also conducted to verify implementation of the various procedures. Continually improving the export compliance programme Annual self-assessments, coupled with the results of audits carried out by the Internal Audit team, For the last several years, Thales has been working provide improved visibility of the control measures proactively to enhance compliance across the being deployed. Progress is followed by export organisation through a comprehensive export control officers at both corporate and local level. compliance improvement programme. The Group has developed a Standard of Export Compliance Export compliance is becoming increasingly instruction that sets out the behaviours expected of embedded in Thales business processes as Thales employees worldwide. It is based on ten areas employees come to recognise the real business of best practices and application is mandatory. advantages of this integrated approach. Groupwide deployment of new Thales reference system, To support local export control officers and provide Chorus 2.0, in which export control is formally a consistent Group-wide approach, Thales has recognised as a key support process, is expected to developed a series of tools to facilitate export further strengthen compliance performance. control compliance by local business units. All the guidelines and tools, as well as dozens of links to key official websites, are regularly updated on an intranet site dedicated specifically to export control and compliance. TRAINING IMPROVEMENT Thales has also developed a self-assessment risk In 2009, Thales introduced an e-learning profiling questionnaire to identify the business units module on compliance with US export with the greatest potential exposure to the risk controls. The module, which is accessible of breaching export controls. The questionnaire to over 50,000 employees worldwide, was enables the Group to identify entities with high, updated in 2010. A quiz was added and low and very low risk and to allocate resources the module has been broken down into accordingly. sub-modules to make it easier to track take-up and measure completion rates. To establish the level of maturity of the export Employees who successfully complete the compliance systems in place in the operating quiz can print a certificate to prove that units, Thales uses a gap analysis questionnaire the course requirements have been met. based on the requirements of the Standard of Export Compliance. The questionnaire is completed TRANSPARENCY AND VOLUNTARY SELF-DISCLOSURES Thales advocates full transparency towards the regulatory authorities in the event of any instance of non-compliance. Although this approach may be considered counterintuitive, in view of the risk of fines and other potential sanctions, it demonstrates a real determination on the part of the Thales Group to improve its compliance performance and learn from past mistakes. It is also an approach that is strongly recommended by the US authorities, who have stated that voluntary self-disclosures, absent aggravating circumstances, are likely to mitigate any sanctions arising from accidental export control breaches. This approach is producing positive results. Out of 25 voluntary self-disclosures made to the US authorities since January 2008, 22 have been formally resolved with no fine or other sanction imposed. The remaining three cases are still pending, although nothing in the disclosures is expected to prevent formal resolution. Corporate Responsibility 2010 19 GOVERNANCE ISSUE 2 INADEQUATE GOVERNANCE, NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND FAILURE TO PREVENT CORRUPTION, FRAUD OR ANY OTHER FORM OF UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR CAN HAVE A DIRECT IMPACT ON A COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE AND VIABILITY. THALES IS FULLY AWARE OF THE INCREASINGLY STRINGENT REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT GOVERNING INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS, AND OF THE GROWING NUMBER OF INVESTIGATIONS, PROSECUTIONS AND SANCTIONS. THE GROUP IS COMMITTED TO TRANSPARENT COMMUNICATIONS WITH ITS STAKEHOLDERS AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IN ITS INTERNAL ORGANISATION AND PROCESSES. 2 GOVERNANCE REGULAR EXCHANGES WITH INVESTORS. Thales policy is to provide shareholders with regular, Investors and financial analysts are increasingly taking clear and transparent information in full compliance non-financial factors into account in the valuation of with the financial reporting rules and practices a company. Environmental, social and governance applicable to listed companies. (ESG) issues are now taken into consideration to identify and analyse risks that could potentially impact Thales holds briefings for the financial community, a company and its financial performance. particularly when announcing results (full-year financial statements, interim financial statements, At the end of 2010, Thales organised its first ever quarterly information) and important strategic Corporate Responsibility Investor Day to provide or financial operations. Regular meetings between members of the socially responsible investor Thales executives and institutional investors are (SRI) community with details about its policy on held in Europe and North America, typically as part environmental, social and governance matters, and of roadshows or investor days. These include more on the prevention of corruption and export control detailed information about the company’s business as key issues in business ethics. activities and performance as well as guided tours Around 20 representatives of the financial and SRI of operational sites. communities attended the event. Presentations were made by various senior executives, including The Group maintains permanent dialogue with the Chairman & CEO. These meetings are designed international financial analysts and institutional to help investors and analysts better understand the investors to provide them with information about Group’s ethics and corporate responsibility policy, business activities and strategy. Additionally, how it is implemented within the organisation and comprehensive financial information is how it directly contributes to Thales’s competitive published on the Thales corporate website at performance and value creation potential. www.thalesgroup.com. THALES’S ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE STANDARDS Environmental Social Governance Proactive policy Leadership in transnational Rigorous governance HR policy and transparency standards Pioneering Europe-wide labour A comprehensive approach to agreements to promote Government commissioner environmental risk management professional development and external auditors attend deployed at three levels: business and more transparent Board meetings line, process and product design employee relations Participation in research and Proactive risk assessment development programmes Constant dialogue and and deployment of an to support environmental constructive relationships with appropriate internal control monitoring and management employee representatives and compliance programme and clean technologies Thales is included in the ASPI Eurozone® (Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices) index. This index is composed of the 120 listed Eurozone companies that perform best in social and environmental terms. The stocks are selected on the basis of analyses by Vigeo, a French corporate responsibility rating agency. 22 Employee share ownership Thales considers employee share ownership to be board for election by the annual general meeting of an integral part of corporate governance. Since shareholders. This director is also a member of the privatisation in 1998, Thales has proposed several Strategy Committee of the Thales Board of Directors. share purchase offers (in 1998, 2000, 2002, Long before it became a legal requirement, Thales 2004 and 2008) to its employees. A new share purchase offer will be proposed in 2011. was one of the few major companies in France to As of 31 December 2010, about 29,000 employees have a representative of employee shareholders on in 20 countries held shares in the company, owning its Board of Directors. the equivalent of 3% of its capital. Several shareholder associations, such as APAT Employee share ownership is structured through (Association du Personnel Actionnaire de Thales) company investment funds managed by a joint in France, have been formed to help promote supervisory board including members elected employee share ownership in 17 countries by employees as well as representatives of throughout Europe, North America and AsiaThales management. Employee shareholders are Pacific. The employee shareholder associations are represented on the Thales Board of Directors members of FAST (Federation of Associations of by a director nominated by the joint supervisory Staff Shareholders of Thales). Governance 27% 42% French French State State 47% 38% Float SHAREHOLDER Float VOTING of which of which STRUCTURE employees RIGHTS employees 5% 26% 20% Dassault Dassault Aviation Aviation BOARD OF DIRECTORS Public sector Industrial partner Outside directors Representative of (French State) (Dassault Aviation) • Yannick d’Escatha employee shareholders • Luc Vigneron, • Charles Edelstenne • Philippe Lépinay Chairman & CEO • Roger Freeman • Loïk Segalen • Stève Gentili • Olivier Bourges Elected by employees • Didier Lombard • Amaury de Sèze • Pierre Mutz • Martine Saunier • Bruno Parent • Eric Trappier • Dominique Floch • TSA, represented by Bernard Rétat The Thales Board of Directors is comprised of have extensive experience in areas such as the 16 directors, of whom 14 are appointed by the technology industry, banking and security. annual general meeting and two are elected by the employees of the Group’s French companies. Three The Board of Directors has set up three committees of the directors are independent. Thales’s major that meet regularly to review specific topics: an shareholders are committed to having directors Audit & Accounts Committee, an Appointments whose experience is both diverse and relevant to & Remuneration Committee and a Strategy the Group’s business objectives. Current directors Committee. Corporate Responsibility 2010 23 2 GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL. In 2010, the Audit and Internal Control Department assumed the additional mission of auditing operational performance by assessing risks relating to contracts, projects and bids. The department’s scope of responsibility now also includes risk mapping and management of the 20 unified risks in the COSO8 method, and the review of the yearly  S  trengthening the global attestation letters provided by subsidiaries to compliance programme help Thales to coordinate their internal control processes. The audit plan is approved by the Board Strict compliance with all applicable laws, of Directors’ Audit and Accounts Committee and regulations and international treaties is critical to presented to the Executive Committee. Thales’s ability to conduct its business today and in the future. Non-compliance with regulations could To support the department’s broader mission, the expose Thales and its officers to large fines, criminal team has been expanded and its members have or civil sanctions, sales and legal restrictions and higher levels of seniority: eight former business reputational damage. The Group established a unit and project directors, for example, have now Compliance Programme in 2007 to incorporate joined the department. In addition to its auditing and compliance risk management within its business internal control responsibilities, the department processes. also oversees Ethics and Corporate Responsibility. This relationship with the Senior Vice President, The objective of the Compliance Program­me is to Audit and Internal Control reinforces the Group’s decrease the risk of non-compliance by helping to policy in this area and makes ethics and corporate prevent occurrences, detect issues and limit the responsibility an integral part of the company’s consequences of any conduct that may violate the overall risk management system. company’s commitments and internal policies or could lead to civil or criminal liability or reputational damage. Thales operates within a far-reaching legal and regulatory framework. The Compliance Programme pays special attention to areas relating to: • company law and delegation of responsibilities • anti-trust and competition • labour legislation • export control • prevention of the corruption • environmental protection • occupational health and safety • national security • intellectual property rights. 8 C  OSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) is a private sector organisation dedicated to providing thought leadership through the development of frameworks and guidance on enterprise risk management, internal control and fraud deterrence, with a view to improving companies’ performance and governance. 24  H  eightening employee awareness of legal risks Compliance is not the sole responsibility of senior management. Regardless of their role in the organisation, all employees must comply at all times with laws, regulations and other external constraints. As part of the Compliance Programme, Thales introduced measures in 2009 to increase awareness of legal risks by developing an e-learning programme targeted at employees with no specific legal expertise. The e-learning programme is currently structured as four modules: insider training, anti-trust, intellectual property and export control. The online courses are not intended to teach law to non-lawyers, but to make employees D  eploying the Compliance aware of the legal duties involved in conducting their day-to-day activities and the main legal risks Programme across the incurred by failure to fulfil those duties. It is designed organisation as a practical guide to what employees need to The Chief Executives of Thales subsidiaries know and do in order to avoid major legal risks. are responsible for defining, implementing and A dedicated steering committee has been set up to maintaining a satisfactory risk management and ensure the success of the e-learning programme. internal control system that encompasses the The steering committee meets every three prevention of legal non-compliance. months to monitor the worldwide deployment of To help them cope with the complex and constantly the e-learning programme, plan communication evolving legal and regulatory framework, Thales campaigns to promote the online courses, review has appointed a Compliance Officer in each unit. usage statistics and propose improvements The main roles of the members of this worldwide to individual e-learning modules. The e-learning network of about 150 people are as follows: programme complements existing procedures and • remind staff of the variety of legal risks and the processes in place to help employees understand need to manage them and comply with laws and regulations. Additionally, employees have access to legal experts at all levels • monitor compliance efforts and consolidate of the organisation to seek guidance on compliance reports on risks and any instance of nonissues. compliance that may be detected • oversee action plans.  C onfirming the effectiveness Thales’s in-house experts also produce selfof prevention assessment questionnaires that complement the internal policies, guidance documents, training One of the principles of Thales governance is the programmes and other tools that are already in requirement that all subsidiaries under its control place. They allow Thales subsidiaries to assess the formally report on the measures and resources in maturity of measures to prevent legal violations and place to secure compliance. The Chief Executives serve as a baseline for defining improvement plans of Thales subsidiaries are required to complete a when such measures are deemed inadequate. yearly attestation letter in which they disclose their assessments and commitments for improvements. Throughout the year, the Audit and Internal Yearly attestation letters flow up through the Control Department monitors implementation organisation and are consolidated in a report that of improvement action plans by subsidiaries and is submitted to the Executive Committee and Board provides support to better prevent the risk of nonof Directors and provides measurable input for the compliance. Governance report submitted to the Board by the Thales Chairman & CEO. Corporate Responsibility 2010 25 SOCIAL ISSUE 3 AS A HIGH-TECHNOLOGY COMPANY, THALES RECOGNISES THAT THE RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF HIGHLY SKILLED EMPLOYEES IS VITAL TO SUSTAIN THE GROUP’S LEADERSHIP. THALES CONSIDERS THE DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF PEOPLE AND THEIR TALENTS AS A PRIORITY AND IS ENGAGED IN A PROCESS OF CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF ITS GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY. PROVIDING A RICH, DIVERSIFIED PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE FOR EACH EMPLOYEE IN A RAPIDLY EVOLVING ENVIRONMENT IS ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CHALLENGES THAT THALES FACES TODAY. 3 SOCIAL DEVELOPING PEOPLE.  D eveloping human resources Today, more than ever, Thales recognises that the recruitment and retention of highly skilled employees and preparing employees are vital to sustain its leadership. for tomorrow’s challenges and opportunities  D eveloping people The principles of social responsibility guide and and anticipating change shape Thales’s actions and form the basis of Developing human resources is one of Thales’s the Group’s approach to its people and business core values. The Group is continuously engaged activities. in developing the knowledge and skills of its With its recognised technological expertise, growing employees. As part of this commitment, Thales international presence, rich array of skills and long signed the Anticipation agreement with employee track record of innovation and success in all fields, representatives in France in 2006, and the EuropeThales is in a strong position to meet the challenges wide IDEA agreement in 2009, with the aim of of a rapidly changing world. improving professional development through effective anticipation. The distribution of Thales Group employees (over 66,900 people) reflects two basic premises To anticipate effectively, Thales needs to be able that steer the Group’s policy in terms of Human to identify key changes and innovations in advance, Resources: and develop associated action plans, while providing • The Group’s expanding global footprint (48% training and support to employees to create of employees based outside France) more career development opportunities and help them have a richer and more diverse professional • The high degree of technical qualification of its experience. Thales believes that all employees are staff (most employees are qualified engineers entitled to a fulfilling career, regardless of job family and technicians). and level of responsibility, and that employees have a right to know about the company’s plans for their job family. Thales also believes that professional development is crucial to the success of each individual and to the Group’s future prosperity. 28 The purpose of Thales’s anticipative approach to innovations and develop associated action plans professional development is to enable employees to hinging primarily on training and mobility. acquire professional qualifications that are relevant For individual employees, the annual Professional to the needs of the company as well as those of the Development Discussion (PDD) is a key milestone labour market. This approach underscores Thales’s in the professional development process and an commitment to maintaining employee motivation opportunity to: and providing staff members with the opportunity to construct via a transparent process a career • review career progress with managers and discuss path that meets their expectations. The overarching continued development in their current post objective is to foster a learning environment that • evaluate career choices and options enables employees to find fulfilment in their positions • identify the skills that they have acquired or and to achieve their full potential. Thales regularly need to develop monitors and analyses qualitative and quantitative • clarify career aspirations for the future trends in the business environment and the labour • consider the best ways to achieve them market in order to anticipate key changes and (training, practical experience, etc.). IDEA and TALK Innovative Europe-wide agreements On 11 June 2009, in Paris, Thales and the European (Transparent annual Activity discussion for mutual Listening and Metalworkers Federation (EMF) signed a groundbreaking developing professional Knowledge), signed on 14 April 2010. European agreement known by the acronym IDEA to improve The TALK agreement follows the 2009 the evolution of professional development through effective anticipation. employee appraisal system drawing on existing best practices The IDEA agreement (Improving professional Development in the countries concerned. through Effective Anticipation) provides an annual forwardReflecting a shared commitment to transparency, TALK planning process to identify trends in employment and job establishes a clear framework and practical guidelines to requirements involving representatives bodies. All Thales’s guarantee that the Annual Activity Discussion (AAD) with each European employees will have access to the professional Thales employee is conducted in a climate of social responsibility, development tools they need to drive their own careers. The mutual respect and listening. It also provides a set of basic agreement also includes 25 specific measures that are principles to ensure that AADs take place under the most progressively being introduced in the 11 countries concerned. favourable conditions and that the rights and responsibilities of To support implementation of this European agreement and managers and employees are respected. TALK has the same create an effective Europe-wide network of social partners, scope of application as the IDEA agreement. Thales held a number of major transnational events in 2009 IDEA and TALK, which cover more than 54,000 Thales and 2010. These were attended by over 100 employee employees in 11 European countries, build on best practices representatives, Thales managers and HR managers from identified in the countries concerned. To reach the agreements, nine European countries and have helped foster a real an innovative framework for constructive negotiation was dynamic of social dialogue at European level. In March 2010, put in place, bringing together representatives of Thales’s for example, Thales held a European convention dedicated Human Resources directorate at Group level, the Country HR to the IDEA agreement. The programme included a series Directors concerned and union representatives from those of teamwork between its participants in the context of equalcountries, under the auspices of the EMF. representation and translational workshops focusing on the various measures involved in the European agreement. This Transparent annual proactive approach to social dialogue led to the negotiation Activity discussion for mutual Listening and developing professional Knowledge of a second European agreement with the EMF called TALK Entretien annuel d’activité transparent pour l’écoute mutuelle et le développement des savoir-faire professionnels Understanding job families to secure career development Thales’s global HR policy is based on the principle Managing professional and career development that individual employees are responsible for driving within and across job families is an integral part their own professional development. A better of Thales’s anticipative approach to professional understanding of the Group’s job families, how development: they are evolving and how an employee can move • In the medium term, this prospective view, between them is important when putting together a which takes into account external factors such career plan that leverages opportunities for mobility. as economic context, technologies and markets, A complete information toolkit covering Professional helps to clarify qualitative developments in Development Discussions, Career Reviews, Thales the key job families and ensure more effective University training courses and a Job Marketplace forward planning is available to support the mobility process. Corporate Responsibility 2010 29 3 SOCIAL • In the shorter term, Thales actively supports plans negotiated within all Thales legal entities in the day-to-day professional development of each France and the IDEA agreement in 2009 clearly employee. All staff members have access to job demonstrate this commitment. descriptions, job opportunities and career paths In France, as part of Thales’s commitment to equal within a given job family or between different compensation, a special budget equivalent to 0.1% families, enabling managers to develop and of total payroll costs is set aside to deal with any improve their contribution to the professional unjustified differences in salary between men and development of their employees, in particular by women within Group companies or to recognize framing career aspirations and opportunities experience by promotion. This budget is also used in terms of the company’s current and future to offset any discrepancies within job families needs. that specifically employ women, and to recognise The 2006 Anticipation agreement in France and experience through promotion. The same desire the Europe-wide IDEA agreement in 2009 strongly to preserve and improve the gender balance within support the Thales approach to job family management the workforce has also prompted a number of by providing a framework for forward-looking analysis, communication programmes aimed at encouraging which is an essential component of any anticipative girls to study science subjects at school. Substantive approach. The results of forward-looking job family efforts have also been made to ensure genderanalysis are shared with employee representatives, balanced recruitment, so that women are not and employees are informed of relevant trends as under-represented in the intake of new employees. part of the commitment to transparency, enabling Training sessions for managers now include an them to prepare more effectively for their Professional awareness-raising aspect on the issue of gender Development Discussions. equality at the workplace. Reflecting its commitment to helping employees achieve a healthy work/life  P romoting equality, balance, Thales signed an agreement with Crèche diversity and work/life balance Attitude in 2006 enabling Group companiesto reserve places at inter-company childcare facilities. Thales is committed to taking practical actions to So far, over 100 children of employees at a dozen or promote gender equality and cultural diversity. more Group companies are in day care places near Indeed, the international nature of the Group’s to where their parents work. activities requires a special respect for cultural differences within the organisation. In recent years, At European level, the IDEA agreement also includes Thales subsidiaries have adopted an international a package of measures to support gender equality approach to recruitment and teams are becoming in the workplace, with commitments encompassing increasingly diverse. the full range of related areas (recruitment, career development, equal pay and work/life balance). As a high-technology company that has traditionally Countries that have signed up to the agreement been more attractive to men than women, Thales are required to produce an annual report assessing today is fully committed to gender equality and gender equality against a number of key indicators making female employees an integral part of its and to propose an associated action plan to improve future development. The framework agreement performance where necessary. At its first meeting signed in France in 2004, the three-yearly action on 21 September 2010, the European Anticipation Committee conducted a comprehensive review of actions undertaken to support gender equality. Thales will continue to pursue this active policy of gender equality both now and in the future. Implementation of the IDEA agreement and the many practical actions outlined above is a major undertaking. Promoting the recruitment of women, developing mentoring and coaching programmes, introducing specific People Reviews and progressively increasing the number of women on management committees are just some of the key areas where Thales intends to step up its efforts. 30  S  upporting the employment of people with disabilities In France, Thales has adopted a policy to promote the recruitment and career development of people with disabilities. Indeed, Thales has long championed the cause of disabled people in the workplace, signing a company agreement in 1992 to increase job opportunities and support their professional integration. This policy has been consistently maintained and led to the signing of a Group-wide agreement on the employment of people with disabilities on 13 November 2004. A new agreement was signed in 2007 for the period 2008-11. Thales takes action at every level of the educational process to help students clear the hurdles that come with their disability and support them in fulfilling their career aspirations. The Group has signed a number of partnerships with primary and secondary schools to coordinate career orientation opportunities, company visits, mentorships, conferences and technical assistance. It also has partnerships with vocational schools, universities, business schools and engineering schools to help disabled students succeed in their studies. At 31 December 2010, some 268 interns had joined the Group since the new agreement was implemented in 2008.  P  romoting quality of life As a high-technology company, Thales has developed in the workplace a number of proprietary products to help students and workers with disabilities. One of its flagship Thales’s commitment to make employee health products in this respect is the Portanum software and safety at the heart of its priorities has led co-developed with the Montclair Institute and the to a specific agreement on quality of life in the CRDV rehabilitation centre for the visually impaired. workplace, signed on 2 July 2009 in France. This Downloadable free of charge from the internet, agreement, applicable to all Group companies in Portanum enables a visually impaired person to France, sets out a general framework for health and follow a presentation or view an image on a laptop safety policy and establishes a system for identifying computer. and preventing workplace-related risks. Workplace health and safety specialists play a central role in In addition to developing technologies to aid the this system, which is focused on risk prevention. disabled, Thales has helped change national legislation It also covers the prevention of psychosocial risks to improve the employability of people with disabilities. through individual employee and collective actions. Lobbying by Thales and the development of special A central quality of life in the workplace committee technology now enable people with motor disabilities has been set up in France to monitor and support to obtain a pilot’s license to fly small aircraft. Through these initiatives. The agreement was progressively the Handi Aero Surveillance programme, pilots with implemented throughout 2010. The quality of life motor disabilities have an opportunity to fly small in the workplace committee has met three times planes to prevent and monitor forest fires. Thales to date, to monitor the implementation of planned designed the system that allows the pilots to fly actions and conduct an initial analysis of indicators the aircraft and use the surveillance system. In stipulated by the agreement. Meetings of the 2009, under the leadership of Thales, the AFNOR Group’s occupational health and safety departments standards committee in France drew up a draft and company medical officers on 18 January and standard, published in August 2010, which gives 24 September 2010 looked at ways to facilitate greater visibility to actions conducted by businesses these initiatives and ensure they are as effective as committed to the professional integration of people possible. Some Thales sites have held special theme with disabilities and guidance for those seeking to get days or weeks to promote the principles of quality of involved in this kind of initiative. life in the workplace. Lastly, the number of people with disabilities Training programmes have also been developed employed by Thales has risen steadily since the to raise awareness of related issues among first agreement was signed. At 31 December managers. In 2010, some 725 French employees 2010, the proportion of employees with disabilities received training in psychosocial risk management stood at 4.86% of the total headcount. This and a further 239 attended sessions on the social steady progression reflects the Group’s long-term responsibilities of managers, which include a commitment to action in this important area. specific section on quality of life at work. Corporate Responsibility 2010 31 ENVIRONMENT ISSUE 4 THALES HAS ADOPTED ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AS ONE OF ITS ETHICAL VALUES. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IS PART OF THALES’S OVERALL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND IS THEREFORE INCORPORATED WITHIN BUSINESS PROCESSES SUCH AS PURCHASING, QUALITY ASSURANCE, HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION SYSTEMS, FINANCE AND LEGAL AFFAIRS. AS PART OF ITS CULTURE OF CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT, THALES IS COMMITTED TO EMBEDDING AN ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION INTO ALL LEVELS OF ITS ACTIVITIES, AND TO BUILDING A GENUINE CULTURE OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SHARED BY ALL EMPLOYEES. 4 ENVIRONMENT A PROACTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY. Responsibility towards the environment is one Site management of Thales’s core values. Although the majority of In all new building projects, Thales integrates the company’s activities do not cause significant environmental constraints while the projects pollution or other environmental hazards, Thales are still in the earliest design phase, taking into has been committed to a proactive environmental consideration land use, materials, choice of energy protection policy since 1997. The company and transport requirements. The company also evaluates its environmental impact through a works to decrease the environmental impact of its holistic approach incorporates site management, current buildings. processes and product design. Activities Thales has taken substantive measures to KEY DATA generate less waste and consume less energy and Between 2008 2010 water. Reducing its impacts on climate change is and 2010 target also a goal. Reduction of energy consumption -11% -10% Product design During product design, Thales takes into account Reduction of CO2 per person -14% -10% the life-long environmental impact of certain from business trips products, from the consumption of raw materials, Reduction of CO2 from buildings through production and distribution, to end-of-life -18% -10% disposal or recycling. and processes Reduction of the quantity Reflecting its commitment to environmental -20% -10% protection, Thales has set measurable environmental of non-hazardous waste per person targets for its facilities and operations. Reduction of water consumption -72% A worldwide network of environmental managers since 2000 in France is responsible for achieving these targets as well Number of sites certified as promoting and implementing the company’s 118 (75% of workforce) to ISO 14001 environmental policy. Other employees, such as purchasing managers, product design engineers, Number of sites certified 78 (45% of workforce) contract managers, quality assurance managers to OHSAS 18000 and logistics specialists play an important and direct role in Thales’s environmental protection policy. A HISTORY OF ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 2010: HSE* process fully integrated in entire Aerospace Division 2001: Environmental protection the Group reference system and also established as a core principle in the 2007: Formal definition of the Groupincorporated in other processes such Code of Ethics wide environmental policy as purchasing, product design and 2000: First Thales site certification project management 2005: First worldwide environmental to ISO 14001 (Hengelo in the targets set 2009: Environment Department Netherlands) integrated with Operations Department 2003: Signing of UN Global Compact; 1997: First environmental master plan publication of Thales’s first annual 2008: Simultaneous ISO 14001 and environment report OHSAS 18001 certifications for the * Health, Safety & Environment 34 CLIMATE CHANGE. Thales has adopted a policy to help fight climate Thales monitors the consumption of substances change by implementing measures affecting its that deplete the ozone layer – particularly those use of energy and certain substances, travel and listed in the Kyoto Protocol, which are mainly used in transport, and product design. refrigeration systems – and has put in place a plan to reduce their use. One of the substances, Sulphur A smaller carbon footprint hexafluoride (SF6), accounts for 72% of Thales’s greenhouse gas emissions and has a global warming Thales is taking steps to reduce its carbon footprint potential of almost 23,000 times that of CO2. by reducing CO2 emissions stemming from its activities and from business travel. Indicators for Thales uses SF6 primarily to isolate electron tubes CO2 emissions have been introduced and emission during testing under high voltage. It is used by three reduction targets have been set, raising awareness sites in France, which have committed to ambitious within the Group of the impact of Thales’s activities reduction plans since 2007. This has led to a 28% on climate change. The methodology recommended reduction in emissions, despite a release during an by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol9 is used to measure equipment failure that took place in 2010. emissions. Monitoring the climate In 2010, the Group expanded the scope of its environmental reporting by introducing new Thales is a major player in earth observation satellite indicators such as CO2 emissions from companyprogrammes. The Group is contributing to almost owned vehicles, wastewater, and waste disposal. every European climate-related space mission and Analysis shows that the environmental impacts of is a partner to agencies around the world including these activities were much less significant than other ESA, Eumetsat, CNES, ASI, NASA, NOAA, JAXA, CSA activities. and KARI. THALES AND THE CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Since 2005, Thales has reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on its climate change strategy and its progress in reducing its carbon footprint. The CDP brings together over 551 institutional investors who manage more than $71,000 billion in assets worldwide. Its objective is to accelerate solutions to climate change and water management by putting relevant information at the heart of business, policy and investment decisions. Created in 1998 by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Protocol is one of 9 world’s most widely used methodologies for governments and companies alike. Corporate Responsibility 2010 35 4 ENVIRONMENT THALES’S SPACE ACTIVITIES: Over 30 years of leadership in monitoring climate change •W  orld leadership in operational oceanography based on success of Poseidon radar-altimeters • Central role in GMES programme (Sentinel 1 and 3 series) • Prime contractor for meteorological satellites: Meteosat, MSG, Observing the weather Reducing the environmental impact of air transport In 2010, Thales Alenia Space was selected by the European Space Agency (ESA) to develop the Thales is also a partner on the CleanSky and SESAR third-generation Meteosat system (MTG) and thus (Single European Sky Air traffic management ensure the continuity of Eumetsat’s geostationary Research) programmes, which will help to reduce weather monitoring capacity well into the 2030s. the environmental impact of air transport. The six-satellite system will comprise four imaging satellites carrying imaging and lightning detection equipment and two sounder satellites with infrared and ultraviolet capabilities for both climate and A HISTORY OF meteorological applications. The MTG will feature ENVIRONMENTAL the first-ever geostationary infrared sounder. COMMITMENT The launch of the system’s first imaging satellite is scheduled for 2017 and will be followed by the CLEANSKY launch of the system’s first sounding satellite in 2019. Multispectral imagery of the globe combined Thales is a founding member of the publicwith hyperspectral sounding of the atmosphere private partnership, which aims to reduce will significantly improve the operational services noise pollution from aircraft by 50%, CO2 delivered to the European meteorological services. emissions by 40% and nitric oxide by 60% It will also provide unprecedented quantities of by 2020. information on water vapour and temperature profiling. The increase in the amount of data available will help climatologists better understand how the climate evolves. Surveying the earth’s water Scientists today agree that the vast oceanic circulation that drives massive exchanges of heat SESAR and energy through our atmosphere and seas is Thales is a partner on this programme one of the main engines of our planet’s climate. In focused on enhancing air traffic 2010, Thales Alenia Space was selected by the management by 2020. Objectives are to French Space Agency (CNES) to build the Jason-3 increase the capacity of the European air satellite. The satellite will continue the mission transport system three-fold, halve unit costs, of its predecessors (TOPEX/Poseidon, Jason-1 enhance security by a factor of ten and cut and Jason-2) by supplying high-precision ocean unit consumption and associated emissions topography measurements. by 10%. 36 PRESERVING BIODIVERSITY. Fourteen percent of the land at Thales sites is Flora and fauna protected for its biodiversity or indigenous cultural heritage. As a result, the Group has taken steps to In protected areas, Thales conducts inventories of protect the local flora and fauna, and to educate its animal and plant species either independently or in employees about preservation of natural habitats. partnership with local authorities or conservation groups. Specific actions are implemented to protect Land use natural habitats. When choosing a location for its sites, Thales Thales’s Benalla production site in Australia is takes into account environmental criteria including surrounded by 1,200 hectares of pasture that climate-related and geological risks, the impact of contains extremely diverse flora and fauna. New its activities on local residents and the environment, species are discovered each year. In 2010, two new and land use factors. The objective is to optimise species of endemic birds and a new species of frog compatibility between the Group’s activities and the were discovered. natural environment. To preserve this biodiversity, regular water Activities such as pyrotechnics require a large buffer sampling and analysis from all lakes, ponds and pits zone to be set aside because of the potential risks is undertaken to monitor the health of the aquatic involved. In these cases, every effort is made to use environments. the areas inside the zone to preserve biodiversity or The irrigation of a bundled 3 hectare tree plantation maintain pastures or cropland. with water from the sewage pond resulted in lush Potential soil erosion factors are also taken into grass growth within the bunds, providing kangaroos consideration when relevant. in particular with a safe feeding and resting area. Their continued existence depends on maintaining the uncontaminated quality of the water in the dams, as well as preventing these dams from drying out for too long. The site has been extensively planted out with 13 species of native trees and shrubs, and 16 species of native aquatic vegetation. The surrounding tree plantations and open grasslands provide a reasonably safe, protected haven for a huge variety of native plants, trees, fungi and animals. Corporate Responsibility 2010 37 4 ENVIRONMENT ECO-DESIGN. Green technology research Designing for the environment Science and innovation play a central role in Thales’s Most of Thales’s products require a very high level operations. More than one-third of all employees of security and reliability, and therefore leave little – 22,500 people – are employed in R&D, which flexibility during product design. Nevertheless, Thales accounts for an investment of around 20% of has designed several environmentally responsible revenues. The Group’s advanced research is carried products in order to reduce their impact on out by Thales Research & Technology (TRT), which human health and the environment. Some product operates a global network of corporate research lines, such as medical imaging, ticketing systems laboratories, mostly located on university campuses and simulators, have been successfully designed close to the company’s research partners. according to environmental criteria. For several years, TRT has been conducting research Designing for the environment starts with product and development on a new semiconducting material, policy and involves all the players in the product gallium nitride (GaN), whose unique properties can development and delivery phases. It also takes into help reduce the environmental impact of electrical account decommissioning, disposal or recycling and electronic equipment compared with the when a product reaches the end of its useful life, materials and technologies in use today. As well as sometimes decades later. improving equipment performance, the benefits of Despite the increasing number of recommendations GaN include lower power consumption and the use of and needs expressed by customers, there are still few fewer components to generate the same power level. standards or regulations on eco-design. To anticipate Thales plans to use this technology first in radars and future needs and regulations, Thales has developed telecommunications and then in power supplies. methods and tools to help designers and architects to make environmentally responsible choices. A network of HSE managers has been created to oversee the implementation of environmental aspects in the early phases of product development. FLOWCAT: A more environmentally responsible air traffic flow management (ATFM) system Managing increasing volumes of air traffic while decreasing its impact on the environment is one of aviation’s major challenges. In preparation for the sharp peak in air traffic during the 2010 FIFA World Cup, South Africa adopted Thales’s innovative Flowcat ATFM system to handle the 450,000 extra travellers. The award-winning system harnesses the principles of green technology to ensure optimal routing, reduce airborne holding, fuel burn and greenhouse gas emissions while optimising the utilisation of existing infrastructure. It is the first nationwide system that can cope with air traffic growth and ensure user-preferred routes at the same time as reducing the environmental impact of aviation. Flowcat optimises air traffic by fusing data from several air traffic control systems into a consolidated nationwide view of current and forecast air traffic up to six days in advance. It also optimises airport arrival and departure slots for flights, considering factors such as en-route delays, adverse weather, dynamic runway capacities and runway closures. The Flowcat system will help airlines to cut fuel consumption as well as reducing the overall environmental impact of the air transport sector. 38 HOMELAND ALERTER 100: An innovative and environmentally responsible passive radar Thales offers a range of radars that not only provide better detection performance, but are made from non-polluting materials, have less impact on local residents and the environment, and consume less power. The Homeland Alerter 100 (HA 100) passive radar relies on proven technology and has already been selected by major customers in Europe. With a range of 100 km, it is designed for air surveillance at both low and medium altitudes and to protect high-value assets, airports and power projection missions. During the official Bastille Day (14 July) ceremony in 2010, it was deployed by the French Air Force to monitor the Paris airspace used for the flypast. Unlike a traditional radar, the passive radar does not emit its own signal: it uses the signals emitted by antennas for radio and television broadcasts that are already present in the environment, making it deployable without a specific frequency allocation. Its low power consumption and the absence of any electromagnetic radiation make it a particularly environmentally responsible choice of radar. RESOLVING WIND TURBINE INTERFERENCE Thales has developed an innovative solution that order to maintain air traffic safety. Committed to enables wind turbines and radars to operate in the developing solutions that will make radars “windfarm same vicinity. Thanks to a new series of algorithms, compliant”, Thales has developed a series of the installation of radars near wind farms is now algorithms that will address the ways in which radars possible and safe for air traffic. detect wind turbines. The new algorithms will enable radars to determine whether a “return signal” is an Wind turbines have been known to cause false radar aircraft or a turbine, reducing the possibility of false readings and prevent aircraft from being detected information being presented to air traffic controllers. or detecting legitimate targets. Wind turbines installed close to airports and military bases can Thales first demonstrated the performance of these adversely affect air traffic control and the ability to new algorithms at Scotland’s Inverness Airport in track aircraft and maintain air surveillance. They can 2009, an airport surrounded by 141 wind turbines. disrupt the operation of any type of radar, including After the recent installation of the STAR 2000 primary primary surveillance radars, secondary surveillance approach radar and secondary Mode S radar, the new radars, ground-based or ship-borne military radars, algorithms were successfully shown to help cancel weather radars and coastal radars. wind turbine echoes while preserving the detection of true aircraft. The Group is now also incorporating This issue has led several countries to postpone wind this new technology into its new-generation GM400, energy projects involving thousands of wind farms in GS1000 and SMART-S Mk2 radars. RAIL TRANSPORTATION: Saving energy with EcoDrive During a recent pilot of Thales’s new EcoDrive solution, train operators using the Lötschberg tunnel in Switzerland saw their energy consumption fall by more than 10%. EcoDrive is an innovative energy-saving solution that works by smoothing out wasteful braking and acceleration cycles. To achieve this, each train follows an individual speed profile that is constantly updated throughout its journey. Target speeds for each train are calculated centrally and transmitted directly to the driver. The European Train Control System (ETCS) plays a vital role here, providing both track-to-train communications and the means to display target speed information to drivers. The ability to manage live information known as dynamic data transmission is a key strength of the Thales EcoDrive solution. Drivers following a continuously calculated optimum speed saved more than 60 kWh on each 34 km journey enough electricity to meet the needs of an average family home for nearly a week. Corporate Responsibility 2010 39 COMMUNITY ISSUE 5 WITH ITS GLOBAL STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN OVER 50 COUNTRIES, THALES IS VERY MUCH A PART OF THE LOCAL ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL LANDSCAPE OF EACH COUNTRY AND THEREFORE STRIVES TO BE A RESPONSIBLE NEIGHBOUR AND COMMUNITY MEMBER. THALES AND ITS EMPLOYEES AROUND THE WORLD PARTICIPATE IN A RANGE OF ACTIVITIES, UNCONNECTED TO THE COMPANY’S CORE BUSINESSES, TO SUPPORT THEIR LOCAL COMMUNITIES. THIS INCLUDES CHARITABLE GIVING AS WELL AS ACTIVE PARTICIPATION IN LOCAL PROGRAMMES AND EVENTS. 5 COMMUNITY DONATING TIME AND MONEY TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES. Thales strives to be a responsible member of society and supports a number of community initiatives around the world. Most of these are conducted at the local level and aim to support youth and education. The Group signed a three-year partnership with La Chaîne de l’Espoir in 2009, a non-profit organisation that provides health services to disadvantaged children in developing countries. Through this partnership, Thales is helping to finance healthcare Employees in the United Kingdom have been active for sick children in Afghanistan. in supporting charities for several years, promoting In 2010, six member companies of the French their causes in various ways and providing significant aerospace industries association GIFAS, including financial support. Employees continued to support Thales, established HANVOL, an association to the Marie Curie Cancer Care, raising £380,000 in promote training and integration of young people 2010 through sports events and other fund-raising with disabilities. projects. Also in France, the Group is a member of Fondation Through its Charitable Trust, Thales UK continued Villette-Entreprises, which provides support to to support Youthnet, an organisation dedicated companies wishing to develop partnership projects to providing 16-24 year olds with the information with museums such as the Cité des Sciences et de they need to make informed career choices. The l’Industrie as a way to promote a culture of science company has a partnership with The Railway and technology among the general public, and Children, a charity that provides shelter, clothes and particularly among young people. meals to homeless children. Thales also participated in the development of the Talk, Don’t Walk website, a service dedicated to dissuading children from running away from home and providing services to help families overcome relationship problems. In the Netherlands, Thales sponsors a number of local charities. The company helps finance museums such as the local Museum of Technology and the Nautical Museum. The company also supports the Opkikker Foundation, which organises activities for children suffering from life-threatening diseases. Thales has a multi-year partnership with Legacy, one of Australia’s oldest charitable institutions. The charity currently looks after 115,000 widows, as well as 1,900 children and disabled dependents across the country. Employees also participate in an annual fun run known as Defence Lake Attack, which is part of the Australian Defence Force’s annual fund-raising campaign in support of children’s causes. 42 Thales USA supports a number of community Thales Canada continues to support the Annual organisations through monetary donations and Canadian Forces Appreciation Night hosted by the volunteer projects. Through the Charitable Ottawa Senators hockey team to provide tickets Contribution Committee, Thales and its employees to members of the Canadian Forces and their support several organisations such as the American families. Cancer Society, American Heart Association, Breast Thales in Romania supports a local association for Cancer Awareness, National Fallen Firefighters parents of children with cancer to help them invest Foundation, Pediatric Brain Tumor Foundation, in various hospital equipment. Salvation Army, Christmas Cash For Kids and America’s 9/11 Foundation. The 2009 earthquake in L’Aquila, Italy, caused severe damage in the Abruzzo region and In Portugal, Thales organised a Christmas resulted in the death of 308 people, including a celebration for children from several schools, Thales Alenia Space employee, and the total or handed out presents and made a donation to a partial destruction of many industrial and highparish council for distribution to disadvantaged tech facilities. As well as providing immediate children. The company was also involved in the assistance to employees, Thales Alenia Space rehabilitation of a local school. Additionally, Thales rapidly made an initial contribution of €100,000 donated to an organisation providing orthopaedic for the town’s emergency services and opened a equipment to the elderly. Employees also made special bank account for employee donations. An donations to the residents of the island of Madeira, industrial recovery plan was put in place at the which suffered severe damage from the weather same time. The new site being built in Abruzzo in 2010. should be operational by mid-2011. In addition Thales España continued to support community to meeting the highest standards of quality and organisations and charities, especially those in seismic requirements, it is specifically designed to which its employees have a direct involvement, have a low impact on the environment. through monetary and material donations. For example, the company recently participated in the construction of a school in Zimbabwe, donated money to the Spanish national cancer association and helped to organise study sessions for struggling students during school breaks. In Germany, Thales supports Olgäle Stiftung, a children’s hospital. Corporate Responsibility 2010 43 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. http://sustainability.thalesgroup.com or Contact the Ethics and Corporate Responsibility Department: By e-mail: ethics.cr@thalesgroup.com By phone: +33 (0)1 57 77 86 49 Dominique Lamoureux VP, Ethics and Corporate Responsibility dominique.lamoureux@thalesgroup.com +33 (0)1 57 77 82 07 Cathy Floret Coordination / Administration / Communication support Sylvain Masiéro cathy.floret@thalesgroup.com Director, Corporate Responsibility +33 (0)1 57 77 86 49 Development sylvain.masiero@thalesgroup.com +33 (0)1 57 77 85 88 Régine Poidevin Document management / Copy desk / Back office Stéphane d’Aura regine.poidevin@thalesgroup.com Ethics & Corporate Responsibility +33 (0)1 57 77 86 61 Standards Manager stephane.daura@thalesgroup.com +33 (0)1 57 77 83 74 ©Thales – De Bourgies/Abaca Press (p 3), Doutre/Abaca Press (p 5), Bassignac/Abaca Press (p 9, p 18, p 28, p 38, p 43), Bianchi/Abaca Press (p 13), Calinescu/Abaca Press (p 10, p 26), Carter/Abaca Press (p 17), Douliery/Abaca Press (p 11, p 19, p 37), Forestier/Abaca Press (p 24), Frieder Honholz /PictoBank (p 40), Gavin Blue (p 32), Gouhier/Abaca Press (p 8, p44), Rory/Abaca Press (p 20). Design and production: – Publication date: June 2011. Thales also thanks the employees who took part in the photo features. This document is printed on recycled paper. Thales 45 rue de Villiers 92526 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex France Tel.: +33 (0)1 57 77 80 00 www.thalesgroup.com
