2 / 26 Communication on Progress 2011 NKT and THE COMMUNITY Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Contents CEO STATEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . THE NKT GROUP IN BRIEF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . REPORTING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . FOCAL AREAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NKT CABLES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . NILFISK-ADVANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15 ..................................................................................... PHOTONICS GROUP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22 ..................................................................................... NKT FLEXIBLES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28 ..................................................................................... Memebership Membership date: 27 March 2009 Number of employees: 9,800 Sector: Electricity Reporting date and PERIOD 13 October 2011 The report covers the period 1 July 2010 30 June 2011 contact Helle Gudiksen Communications Consultant, NKT Holding Email: helle.gudiksen@nkt.dk Cover photos: With courtesy of NKT companies. un gLOBAL cOMPACT NKT wishes to protect the environment, protect human and labor rights and work against corruption. 2 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk CEO Statement In NKT we believe that a global mindset is a prerequisite for success. Therefore we think and act globally in order to positively influence all stakeholders in our value chains to strive for sustainable businesses. Only by worldwide interaction and commitment can we succeed in developing a sustainable future Accountability has been a part of NKT’s values throughout our two years before being settled. However, this almost 120-year history. We work with respect for our employees, challenge does not change our strong emphasis shareholders, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. We care on fair and equal business conditions for all for the environment, not only by constantly seeking to reduce companies. environmental impacts from our own production facilities, but also by taking the customers’ use of our products into serious account. Although we are well on the way to deploying This is another aspect of having a global mindset. the UN Global Compact into our CSR profile, businesses and value chain, we cannot guarantee NKT takes responsibility there will be no setbacks. What we can promise is The pressure on the world’s scarce resources will most probably that the NKT Board of Management will tackle increase further. As a result, the urgency to develop a sustainable the work with complete dedication and future is evident. We are present all over the world, so the remain fully focused on our challenge of achieving sustainable solutions for the benefit of Corporate Social everyone is also ours. In NKT, we have already taken action to Responsibility. carry our share of the global efforts to achieve a sustainable world by setting striving goals internally, and also by influencing We see the work with our entire value chain to be ambitious in this matter. This is why CSR as a long, continuous NKT strongly supports the UN Global Compact; adhering to journey and we hope that these principles constitutes an important part of our Corporate the efforts may be a Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. And meanwhile we strongly source of inspiration just urge our suppliers to do the same. In fact, this is one of our main as the efforts of others goals within the Human and Employee Rights area. have inspired us. NKT sets ambitious goals The 10 UN Global Compact principles are well on the way to being integrated into NKT’s CSR efforts. Two years ago we applied for membership and we have already reached the first goals in each of the four focus areas. We now have an extensive database on reported parameters and the overview will help us to define more specific and focused goals in the future, whilst further establishing our expectations towards both our internal and external value chain. This is our third Communication on Progress Report. Our aim is continuously to provide a fair picture of our achievements, providing factual information and being straightforward about our successes as well as our challenges. In this reporting period we have seen decreasing Group CO2 emissions and although encouraging, it will be a challenge to meet the goal of 12% emission reduction relative to output by the end of 2011. Brøndby, Denmark After the closing of this reporting period, NKT received a 13 October 2011 Statement of Objection from the European Commission in Thomas Hofman-Bang connection with an investigation of the cable market, and NKT is President and CEO providing its observations. The investigation could take one or NKT Holding A/S 3 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk The NKT Group in brief The NKT Group comprises four business areas: Revenue (LTM) mDKK NKT Cables 10,000 NKT Cables develops, manufactures and markets a wide 9,354 selection of cables. From low voltage cables for domestic lighting, 8,000 to catenary wires that supply power for high-speed trains 6,000 travelling between China’s major cities, to submarine cables that 6,000 4,000 connect together offshore wind turbines, to cables for cars. The products are sold worldwide. 2,000 191 1,452 0 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT Nilfisk-Advance Cables Advance Group Flexibles Nilfisk-Advance supplies indoor and outdoor cleaning equipment to a global, professional clientele as well as vacuum cleaners for private use. Individual service agreements and spare parts sales are also provided, giving customers availability at all times. The EBITDA (LTM) products are sold worldwide. mDKK NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group NKT Flexibles 800 Photonics Group 700 600 Photonics Group consists of three companies all active in the 500 631 EBITDA (LTM) field of advanced fiber technology. Products are based on the 400 unique light-conducting properties of optical fibers. The 300 200 260 products comprises crystal fibers, fiber lasers and systems used 225 100 in material processing, sensing and life science industry, 0 -9 temperature measuring equipment for applications such as -100 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT tunnel fire detection as well as equipment for splicing, joining Cables Advance Group Flexibles and forming optical fibers. The products are sold worldwide. NKT Flexibles Number of employees, 30 June 2011 NKT Flexibles supplies flexible pipe systems for offshore oil and gas production. The company is one of only three in the world 181NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group NKT Flexibles manufacturing pipes that can withstand internal pressures as high 636 as 600 bar and temperatures of up to 130oC. The pipes are used to link the well with the production rig, and the flexibility of the NKT Cables pipes enables them to absorb both wave action and platform 3,609 Nilfisk-Advance movements. The products are sold worldwide. NKT Flexibles is a Photonics Group joint venture in which NKT Holding holds 51% ownership. 5,378 NKT Flexibles NKT Commitments NKT has adopted a number of voluntary projects and principles with emphasis on Corporate Responsibility: Organization or project Year of adoption Production sites Carbon Disclosure Project 2009 UN Global Compact 2009 The NKT Group also participates in relevant trade, industry and standardization associations around the world. NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance According to internal policies, NKT does not engage in political Photonics Group activities nor contribute to or support political parties, NKT Flexibles candidates or committees. 4 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk REPORTING The NKT sustainability model is based on the innovation and commitment of our entire value chain. Our report builds on international protocols, which allows comparability among our business areas and with other companies NKT signed the UN Global Compact on 27 March 2009 and this l A special reporting scheme where the four business units is our third Communication on Progress (COP) Report, annually report on matters such as diversity in management, covering the period 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011. efforts within R&D to support the UN Global Compact, etc. Both the reporting system and the Statement of Reporting structure Given that the Group’s four business areas are diverse, so are Representation include almost 100 units worldwide. the challenges related to CSR. Therefore, we report separately GRI on each of the four business areas. Our COP reports address NKT has been inspired by the parameters of the Global the UN Global Compact's 10 principles divided into three parts: Reporting Initiative (GRI). We have carried out an assessment of Human & Employee Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. materiality of the GRI indicators based on the methodology proposed by the GRI. The methodology remains unchanged Group guidelines and policies The first efforts on a corporate level were to relate the 10 from 2010, and we have chosen to report on a total of 16 principles of the UN Global Compact to our company indicators. standards, leading to a definition of ethical guidelines for the Group. These guidelines have been supplemented by Group In cooperation with the business areas, the Group has policies and have been communicated throughout the Group. formulated a comprehensive set of parameters, reporting Some of the business areas have taken the guidelines a step procedures and related instructions which form the basis for this further and enhanced them with Codes of Conduct. reporting system. Reporting system Data reliability To improve benchmarks and ensure continuous progress we Although the implementation of the consolidated reporting have established a comprehensive reporting system within the system is complete, some elements are not yet fully operating in Group. The reporting system provides data and information all areas. Procedures and instructions related to data quality, data from the individual units within the Group and now delivers traceability and control measures are still under development. most of the necessary data and information on which our CSR Therefore, the uncertainties of the primary input data, which still works and future reporting will be based. The four business areas exist as a result of this ongoing work, have to be taken into are responsible for data collection and the quality of the Key account when considering the conclusions of this report. Performance Indicators (KPIs). However, the employment of data has become more consistent as the employees gain more experience in reporting. The reporting system is composed of four elements: Auditing l A whistleblower system where all Group employees can The NKT Communication on Progress 2011 Report on the report serious concerns about a number of behaviours, Group's CSR efforts is not audited by an independent auditor. events or circumstances that seem incorrect. Reporting can be made anonymously. It is the intention to conduct test audits in selected companies l A data collection system where we can continuously register within the NKT Group in the coming reporting period. The test various KPIs, such as work accidents, type and amount of fuel audits will focus on data collection procedures, data quality and and energy consumption, CO2 emission from travel and business procedures in general. transport, raw material consumption, undesirable events such as environmental spills and fines. l A Statement of Representation on Corporate Social Responsibility signed off by local management in the Group companies once a year to ensure that they are familiar with and work to advance the UN Global Compact principles. 5 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk FOCAL AREAS NKT primarily centres on the environmental and anti-corruption areas of the UN Global Compact. However, targeted efforts within Human & Employee Rights have also been made. The first goals have been achieved, promising results are in the pipeline, and new challenges are appearing When adhering to the UN Global Compact in 2009 we assessed Codes of ethics which action areas would have the most impact on a relative All business areas have goals for manager information and short-term basis to assure buy-in throughout the organization. acceptance of the UN Global Compact. Some business areas Our assessment was and is continuously based on: have elaborated on the NKT Ethics Statement with the aim to make their own version known, understood and accepted by all l The UN Global Compact 10 principles white collar employees. More initiatives will follow in the next l Our business situation reporting period. l Our business culture Based on a thorough business analysis we identified the largest Value chain adherence to UN Global Compact One of our goals is to integrate Human and Employee Rights in potential for positive impact in the areas of Environment and our value chains. We therefore require that our suppliers also Anti-corruption. We deemed it relevant, however, to initiate comply with the UN Global Compact. Our objective is that by actions and targets within all of the main areas and report on the end of 2011 at least 80% of the Group’s suppliers (annual these. Furthermore, NKT intends to widen the initiatives and purchase value above 50,000 EUR) shall be contractually report within other societal areas in the future. committed to the 10 principles, see the figure below. To ensure that the principles are propagated and complied with throughout the Group, all NKT unit general managers must annually report on the situation in their units via our Statement of Representation. In this statement they report on facts and declare their adherence to the UN Global Compact principles as managers and on behalf of their units. HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Being a global company it is also our obligation to assure these rights in areas of the world where they are not necessarily prioritized. This is especially important when NKT acquires While suppliers in EMEA/APAC countries show great willingness companies in such areas. For NKT, consideration of these issues to adhere to the UN Global Compact, suppliers in other is now an integral part of M&A procedures. In addition, NKT also geographic areas remain reluctant. However, NKT continues to has a set of policies related to Human and Employee Rights. push this issue when negotiating new contracts. They are available on our corporate website: www.nkt.dk/uk/Menu/About+NKT/Policies. 6 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Work accidents scrap, and in contributing to develop entirely new products or The health and safety of our employees is a key NKT product applications that can reduce the environmental load in management concern. Absence caused by occupational injuries the overall supply chain. is reported in all our business units, and high targets for improvement are set. Although well on the way, status shows In Nilfisk-Advance we believe that the greatest environmental that in some business areas even more attention is needed in challenges and improvement measures lie within the areas of this area in order to be among the best. More business areas reduction of environmental load from products in use. This is a have set a zero occupational injury goal. focual point in the product development. ANTI-CORRUPTION We buy large volumes, operate with large projects and we are active in sectors where there have been incidences of cartels and corruption. Furthermore, we are a global company with presence in parts of the world where corruption has been and still is more widespread. Internal compliance concept NKT is a strong advocate for fair competition. We consider it to be an important asset to our customers that we are not party It's all about people to unlawful, anti-competitive practices. We want to ensure that Attracting and retaining the right employees with unique our policies on this issue are in focus and complied with. competencies is alpha and omega for a specialized group such Therefore, an anti-corruption review is part of the as NKT. Many business areas have special talent development aforementioned Statement of Representation signed by all NKT programmes while others e.g. offer English courses to ensure unit managers once a year. The document is affirming, among that the employees can work across borders in a continuously other things, that management action has been taken to ensure growing global company. that employees with extensive interface with suppliers or customers are aware of NKT’s anti-corruption policy and the consequences of non-compliance. In addition, we register and ENVIRONMENT will report all filed incidences of corruption, cartels and money We track energy consumption for all our business units. laundering. During this reporting period we have not registered Improvement targets, indexed to levels of activity, are cases of corruptive behaviour or money laundering. established for business segments as well as for the Group as a whole. NKT reports its annual CO2 emission to the Carbon Statement of Objection Disclosure Project organisation. After the closing of this reporting period NKT Cables and NKT Holding received a Statement of Objection from the European Ambitious CO2 target challenged Commission in connection with an investigation of the In 2009 we declared our objective to reduce overall CO2 submarine and underground high voltage cable markets in the emission by 12%, relative to output for the period 2009-2011. period 1999-2008. NKT is now providing its observations to the Although 2010 showed a decrease of approximately 2% European Commission. The investigation could take one or two compared to the previous year, it is proving to be somewhat years before being settled. challenging to reach the target which is based on 2008 expectations. The target was set before the financial crisis and Facilitation payments was therefore based on significantly higher growth rates than Until now we have reluctantly accepted that facilitation payment actually realized, and on a product mix that is slightly different may to some extent be necessary to ensure that agreed from actual market demands. It remains to be seen if the goal will services can be offered or supplied, or that the reasonable safety be realized by year-end 2011. or rights of employees can be provided. A system to record and track facilitation payments has been established and has been Data reliability very helpful in creating awareness of the proportion of this Our data collection system implemented in 2010 revealed a matter. A few cases have been recorded in this reporting period. significant deviation between previous and present reported CO2 data. Reporting period data are currently found to be The increased awareness has led many of our businesses to reliable and consistent when it comes to Scope 1 and 2 work with setting up internal awareness campaigns and/or emissions. Scope 3 data are still less accurate and imcomplete. introducing codes of conduct to support the approach of a This is primarily due to varrying calculation methods used by revised standpoint of non-acceptance of facilitation payments. transportation companies, and that many NKT business units have just started collecting data and to report on this parameter. Moving forward we intend to focus also on people out of our own ranks, including agents. We will start by taking measures to Product environmental footprint ensure that our business partners are contractually obliged to The products of NKT Cables and NKT Flexibles are to a large act in accordance with our policies. extent environmentally friendly in usage. Therefore, our greatest contribution is to continuously reducing the level of production 7 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Whistleblower system A whistleblower system is in place to improve our ability of discovering irrigularities. It allows employees to report serious concerns about a number of irrigularities or inappropriate behaviour. Reports can be made anonymously in any chosen language, and in writing or orally. Two of the registered reports for 2010-2011 have lead to material adjustments in business procedures. None of these were of a corruptive nature. 8 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk NKT CABLES NKT Cables believes that strict adherence to CSR principles helps to create a sustainable and profitable future for our activities Corporate Social Responsibility has been a recognised priority Our work has generated progress in many fields, but we know within NKT Cables for many years. Almost three years ago the we are not perfect and that we cannot relax our efforts. We NKT Group became a participant in the UN Global Compact are, however, confirmed in our conviction that living up to our and from the start NKT Cables fully supported this initiative. This CSR principles makes NKT Cables a better supplier to our commitment to UN Global Compact has contributed customers, a better customer to our suppliers, a better significantly to raising awareness of the importance of Corporate neighbour in our communities and, last but not least, a better Social Responsibility within NKT Cables. Observance of the place to work for our employees. principles of UN Global Compact is visible in all aspects of our Cologne, Germany, 13 October 2011 business, from management decisions to relations with our Marc van´t Noordende customers and suppliers all the way to the day-to-day CEO, NKT Cables Group operations on the plant floor. Under the banner of our commitment to UN Global Compact we have trained employees on a variety of subjects such as respect for legal, ethical and HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) standards. We invested in the development of our employees. We have defined internal reporting requirements and installed data collection processes. We have implemented projects on reduction of emissions, energy consumption and the usage of hazardous materials. Finally, we have made respect for CSR standards part of how we conduct our business in all the markets where we operate. MARC VAN´T NOORDENDE CEO NKT Cables Group Observance of the principles of UN Global Compact is visible in all aspects of our business. 9 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS NKT Cables is a global company represented in more than 20 In all countries in which NKT Cables operates, we will provide countries. All local management teams in NKT Cables are our employees with a safe and healthy working environment. required, on a yearly basis, to draft and sign a Statement of We have a goal of zero accidents for every factory. We Representation on the UN Global Compact principles to continuously measure, analyse and improve our processes as ensure that the fundamental principles in NKT’s ethical part of our efforts to achieve this zero accidents goal. guidelines are known and followed throughout the organization. We have made efforts to promote the same We have established an extended monthly reporting system principles in our supplier base. We have communicated our (accident scorecards) and over the last 5 years we have commitment to the UN Global Compact to our top suppliers reduced the frequency of accidents by more than 25%. A new and surveyed them regarding their position towards the UN action plan is underway to strive for zero accidents. Global Compact. Our employees are our key assets and we firmly believe that the company’s results can only be improved by educating our employees. We provide training and development opportunities throughout the organization, regardless of gender, race, age or religion. GOALS: HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Management Goal: 30.06.10 Status All local management teams have been notified of human and employee rights, have issued their comments, and have endorsed the approach Procurement 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 An overview of suppliers is to A central purchasing function has been A survey on NKT Cables top suppliers' position be established regarding their established towards the UNGC has been completed position on the UNGC. successfully. 80% of the suppliers have agreed. Subsequently goals will be defined ENGLISH COURSE PROGRAMME NKT Cables is based on a “One Company” philosophy. To obtain a common internal communication platform it was necessary to improve the employees' English skills as it is the corporate language. A customized programme was implemented worldwide, for employees working in both administration and operational functions. Various levels of training lessons met the different requirements, such as in-house training by colleagues, professional teachers, online training and DVDs. 10 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk New goal: 30.06.12 Actions Based on results of the To approach smaller suppliers to participate previously conducted survey a in the same survey further improvement of suppliers' commitment to the UNGC will be targeted Work accidents Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Regular reporting of the Operations has established a Accident frequency* decreased to 22 in first halfnumber of occupational injuries comprehensive, monthly reporting year 2011 (23 in first half-year 2010 and approx. 30 and goal-setting for 2011-2012 system (accident scorecards) at the start of the millennium). New goal: 30.06.16 Actions Current safety performance is Validate current incident tracking, reporting insufficient. Goal is to improve and follow-up system. Define safety targets. safety performance towards Liaise with the Group so that all units best-in-class industry standards ensure development of local plans in line with Group objectives Employee education Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Improving employees' An English course programme has been More than 570 employees from administration and communications skills offered to selected employees throughout operational functions have participated in the the company programme worldwide. The activity continues because of its success Goal: 01.03.12 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Improving employees A project called RECUN has been initiated 400 employees in Denmark have completed 9 of competencies and capabilities, in NKT Cables' Danish operations the 11 planned modules of the development thereby improving company programme. The remaining 2 modules are competitiveness scheduled so that every participant knows and can use the RECUN tools. New goal: 31.12.12 Actions Measurement of employee Employee engagement survey planned for satisfaction worldwide Q1 2012 in order to identify the needs New goal: 30.06.12 Actions Improve communication skills Launch of Communication/skills project for Customer Service Centre Staff Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished * Number of accidents per 1 million working hours. 11 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ENVIRONMENT Today our cable manufacturing processes have limited impact in This includes: terms of external noise, waste water and air pollution. The The commissioning of the new factory, a new production main environmental impacts from our business activities stem building, a replacement of one coal boiler by ground source from two sources: the energy consumed at our production heat pumps and one steam boiler by a combined heat and facilities and the use of non-renewable resources in products, power plant. primarily copper, aluminium and plastics originating from oil derivatives. Thus it is important for us to: Finally, at NKT Cables we have successfully extended our l Minimize the use of energy business involvement in the fields of renewable energy by l Minimize scrapping raw materials and maximize recycling assisting our customers to conserve natural resources and reduce CO2 emissions. Our submarine cables are instrumental possibilities l Avoid the use of hazardous materials in our products and in realising the benefits of offshore wind farms, and our supply processes of monitoring solutions and technologies contributes to a significant reduction of transmission and distribution losses. Initiatives along these lines will benefit the environment as well as improve the competitiveness of NKT Cables. A diverse portfolio of initiatives is underway to reduce energy consumption in our operations. GOALS: ENVIRONMENT Phthalate (DEHP) Goal: 31.12.10 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 To phase out the use of DEHP, and during 2010 Cease offering products containing The use of DEHP was phased out at the use of DEHP-softened PVC is to be phased DEHP-softened PVC all sites before the end of 2010. out in most markets CONSUMPTION OF GAS AT FACTORY IN COLOGNE, GERMANY Energy reduction was an important topic in the planning and design of the new factory in Cologne. Consumption of natural gas in the new factory is reduced by approximately 40-50% compared to the old factory. The electric heaters in the degassing chamber were replaced by recycled heat supplemented with natural gas. This way CO2 emissions are reduced by almost 50% and the use of electricity in the degassing chambers eliminated. 12 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk CO2 emission Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Direct emission from factories and indirect We have moved to a new factory in Heating: CO2 emission is reduced by emission due to consumption of electric power is Cologne, Germany. A number of old 8% compared to 2008. Production: to be reduced by 12% in 2011 revenue boilers were substituted by new, more CO2 emission at a steady state. compared to 2008, measured in standard metal efficient ones at plant in Denmark prices We do not expect to reach the goal within the defined timeline. The goal cannot be accomplished, hence it is revised Revised goal: 31.12.13 Actions CO2 emission from heating reduced to less than Establish reporting and follow-up system 80% of 2008 level. The weighted CO2 emission to ensure local action plans, including time reduction of heating and production by 4-5% frame and expected results. compared to 2008 level Planned projects: Change from coal boiler to heat pumps and from steam boiler to combined heat and power plant Material utilization Goal: 31.12.12 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Material utilization efficiency is to be increased We register our material utilization on a Material utilization first half of 2011: from 95.2% in 2008 by 0.2% per year, thereby monthly basis in all manufacturing units 95.7%. reaching 96% in 2012 using operations scorecards. We establish reporting and follow-up As the markets demand more system to ensure local action plans, sophisticated cable constructions, it including time frame and expected results. is uncertain whether the goal will be reached Material utilization to be incorporated as KPI in the management reporting Water savings New goal: 31.12.13 Actions Water savings of 35% per ton of cable compared Focus will lead to better management and to 2010 level identification of leakages, optimization of cooling systems and the phasing out of open cooling systems Energy savings New goal: 30.06.13 Actions Optimize the energy consumption on machinery. Measure and analyse energy consumption for important machinery to define specific goals Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 13 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ANTI-CORRUPTION NKT Cables engages in transparent business relations and with A whistleblower system is being rolled out in NKT Cables. The partners adhering to the same UN Global Compact principles. system is designed to let all employees raise concerns so that We are committed to taking responsible corrective action wrongdoings or irregularities that may arise can be stopped, wherever and whenever NKT Cables detects deviations to thus protecting the companies in the NKT Group and its these principles. stakeholders. Management support for this system sends a clear signal to everybody that we will act on wrongdoings or NKT Cables' management has established rules and guidelines irregularities. based on these principles and encourages our employees to Although not being an anti-corruption case it must be view them as non-negotiable. addressed that after the closing of this reporting period NKT Cables received a Statement of Objection from the European Local management teams must annually sign a Statement of Commission in connection with an investigation of the cable Representation to ensure knowledge and adherence to set of market. NKT is now providing its observations. The rules. investigation could take one or two years before being settled. For further information please see the NKT Q2 2011 Interim Report. GOALS: ANTI-CORRUPTION Management Goal:30.06.10 Actions Status All employees with customer and/or supplier interaction shall be familiar with NKT Cables' policies Anti-corruption Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Explicit communication established An awareness campaign will be Each local unit general manager has signed a and understood by all employees and implemented in 2012 using a variety of Statement of Representation in which he/she business partners tools and forums. This campaign will must explain and sign on to procedures. include additional explanation to the Whistleblower system has been rolled out. employees of the purpose and functioning of the whistleblower system Continuous focus required Facilitation payments Goal: 31.12.10 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Our goals within the area will be Seting up a structure to collect data and Data collection from the entire organization defined before 1 January 2011 define subsequent goals completed. New goal: 30.06.12 Actions No facilitation payments Facilitation payments will be part of the awareness campaign described in the paragraph on 'Anti-corruption' 14 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Compliance to laws and regulations New goal: Immediate Actions Renewed attention to the Code of The Code of Ethics behaviour in relation Ethics behaviour in relation to to competitors will be part of the competitors awareness campaign described in the paragraph on 'Anti-corruption' Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 15 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk NILFISK-ADVANCE Nilfisk-Advance is introducing “Green meets clean”, sustainable cleaning, as the headline of our work with Corporate Responsibility in the coming years We are proud to be one of the world’s leading producers of professional cleaning equipment. Our products are manufactured on three continents and used worldwide. We offer our customers cleaning solutions that are both efficient and improve the sustainability of the industry. We constantly work to improve our products. New products shall provide equal or enhanced cleaning efficiency while using less energy, less water or less detergent. We, as well as our customers, see great potential in developing cleaning solutions with a better environmental performance. We want to take a leading position in this development, and we call it “Green meets clean”. Being a participant of the UN Global Compact we are also dedicated in ensuring that Nilfisk-Advance is a good company to work for, for all our people regardless of location. We focus on the environment when conducting our business and we wish to ensure that our principles on business integrity are well-known and live within our organisation. We are certain that our commitment to the UN Global Compact and Corporate Responsibility will help us to develop our business in a new and positive direction. It will also enable us to meet the growing demand from customers for sustainable and more efficient products and processes. Brøndby, Denmark, 13 October 2011 Jørgen Jensen CEO, Nilfisk-Advance A/S JØRGEN JENSEN CEO Nilfisk-Advance A/S We offer our customers cleaning solutions that are both efficient and improve the sustainability of the industry. 16 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS As a global company we operate in parts of the world that Our products are attracting professional, responsible customers. They have a long tradition of respect for individual rights, and too want to ensure that the products they use have been produced also in parts of the world where these rights are not responsibly. We know that wherever we operate, the responsibility for necessarily prioritised. We consider it important that all compliance lies with ourselves, and not only with the local authorities. our employees are assured good and fair conditions and We are therefore committed to ensure that not only we, but also our we are committed to setting an example in the countries suppliers conform to our standards and observe the UN Global where we operate. Compact principles. To reach our business goals it is crucial to have a dedicated As an important part of our efforts within this field we have drafted workforce, an inspiring working environment and to be the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and communicated this able to continuously foster new talents. throughout the entire organization. A wide range of initiatives help establish the commitment We have also established a whistleblower system where any violations of Nilfisk-Advance with our people. We have both global or breaches can be anonymously reported by anyone in Nilfiskand local initiatives to ensure that we act as a corporate Advance. citizen and are an employer of choice for our employees. GOALS: HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Management Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Status All local management teams are informed of our policies, have issued their comments and have endorsed the policy Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 All local management teams are Local management teams are to sign a informed of our policies, have Statement of Representation on the UNGC The activity is ongoing issued their comments, and have principles at least once a year. endorsed the policy Human and employee rights are part of the standard agenda at local business board meetings at least once a year Goal: 30.03.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Zero tolerance for acts of To establish a registration system for A registration system for reporting cases of discrimination of any kind and reporting cases of discrimination discrimination has been established. consequently no cases to be One incident was reported in the COP 2011 reported period. The activity is ongoing 100 YEARS UNION ANNIVERSARY An important part of how we comply with human rights is to ensure freedom of association in our company. An illustrative example is from Denmark where we had the pleasure of celebrating an impressive 100-year anniversary for workers’ union group “Klub 32 Metal” of the Danish Metalworkers' union in Nilfisk-Advance. 17 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 We will foster skilled employees The People Review Programme will be Activities to develop a strong culture and so that they have the opportunity extended from Top60 to include Top200 excellent leadership skills have been initiated to to achieve their full potential leaders in our company support this goal. The acitivity is ongoing Procurement Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 80% of the procurement (value The principles of the UNGC are part of the EMEA*/APAC** countries have continued above 50,000 EUR) is to be text in new supplier contracts. When their positive development on this target: 76% supplied by partners who have contractual agreements are in place, we plan of direct spend (in value) is now with suppliers agreed to abide by the principles to carry out control visits based on a risk who have agreed to comply with the principles of the UNGC assessment at some suppliers of the UNGC. The result on global scale is somewhat lower at 36%. It is an improvement, but we also realize that we still have a long way to go to reach our target. We will continue our efforts in this area. The activity is ongoing Work accidents Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Regular reporting on the number We measure and define progress goals, take A registration system has been established and of occupational injuries followed preventive initiatives and follow up on all regular reporting on occupational injuries is by definition of target for incidents conducted. reduction of injuries (leading to Investigation is ongoing as to the nature of absence) occupational injuries to ensure best practice in local follow-up and preventive measures. The activity is ongoing Labour Rights New goal: 30.06.12 and Actions onwards Based on non-conformity findings we ensure Code of Ethics is an integrated that employees from newly acquired part of the M&A due diligence companies are treated equal and fair process, and non-conformity findings are reported Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished * EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa * APAC: Asia-Pacific 18 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ENVIRONMENT We see environmental sustainability as an element of sound Our cleaning machines naturally consume energy, water and in business practice. If we as a company can reduce our certain product areas also detergents. Designing equipment consumption of resources it will benefit the environment, not which can clean to the same high standard but using fewer to mention the economic benefits for ourselves and our resources is, therefore, our greatest challenge. Thus this is the customers. area where we can make the maximum possible impact in our environmental efforts. “Green meets clean” is how Nilfisk-Advance works with environmental consciousness in developing new products for Our own internal consumption of resources is also an area of our customers.. environmental focus. In our manufacturing entities we continuously strive to minimize environmental impact. And in our sales entities, offices and in our daily behaviour, we encourage environmentally sound choices through initiatives and environmentally justefiable policies. GOALS: ENVIRONMENT Product development Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 All new products contain sustainability The sustainability of products is an Our platform for technology development, improvements within at least one and important part of the decision in the 'Customer Focused Technology preferably more of the following four product development process Development' has taken the areas: energy consumption, water environmental impact of future products as consumption, use of detergents and a high priority parameter in activities. disposal Worldwide, 60% of new products launched by Nilfisk-Advance last year contained an environmental improvement within at least one of the four environmental focus areas. The acitivity is ongoing 50% SAVINGS ON ELECTRICITY We collect suggestions from our employees on potential solutions for energy saving. One result from the extensive initiatives on electricity, is segregating the lighting system into small areas in one of our production units in China so that only the active parts of production halls are lit. And replacing the electrical heating system with a solar heating system which has reduced electricity from 110KW to 8KW. By taking these measures, the production unit successfully reduced their use of electricity by 50%. 19 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk CO2 emission Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 12% reduction in 2011 on reported Monitor and report on the emission at all It is not possible to conclude on reported emission relative to output (revenue) as locations. Based on this we ensure local emission data from 2008 due to problems compared to 2008 focus on energy reduction in our with data quality. processes The data collection process has significantly improved towards COP 2011. Adjusted target is 10% reduction in COP 2014 relative to output as compared to COP 2011. The goal is redefined Products’ environmental footprint Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Product footprints from highest selling We will identify and reduce the full We have established a methodology to products are to be identified environmental impact from our highest identify the environmental footprint of our selling products within energy and water top products, and the first pilot project has consumption, use of detergents and been conducted. disposal The goal is ongoing Goal: 31.12.15 Action Status as of 30.06.11 Set target for reduction of highest selling Finalize environmental footprint pilot Worldwide, 60% of new products launched products’ environmental footprint projects and evaluate results. Use by Nilfisk-Advance last year contained an outcome to set target for reduction of environmental improvement within at least highest selling products’ environmental one of the four environmental focus areas footprint in product development: water, detergents, energy and disposal. The goal is ongoing New goal 31.06.12 Action Actively participate in industry-related Ensure Nilfisk-Advance representation in activities, boards and committees to push relevant bodies of influence for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 20 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ANTI-CORRUPTION We consider corruption a major challenge for the global In order to support the work on business integrity we have community. We are committed to working against the negative drafted and communicated the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics effect that corruption has on fair competition and towards the in which our position on business ethics is stated. development of a stable society. Furthermore, a global whistleblower system has been established in Nilfisk-Advance enabling employees to Corruption undermines healthy competition, and money ends anonymously report anti-corruption as well as other unlawful up in the wrong hands. As corruption is particularly widespread incidents. in poor communities, this makes the effect even worse. We have also established procedures in Nilfisk-Advance to ensure all our people, both at management and employee levels, are duly informed and conscious of company policies on business integrity. GOALS: ANTI-CORRUPTION Management Goal: 30.06.10 and onwards Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Local unit general managers are informed Local management teams are to sign a of our policies, have issued their Statement of Representation on the The activity is ongoing comments and have endorsed our UNGC principles at least once a year. policies Human and employee rights are part of the standard agenda at local business board meetings at least once a year Corruption Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Report the number of filed corruption and cartel cases, if any. None were reported New goal: 30.02.12 Actions Ensure employees are knowledgeable on Implement Code of Conduct with how to act according to Nilfisk-Advance behavioural guidelines for all employees expectations on business integrity issues New goal: 30.06.12 Actions Apply risk management in growth markets Identify high risk areas of possible violation on Business Integrity issues of Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics. Implement Code of Conduct and initiate targeted training programme COMMUNICATION OF CODE OF ETHICS We have Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and it is included in all employee handbooks, is presented to all new employees and posters are present in our offices and manufacturing facilities. We require and expect that anyone who acts on behalf of NilfiskAdvance complies with these guidelines. The Code of Ethics is also raised at Business Board Meetings with all our companies, and we encourage all our suppliers to undertake their business in accordance with the principles of the UNGC. 21 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Facilitation payments Goal: 31.12.10 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Submit a report on the first full year, To define what the concept of ‘facilitation We have adopted the OECD definition of perform assessment and define payment’ means in our company facilitation payments. subsequent goals A registration system has been established that requires local management to report cases of facilitation payments. As per 31.12.10 there have been no reported cases. As of 01.01.11 this goal makes up a part of the other anti-corruption goals Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 22 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk GROUP PHOTONICS GROUP In cooperation with our customers and suppliers Photonics Group wishes to contribute to a more sustainable society. Accountability and sustainability are cornerstones in the development of our businesses In Photonics Group we develop and supply highly sophisticated As designers and manufacturers of high-performance products, it products based on optical fiber technology. We sell our is vital to be able to attract and retain skilled and dedicated products all over the world and many of our customers are people. Our products are marketed and sold based on a high large, global industries. A feature of our products is that in most quality reputation, and they represent significant input in the cases they enable totally new solutions or applications for our form of R&D and investment. It is therefore important that customers. The spectrum of application ranges from more players in our industry are competing on fair terms. Respect for efficient use of wind energy and the invention of new medicines human and employee rights and anti-corruption are thus priority to more efficient production processes for making medical issues for Photonics Group. components and products to improve safety, security and defence systems. We are proud that our product development We work with customers who are leading, global professionals. can contribute to creating a better and more sustainable basis These increasingly demanding customers request products that for development worldwide. are more and more environmentally friendly and are produced in a safe and responsible way. We then make corresponding Innovation demands towards our supply chain and our business partners. Our parent company has signed the UN Global Compact, underlining its commitment to CSR. This is an initiative we in Brøndby, Denmark, 13 October 2011 Photonics Group support wholeheartedly. Søren Isaksen Group Executive Director, CTO, NKT Holding A/S We develop technologically advanced products of high quality and with a high potential utility value for the customer. Many of the applications which our products form part of are the result of a need for better utilization of global resources, improved security of supply of food and energy, or increased safety. Our products are often instrumental in the development of entirely new and innovative final applications. The perspectives, including potential valuation of our business development should therefore be viewed is a longer-term. The emergence of a stable and sustainable society is therefore a vital driving force for us. SØREN ISAKSEN Group Executive Director, CTO NKT Holding A/S We are proud that our product development can contribute to creating a better and more sustainable basis for development worldwide. 23 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk GROUP HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Photonics Group consists of companies based in Denmark, Therefore, these demands are made towards our suppliers too. Germany and the US. Therefore, we were founded and have Our focus will initially target suppliers where we have a large and developed in geographical areas with a long tradition of respect stable purchasing volume. for individual rights. A number of Photonics Group products require very high light As our businesses develop they gain a stronger global presence. intensities, and there is a risk of eye injuries due to accidents or We have set up businesses in new countries, our products are careless handling of the equipment. As a result, many sold globally and we buy components and services worldwide. precautions are taken in the form of instructions, eye In this new context we still need to ensure that respect for protection, screening and alarm systems in order to avoid such human and employee rights is, and continuously must be, an injuries. Employees subject to particular exposure now undergo integral part of how we run our business, regardless of periodic eye tests. geography. Historically our focus has been to ensure correct conduct in internal matters. Moving forward we want to ensure that all of our products are manufactured responsibly and without infringing the inherent rights of the individual. GOALS: HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Procurement Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 80% of procurements above 50,000 EUR The principles will now be embodied in 37%. The principles have primarily been in value only to be supplied by partners the form of supplier contracts when value incorporated only in contracts with who have agreed to abide by the exceeds 50,000 EUR suppliers with whom we have a sizeable principles of the UNGC. Date for frame contract. achieving this goal has been extended to 30.06.12 Work accidents Goal: 30.06.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Regular reporting on accident count, We register accidents and absence No accidents have been reported. including eye injuries following such accidents, and we will All relevant employees have passed an eye perform regular tests of employees test (completed end of 2010). No subject to particular exposure indication of injuries was observed. Regular eye tests will be performed every two years. FOCUS ON EYE PROTECTION In working with light-conducting crystal fibers and lasers, very high light intensities are used that can damage sight in an accident or careless handling of the equipment. This is why the Photonics Group company NKT Photonics A/S takes numerous precautions such as work instructions, eye protection, screening and alarm systems and, for employees subject to particular exposure, periodic eye tests every two years. 24 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk GROUP New goal: 30.06.12 Actions No accidents leading to absence from We register accidents and near miss work in second half 2011 and first half accidents and take actions to prevent 2012 such events in future New goal: 31.12.12 Actions No eye injuries in the two-year period We will perform a new eye check in the second half of 2012 Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 25 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk GROUP ENVIRONMENT A substantial part of the products manufactured by Photonics As manufacturers of electro-optical products and production Group finds application in situations where they are used to equipment we use relatively small amounts of raw material in improve either environmental conditions or human safety and our products. We use and mount electrical components in security. Examples include fire detection in tunnels, efficient almost all our products. New products are designed to adhere use of high voltage cables, improved use of wind energy, food to the RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) quality control, and development of better foods and new and or similar regulations. Older products are re-designed to improved medicines. Demands for greater safety, security and adhere to the RoHS Directive or they are being phased out; environmental responsibility are thus driving forces for our defence equipment is, however, not subject to this rule. business development and dictate our investments in this area. Read more about the NKT policy Equipment for Military Use The optical crystal fibers developed by NKT Photonics at www.nkt.dk. combined with Vytran fiber-handling equipment are tested by our customers in their development of energy-consuming In our efforts to reduce environmental impact in our business material handling equipment for welding, sheet metal cutting our future focus will be our own energy consumption and the and thin film scribing. The development of a new fiber design energy consumption of our products sold in volumes. has shown that it is possible to reduce energy consumption of such equipment by 10-40%, depending on the laser type when employing this design. GOALS: ENVIRONMENT CO2 emission Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 12% reduction compared with 2008 level, We perform ongoing measurements and As described in this report the data adjusted in relation to revenue carry out economy campaigns in order to collection in 2008 and 2009 were reduce CO2 emission incomplete. We were therefore unable to track this goal. We believe that data collection since 2010 is reliable and can be used as a base line for defining a new goal. Unable to track performance. New goal defined New goal: 30.06.14 Actions 15% reduction in annual Scope 1+2 CO2 We perform ongoing measurements and emission compared to 30.06.2011 level, carry out economy campaigns in order to adjusted to revenue. Base level is 25.2 reduce CO2 emission ton CO2 /mEUR NEW FIBRE DESIGNS REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION NKT Photonics has a new microstructured fiber under development with a much higher efficiency than previous fibers. The improvements are achieved through the optimized combination of microstructured design and material composition. Preliminary results by potential customers who employed these new fiber designs have shown a standard reduction in energy consumption of high power lasers by 10-15%, and in certain cases up to 40% depending on the laser type. 26 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk GROUP Transition to unleaded products Goal: 30.06.13 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 All civilian products shall adhere to the We re-design products that do not We have one product which is still lacking RoHS Directive adhere to the RoHS Directive adherence to the RoHS Directive. We are preparing for a re-design of this product. Goal is unchanged. Improve efficiency in pump energy conversion in microstructured fibers New goal: 30.06.13 Actions We will offer microstructured fibers for We develop improved designs of commercial use in pulsed as well as microstructured fibres and test these continuous wave lasers with a long-term designs in collaboration with key conversion efficiency above 60% customers Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 27 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk GROUP ANTI-CORRUPTION We consider corruption to be a major problem for the We wish to compete on fair and honest terms. We will not international community. As a company with global activities we tolerate our employees’ involvement in corruption, and operate in parts of the world where corruption and facilitation facilitation payments will not be tolerated. payments are very rare, but also in parts of the world where they are a regular occurrence. In this period of reporting we have not observed cases of corruption in the Photonics Group. GOALS: ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Status Local management teams have been informed of our policies and have endorsed them New goal: 30.06.12 Actions All white collar employees must know Content to be debated and anchored how to act in accordance with our policies amongst all white collar employees Facilitation payments Goal: 31.12.10 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 Our goal is to limit such payments as much To keep a record of possible facilitation No payments were registered in this as possible payments throughout our company reporting period, and facilitation payments will not be accepted in the future. Agents and Distributors New goal: 31.06.12 Actions All agents and distributors are informed We review agreements in which this topic about and have endorsed our policies on is not specifically addressed. We engage in fair trade dialogue with agents to have their endorsement Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished FIRM STATEMENT ON FACILITATION PAYMENTS Occasionally we are met with “requests” for facilitation payments. We have not taken part in such transactions during this reporting period and we have decided not to accept facilitation payments in the future. We are aware that this can result in loss of potential orders. 28 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk NKT FLEXIBLES NKT Flexibles’ customers are leading international companies with high demands regarding safety, quality and environment. We are proud of our reliability, product quality and environmental management We supply flexible subsea pipe systems for recovering oil and five months revealed that the falsifications, while serious, had not natural gas reserves in demanding offshore conditions and for resulted in any circumstances which necessitated a shut-down of transporting water and chemicals in coastal waters all around the operations or reinstallation of flexible pipe systems. world. It is natural that we are focused on the quality and environmental performance of our products and their method With regards to Petrobras, our openness resulted in a much of manufacture. closer relationship and respectively a better contract than anticipated. Petrobras made it clear to our team of negotiators Last year, we introduced a Code of Business Ethics defining how that our approach was a welcome change from many other we as a company wish to conduct our business responsibly both companies. internally and in relation to external stakeholders. We set a series of goals for awareness across the organization in order to Transparency makes demands on everybody involved, but two create a higher degree of knowledge at senior levels and facts make it possible for us to take this approach and profit they have been accomplished. We believe that in the future from it. First, as a supplier to the oil and gas industry, we partner the Code of Business Ethics will strengthen the company vis-à-vis with some of the world’s leading corporations as well as many our customers and partners. small and medium-sized companies in the customer segment and the supply chain – all clients which focus on quality and safety to This year, we have focused on the concept of Transparency in appreciate open and honest communication. And second, as our dealings. Arising in part from the added focus on agents’ supplier of highly processed, technically complex industrial fees, NKT Flexibles is turning towards a strategy of responsible products to the international market we are characterized by a transparency where the need of confidentiality in business is dedicated, highly-skilled workforce, a workforce which can tempered by a transparency whenever possible. Two cases in handle a high level of communication and act independently on particular illustrate the value of transparency: the case of falsified it in the best interest of the Company. Certificates of Conformity from Special Forged Products (SFP) and the award of the 9.7-billion DKK Frame Agreement II with It is by continuing the approach of transparent partnership, and Brazilian oil company Petrobras. clear communication, and a constant focus on UN Global Compact principles that NKT Flexibles will continue our growth In the falsification case, our transparency strategy went both in Denmark and begin our new venture in Brazil. ways. We provided as much information as possible for all potentially affected clients. In our meetings with SFP owners Brøndby, Denmark, 13 October 2011 SSG, we insisted on the same openness in order to get to the Michael C. Hjorth bottom of the case. The result was an investigation which in only CEO, NKT Flexibles MICHAEL C. HJORTH CEO NKT Flexibles I/S It is by continuing the approach of transparent parthership, and a constant focus on UN Global Compact principles that NKT Flexibles will continue our growth in Denmark and begin our new venture in Brazil. 29 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS As part of the Frame Agreement with Petrobras, we are to In order to make sure the yet-to-be-named plant is run in open a production plant in Brazil in 2013, staffed mainly by a accordance with all regulations and good business practices, we local workforce. Opening a factory across the globe in a culture are concentrating our efforts on hiring local HR personnel, thus significantly different from your own necessitates great care in combining our visions for good labour practice with a native terms of defining and adhering to human and employee rights. understanding of local customs and regulations. GOALS: HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Management and staff Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Status All employees are to be acquainted with the principles of NKT Flexibles' Code of Business Ethics New Goal: 30.06.12 Actions All white collar employees are continuously All white collar employees are to address the made aware of the principles of NKT contents of the Code of Business Ethics Flexibles’ Code of Business Ethics Work accidents Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 15% reduction of serious HSE incidents Ongoing improvements to work processes. All The number of accidents is very compared with 2009 accidents are analysed very thoroughly and a low, so even one accident will high effort is being put into preventing have a dramatic effect on the reoccurrence. injury frequency. 2010 is on pair with the registered 2009 level. Procurement Goal: 31.12.11 Actions Status as of 30.06.11 80% of procurement above 50,000 EUR in The principles of the UNGC or similar will be All suppliers have adhered to the value is to be supplied by partners who have embodied in the formulation of supplier UNGC. agreed to abide by the principles of the contracts UNGC CODE OF ETHICS IN CROSS-CULTURAL TRAINING With the establishment of NKT Flexibles do Brasil, we are faced with the challenge of introducing up to 300 Brazilian colleagues to a new corporate culture while maintaining focus on the aspects of Brazilian culture that have helped Brazil prosper. Part of the challenge is to establish a set of absolute rules while keeping everybody respectful towards each others differences. By maintaining focus on cultural differences while staying true to the Code of Ethics, we are set to enjoy the best of both worlds. 30 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk New goal: 31.12.12 Actions UNGC compliance to be incorporated in all Supplier and auditors will be given common supplier audits guidelines to ensure documentable compliance Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 31 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ENVIRONMENT As a player in the oil and gas industry a dedicated focus to the The key elements here are proactiveness, experience sharing environment is expected. NKT Flexibles wishes to help set the and open dialogue. Through the year 2011 all managers and standard for protecting the environment, ensuring safe and selected key personnel have been trained in tools and healthy working conditions, and establishing expectations to attended inspirational sessions to obtain a deeper, common the supply chain with regards to environmental responsibility. understanding of professionalism in the context of NKT Flexibles. As a part of NKT Flexibles’ constant efforts for a minimum impact on the environment and personnel related to our This shift in focus from top-driven safety and environmental operations, the company holds an ISO 14001 environmental initiatives to mobilizing a larger part of the workforce has paid certification and an OHSAS 18001 certification for off in numerous improvements, both large and small. These occupational health. The core of these certifications is a range from reduction in electric power consumption through baseline requirement for committed and structured work with to reduced material usage and reduction in the number of continuous improvements. Therefore, NKT Flexibles is safety-related incidents. constantly balancing its operations and products against minimizing risk to environment and personnel. Beyond internal efforts, NKT Flexibles also focuses on product development that will reduce the risk of catastrophic failures. One key element in this work is the commitment from all One of our latest landmarks is the use of integrated fiber optics employees. in the flexible pipe. By measuring minute changes in temperature and stress, the optic fibers will help clients keep In 2011, NKT Flexibles launched an initiative to keep up the their flexible pipe systems operative by discovering problems momentum, known as “Be a professional”. Everybody in an before they turn into potential disasters. And in addition to organization strives to be perceived as a professional. By shifting preventing incidents, using fiber optics will provide more focus from priority discussions to what it means to be a accurate readings of the general state of the pipe, which in professional, it becomes much easier to agree that a most cases will extend the pipe’s operating lifespan. professional naturally meets all targets such as a deadline, without any impact on environment or personnel. GOALS: ENVIRONMENT Energy for heating Goal: 30.06.12 Actions Status pr. 30.06.11 10% reduction compared with 2009 Activity-based control system for air A 2% reduction has been registered in the report (adjusted for expansion of exchange system implemented period. production and storage area) OPTIMIZING THE PEX PROCESS Traditionally, the PEX process is an extremely energy-consuming two-step process in which the sheath is first extruded and then, in a separate process, cross-linked to the pipe using enormous amounts of steam. We have developed a considerably more cost-effective and environmentally friendly method where we not only extrude and cross-link in a single process, but also heat the pipe using infrared radiation. This is also a clear signal to the market about our commitment to being as environmentally friendly as possible. 32 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk Energy for production processes Goal: 30.06.12 Actions Status pr. 30.06.11 10% reduction compared with 2009 Intelligent lighting system and activityA 18% reduction has been registered in the report (relative to output volume) based control system for air exchange period. system implemented. Continuous reduction of consumption of engine cooling and control cabinets for machines Water consumption Goal: 30.06.12 Actions Status pr. 30.06.10 10% reduction compared with 2009 Reuse of process water and water for A 13% reduction has been registered in the report (relative to output volume) hydrostatic pressure test period. 33 / 33 Communication on Progress 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk ANTI-CORRUPTION As a company, NKT Flexibles is an integral part of the We wish to reduce the negative effect that corruption has on surrounding community. A significant number of employees are fair competition. Corruption distorts healthy competition in engaged directly in external activities and relations, and which technology, quality, price and supply constitute the our company form the basis for many other jobs in companies primary decision-making parameters. Furthermore, corruption is and institutions with which we do business. In the light of the by its very nature a hidden activity and, therefore, runs counter social importance of our activities we have a special to our ideas on conducting business as transparently as possible. responsibility to run the company on a healthy and sustainable basis within the framework established by the community. Last but certainly not least, corruption invariably leads to a We see corruption as a major challenge across the board, as in wrongful distribution of resources, and as corruption is some areas it is an almost integral part of doing business. As a particularly prevalent in poor societies, the effect of this globally active company we operate in parts of the world corruption is even worse. Corruption is, therefore, a barrier to where corruption and payment for furthering personal the development of a stable global society. interests is virtually non-existing, and in parts of the world where such practice is a regular occurrence. GOALS: ANTI-CORRUPTION Agent fees Goal: 30.06.10 Actions Status Overview of fee amount and size. Guidelines for agents to be defined Management and staff Goal: 31.12.10 Actions Status All employees are to be acquainted with the principles of NKT Flexibles' Code of Business Ethics New Goal: 30.06.12 Actions All white collar workers are to be All white collar workers are to address the continuously acquainted with the principles contents of the Code of Business Ethics of NKT Flexibles’ Code of Business Ethics Accomplished Partly accomplished Not accomplished 15 / 26 Fremskridtsrapport 2011 | NKT Holding A/S | nkt.holding@nkt.dk NKT Holding A/S Vibeholms Allé 25 DK-2605 Brøndby Tel. +45 4348 2000 nkt.holding@nkt.dk www.nkt.dk NKT’s UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 is published by: NKT Holding A/S, Vibeholms Allé 25, DK-2605 Brøndby, Denmark. CVR no. 62 72 52 14. Text and graphic production: NKT Holding A/S. Photos with courtesy of NKT companies. Copyright: NKT, October 2011
