CSR REPORT 2011 Sustainable Chemistry Sumitomo Chemical Contributes to the Sustainable Development of Society through “Sustainable Chemistry” Built on its CSR-Based Management “Sustainable Chemistry” represents the concept of continuously providing useful products and services in an environmentally and socially friendly manner by exploiting the full potential of chemistry. Sumitomo Chemical will practice “Sustainable Chemistry” built on its CSR-based management to achieve a balance among the three areas of “economy,” “responsible care (RC),” and “society” in all aspect of its business. Products useful High-valueto society Environmentally added products friendly and safe High-quality products products Sustainable Chemistry Society Economy Responsible Care CSR Society Benefiting users, local communiManagement Economy Maximizing corporate value by ties, and the world while abiding continually providing better by the rules of society Responsible Care products (safety, environment, health, product quality) Eliminating accidents and disasters, protecting the environment by most effectively using natural resources and energy, producing safe products, and protecting the health of customers and employees CONTENTS 2 Message from Chairman and President Editorial Policy 4 Sumitomo Chemical’s Business Operations and Global Bases We have created this report to help our stakeholders improve their 6 Sumitomo Chemical’s Corporate Philosophy understanding of Sumitomo Chemical’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), including measures taken by the Company to fulfill 8 Toward the Achievement of Sustainable Chemistry such responsibilities. In preparing the report, we referred to the Global Reporting Initiative’s 9 Green Processes and Clean Products (GRI) “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (Version 3.1), the Japanese 11 Three-Year Corporate Business Plan for Fiscal 2010 to 2012 Ministry of the Environment’s “Environmental Reporting Guidelines” (2007 edition) and “Environmental Accounting Guidelines” (2005 edition), and 12 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 and Initiatives for Fiscal 2011 the ISO 26000 international standard on Social Responsibility (SR). We also considered the replies we received (internal and external) to the Com14 Support for the Victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake pany to questionnaire surveys on our past CSR reports and CSR-related and Future Measures information previously made available in the media. In reference to these 15 Topics of Activities materials and internal discussions, we have included information deemed important for both society and Sumitomo Chemical in this report. For the 17 Governance GRI Content Index, please see pages 74 to 76. Assurance is provided on the indicators labeled with a star ( ★ ) mark by KPMG AZSA Sustainability 18 Foundation of CSR-based Management Co., Ltd. 20 Compliance For detailed numerical data, we have prepared a separate booklet titled “CSR Report 2011 DATA BOOK” for easy reference. 22 UN Global Compact 23 Economic Activities Boundary of this report 24 Business Performance Environmental performance (excluding environmental accounting and environmental efficiency) 25 Relations with Stakeholders The environmental performance data included in this report cover Sumitomo Chemical Group companies that have production divisions as 26 Business Projects Implemented in Fiscal 2010 well as sales above a minimum level, or whose environmental impact is 28 Contribution through the Olyset™ Net Business deemed large. Specifically, Sumitomo Chemical (Parent Company) and 16 Group companies in Japan. Environmental performance data including 29 Responsible Care Activities the data of the 11 Group companies overseas* are also available in the “CSR Report 2011 DATA BOOK.” 30 Promoting RC Activities Together with Group Companies *Sumitomo Electronic Materials (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. and Sumipex (Thailand) Co., Ltd. have been newly included in the scope of reporting. 32 Responsible Care (RC) Audits Environmental accounting 33 Group Company Initiatives The environmental accounting data included in this report cover Sumitomo Chemical Group companies that have production divisions and 36 Major Targets and Results sales above a minimum level. Included companies are Sumitomo Chemical (Parent Company) and 18 Group companies (12 domestic, six over38 Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group seas**). 40 Energy and Environmental Protection **Sumika Electronic Materials Poland SP. Zo.o. has been newly included in the scope of reporting. 46 Occupational Safety and Health/ Environmental efficiency Industrial Safety and Disaster Prevention The environmental efficiency data included in this report covers Sumi50 Chemical Safety Initiatives tomo Chemical Group companies with production divisions, namely Sumitomo Chemical and 10 domestic Group companies. 52 Quality Assurance Initiatives In this report, “Sumitomo Chemical” and “Sumitomo Chemical Group” 54 Initiatives for Ensuring Quality, Safety, and are distinguished as follows. Environmental Protection in Logistics Operations Sumitomo Chemical: Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. 56 Progress in Fulfilling Eco-First Commitments Sumitomo Chemical Group: Sumitomo Chemical and Group companies (When “Group companies” are referred to, this does not include Sumi57 Social Activities tomo Chemical. The applicable scope of “Group companies” is indicated as necessary.) 58 Hand in Hand with Customers For more details of standards for calculating not described in this report, 59 Hand in Hand with Business Partners please refer to the following website: http://www.sumitomo-chem.co.jp/english/csr/report/ 60 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society Period covered by this report: April 1, 2010 – March 31, 2011 (with specific 66 Hand in Hand with Employees exceptions outside this time frame) 72 External Commendations and Marks Approved for Use Date of publication: October 2011 The previous issue was published in November 2010. Next issues: Scheduled for publication in October 2012 73 Independent Assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Frequency of publication: Once annually 74 GRI Content Index 1 Message from Chairman and President Hiromasa Yonekura, Chairman Masakazu Tokura, President Contributing to the Sustainable Development of Society with the Power of Chemistry The Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11 conviction that the essence of corporate social responsibility caused considerable widespread damage in Japan, particu(CSR) is to contribute to the sustainable development of socilarly in the Tohoku region. As the country faces its most seriety through business activities. ous crisis since the end of the Second World War, Japanese Since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, Sumitomo citizens must work together now to help the affected areas Chemical has been implementing various initiatives to support recover from the disaster as soon as possible and to build a the affected areas, such as financial contributions, donations robust, vibrant new Japan. of relief supplies, and bazaars to sell agricultural products, seafood, and processed food made in the disaster-stricken “Our business must benefit society, not just our interTohoku and Kanto regions. Through these support efforts and ests.” This is a principle of the Sumitomo family’s business our global business operations, we at the Sumitomo Chemical philosophy, which forms the core of Sumitomo Chemical’s Group will strive to contribute to Japan’s recovery from the corporate values. Sumitomo Chemical’s history dates back disaster as well as to the strong and sustainable growth of the to 1913, when the House of Sumitomo established a fertilizer Japanese economy. manufacturing plant to solve an environmental problem and help increase agricultural productivity by producing fertilizers Responsible Care (RC) – a commitment to ensure safety, using harmful emissions from copper smelting operations. protect the environment and human health, and maintain high The Company, thus created, has in its “corporate DNA” the product quality throughout the life cycles of our products, 2 from development to manufacturing and sale to use and NGOs and international organizations. In addition, we have disposal – is a central pillar of our CSR activities. In order to been supporting education in Africa by donating a portion of promote product safety, we have been stepping up efforts the revenues from our OLYSET™ Net business to help NGOs to gather safety information on chemical substances and to construct schools and other related facilities in the region. We achieve more effective management of the information. In adwill continue our efforts on various fronts to support the susdition, we have been working to assess and manage the risks tainable development of Africa. of our products throughout their life cycles, from production to disposal, capitalizing on the wealth of knowledge we have Since 2005, Sumitomo Chemical has been participating accumulated on safety assessment and utilizing the most adin the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative for busivanced scientific technologies in the field. At the same time, nesses to contribute directly to solving global issues based we are committed to addressing the pressing global problems on ten defined principles for corporate behavior in the areas related to resources, energy and the environment, with a parof human rights, labor standards, the environment, and antiticular focus on the issue of climate change. We are working corruption. In January 2011, the United Nations launched a to reduce our environmental footprint by improving our manunew framework called “UN Global Compact LEAD” to put into facturing processes and developing innovative new products, action the vision developed in the UN Global Compact, and with the goals of achieving the world’s highest energy effiSumitomo Chemical became one of its 54 initial corporate ciency in the production of our major products and developmembers. We will continue to work closely together with the ing processes and products that help reduce CO2 emissions. international community to address global problems. In order to quantify the effects of these initiatives, we have formulated internal guidelines to calculate the amount of CO2 The United Nations celebrates the International Year of emission reductions resulting from the use of our products Chemistry in 2011 (IYC2011), which falls on the 100th annibased on the life cycle assessment (LCA), a method for asversary of Marie Curie winning the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. sessing the environmental impact of a product throughout Under the theme of “Chemistry – our life, our future,” various its life cycle. Moreover, we have built a system for monitorcommemorations will be held across the world to increase ing the amount of our own CO2 emissions on a monthly bathe public’s understanding of chemistry, promote interest in sis, which enables more effective emissions management. chemistry on the part of young people, and express hope for Through these measures, Sumitomo Chemical will continue to the further development of chemistry. Chemistry is a creative help promote more efficient and effective solutions to global science, and it will play an increasingly important role as a warming. driving force for innovation. Sumitomo Chemical has been pursuing “Creative Hybrid As part of its CSR activities, Sumitomo Chemical has been Chemistry,” a commitment and strategy to develop new techimplementing various social action projects, the centerpiece nologies and products by combining, across disciplines, a of which is the effort to support Africa by working on the prevariety of outstanding technologies and expertise in a broad vention of malaria. Malaria is an infectious disease transmitted range of fields that it has accumulated as a diversified chemiby Anopheles mosquitoes and is one of the major factors that cal company. By taking full advantage of the creative power hinder Africa’s development. In the Millennium Development of chemistry and sustaining technological innovation, we will Goals (MDGs), the United Nations defines malaria control as continue working to contribute to bettering the lives of people one of the most pressing challenges facing human society. across the world and meeting pressing global challenges, The OLYSET™ Net, a special insecticidal mosquito net desuch as issues relating to energy resources, climate change, veloped by Sumitomo Chemical, is attracting attention from and the building of a low carbon society. We will also remain the international community as a highly effective means to firmly committed to promoting CSR activities as a member control malaria. According to a survey conducted by Millenof the international community in close cooperation with our nium Promise, a U.S.-based NPO working on malarial control, customers, business partners, shareholders, employees, local malaria infection rates substantially decreased in the village of communities, international organizations, such as the United Sauri in Kenya as a result of using the OLYSET™ Net. At presNations, and NGOs. We would greatly appreciate your continent, Sumitomo Chemical has production facilities for the OLYued support and cooperation. SET™ Net in Tanzania, Vietnam, and China, with a total anHiromasa Yonekura nual capacity of 60 million nets. In our operations in Tanzania, Chairman of Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. we are cooperating with a local mosquito net manufacturer and employing approximately 7,000 people, thereby contributing to the development of the local economy. Sumitomo Chemical has also been donating the OLYSET™ Masakazu Tokura President of Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. Net to African countries as well as to countries across the world affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and tsunamis, by partnering with Millennium Promise and other 3 CSR Report 2011 Sumitomo Chemical’s Business Operations and Profile Global Bases Sumitomo Chemical is conducting business across a range of fields on a global scale with more than 100 Group companies. GRI 2.1 2.2 4.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 Since its foundation in 1913, Sumitomo Chemical has been Company Profile contributing to the sustainable development of society through a Name Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. variety of business operations, based on a philosophy of providHead Office (Tokyo) ing benefits widely throughout society instead of merely pursuing Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building (East) profit. At present, the Company is conducting business globally 27-1, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8260, Japan with more than 100 Group companies in five fields: basic chemi(Osaka) cals, petrochemicals & plastics, IT-related chemicals, health & crop Sumitomo Building 5-33, Kitahama sciences, and pharmaceuticals. 4-chome, Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-8550, Japan Founding September 22, 1913 To continue to receive the approval of its wide range of stakeStart of business operations October 4, 1915 holders, Sumitomo Chemical will use its advanced technologies Incorporation June 1, 1925 to create new products that reflect the changing times, contribute Capital 89,699 million yen Consolidated net sales 1,982.4 billion yen to improving people’s lives, and help the international community Number of consolidated subsidiaries 181 resolve global problems involving resources, energy, food, and the Number of employees 29,382 (As of March 31, 2011) environment. Business Sectors Basic Chemicals Sector Petrochemicals & Plastics Sector IT-related Chemicals Sector Inorganic chemicals, raw materials for synthetic fiPetrochemical products, synthetic resins, synthetic Optical products, color filters, semiconductor probers, organic chemicals, methyl methacrylate (MMA), rubber, synthetic resin processed products, etc. cessing materials, electronic materials, compound alumina product, aluminum, rubber chemicals, polysemiconductor materials, battery materials, etc. mer additives, etc. Alumina powder and products made from alumina Containers and wrapping films made from polyethylene Polarizing film indispensable for LCD TVs Health & Crop Sciences Sector Pharmaceuticals Sector Agricultural chemicals, fertilizers, agricultural materials, Ethical pharmaceuticals, diagnostic radiopharmaceuhousehold and public hygiene insecticides, materials for ticals, etc. the prevention of tropical infections, feed additives, active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates, etc. *(Note) In April 2011, we abolished the Fine Chemicals Sector, transferring its chemicals business to the Basic Chemicals Sector and the pharmaceutical chemicals business to the Health & Crops Sciences Sector (former Agricultural Agricultural insecticides for various crops Pharmaceuticals manufactured by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Chemicals Sector). Co., Ltd. 4 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Profile Business Locations Overseas Facilities Hampshire Cambridge Beijing London Torun Dalian Brussels Libertyville Fort Lee Trunava Seoul Milan Marlborough Lyon Hefei Pyeongtaek Walnut Creek New York Barcelona Phoenix Edison Iksan Zhuhai Wilmington Wuxi Rabigh Guadalajara Shanghai Griffin Taipei Tarapur Bangkok Tainan Mumbai Kaohsiung Arusha Kuala Lumpur Singapore Sydney Pretoria Sao Paulo Wellington Domestic Facilities Health & Crop Sciences Research Laboratory Utajima Pilot Production Dept. Misawa Works Kobe Osaka Head Oﬃce (Osaka) Osaka Works Process & Production TechnolTsukuba Material Development ogy Center (Osaka) Laboratory Organic Synthesis Research Gifu Plant Advanced Material Research Laboratory Laboratory Environmental Health Science IT-related Chemicals Laboratory Research Laboratory IT-related Chemicals Research (Tsukuba) Laboratory Head Office (Tokyo) Chiba Works Petrochemicals Research Laboratory Branch Office Plastics Technical Center (Note) In April 2011, the Fine Chemicals (Nagoya) Branch Office Process & Production Sector was abolished and the Agricul(Fukuoka) Okayama Plant Technology Center tural Chemicals Sector was reorganized (Chiba) into the Health & Crop Sciences Sector. Oita Works Ehime Works Accordingly, the Fine Chemicals ReOhe Works search Laboratory was also abolished Process & Production Technology and the Agricultural Chemicals Research Center (Ehime) Laboratory was reorganized into the Basic Chemicals Research Laboratory Health & Crop Sciences Research LaboIT-related Chemicals Research Laboratory ratory. (Ehime) Electronic Devices Development Center 5 CSR Report 2011 Sumitomo Chemical’s Corporate Philosophy Profile Sumitomo Chemical traces it’s lineage to the original House of Sumitomo, a business with a history spanning nearly four centuries. The fundamental principles of the House of Sumitomo have been upheld from its founding to present day. GRI 4.8 Sumitomo Chemical’s corporate philosophy is based on the House of Sumitomo’s Business Principles and is composed of the Business Philosophy, which outlines the fundamental ethos, missions, and values of the Company. The Corporate Slogan and Statement are intended to help instill “pride and commitment” among employees while the Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Conduct, provides the basis for the Company’s compliance system. The Sumitomo Spirit Sumitomo Chemical’s Business Philosophy Sumitomo’s Business Principles 1. We commit ourselves to creating new value by Pledge 1 building on innovation. Sumitomo shall achieve prosperity based on solid foundation by placing prime importance on integrity and sound management in the conduct of its business. 2. We work to contribute to society through our business activities. Pledge 2 Sumitomo’s business interest must always be in harmony 3. We develop a vibrant corporate culture and with public interest; Sumitomo shall adapt to good times continue to be a company that society can trust. and bad times but will not pursue immoral business. Since the start of business by the House of Sumitomo in the 17th In recent years, as the Sumitomo Chemical Group progressively century, Sumitomo’s Business Principles have been upheld over globalizes its business, the Group has become diversified in terms the generations for 400 years. Sumitomo Chemical’s corporate phiof culture and values. With this diverse profile, it is important for all losophy is based on these Business Principles. employees to share the Group’s business philosophy and increase The first pledge in the Business Principles, advocating integrity their awareness as members of the Group. To meet this requireand sound management, reflects the importance of maintaining ment, on January 1, 2009, we formulated Sumitomo Chemical’s the trust of the Company’s business partners and of society as a Business Philosophy to outline the Company’s fundamental ethos, whole. The second pledge calls for refraining from the pursuit of missions, and values based on Sumitomo’s Business Principles. easy gains—conducting thorough investigations and giving serious Our Business Philosophy is composed of the above three items, thought to business decisions so as not to be blinded by the proswhich have the following meanings: pect of immediate gains. The first states the Company’s fundamental ethos, which encomWhile not expressly stated, another traditional concept applies: passes not only the achievement of concrete goals, such as ecoharmony between the individual, the nation, and society. Sumitomo nomic profit, but also the more abstract vision of the ideal company manifests this concept by seeking to benefit not only its own busiwe aim to be. ness, but also both the nation and society, and by the Company’s The second states our mission or the Company’s raison d’être. emphasis on maintaining harmony between its interests and those This expresses our role in society, which is to provide society with of the public. To this day, these principles are strictly applied useful things as a member of that society. This gives meaning to throughout various Sumitomo Group companies, including Sumiour existence as a company. tomo Chemical. The third states our values. This expresses our way of thinking in setting out to realize our mission and raison d’être, and the drive and attitude with which we approach them. All Sumitomo Chemical Group employees share our Business Philosophy toward further globalization of the Group. 6 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Profile Corporate Statement and Slogan Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Conduct Corporate Statement 1. We will respect Sumitomo’s business philosophy and act as highly esteemed good citizens. Sumitomo Chemical started business in 1913 as a producer of 2. We will observe laws and regulations, both at home and fertilizers from sulfur dioxide gas emitted by copper smelters. abroad, and will carry out activities in accordance with This business, which solved the environmental problem of air our corporate rules. pollution while meeting the social demand for more agricultural 3. We will develop and supply useful and safe products production, embodied the business philosophy of the Sumitomo and technologies that will contribute signiﬁcantly to the family handed down from the 17th century. progress of society. 4. We will engage in voluntary and active initiatives to “Our business must benefit society, not just our interests.” achieve zero-accident and zero-injury operations and Throughout our history of almost a century, we at Sumitomo preserve the global environment. Chemical have lived by this credo. We have worked to build 5. We will conduct business transactions based on fair and better lives by developing various businesses that meet people’s free competition. 6. We will endeavor to make our workplaces sound and evolving needs. At the same time, we have continuously delivenergetic. ered technological innovation while paying special attention to 7. Every one of us will strive to become a professional and product quality, safety, and the environment. achieve advanced skills and expertise in our ﬁeld of responsibility. Looking to the future, we will create new value beyond the 8. We will actively communicate with our various stakeboundaries of chemistry by combining a variety of ideas, views, holders, including shareholders, customers, and local and technologies. We will also continue to take up the chalcommunities. lenges facing the globe, from meeting basic needs, to protecting 9. As a corporate member of an international society, we the environment, to addressing the issues of adequate supplies of will respect the culture and customs of every region of food, energy, and other resources. the world and contribute to the development of those regions. In this endeavor, each of us at Sumitomo Chemical will work 10. We will strive for the continued development of our together to enhance our capabilities, explore new possibilities Company through business activities conducted in acevery day, and overcome the challenges lying ahead with enthucordance with the guiding principles described herein. siasm and a strong sense of mission. Sumitomo Chemical will seek to continue to build trust and bring joy to people across the world through constant innovaThe Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Conduct provides tion. the basis for Sumitomo Chemical’s compliance system. (For compliance, see page 20.) TOPIC Corporate Slogan Statement Book Creative Hybrid Chemistry The Statement Book takes a closer look at Sumitomo’s BusiFor a Better Tomorrow ness Principles, Sumitomo Chemical’s Business Philosophy, and the Corporate Slogan and Statement. In fiscal 2010, we created a DVD version of this book as a tool to communicate the ideas described in the documents in an easy-to-understand manner. We use both the book and the DVD in training sessions for Sumitomo Chemical formulated its Corporate Statement in employees and whenever useful. To share such ideas across the March 2008 after a project team comprising members from across Sumitomo Chemical Group, both the company held lengthy discussions on the important theme of within and outside Japan, we have “pride and commitment” to be constantly shared by employees. also created English, Korean, and The Corporate Slogan summarizes the statement in one phrase. simplified and traditional Chinese versions of the book and the DVD. 7 CSR Report 2011 Toward the Achievement of Sustainable Chemistry Profile Sumitomo Chemical will contribute to the sustainable development of society based on its proven technologies. The chemical industry delivers a variety of products related to the basic necessities of food, clothing, and housing, and supplies materials to a wide spectrum of industries. Our industry has also been contributing to the development of various other business areas and society through technological innovation. At present, we are facing a range of global challenges, especially with regard to energy, resources, and the environment, and the chemical industry is expected to play an even greater role in meeting these challenges. Sumitomo Chemical, as a member of the chemical industry, has defined its corporate missions as the achievement of Sustainable Chemistry. To fulfill this mission, we are providing useful, highquality and high-value-added products to society while giving due consideration to safety and the environment. Creative Hybrid Chemistry cessing, functional dyes and pigments, crystal structure control, calcination, functional polymer design, biotechnology, chiral synIn order to practice Sustainable Chemistry, it is necessary to thesis, and catalysts. have scientifically proven technologies. Sumitomo Chemical is Sumitomo Chemical combines these “base technologies” and pursuing Creative Hybrid Chemistry, which links and combines “core technologies” in diverse ways to develop greater breadth and technologies, know-how, and the ideas and different perspectives depth in its own unique technologies. Furthermore, the Company of individuals both inside and outside the company to create new promotes industry-government-university collaboration through value beyond existing frameworks. joint projects with the New Energy and Industrial Technology DeSumitomo Chemical has accumulated a wide array of skills velopment Organization (NEDO), the Japan Agency for Marineand competencies in a variety of “base technologies” such as orEarth Science and Technology, the Japan Synchrotron Radiation ganic synthesis, inorganic synthesis, polymer synthesis, physical Research Institute, the University of Tokyo, and Tokyo Institute of analysis, toxicological safety assessment, genomic development, Technology. This collaboration is driving the development of innoprocess development, materials and plant engineering technology, vative new technologies and products. We will foster measures for and others through extensive research activities over many years. Creative Hybrid Chemistry to achieve Sustainable Chemistry on a Additionally, through the development of various products, we have global scale. expanded our “core technologies,” namely, advanced polymer proAdvanced Functional Polymer LEDs polymer polymer Heat-resistant separator Proton conduction membrane processing design Optical functional films Agricultural and public Functional hygiene products Color filters dyes and Biotechnology Pharmaceuticals Enhancement of pigments base technologies Diagnostics Eight Core Increasing breadth and depth of core technologies Technologies Li-ion secondary battery materials Crystal Chiral Pharmaceutical intermediates structure synthesis Pyrethroids MO EPI wafers control Integration of disparate technologies New type polyolefins Functional inorganic Hydrochloric acid oxidation materials Calcination Catalysts Caprolactam Beckmann rearrangement Propylene Oxide-Only Process Creation of new value Base Technologies Organic synthesis Polymer synthesis Inorganic synthesis Physical analysis Toxicological safety assessment Genomics Process development Material & plant engineering technology 8 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Green Processes and Clean Products Profile Sumitomo Chemical is committed to developing environment-friendly products and processes. GRI EN6 EN26 Profile Pursuing Manufacturing Processes with Low Environmental Impact and Safer Products of Higher Quality Green Processes We need to use energy and resources, which are in limited supply, to manufacture chemical products. In the production process, unneeded substances (byproducts) or waste may also be generEPL 3 Process for Polarizer ated. Sumitomo Chemical is pursuing Green Processes, which In the EPL 3, one of the minimize the environmental impact of manufacturing to the greatest lamination processes of optiextent possible, and developing Clean Products, which are safer, cal films has been dramatically changed, and compared more environment-friendly, and of higher quality. with the conventional method, energy consumption can be substantially reduced. Moreover the prior processing is no longer necessary basically, Research & which leads to the reduction of development environmental impact. The EPL 3 process represents a nextgeneration environment-friendly manufacturing method. Proprietary Propylene Oxide-Only Process Developing new products (PO-Only Process) Energy and processes (Electricity, gas, In the propylene oxide-only fuels, etc.) process, propylene oxide can Resources be manufactured without by(Water, materials, products by recycling cumene. etc.) Furthermore, this process helps conserve energy and resources by the effective use of the heat Minimization Factories generated by reactions, and produces less wastewater. In Minimization addition, the facilities used for the process are more compact than those used for convenWaste tional processes, enabling high cost competitiveness. Green Processes Wastewater Energy conservation Waste gas Caprolactam (Beckmann Rearrangement) Process Resource conservation Solid waste Higher recyclability To reduce environmental In the caprolactam (BeckLower environmental impact to zero mann rearrangement) process, impact caprolactam can be manufactured without producing the byproduct ammonium sulfate. Waste treatment This process also allows for facilities a significant reduction in the amount of raw materials used as well as a shortened manu(Inside and outside the company) facturing process. In addition, it Products Appropriate disposal uses a safer catalyst. of waste Hydrochloric Acid Oxidation Process In the hydrochloric acid Clean Products oxidation process, hydrochloric Chemicals, resins, rubber, User companies acid generated as a byproduct pharmaceuticals, agrochemiProducts in the manufacture of chemical cals, IT materials, automoproducts is recycled through tive materials, materials for conversion to chlorine using synthetic ﬁbers, etc. a catalyst and oxygen. This process is considerably more energy-efficient than convenCreating new value through Clean Products tional processes. highly functional materials (Joint research and development, etc.) 9 CSR Report 2011 Profile Clean Products LED Light “SUMILOOK™” Agricultural Insecticide “Pluto™ MC” SUMILOOK™ is an edgePluto™ MC is an insecticide for light type LED light developed by use only in the control of mulberSumitomo Chemical. Compared ry scale, a serious insect pest, on with direct-type LED lighting tea plants. With only one winter equipment, it is not dazzling but application to the crop, this prodis gentle to the eyes and can be uct will provide effective longmade to be very thin. The LED term control of mulberry scale. light source does not consume This enables tea growers to remuch power, leading to a reduce the frequency of insecticide duction in operating costs. The spraying and eliminates the need maintenance cost can also be for spraying during the busy sumsubstantially reduced because mer season. Furthermore, this the product has a longer lifeproduct has little adverse impact span compared with convenon natural enemies of this pest, tional fluorescent lights. It is an such as parasitic wasps, making SUMILOOK™ used in an elementary environment-friendly light. it also suitable for integrated pest school classroom management (IPM). Polylactic Acid-Based Eco-Friendly Plastic Super Engineering Plastics The polylactic acid-based Super engineering plastics are plastic developed by Sumitomo plastics with considerably higher Chemical is the world’s first ecothermostability than typical enfriendly plastic to find applications gineering plastics. Sumitomo in automobile parts. Chemical’s super engineering The eco-friendly plastics, Sumika Super™ LCP plastic, a polymer aland Sumika Excel™ PES, are loy of polypropylene used in various fields—from with 25% or more of electronics and electrical parts to plant-based polylactic automobiles and aircraft. Sumiacid, has sufficient ritomo Chemical’s super engineergidity, impact resistance ing plastics, free from flame restrength, and heat resistardants, have cleared top-level Areas in which our polylactic tance for use in automobile fire-retardant standards. They plastic is presently used interiors. By using this plastic, have also been evaluated as an Areas in which our polylactic total lifecycle CO2 emissions can excellent material in terms of enplastic is expected to be used be reduced by approximately 10% vironmental protection, because compared with conventional polythey can also be used for leadpropylene. free soldering. Sumiﬁx™ HF (Environmentally Friendly Reactive Dye) Materials for the Manufacture of LEDs With its high level of affinity for The use of light-emitting diodes fibers and good dyeing reactiv(LEDs) is highly effective for CO2 ity, Sumifix™ HF enables us to emissions reduction, and therefore achieve high fixation rates with less demand for LEDs for use in TVs inorganic salt and to significantly and long-life lights has been rapidreduce the impact of discharged ly expanding. Sumitomo Chemical wastewater on the environment. In supplies the materials indispensaddition, on a molecular basis, the able for the manufacture of LEDs. unfixed dyes of Sumifix™ HF are These include high purity alumina designed so that their function is for the sapphire substrates of LED reduced after dyeing, shortening elements, metalorganics for semithe washing process and reducing conductor thin film formation, and energy consumption. aluminum hydroxide and alumina powder, which are used to disperse the heat released from the light-emitting components. 10 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Three-Year Corporate Business Plan for Profile Fiscal 2010 to 2012 Sumitomo Chemical is now implementing the Three-Year Corporate Business Plan for fiscal 2010 to 2012. GRI 1.2 In formulating the Corporate Business Plan, the Company first conceived its Corporate Vision based on analysis of the Profile long-range prospects for the global economy and business environment in conjunction with its business portfolio. We regard this new Corporate Business Plan as the first step toward achieving our Corporate Vision, and are now implementing a variety of measures under the plan. Long-term market forecast Environment & Energy Areas with high growth potential ⇒ Life Sciences Information & Communication Technology (ICT) Corporate Vision I. Achieve sustainable strong growth as a stronger, more innovative global company II. Contribute to sustainable development of the global community III. Continuously enhance the value of the company Three Strategies to Realize the Corporate Vision Technology Strategy Business Portfolio Strategy 1. Focus R&D resources on the three high-growth areas Achieve balance among the three areas of bulk chemicals (basic 2. Continue Creative Hybrid Chemistry chemicals and petrochemicals & plastics); life sciences (agricultural 3. Pursue Green Sustainable Chemistry chemicals and pharmaceuticals); and ICT, battery materials and fine 4. Accelerate R&D in downstream applications chemicals so that each account for 30% of sales by 2020 by input5. Strengthen basic research ting managerial resources intensively into the areas with high growth potential (Environment & Energy, Life Sciences, and ICT). Climate Change Strategy Help solve pressing global issues of resources, energy, and the Business composition to be achieved by 2020 environment Refinery & others 1. Achieve the world’s highest level of energy efficiency 10% 30% 2. Develop products and technologies that will contribute to Petrochemicals, CO2 emissions reduction Pharmaceuticals & plastics & basicchemicals 3. Enhance carbon management and implement proactive, agricultural chemicals (bulk) (life sciences) effective and coordinated measures throughout the ICT, battery materials & Sumitomo Chemical Group 30% fine chemicals 30% Seven Basic Initiatives to Be Implemented under the Corporate Business Plan 1. Quickly maximize profits & cash from major 5. Implement climate change strategy investments 6. Strengthen global management system 2. Enhance financial strength 7. Ensure full & strict compliance; maintain safe & 3. Strengthen cost competitiveness of core & stable operations commodity businesses 4. Accelerate business growth FY2012 Performance Targets Net sales: 2.4 trillion yen *Including equity in earnings of affiliates of 40 billion yen Operating income: 190 billion yen Assumptions: Ordinary income:* 220 billion yen Exchange rate: 90 yen/US$ Naphtha: 50,000 yen/kl Net income: 140 billion yen Crude oil: US$85/bbl 11 CSR Report 2011 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 and Profile Initiatives for Fiscal 2011 Sumitomo Chemical sets key CSR initiatives for every fiscal year, and implements a range of specific measures based on the initiatives. GRI 4.17 Key CSR initiatives in fiscal 2010 Item Related stakeholder CSR promotion CSR Promotion Coordinating Board All stakeholders Conv Held Improve the corporate brand value through Compliance Compliance promotion All stakeholders Impro General better CSR activities. Provi Working group on the 10th principle (anti-corruption) All stakeholders Partic UN Global Compact LEAD All stakeholders Beca Achieve the first-year targets of the Three-Year Corporate Economic activities Three-Year Corporate Business Plan. Business Plan Three-Year Corporate Business Plan All stakeholders Final Auditing Auditing All stakeholders Revie Set e Comp Environmental management All stakeholders Conti Conti Conti Environmental Reduc Global environmental protection All stakeholders protection Imple Redu Proactively promote climate change prevenEstablishment of a recycling-based society All stakeholders Reduc Responsible tion and energy strategies. Disco Care (RC) Protection of the living environment and prevention of Reduce activities Advance the level of the Sumitomo Chemidamage to health All stakeholders Redu cal Group’s RC activities around the world. Empl Occupational health and safety All stakeholders Contr Safety Industrial safety and disaster prevention All stakeholders One s Chemical safety All stakeholders Prom Start Quality assurance Quality assurance All stakeholders Two Activi Hand in hand with customers Measures to increase customer satisfaction Customers Cond Hand in hand with Monit Responsible procurement Business partners Expla business partners Excha Local communities Cond Social contribution activities at each site Cond and society Organ Hand in hand with local Communication with stakeholders Local communities and society Held l communities and society Local communities Supp Global social contribution activities such as support to Supp Africa and society Conti Reem Empl Continue to engage in social activities Maintaining a diverse workforce Employees Numb integrated with business activities. Social Numb activities Deepen communication with internal and Provi external stakeholders. Promoting health management by employees Employees Conti Conti Coop Supporting employees in conducting social contribution activities Employees Numb Hand in hand with employees Estab Measures for diversity and better work-life balance Employees Cond Revis Open Expansion of childcare support measures Employees Exten Social contribution activities through labor-management Employees Imple collaboration Bega Human resource development Employees Form Introd 12 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Profile older Major achievements Ref. page Key CSR initiatives for fiscal 2011 Convened the CSR Promotion Coordinating Board meeting. p.18 Held a meeting of the Compliance Committee. p.20 Further promote the globalization of CSR Improved the compliance promotion systems of Group companies. p.20 Provided company-wide training to reeducate all employees on compliance. p.21 activities. Participated in the creation of a Guide for Customers and Suppliers. p.22 Foster measures for corporate branding. Became a member of LEAD. p.15,22 Implement the basic initiatives of the Three-Year Corporate Final profit increased by 9.7 billion yen from the previous fiscal year, which resulted in an increase in surplus. p.24 Business Plan to achieve annual financial targets. Reviewed the RC audit checklist and built a system to support RC improvements across the Group. p.32 Set environmental protection targets to be shared across the Group and achieved certain results. p.40 Completed the risk assessment of PRTR substances and VOCs and set new reduction targets for PRTR substances. p.41 Continued environmental impact assessments based on the JEPIX and LCA methods. p.41 Continued to evaluate the effectiveness of material flow cost accounting. p.41 Continued to implement measures for the Eco First commitment made to the Minister of the Environment. p.56 Reduced per-unit CO2 emissions from the use of fossil fuels by 3.2% from the previous fiscal year (a 24.1% reduction from the fiscal 1990 level). p.42 Implemented the plan to completely eliminate the use of freezers with CFC coolants, with no coolant leakage. Foster measures for the protection of the Reduced per-unit energy consumption by 1.0% from the previous fiscal year (an 18.3% reduction from the fiscal 1990 level). p.42 global environment, including anti-climate Reduced the amount of industrial waste sent to landfills by 66.2% from the previous fiscal year (a 94.4% reduction from the fiscal 1990 level). p.44 change measures, energy and environment Discontinued the sea dumping of red bauxite. p.45 strategies, and measures for biodiversity Reduced the total release of PRTR substances (into the air and water) by 4.7% from the previous fiscal year (a 63.4% reduction from the fiscal 2002 level). p.44 conservation. Reduced per-unit water use by 3.2% from the previous fiscal year (a 29.6% reduction from the fiscal 1990 level). DATA BOOK p.9 Employees: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.16 Share problems to improve the RC level of the Severity rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.003 entire Group. p.46 Contractors/affiliate companies: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.81 Severity rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.82 One severe industrial accident took place. p.48 Promoted the operation of comprehensive chemical management systems (SuCCESS). p.51 Started application of the Group’s PL/QA standards. Two Major quality problems p.52 Activity cross-Industry Conducted quality assurance activities, supported the commercialization of products, and responded to inquiries. p.58 Monitored CSR measures implemented by (mainly new) business partners by using the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Check Sheets. rs Explained about responsible procurement initiatives to overseas Group companies. p.59 Exchanged information with employees in charge of responsible procurement at other companies in the same industry. Conducted local cleanup activities. p.60 ies Conducted activities to support educational programs for children, including School Science Visits. p.61 Organized and sponsored community sports events. p.61 society Held local RC dialogues. p.62 Supported malaria prevention by donating Olyset™ Nets. p.63 ies Supported education in Africa. p.63 Continued “Sumitomo Chemical’s forest” tree-planting activities. p.64 Reemployment: 97 of 134 retirees were reemployed. (Reemployment rate: 72.4%, up 6.5% from the previous fiscal year) Expand social contribution activities based on Employment rate of people with disabilities: 1.96% (down 0.05% from the previous fiscal year) business operations. p.66 Number of newly employed females: 23 (down 22 from the previous fiscal year) Number of female managers: 161 (up six from the previous fiscal year) Promote communication with stakeholders in Provided new employees, employees promoted to higher grades, and managers with mental health training. a multifaceted manner. Continuously implemented a rehabilitation work system. p.67 Continuously conducted health checkups and guidance for lifestyle-related diseases. Foster diversity and better work-life balance. Cooperated with the TABLE FOR TWO program. Number of employees taking volunteer leave: 29 p.67 Established a secretariat to promote diversity. Conducted an employee awareness survey. p.68 Revised the labor agreement. Opened a childcare facility at the Head Office (Tokyo). p.69 Extended the childcare leave period and partially introduced paid holidays to the system. Implemented a Matching Gift program. p.70 Began Regional Manager Training. Formulated training rotation plans for 880 employees. p.71 Introduced the Mentor System. 13 CSR Report 2011 Support for the Victims of the Great East Japan Profile Earthquake and Future Measures The Great East Japan Earthquake that took place on March 11, 2011 caused tremendous damage to the Tohoku and Kanto regions. The Sumitomo Chemical Group has been supporting the affected areas in a range of ways since the disaster. We will continue providing such support while implementing measures to deal with the shortage of electricity and to ensure the continuity of our business in the event of such a disaster. Support for the Victims Saving Electricity to Cope with Power Shortages in the Summer Donations of money To cope with power shortages in the summertime, we are proFor the relief of victims and the restoration of affected areas, Sumitoactively implementing measures to save electricity both as a conmo Chemical donated 300 million yen to the Central Community Chest sumer and a producer of electricity. of Japan. The Company also collected donations from executives and As a consumer, we are implementing measures such as operatemployees and donated them (about nine million yen) to the affected ing air conditioners in a more efficient manner, switching off unareas (Miyagi, Iwate, and Fukushima Prefectures) and to employees necessary lighting, and promoting so-called cool biz (more casual who had suffered direct damage due to the earthquake. business attire). We have also shifted some of our manufacturing opGroup companies both within and outside Japan, including Dainiperations to nighttimes and weekends, in order to reduce our peakpon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Bakelite Co., Ltd., Nihon time electricity consumption while maintaining production levels. Medi-Physics Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Seika Chemicals Co., Ltd., Rabigh As a producer, our sites equipped with in-house power generaRefining and Petrochemical Company, and seven Group companies in tors are now using these generators, while those without them have Singapore, also donated money and goods to victims of the disaster. begun leasing the equipment, as necessary. Donation of relief goods Kawasaki Biomass Power Corp., which was established and led We donated goods in response to the needs of affected areas. by Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd. (a subsidiary of SumiFor example, we donated about 4,900 blankets urgently needed in tomo Chemical), began producing electricity from biomass using Minamisanriku Town in Miyagi Prefecture through an NGO, “World waste building materials, and at present this company supplies Vision Japan.” Moreover, we sent masks, shampoos, toothbrushCO2-free clean energy to The Tokyo Electric Power Co., Inc. es and other daily necessities, cooking oil, underwear, etc. to the Measures against Earthquakes and Other Disasters affected areas in cooperation with Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business In the event of a large disaster, such as an earthquake, companies Federation). must ensure the safety of local residents, employees, and other stakeholders. They are also expected to prevent secondary damage and Relief goods donated by Sumitomo Chemical minimize the impact of such disasters on their business as their corpodelivered to an affected area rate responsibilities and also as a precondition for their survival. Based Support for industries in affected areas on this recognition, Sumitomo Chemical has set out its basic policies Sumitomo Chemical is implementing various measures to support on risk and crisis management, and has been implementing the folthe agricultural, fishery, and food industries in the Tohoku and Kanto lowing measures to minimize risks and mitigate damage in the event of regions that are suffering serious damage directly from the Great East such a contingency, while giving first priority to the safety of people, the Japan Earthquake or indirectly due to public concern caused by the environment, and society. accidents at the nuclear power plant. At our manufacturing works and research laboratories where hazFor example, in the cafeterias, meals made using ingredients proardous substances and high-pressure gases are used, safety meaduced in the Tohoku and Kanto regions are served and a portion of sures that are stricter than those stipulated by law are implemented sales receipts from these meals along with a matched contribution by voluntarily to help ensure stable and safe operations. the Company has been donated to affected areas. Specifically at our work sites, plants are designed to stop operations In addition, Sumitomo Chemical held a fair to sell agricultural, marine by remote control if an earthquake of a predetermined level occurs, and food, and processed food from the Tohoku and Kanto regions to emmeasures are taken to prevent the leakage of hazardous substances ployees within the premises of the Head Office in Tokyo. In cooperation even in the event of a large-scale disaster. Moreover, the seismic rewith three neighboring companies, sistance of tanks and plants has been improved in a planned manner. larger fairs,were also held to support Emergency regulations, procedures, manuals, and fire prevention/ for the industries in the affected arextinguisher equipment are prepared and available to combat against eas, which was also open to the local emergencies. Furthermore, sites regularly conduct emergency drills residents . We will hold similar fairs at jointly with local fire departments and nearby companies. other sites in the future. The disaster in March has made us reassess the importance of our supply chains. In response, Sumitomo Chemical has set Business ConFood fair held to support affected areas tinuity Plan (BCP) to ensure business continuity and fast recovery, in Dispatch of employees and support against insect pests addition to shifting towards a diversification of suppliers to ensure the Sumitomo Chemical sent employees who had volunteered to continued supply of goods or substitutes to the Company in the event help victims to affected areas, where they conducted support acof an emergency. We are also securing alternative transportation routes tivities in response to the needs of local victims. For areas suffering so that we can deliver our products to customers even in the event of damage from pests, we offered our products (insecticides and indisaster. secticidal nets) and installed the nets, as necessary. Sumitomo Chemical has been implementing a range of measures in We will continue these activities in response to the needs of vicpreparations against large-scale disasters. We will review these meatims. sures based on our experience in the Great East Japan Earthquake and subsequent tsunami, and build a more robust system to ensure 14 safety and the stable supply of our products. Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Topics of Activities Profile In this section, we will introduce topics among our social and Responsible Care activities conducted by Sumitomo Chemical. Profile Joining the UN Global Compact LEAD Introducing Sumitomo Chemical’s Next Generation Technologies at the Japan-China Green Expo 2011 Sumitomo Chemical has become a member of the UN Global Compact LEAD launched in January 2011. Sumitomo Chemical participated in the Japan-China Green Expo Under the leadership of the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, 2011, which was held in Beijing, China, from June 1 to 3, 2011. the Global Compact LEAD is a new platform for corporate sustainThe Japan-China Green Expo 2011 was organized by an NPO ability leadership, composed of companies to stepping up and established by Nippon Keidanren and the China Council for the reaching new levels of performance and impact in order for the world Promotion of International Trade as their first joint international ento meet today’s social, environmental and economic challenges. vironmental fair, and both Japanese and Chinese companies and The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responisresearch institutes participated in the event. Sumitomo Chemical ibility initiative with more than 8,900 signatories in over 135 countries. introduced a range of its products and technologies that contribThe Global Compact LEAD is represented by 56 companies around utes to the environment and society, dividing them into four categothe world and three companies including Sumitomo Chemical curries (life, automobiles, food, and CSR), through a main show held rently represent Japan. using new imaging techniques and also through display panels. In the exhibition, 65 companies participated from Japan and 27 from China, and a total of 20,230 people visited the three-day fair. Agreement with the Chongqing People’s Government Sumitomo Chemical concluded an agreement with the Chongqing People’s Government, China about two local awards to be granted by the Company. After the press conference on the agreement, attended by CPC Chongqing Committee Secretary Bo Xilai, a signing ceremony was held with the participation of all those concerned, including Vice MaySumitomo Chemical’s booth in the Japan-China Green Expo 2011 or Liu of Chongqing, Deputy Secretary General Ai Yang of the local government, and Chairman Hiromasa Yonekura and Senior Managing Executive Officer Yoshimasa Takao of Sumitomo Chemical. Becoming a Winner at the 2010 Agrow Awards Based on the agreement, Sumitomo Chemical will present a youth award for the protection of the environment in Chongqing, which inThe award ceremony for the 2010 Agrow Awards was held in cludes incentive funds to foster research on local environmental proLondon on November 2, 2010, and Sumitomo Chemical received an tection and support for the establishment of roundtable discussion award in the Best Innovation in Non-Crop category for its insectimeetings on environmental protection, as well as for the creation of cidal mosquito net Olyset™ Net, thereby becoming the first Japafactory tours at the sites of leading Japanese companies, including nese company to receive an Agrow award. Sumitomo Chemical. These awards are organized by Agrow, a provider of news and The Company will also give a scholarship award to help develop market research dedicated to the crop protection industry. There human resources which will contribute to deepening exchanges are 13 categories in the Agrow Awards and in the Best Innovation in between Chongqing and Japan. The scholarship will be awarded to Non-Crop category in which Olyset™ Net became a winner, techworthy candidates from local government and major universities in nologies for chemicals used in fields other than agriculture, such as Chongqing, such as Chongqing University, who will become leaders those for household pest control and disease vector control, were of exchanges between Japan and China. judged. Through these two local awards, we will support the sustainable economic development of Chongqing and enhance bilateral relations between Japan and China to contribute to the further development of the two countries and international society. Signing ceremony (Left) Deputy Secretary General Ai Yang of the Chongqing People’s Government (Right) Senior Managing Executive Officer Yoshimasa Takao of Sumitomo Chemical Award ceremony for the 2010 Agrow Awards 15 CSR Report 2011 Profile Implementation of Loans utilizing “the Supporting Standardizing and Systematizing Operations Fund for Environmentally Friendly Corporations” for Environment and Chemicals Management In November 2010, Sumitomo Chemical became the first diverIn an effort to increase the public awareness on Responsible sified chemical company to receive a loan from Sumitomo Mitsui Care activities and to enhance such activities, Sumitomo Chemical Banking Corporation as an environment-friendly company. In this is accelerating the standardization and systematization of its manloan program, companies undergo detailed evaluation and diagagement activities in the fields of energy, environmental protection, nosis in terms of environmental friendliness according to a unique and potential risk of chemicals. evaluation method jointly developed by the bank and The Japan With regards to important management operations, the work Research Institute, Ltd. volume for which is large and includes much routine paperwork, we Sumitomo Chemical was judged to conduct its business in a aim to increase efficiency and promote “visualization” to save labor, very environmentally aware manner by implementing highly adthereby reducing the workload of employees in charge and envanced environmental measures and was awarded a loan from the abling them to spend more time in more substantial work such as fund. Sumitomo Chemical will further enhance and develop its endata analysis, evaluation, and implementation of necessary meavironmentally sustainable management through the proactive and sures. This should eventually lead to improvements in the quality of effective use of the loan program. our overall management. We also aim to strengthen our compliance system by reviewing various in-house rules in response to the frequent revision of laws and regulations. News release issued by Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation We are also explaining these measures in detail to Group comon the loan to Sumitomo Chemical (November 30, 2010) panies and sharing information with them, as appropriate. 平成22年11月30日 We will continue promoting the standardization and systematiza各 位 tion of related management operations. (For details see page 40.) 株式会社 三井住友銀行 住友化学株式会社に「環境配慮企業支援ファンド」を活用した融資を実施 株式会社三井住友銀行（頭取：奥 正之）は、日本銀行の「成長基盤強化を支援するた Progress of standardization and systematization of management operations めの資金供給」の趣旨に則り組成した「環境配慮企業支援ファンド」を活用し、住友化学 in various fields 株式会社（代表取締役社長：廣瀨 博）に対し、融資を実施致しました。 Field Description Start of implementation 三井住友銀行では、地球環境の維持向上につながる商品開発やソリューション提供を行 う一環として、2008 年より「ＳＭＢＣ環境配慮評価融資」に取り組んでおり、三井住友銀 Energy -Build a tabulation system for energy use and CO2 Second half 行と株式会社日本総合研究所（代表取締役社長：木本 泰行）の作成した独自の評価基準 (CO2 emissions) emissions of 2010 に基づき企業の環境配慮状況を評価・診断することで、先進的な環境配慮経営を行う企業 に対して積極的支援をして参りました。 -Formulate guidelines to calculate contributions Second half made to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the of 2010 「環境配慮企業支援ファンド」は、従来の「ＳＭＢＣ環境配慮評価融資」の枠組みに、 use of Sumitomo Chemical products 日本銀行の「成長基盤強化を支援するための資金供給」を活用することで、企業の環境配 -Standardize LCA (including CFP) calculation First half of 慮経営への支援、並びに日本経済の成長基盤強化への支援に、従来以上に取り組むことを methods for products 2011 目的に組成したものです。 -Revise the company-wide greenhouse gas data Second half 今回対象となった住友化学株式会社は、環境省の創設したエコ･ファースト制度※におい tabulation system of 2013 て総合化学会社では初めての「エコ･ファースト企業」として認定され、持続可能な社会 (planned) に積極的に貢献されています。今回の環境配慮状況の調査においても、「環境保全対策の 取組と成果の状況」「環境負荷の把握の状況」「環境マネジメント」の面で非常に高い水 Environmen-Revise the company-wide PRTR data tabulation system First half of 準であると判断され、企業経営において大変優れた環境配慮を実施されているとの高い評 tal protection (Adding a VOC data calculation function) 2011 価となりました。 特に、①国内全事業所および国内外のグループ会社でレスポンシブル･ケア(RC)を経営 -Newly introduce on-site waste management systems First half of 上の最も重要な柱のひとつとしてグローバル展開をされ、協力会社等にも PDCA サイクル (Using ASP* application software) 2011 の構築を働きかけられている点、②化学物質の安全性評価を環境対策の核心に位置づけら -Promote the company-wide creation of electronic First half of れ、 「エコ･ファーストの約束」として、2016 年度までに、年間 1 トン以上製造／販売して manifests based on the Waste Management and Public 2008 いる全製品の安全性に関する再評価に務め、2020 年度までに適切なリスク評価を実施する とされている点などが高く評価されました。 Cleansing Act of Japan (Aiming to increase the digitization rate to 70% as a whole) なお、今回の住友化学株式会社に行った「環境配慮企業支援ファンド」の活用は、総合 化学業界では初となります。 Chemical -Upgrade the comprehensive chemical management First half of substances systems (SuCCESS) 2012 三井住友銀行では、日本銀行の「成長基盤強化を支援するため資金供給」の趣旨を踏ま え、当行のノウハウ及び情報提供力を十分に発揮できる『環境』 ・ 『中国』等の分野を中心 (Improving the function to output a GHS Safety Data Sheet) (planned) に、引き続き企業の活動を支援して参ります。 *Application Service Provider ※エコ･ファースト制度･･･環境保全に関する業界のトップランナー企業の環境保全行動を更に促進し ていくため、 企業が環境大臣に対して京都議定書の目標達成に向けた地球温暖化対策など、自らの 取り組みを約束する制度 以 上 http://www.smbc.co.jp/news/pdf/j20101130_01.pdf 16 Governance 1 Sumitomo Chemical is further strengthening its CSR promotion system, corporate governance, and compliance-oriented management to continue to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities and maintain the trust of society. Moreover, acknowledging the importance of fostering international cooperation to further promote our CSR activities, we are proactively participating in the UN Global Compact. CONTENTS Foundation of CSR-based Management 18 Compliance 20 UN Global Compact 22 17 CSR Report 2011 Foundation of CSR-based Management Governance Sumitomo Chemical, as a corporate citizen, will further enhance the foundation of its CSR-based management to gain the greater trust of people worldwide. CSR Policy and Promotion System GRI 3.5 4.8 4.14 4.2 4.15 4.16 Sumitomo Chemical is fostering CSR activities through the concerted efforts of employees based on its Basic CSR Policy and under the CSR promotion system led by the CSR Promotion Coordinating Board and the CSR Office. Sumitomo Chemical’s Business Philosophy ties and compiles company-wide CSR implementation plans. The CSR Office serves as the Board’s secretariat. Sumitomo Chemical established its Basic CSR Policy in NoAt the meeting of the CSR Promotion Coordinating Board held vember 2004 based on Sumitomo’s Business Principles and the in May 2011, the results of activities conducted in fiscal 2010 were Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Conduct. Under this reported. Based on the Basic CSR Policy, the participants also Policy, specific goals are set and CSR activities are implemented to agreed on the priority tasks to be performed in fiscal 2011. Each achieve them. Business Sector, Research Laboratory, Works, and other sites set specific targets in line with the priority tasks, and are implementing Basic CSR Policy their CSR activities accordingly. Every year these activities are reported in the CSR Report. By continuously creating and providing useful new technologies and products that have never before existed, Sumitomo Chemical CSR Promotion Coordinating Board Organization will build corporate value while contributing to both the solution of problems facing our environment and society, and the enrichment of people’s lives. CSR Promotion Coordinating Board In order to accomplish this, the Company will work to achieve a balance of profitable business operations, the preservation of the CSR Office environment, safety, health, product quality and social activity. We Basic Chemicals Sector (Secretariat) will also pursue and promote our CSR activities with consideration for the interests of all our stakeholders, including our stockholders, Petrochemicals & Plastics Sector employees, business partners, and the local residents of all regions in which we conduct business. Through our endeavors in these IT-related Chemicals Sector areas, we hope to play a significant role in building a sustainable society, while continuing to grow in order to realize our goal of beHealth & Crop Sciences Sector coming a truly global chemical company in the 21st century. Corporate Depts. Stakeholders of Sumitomo Chemical Works, Research Labs., etc. Stakeholder Sumitomo Chemical’s Approach Shareholders and investors Payment of dividends and appropriate information disclosure Use and development of diverse human resources and maintenance TOPIC Employees of good labor-management relations Customers Quality management and responses to customers Sumitomo Chemical’s CSR is Business partners Fair, equitable, and transparent trading Local communities and society Social contribution and risk communication the Foundation of the Company Sumitomo Chemical’s business dates back to 1913, when the ComSumitomo Chemical is conducting CSR activities in considerpany was founded to solve the problem of sulfur dioxide emissions ation of the interests of all its stakeholders. With the approaches from smelting operations at the Besshi Copper Mine in the Shikoku region of Japan. The Company started its business by manufacturoutlined above, we are disclosing information and fostering bilateral ing calcium superphosphate from the emitted sulfur dioxide to supply diologues. fertilizers to help increase the yield of agricultural products. Sumitomo Chemical thus got its start as a company committed to overcoming the environmental problems caused by exhaust gas from the copper CSR Promotion System mines and to contributing to the development of agriculture by providing farmers with fertilizers available at reasonable prices. In January 2010, we established the CSR Department as an orSince then, the Company has been conducting its business not only to make profits but also to contribute to society through its busiganization dedicated to developing measures to foster CSR activiness operations. ties. Subsequently, in June 2011, we reorganized the CSR DepartDue to a series of corporate scandals in the 1990s, people are now ment into the CSR Office to build a more dynamic and flexible CSR paying more attention to corporate governance, and companies are promotion system. increasingly expected to fulfill their CSR in the face of global environmental problems and the widening of gaps amid economic globalizaSumitomo Chemical has also established a company-wide CSR tion. In response, Sumitomo Chemical has formulated its CSR policies Promotion Coordinating Board to promote CSR activities. The for safety, the environment, quality, risk management, and corporate Board, consisting of members from each Business Sector, Works, behavior, and is implementing measures based on these policies. and other sites, communicates and coordinates CSR-related activi18 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Corporate Governance Governance GRI 4.1 4.2 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.9 4.10 4.11 Sumitomo Chemical regards serving the interests of its various stakeholders amid changing social and economic conditions as the very foundation of corporate governance, and has endeavored to improve its approaches to this end. We will continue to implement measures to expedite important decision-making, more clearly define responsibilities in the execution of our business, enhance and strengthen the compliance system and internal control, and promote the timely disclosure of information. Management Structure fective and efficient operations; (2) reliability of financial reporting; (3) design, operation, and effective functioning of internal controls conSumitomo Chemical has a board of corporate auditors and has cerning compliance with relevant laws and statutes in all business also introduced an executive officer system to expedite important activities; and (4) proper and appropriate execution of business decision-making and more clearly define responsibilities in the exduties. In addition, the Internal Audit Coordination Board has been ecution of its business. The company’s management structure curestablished to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of internal rently consists of nine directors and 31 executive officers (including 8 audits throughout Sumitomo Chemical and all Group companies. executive officers serving in a dual capacity as directors). The Board of Directors ensures that important management decisions are apRisk Management System propriately made in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and the regulations concerning the Board, and Sumitomo Chemical formulates in-house rules to promptly detect also monitors and supervises the performance of the directors. The risks and prevent their materialization, and also to make appropriate executive officers are responsible for ensuring that business operaresponses in case of risk materialization. The Internal Control Comtions are carried out in accordance with the Board’s strategic manmittee formulates the basic policies concerning the entire Group’s agement planning. Compensation of directors is determined accordrisk management for each fiscal year, and the Risk Crisis Manageing to their respective responsibilities in formulating the Company’s ment Committee makes prompt responses in the event that a sigmanagement policies and specific measures and in proportion to the nificant risk is realized. business performance of the Company. There are five corporate auditors, the majority (three) of whom are Information Disclosure System from outside the Company to strengthen the auditing function by incorporating outsiders’ opinions about the soundness and efficiency Sumitomo Chemical is committed to providing its various stakeof the management of the Company into its business operations. holders, including shareholders, business partners, and local comAlso, to ensure the objectiveness and neutrality of the managemunities, with information in a prompt, accurate, and fair manner. Our ment system, we have established in-house rules for the adoption of Corporate Communications Department, established exclusively to external experts’ opinions about specific management issues, and engage in investor relations (IR) and public relations (PR) activities, have founded advisory groups concerning the nomination and compromotes timely and appropriate information disclosure and dialogue pensation of officers. with society. In addition, we endeavor to build stronger relationships of trust with Internal Control society and capital markets by publishing reports in accordance with the rules stipulated by the securities exchanges in Japan, including a We recognize the continuous development and enhancement of corporate governance report that describes the Company’s corpoour internal control system as a necessary process in maintaining a rate governance philosophy and system, and a report indicating the sound organization, and believe this system should be actively utistatus of independent auditors who are unlikely to have conflicts of lized for the achievement of business objectives. interest with general shareholders. Based on the Basic Policy for Enhancement of Internal Control These documents are available on the websites of the Tokyo Stock established in 2006 (and revised in March 2011), we have strengthExchange and Osaka Securities Exchange where Sumitomo Chemiened the internal control system to conduct appropriate business cal is listed. operations throughout the Sumitomo Chemical Group, and have also Corporate formed the Internal Control Committee to inspect and maintain the Governance General Meeting of Shareholders system in response to changing circumstances. This committee is Organization Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors organized by the Internal Control & Audit Department, which proposes and promotes various measures for improving the internal control Accounting Auditors system and monitors their implementation. Business Execution Internal Control Committee System Chairman and President Internal Auditing Management Meeting Executive Officers Internal Control & Audit Dept. The Internal Control & Audit Department also conducts internal Corporate Depts. and Business Sectors (Sumitomo Chemical and domestic and auditing for the followings in the execution of business duties by overseas Group companies) executives and employees of the Sumitomo Chemical Group: (1) ef19 CSR Report 2011 Compliance Governance Ensuring compliance is the cornerstone of Sumitomo Chemical Group’s corporate management. GRI 4.9 4.11 4.2 SO2 SO3 Compliance-Based Management Policy compliance and advises on improvement as necessary. The Committee also plans and provides compliance education programs for The Sumitomo Chemical Group companies conduct compliancedirectors, officers and employees of Sumitomo Chemical Group based management with the strong belief that compliance should companies to help enhance compliance-based management of the constitute the mainstay of corporate management and that we must Sumitomo Chemical Group. In order to implement these functions, a not violate ethics or the rules of society in any aspect of operations. Secretariat Office for the Committee, composed of members from We regard it as our social responsibility to promote compliancevarious departments of Sumitomo Chemical, engages in day-to-day based management, and in order to fulfill such a responsibility we compliance activities. have formulated the Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business ConLikewise, the Group companies have established their own comduct (see page 7) as our basic principles on our business activities. pliance systems, in principle, equivalent to that of Sumitomo ChemiBased on this charter, we are operating a compliance system to procal in order to help their own compliance-based management to be mote compliance-based management across the Group. constructed, improved and reinforced. Operation of the Compliance System by an Guidelines for Business Conduct Common to Independent Organization the Entire Group Sumitomo Chemical has established a Compliance Committee, Each of the Sumitomo Chemical Group companies in Japan chaired by a director (senior managing executive officer), as an orgaadopts a Business Conduct Manual (written in Japanese), while nization independent of the Company’s business operating units so those overseas have a Code of Ethics or documents of the same nathat the Group as a whole can implement compliance-based manture (in English or other local languages), each of which Group comagement from an impartial and objective viewpoint. The Compliance panies has made it sure that all directors, officers, and employees Committee supervises and investigates the activities of Sumitomo of the Group companies comply with these documents as shared Chemical and its Group companies for their proper legal and ethical guidelines for business conduct. We regularly review and update the Business Conduct Manual Compliance Committee Organization and the Code of Ethics to properly reflect the latest changes in relevant laws and regulations as well as constant developments in the socioeconomic environment and specific business operations of Chairman each Group company. In particular, in light of the peculiar importance Vice Chairman for overseas Group companies to constantly monitor changes in society’s requirements, including changes in local legal systems, we Members have entered into arrangements with local outside experts to enable overseas Group companies to receive support from those experts, Secretariat Office so that their Code of Ethics are reviewed and revised in a timely and General Affairs, Legal, and Human Resources Depts., thorough manner. RC Office, and Internal Control & Audit Dept. TOPIC Initiatives for the Establishment and Operation of Compliance Systems in Group Companies Sumitomo Chemical’s Compliance Committee assessed whether domestic and overseas Group companies have built and operated their compliance systems in conformity with the criteria provided by Sumitomo Chemical. As a result, it was confirmed that practically all Group companies have been operating compliance systems in conformity with the criteria of Sumitomo Chemical. In fiscal 2011, Sumitomo Chemical will continue supporting Group companies for furthering effective operation of their compliance systems. The Company will encourage the sharing of knowledge and experience relating to their compliance management among Group companies to further strengthen the operation of compliance systems not only on an individual company level but also on regional and global levels. Meeting of the Compliance Committee (held in April 2011) 20 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Daily Efforts in the Workplace to Prevent or ters that need improvement. Governance Speak-Up System Correct Illegal or Unethical Conduct At Sumitomo Chemical, if directors, officers or employees detect illegal or unethical conduct inside or outside their workplaces within We consider it fundamental to our compliance-based manageSumitomo Chemical, they are required to promptly report such conment to have in place and maintain mechanisms for effectively preduct to their supervisors or compliance managers. All Sumitomo venting or promptly correcting any illegal or unethical conduct in dayChemical Group companies, excluding those in France and other to-day business operations. Accordingly, the Sumitomo Chemical countries where the obligation to use whistle-blowing system or Group is implementing measures to ensure observance at its workanonymous reporting is prohibited by law, have adopted their Speakplaces of such compliance items , as antitrust laws, environmental Up Systems, under which an employee*1 who has found any illegal regulations, and product safety rules. In addition, we conduct a wide or unethical conduct and believes it cannot be resolved promptly via range of compliance education seminars to increase the compliance the ordinary business reporting route may report such conduct diawareness of directors, officers and employees and deepen their rectly to the Compliance Committee or designated external lawyers. understanding of specific compliance issues. For example, we are The Committee or designated external lawyers serve as contacts for now providing all employees of Sumitomo Chemical with compliance this reporting system, and employees may report to either the Comeducation in light of social trends and the revision of laws. All busimittee or the designated external lawyer.*2 All information provided in ness sites of the Company will complete this training and education the reporting is kept strictly confidential, and the informant incurs no within fiscal 2011. We are also continuously and proactively providing risk of unfair treatment, such as dismissal, transfer, or discrimination, employees with education on the basics of compliance according to for reporting such conduct. The Speak-Up System has been in optheir job grades, years of employment, and other conditions, educaeration for several years now, and cases actually reported at Sumition on individual compliance issues, internal education held by invittomo Chemical or Sumitomo Chemical Group companies under this ing external lecturers and external education. system have been handled in good faith and promptly according to the procedures of the system. We will continue steadily implementing various measures for effective management of this reporting system. *1. In the event of any violation of compliance, this system is available also to those people who are involved in any manner in the activities of the Company, such as the families of the Company’s employees, officers, and board members as well as the Group companies and business partners. *2. Not all Group companies currently employ external lawyers to serve as contacts for reporting. Compliance education held on a company-wide basis We are also devising measures to share information about changTOPIC es in laws and regulations to improve daily operations among Group companies. For example, Sumitomo Chemical operates an electronic system by which information on the revision of Japanese laws and Survey on Employee Compliance other developments related to compliance issues are disseminated Awareness Conducted at Domestic to the companies automatically via the Internet. Group Companies Other Efforts to Ensure Compliance Sumitomo Chemical conducted a survey on employee compliance awareness in January 2010, in order to raise awareness of compliTo supplement the daily initiatives as mentioned above and to ance among employees and with the aim of looking into any potential risks of noncompliance. Following this survey, we decided to conduct effectively prevent illegal and unethical acts and bring about selfsimilar ones for the Group companies after fiscal year 2010. In fiscal cleansing effects against such acts, we are implementing the followyear 2010, the survey was conducted not only at the Company but ing measures. also at eight major domestic Group companies that have a relatively large number of employees. We will compare the survey results with Compliance Auditing System the results of the survey conducted at Sumitomo Chemical and proThe Internal Control & Audit Department at Sumitomo Chemical mote and enhance the compliance-based management of Group specializes in internal audits and monitors the compliance activicompanies in consideration of the level of compliance awareness and matters to be tackled with at each Group company. In fiscal year 2011, ties of Sumitomo Chemical and its Group companies in Japan and the survey will also be conducted at other Group companies than the abroad on a regular basis. It checks the appropriateness of the comabove eight major domestic Group companies. pliance initiatives undertaken by the companies and points out mat21 CSR Report 2011 UN Global Compact Governance Sumitomo Chemical is participating in the creation of a global framework for sustainable development. GRI 4.9 4.11 4.2 4.12 4.13 SO5 In January 2005, Sumitomo Chemical became the first Japanese chemical company to announce its participation in the UN Global Compact* advocated by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. Since then, we have been further promoting our CSR activities in compliance with the ten principles of the Global Compact, while networking with the United Nations and other institutions, and reporting on the status of our efforts in our CSR Report. Contributing to Society through Our Business Sumitomo Chemical prepared parts of the draft. This guide was completed and announced at the Global Compact Leaders Summit Sumitomo Chemical is committed to contributing to the sustainheld on June 24 and 25, 2010. able development of society as the core of its CSR and believes it As a member of the global community, Sumitomo Chemical will crucial to comply with international norms and cooperate with intercontinue to address the global challenge of anti-corruption in coopnational organizations, NGOs, and other companies in meeting the eration with other organizations. challenges faced by society. The Global Compact initiative is fully consistent with the Company’s conceptions. UN Global Compact LEAD Sumitomo Chemical conducts all its business activities with due consideration for the principles of the Global Compact regarding On January 28, 2011, under the leadership of the UN Secretary human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. General Ban Ki-moon, the Global Compact LEAD was launched as a new framework to proactively tackle various problems faced by *UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a United Nations initiative in which businesses humankind. demonstrate responsible and creative leadership and voluntarily participate in The Global Compact has more than 8,900 signatories from over efforts to establish a worldwide framework that enables them to act as good 135 countries, and the Global Compact LEAD was launched with corporate citizens and achieve sustainable growth. 54 companies that had made great contributions to the Global Compact. Sumitomo Chemical joined LEAD in January 2011 as one Initiative Taken by the Global Compact of its initial members. At present, 56 companies, including three Japanese companies, are participating in LEAD. Working Group on the 10th Principle As a member of the international community, Sumitomo Chemi(Anti-Corruption) cal will continue to make efforts to resolve global problems in cooperation with other organizations. In December 2008, Sumitomo Chemical became the first Japanese company to participate in the Global Compact Working Group on the 10th Principle (Anti-Corruption). This working group, which comprises companies, NGOs, and others with divergent interests, discusses companies’ needs and their efforts in combating corruption. As a member of the sub-working group on supply chains, whose duty was to prepare a Guide for Customers and Suppliers, The Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diff usion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 22 Economic Activities 2 Sumitomo Chemical will continue to supply useful, innovative and groundbreaking products worldwide, thereby contributing to the development of society and industries. At the same time, the Company is maximizing its corporate value through enhancing the profitability of its business operations. In the trend of globalization, we will speedily expand our businesses both in Japan and overseas as a global enterprise. CONTENTS Business Performance 24 Relations with Stakeholders 25 Business Projects Implemented in Fiscal 2010 26 Contribution through the Olyset™ Net Business 28 23 CSR Report 2011 Business Performance Economic Sumitomo Chemical is striving to increase its corporate value on a continual basis by globally Activities expanding its business and ensuring higher profitability. GRI 2.8 EC1 Overview of Consolidated Business Results were lost. Under these circumstances, we made a concerted effort to In fiscal 2010, the business environment surrounding the Sumiimprove our business performance by modifying sales prices, extomo Chemical Group showed a moderate improvement. Specifipanding sales quantities, and cost savings through drastic rationalcally, against a backdrop of growth in emerging economies, the ization. As a result, in fiscal 2010, net sales increased to 1.98 trillion shipment of IT-related products increased and trading conditions yen, up 361.5 billion yen from the previous fiscal year, and operating concerning basic chemicals and petrochemicals-related products income, ordinary income, and net income stood at 88.0 billion yen, improved. Direct damage to equipment from the Great East Japan 84.1 billion yen, and 24.4 billion yen, respectively. In fiscal 2010, Earthquake was minor, but the shipment and production of some of due to further globalization of its business, the Sumitomo Chemical our products decreased or were suspended, and some inventories Group’s overseas sales ratio reached a record high of 53.3%. Net Sales Operating Income Ordinary Income (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 20,000 19,824 1,500 2,000 18,965 1,396 17,900 17,882 16,209 1,580 1,200 1,500 15,000 1,024 880 900 1,000 928 841 10,000 600 515 500 350 5,000 ▲326 300 0 21 0 0 -500 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (FY) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (FY) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (FY) Net Income Number of Employees Overseas Sales Ratios (100 million yen) (Persons) （％） 1,000 939 30,000 29,382 60 27,828 26,902 53.3 800 24,691 25,588 25,000 50 631 45.0 600 41.8 41.6 41.9 20,000 40 400 244 200 147 15,000 30 ▲592 0 10,000 20 -200 5,000 10 -400 -600 0 0 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (FY) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (FY) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (FY) 24 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Relations with Stakeholders Economic Sumitomo Chemical believes it is one of its social responsibilities to appropriately distribute Activities the profit made through its business operations to its stakeholders. GRI 3.9 EC1 Economic Activities Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders ★ In fiscal 2010, the Company distributed the following added value to its major stakeholders, which we have estimated by classifying the profits and costs posted in the financial statements by stakeholder, with reference to the GRI guidelines and other materials. Stakeholder Amount (Unit: million yen) Calculation basis Shareholders 14,868 Dividends Society* 667 Donations Environment 37,400 Environmental protection costs Employees* 75,043 Labor costs Salaries and allowances, reserve for bonuses, and allowance for retirement in the selling, general administrative and research expenses Creditors 7,763 Interests paid National and local governments 34,846 Corporate, inhabitant, and business taxes *For the distribution of value to society and employees, the amounts are shown on an unconsolidated basis. Donations Sumitomo Chemical regards it as one of its important social Donations made in fiscal 2010 ★ responsibilities to make donations, and has been making specific (Unit: cases) donations by comprehensively examining factors such as social imItem portance, need of continuity, and urgency. Local community activities 134 In areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, we donatSports 24 ed money to victims in fiscal 2010. (Also, since the start of fiscal 2011, we have continued to donate money collected from employees, supply Social welfare 18 relief goods, and donate a part of sales from meals served at cafeterias. Health and medicine 3 For details, see page 14.) We have also continued to donate Olyset™ Academic study and research 15 Nets as an effective means to control malaria. Education and social education 19 In fiscal 2010, we made a total of 427 donations, which amounted Culture and art 14 to 667.73 million yen. Environment 9 Major donations made in fiscal 2010 Preservation of historic sites and traditional culture 6 (Unit: million yen) International exchange and cooperation 39 To support victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake Support to areas devastated by disasters 8 (including donation of funds towards volunteer activities) 300 Support for the creation of disaster-resistant communities 1 To supply Olyset™ Nets to the Southern African Development Community 37 Building the foundation of NPOs 2 To sponsor the Japanese Pavilion in the Expo 2010 Shanghai China 25 Politics and economy 103 To give financial incentive for studies and research at the Peking University Law School 16 Others 32 Total 427 To support victims of mudslides in Zhugqu County in Gansu Province, China 13 Total amount: 667.73 million yen To support the construction of schools in Malawi 12 To support victims of an earthquake in Qinghai Province 10 To support the construction of schools in Mali 9 To support the construction of schools in Ghana 9 25 CSR Report 2011 Business Projects Implemented in Fiscal 2010 Economic Sumitomo Chemical is implementing a range of business projects both in Japan and abroad. Activities The following describes the major projects implemented by the Company in fiscal 2010. GRI 2.2 2.9 Expanding Methyl Methacrylate Polymer ing Asian markets, the need to procure butadiene—used as raw Production Capacity in Singapore material and which is likely to be in tight supply—in a stable manner, and also because of the merits derived from cooperation with existSumitomo Chemical is expanding its methyl methacrylate polying local businesses in the Sumitomo Chemical Group. mer (PMMA) production capacity in Singapore by constructing a Sumitomo Chemical’s S-SBR is highly appreciated by users in new plant with an annual production capacity of 50,000 tons. This the tire manufacturing industry both in Japan and abroad as a fuelplant is slated to start commercial operation in the third quarter of efficient tire material with outstanding abrasion resistance. The new 2012. With the addition of this new plant to the existing facilities in plant in Singapore, in tandem with the existing plant in Japan, will Singapore, the Company’s annual PMMA production capacity in the drive the further global expansion of the Company’s S-SBR busicountry will increase to 150,000 tons. This, along with the Sumitomo ness. Chemical Group’s two other PMMA production bases in Japan and South Korea, will increase the Group’s total PMMA production caEstablishing a Joint Venture with Samsung pacity to 318,000 tons per year, making the Group the world’s largLED for the Sapphire Substrate Business est producer of PMMA. In recent years, demand for PMMA has been rising steeply for Sumitomo Chemical and Samsung LED of South Korea have esuse in light guide plates, a component of LCD televisions equipped tablished a joint venture in South Korea for the R&D, manufacture, with LED backlights. As LCD televisions become thinner and more and sale of sapphire substrates for LEDs. This joint venture will first energy-efficient, the light source for LCD televisions is rapidly shiftengage in the LED sapphire substrate business, aiming to eventuing from conventional cold-cathode tubes to LEDs, and with this ally become a comprehensive provider of LED-related materials. shift, PMMA light guide plates are being increasingly adopted to LEDs are manufactured by slicing sapphire ingots into thin disperse light evenly over the entire screen. Moreover, demand for sheets. These sheets are processed into sapphire substrates, which PMMA is expected to grow also for conventional applications in are then coated with a luminescent layer. LEDs are used in a wide automobiles, home electric appliances, and miscellaneous goods. range of fields as they are highly energy-efficient and give only low In order to meet this increasing demand, Sumitomo Chemical has environmental impact while exhibiting outstanding luminescent efdecided to construct a new plant. ficiency and color rendition. The LED market is expected to further Sumitomo Chemical will continue to further strengthen and expand expand, mainly in applications for LCD television backlights, interior its PMMA business in its efforts to meet the rapidly growing demand lighting, and automobiles, and demand for sapphire substrates and for PMMA as the world’s largest manufacturer of the product. related materials will increase accordingly in the future. Sumitomo Chemical is a provider of high-purity alumina used as Constructing a New S-SBR Manufacturing a raw material for sapphire substrates and liquid crystal polymer Plant in Singapore used in materials for LED packages, and to start the commercial production of sapphire substrates as early as possible, the ComSumitomo Chemical is constructing a new solution styrenepany has been working to build a robust production system for the butadiene rubber (S-SBR) plant in Singapore. The plant will have a substrates across the entire Sumitomo Chemical Group. production capacity of 40,000 tons per year and will start commerAt the same time, Samsung LED regards the LED business, cial operation in the fourth quarter of 2013. which shows promise for future growth, as one of its core busiDemand for S-SBR is rapidly increasing as a raw material for nesses, and plans to make strategic investments in the business. high-performance fuel-efficient tires, as regulations on automobile By cooperating to create synergies in technological developfuel consumption are becoming stricter across the world to combat ment, marketing, and other areas, the two companies will enhance global warming. In Asia, particularly in China, India, and Thailand, their competitiveness and expand their business in the LED market, many tire manufacturers are planning capacity expansions, and in which is expected to continue substantial growth. response, suppliers of S-SBR are expected to increase their supply capacity in the near future. Sumitomo Chemical has decided to construct a new plant in Singapore because of its geographical advantage in supplying S-SBR to the growDemand for S-SBR is rapidly growing as a material for high-performance, fuel-efficient tires. 26 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Economic Activities Releasing New Agricultural Chemicals to the acquisition of these shares, we are creating more synergetic Contribute to Domestic Agricultural Production effects to promote the sales of our agricultural chemical products in the world market. On March 8, 2011, Sumitomo Chemical began selling the Zeta Sumitomo Chemical has been expanding its business in the One™ and Mega Zeta™, new herbicides for paddy rice, which field of life science, regarding this field—which includes agriculturwere registered as agricultural chemicals in Japan on December al chemicals—as one of its core business segments. In the future, 13, 2010. efficient production of agricultural products will become more imThe new products, which contain propyrisulfuron (generic portant as the world population increases and demand for biofuels name)—an ingredient newly developed by Sumitomo Chemical, expands. Accordingly, it is expected that demand for agricultural are herbicides for one-shot application in the initial to middle pechemicals will further increase, not only in the United States and riod of rice culture in paddy fields. Propyrisulfuron is highly effecEurope but also in Central and South American countries and in tive in controlling a range of annual and perennial weeds, including Asia. Echinochloa crus-galli (barnyard grass). The herbicides are also Sumitomo Chemical expects that its comprehensive business very effective for eliminating Eleocharis kuroguwai Ohwi, Sagittaria and capital investment in Nufarm will help the Company respond trifolia, and other weeds that are very difficult to remove. to an increase in demand for agricultural chemicals, contributing The Zeta One™ and Mega Zeta™ contain one to two active into the stable production of agricultural products across the world. gredients (while mainstream products in the market may contain This will in turn help the Company strengthen and enhance its agthree to four active ingredients) and are therefore more suitable for ricultural chemicals business. specially cultivated rice*1, for which demand has been recently increasing. Moreover, the products are available in three forms (oneCultivation Facilities Completed at kilogram granules, flowable*2, and jumbo*3). Sumika Farm Oita Sumitomo Chemical has enhanced the product lineup through the release of the aforementioned products. To make even more On November 12, 2010, Sumitomo Chemical held a ribbon-cutcontributions to the prevention and removal of weeds in paddy ting ceremony for the cultivation and shipment facilities of Sumika rice fields, we are actively continuing to develop and diffuse prodFarm Oita, including a greenhouse. Governor Hirose of Oita Preucts that contain propyrisulfuron. fecture and Mayor Hashimoto of Bungo-Ono City attended the *1. Specially cultivated rice ceremony. At the newly completed greenhouse, three high-quality Rice cultivated by reducing the use of pesticides and the nitrogen content of chemitomato varieties are grown, including high-density tomatoes cultical fertilizers to at least half that of ordinary levels. vated using the new tomato growing system with low-node order *2. Flowable pinching and high-density planting. These tomatoes have been In flowable herbicides, active ingredients that are not readily soluble in water are prosold in the Kanto and Kansai regions since December 2010. cessed into very fine particles and suspended in water mixed with emulsifiers. *3. Jumbo Sumitomo Chemical will continue to establish and manage Formulation packaged in a water-soluble film. agricultural corporations with a view to accumulating various agricultural technologies, including cultivation technologies and know-how in farm management. We will use the technologies thus gained to contribute to the revitalization of local agriculture across Japan, in cooperation with agricultural producers, production associations, local governments, and other interested parties. Fostering the Global Expansion of Business by Acquiring Shares in Nufarm, Australia Sumitomo Chemical acquired 20% of the total issued shares in Nufarm, an Australian manufacturer of crop protection products, in April 2004, and has subsequently increased its stake in the comGovernor Hirose of Oita Prefecture (second from left) and Mayor Hashimoto of Bungo-Ono City (center) in pany to 23%. By enhancing our partnership with Nufarm through the new greenhouse. 27 CSR Report 2011 Contribution through the Olyset™ Net Business Economic The Olyset™ Net, an insecticidal mosquito net that helps prevent the spread of malaria, Activities symbolizes the CSR initiative of Sumitomo Chemical, which is committed to business activities that contribute to the creation of a prosperous society. GRI 2.2 EC9 Product Developed through Creative Hybrid Expanding Production Capacity in Line with Chemistry WHO Policy Every year, 300 million people around the world develop malaria In 2001, the World Health Organization (WHO) endorsed the and 0.8 million people die from the disease. People living in Africa use of the Olyset™ Net as a “long-lasting insecticidal net.” The account for 90% of these deaths, and most of the victims are chilOlyset™ Net has been contributing to malaria control in Africa and dren under the age of five living in the Sub-Saharan region. Infecacross the world. Results from a limited regional trial indicated tious diseases, such as malaria, prevent people from working or that the use of the net contributed to an impressive decline in the attending school and also incur high costs for medical treatment, local rate of malarial infection. often forcing them into a vicious circle of poverty from which it is In 2008, the WHO, promoting the policy of “universal coverage,” difficult to escape. enlarged its pool of candidates for malaria control, which had preMalaria is an infectious disease transmitted by mosquitoes, and viously been limited to pregnant women and infants. Under this protecting people from mosquitoes represents the most effecpolicy, the organization aims to distribute one long-lasting insective method of preventing contraction of the disease. Sumitomo ticidal net per two people in malaria-prone areas. It is estimated Chemical developed the Olyset™ Net, which is a highly durable that fulfilling this aim will require 350 million nets. To meet the net made from polyethylene resin-based fibers containing insecdemand, Sumitomo Chemical has increased the total Olyset™ Net ticide, using expertise gained through the development and proproduction capacity of its production bases in three countries to duction of resin and active ingredients for household insecticides. 60 million nets per year (29 million nets in Tanzania, 19 million in Sumitomo Chemical developed this product through Creative Vietnam and 12 million in China). Hybrid Chemistry by combining its proprietary technologies from different fields. (For details see page 8.) Creating Employment through Local Features of the Olyset™ Net Production in Africa -Because the net is made from polyethylene resin-based fibers In 2003, Sumitomo Chemical provided its Olyset™ Net manucontaining insecticide that is gradually released onto the surface, it facturing technology free of licensing fees to A to Z Textile Mills retains its insecticidal efficacy for more than five years—even with Limited, a Tanzanian mosquito net manufacturer. Subsequently, in repeated washing. 2007, the Company established Vector Health International Lim-Because it is designed to be used in the hot climate of Africa, the mesh is larger than that of an ordinary mosquito net in order to imited, a joint venture with A to Z Textile Mills and opened a new facprove air circulation. tory. The Olyset™ Net business has provided approximately 7,000 people with jobs in Tanzania, thereby contributing to local employment and economic development. Olyset™ Net production bases Sumitomo Chemical will continue to contribute to the sustainable development of society through its business operations. China Production Capacity for the Olyset™ Net India Vietnam (Unit: millions of nets) 60 60 Production capacity worldwide Ethiopia Production capacity in Tanzania 51 50 Tanzania Malawi 40 38 Photograph 30 30 ⓒ ：Manufacturing factories M. Hallahan/Sumitomo Chemical ：Sewing factories 20 18 13 29 29 10 19 3 3.4 11 0.4 3 3 0 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 (FY) Olyset™ Net manufacturing factory in Tanzania 28 Responsible Care Activities 3 In its efforts to realize Sustainable Chemistry, Sumitomo Chemical is promoting Responsible Care (RC) activities based on its Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment and Product Quality and on the fundamental principle of “Making Safety the First Priority.” We will continue to conduct RC activities proactively and systematically to ensure zeroaccident and zero-injury operations, protect the global environment, ensure the safety of chemicals based on their risk assessment, convey information through our supply chain, and promote communication with society. CONTENTS Promoting RC Activities Together with Group Companies 30 Responsible Care (RC) Audits 32 Group Company Initiatives 33 Major Targets and Results 36 Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group 38 Energy and Environmental Protection 40 Occupational Safety and Health/ Industrial Safety and Disaster Prevention 46 Chemical Safety Initiatives 50 Quality Assurance Initiatives 52 Initiatives for Ensuring Quality, Safety, and Environmental Protection in Logistics Operations 54 Progress in Fulfilling Eco-First Commitments 56 29 CSR Report 2011 Promoting RC Activities Together with Group Companies Responsible The Sumitomo Chemical Group is making a concerted effort to encourage and enhance Care Responsible Care activities on a global scale. Activities GRI 4.8 4.9 Corporate Policy on Safety, Organization for Responsible Care Activities the Environment and Product Quality Sumitomo Chemical has its Responsible Care (RC) Committee Sumitomo Chemical has set forth safety, the environment, and t o f o s t er R e sp onsible C a r e f r om a longt er m vie w b o th product quality as top priorities for all phases of its business comprehensively and efficiently. This committee is chaired activities in its Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment by the executive officer in charge of Responsible Care and and Product Quality. This policy has been communicated to all comprises executive officers supervising the four business employees of Sumitomo Chemical and its Group companies to sectors of the Company, executive officers in charge of the ensure that each and every employee is fully aware of it. corporate departments (the General Affairs, Legal, Corporate Communications and Logistics Departments, the Responsible Policy on Responsible Care Activities Care Office, etc.), and heads of the Works. Sumitomo Chemical has summarized its key Responsible Care initiatives in its Policy on Responsible Care Activities, which is incorporated into the specific activity targets and plans formulated annually by the Company and each workplace. Revised: November 1, 2005 Policy on Responsible Care Activities (Established April 1, 1994) Revised: March 2, 2006 Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment and Product Quality (Established: January 1995) In conformity with Sumitomo’s Business Principles, our Company fulﬁlls its Responsible Care Committee responsibility to develop, manufacture and supply a variety of products that satisfy the fundamental necessities of human life and contribute to the growth of society. In accordance with the Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment and Product Under the concept of “Making Safety the First Priority,” which is fundamental Quality, Sumitomo Chemical will strive to promote Responsible Care activities to all the Company’s operations, Sumitomo Chemical has based management in developing its business, and will also do its utmost to achieve sustainable of its activities on the principles of (i) maintaining zero-accident and zerodevelopment and earn the trust of society. injury operations, (ii) ensuring customer satisfaction, and (iii) promoting mutual prosperity with society. 1. We will achieve our zero-accident, zero-disaster targets to ensure stable Paying due respect to these principles, our Company is determined to conduct operations. all activities, including production, R&D, marketing & sales and logistics, in 2. We will conduct risk management throughout the life cycle of our products, accordance with the following policy related to safety, the environment and throughout the stages of development, manufacturing, transport and disposal, product quality. and strive to conserve the environment, and ensure the safety and health of our 1. Maintain zero-accident and zero-injury operations and the safety of neighboring employees as well as that of the local community. communities and our employees. 3. We will comply with all domestic and international laws and standards relating 2. Ascertain the safety of raw materials, intermediates and products, and prevent to safety and the environment, and strive to meet even stricter targets than those our employees, distributors, customers and consumers from being exposed to legally required. any possible hazard. 4. We will promote both risk reduction and accident prevention from the 3. Supply high-quality products and services that satisfy customers’ needs and perspectives of product safety and quality. ensure safety in their use. 5. We will promote energy and resource conservation and seek to reduce our 4. Assess and reduce our environmental impact at all operational stages, from environmental impact. product development to disposal, and undertake all practical environmental 6. We will implement the requisite education and training for our employees protection measures. relating to safety, the environment and product quality, and will promote effective Responsible Care activities. All sections and employees of our Company shall be made fully aware of the 7. We will be mindful of the interests of both local residents and regulatory significance of this policy, and shall constantly strive to improve operational authorities in connection to safety, the environment and product quality, and performance, while at the same time abiding by all relevant laws, regulations and will fulﬁll our responsibility to provide related information through dialogue. standards. 8. We will evaluate the content of our activities and seek to implement Masakazu Tokura improvements through Responsible Care audits pertaining to occupational President health and safety, security and disaster prevention, environmental protection, Sumitomo Chemical Company, Limited chemical safety, product safety and quality assurance. 9. We will support the Responsible Care activities of Group companies, contractors and other business partners, including located overseas. 30 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Implementing the Sumitomo Chemical Group’s Applying the Sumitomo Chemical Group Responsible Care Activities Corporate Business Plan for Responsible Care Responsible Care Activity Standards Sumitomo Chemical has formulated a medium-term plan for As part of measures to enhance internal control and foster Responsible Care activities (for fiscal 2010 to 2012) for the entire e f ficienc y in Group management, Sumitomo Chemical has Sumitomo Chemical Group, covering the fields of occupational formulated the Sumitomo Chemical Group Responsible Care safety and health, industrial safety and disaster prevention, Activity Standards and is fostering the application of the standards environmental protection, chemical safety, product safety, and b y bo th domes tic and over sea s Group companies. These quality assurance. We are implementing this plan, aiming to achieve standards set out the Group’s policies, measures, procedures, and the targets it sets forth. other basic requirements for each RC activity area. Organization for Responsible Care Activities TOPIC General Affairs Dept. Holding Twice-Yearly RC Meetings in Japan CSR Office Sumitomo Chemical holds a twice-yearly Chairman Corporate Communications Dept. meeting for domestic Group companies to Responsible Care Office exchange information about RC at its head Vice Chairman office in Osaka, in April and November. Osaka Works These meetings have been held for more President Four Corporate R&D Laboratories Executive Vice President than 20 years. In each of the meetings Senior Managing Executive Officers held in fiscal 2010, 100 or more employees Divisions Corresponding in cha r ge o f R C p a r ticip a t e d. Dur ing Managing Executive Officers Basic Chemicals Sector Works Responsible Care Subcommittee discussions, both Sumitomo Chemical and Executive Officers, etc. Research Laboratories Group companies reported their RC-related Divisions challenges and topics, and par ticipants Corresponding Petrochemicals & Plastics Sector Works Responsible Care proactively exchanged opinions with each Research Laboratories Subcommittee other. Responsible Care Committee Chairman: Executive officer in charge of Responsible Care Divisions Corresponding Vice Chairmen: Executive officers in charge of legal and general affairs IT-related Chemicals Sector Works Responsible Care Research Laboratories Subcommittee Members: Executive officers in charge of each sector and administrative departments Divisions Corresponding and the heads of each Works Health & Crop Works Responsible Care Secretariat Office: Responsible Care Office Sciences Sector Subcommittee Research Laboratories (Note) The fifth RC Global Meeting (annual meeting held with the participation of overseas Gr oup c omp a nie s a t the he a d o f f ic e in Tokyo) slated for the end of March 2011 was postponed until autumn 2011 due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. Sumitomo Chemical Group’s Corporate Business Plan for Responsible Care Plan Do Group’s Medium-Term Corporate RC activities Business Plan for Responsible Care Implementation items (1) Occupational health and safety (1) Occupational health and safety Common measures Act io n · Assessing risks and implementing measures (1) Establishing the foundation (Applying Reducing labor accidents t i ca (2) Industrial safety and disaster prevention the Group’s RC Activity Standards and (2) Industrial safety and disaster prevention un Check m Zero ﬁres and explosions Co m · Assessing risks and implementing measures formulating company rules) (3) Environmental protection (3) Environmental protection (2) Risk management (HAZOP and PL Reducing environmental impact · Setting speciﬁc reduction targets and implementing measures risks) (4) Chemical safety Society (4) Chemical safety (3) Education (developing Sumitomo Improving management levels · Compiling hazard data and using them for risk Chemical educational programs) (5) Product safety assessment (4) Use of the PDCA cycle Reducing PL risks (5) Product safety (5) Compliance (6) Quality assurance · Assessing risks and implementing measures · Improving the identiﬁed problem areas · Internal RC audits Reducing quality-related (6) Quality assurance · Reviewing the management system · Audits on Group companies by accidents (including PL · Establishing a quality assurance system · Incorporating the results in the next plan Sumitomo Chemical’s RC Ofﬁce accidents) 31 CSR Report 2011 Responsible Care (RC) Audits Responsible We examine the results of our Responsible Care activities for a range of items to increase the Care effectiveness of the activities. Activities GRI 4.11 Responsible Care Auditing Framework and Overview Responsible Care Auditing Framework Sumitomo Chemical conducts RC audits to objectively evaluate RC Committee RC management audits, audit team whether RC activities are being conducted appropriately and whether the PDCA cycle is being executed properly. Delegation Sumitomo Chemical’s Works and Research Laboratories are subject to the following two types of RC audits: Composition of specialized RC audit team Specialized audits (1) Specialized audits, in which a checklis t is crea ted and specialists then conduct audits on RC systems and their operation; and RCRC 専門監査員 specialized auditors Works and Research Laboratories (2) Management audits involving Responsible Care Committee members led by the executive officer in charge of Responsible Business sectors Care. RC auditors (Planning & Coordination Office, Divisions) Specialized audits are also conducted for each of Sumitomo Chemical’s business sectors as well as Group companies in Japan Group companies and overseas. CommiRC 専門監査員 ttee members specializing in process safety (Japan and overseas) Fiscal 2010 Responsible Care Audit Results Responsible Care specialized audits and management audits Responsible Care Auditing Flow (Overview) were conducted a t the Ehime, Chiba, Osaka, Oita, Misawa, Specialized audits and Ohe Works and at the Health & Crop Sciences Research Category Environmental audit Health & safety audit Product quality & PL audit Laboratory (Takarazuka). In addition, a total of 43 audits were conducted on our business sectors and domestic and overseas Description Specialized auditing of RC systems and their operation Group companies. The results turned up no ma jor issues of noncompliance with laws and regulations. Sumitomo Chemical’s Works Sumitomo Chemical’s Business Overseas Group Scope and Research Laboratories Sectors and Group companies companies Management audit Description Auditing from a management perspective by Sumitomo Chemical’s executive officers Continuous improvement activities incorporating corrective actions and preventive measures VOICE enhancement and improvement of safety management. Also, considering Hiroshi Nishida the gravity of an incident involving a vehicle owned by the company that General Quality Assurance Department, Nihon Medi-Physics Co., Ltd. resulted in a labor accident, we are earnestly implementing measures to Striving to Enhance Safety Management prevent accidents involving the company’s vehicles. Giving first priority to safety as our basic corporate philosophy, we are improving the safety awareness of employees across the company We underwent RC audits at our major manufacturing facilities in Chiba and fostering RC activities with the participation of all. We have thus and Hyogo. Based on a range of opinions given to us through the audits begun conducting on our RC activities covering the environment, safety, and quality, we have RC a c tivitie s on been making specific improvements in a steady manner, such as revising a c o mp a n y w ide the procedures for non-routine and ad-hoc work, aiming to improve the basis, recognizing entire level of our RC activities. the nece ssit y o f Unfortunately, however, we have suffered a series of labor accidents at implemen ting R C our non-manufacturing sites over the past two years. In response, we have me a sur e s mor e introduced to the head office and sales department safety patrols and the widely on a regular reporting of incidents that could have resulted in serious injuries. Moreover, basis. we have started to provide new employees with education on workplace safety and expanded the target of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee activities to include all branches and sales offices for the Head office of Nihon Medi-Physics 32 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Group Company Initiatives Responsible Group companies are implementing a wide range of Responsible Care activities. Care Activities Responsible Care Activities Initiatives Taken by Domestic Group Companies Making Effective Use of Logging Residues as Biomass Fuel Providing Customers with Even Better Support in Their RC Activities Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Sumika Chemical Analysis Service Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd. has been making In 1972, a part of Sumitomo Chemical’s Analysis Division became effective use of waste wood, such as wood shavings from independent and formed Sumika Chemical Analysis Service, sawmills, as biomass fuel for boilers since fiscal 2005, thereby Ltd. This company meets the needs for analysis and evaluation reducing the use of coal at its thermal power generation plants to technologies in all industrial fields, including the environmental, curb CO2 emissions. electronic, pharmaceutical, engineering support, and chemical In recent years, demand for wood biomass has been expanding safety fields, as the largest comprehensive analysis service and it is becoming difficult to procure wood for use as biomass company and offering advanced technologies and expertise. fuel. In response, the company began implementing measures to In addition to providing customers with a broad range of make effective use of logging residues, such as woodland thinning analysis and evaluation services to ensure the quality and safety left unused in forests. In July 2010 we started to use biomass fuel of products, including measuring the concentrations of hazardous made from logging residues, which were crushed for the purpose substances in food and testing the stability of pharmaceuticals, we by one of our Group companies. By using logging residues, we can also support customers in their RC activities. increase the total use of wood biomass and reduce CO2 emissions while contributing to preventing forest deterioration and promoting woodland protection. Sumika Chemical Analysis Service’s Ehime Laboratory We support customers’ RC activities specifically through (1) analytical services related to environmental protection (analyzing Inputting logging residues into a wastewater and exhaust gas from factories, measuring data crushing machine (Niihama-Nishi thermal power plant) about work environments, analyzing traces of PCBs contained in insulating oil, and conducting surveys on room environments in relation to sick house syndrome, and also surveys on soil contamination); (2) risk assessment services related to industrial safety ( tests related to the Fire Ser vice Act of Japan, dust explosion and gas explosion tests, etc.); and (3) services for chemical safety, such as filing applications on behalf of customers Transporting the crushed logging residues (Niihama-Nishi for registration to comply with regulations on chemicals (REACH, thermal power plant) TSCA, and the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances There are some concerns about increasing the use of wood and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc. of Japan) both in Japan biomass fuel because the amount of heat generated by the and abroad. We have bases not only in Japan but also in China biomass fuel differs from the heat value of coal and the use of the (Shanghai), Singapore, and Europe (Belgium) to provide services on fuel might affect the operation and maintenance of boilers. Due to a global scale. this, wood biomass fuel currently accounts for only a few percent To provide customers with even better business/RC activity of total fuel combustion. However, we will strive to increase the support services, we are striving to improve our operations in a use of biomass fuel as much as possible in our continuous efforts strict manner, receiving advice from Sumitomo Chemical. to reduce global warming and preserve the environment. Naohisa Iwasaki Satoshi Ebisu General Affairs and General Manager of the Environment Department Technology Office Sumitomo Joint Electric Sumika Chemical Power Co, Ltd. Analysis Service, Ltd. 33 CSR Report 2011 Responsible Care Activities Initiatives Taken by Overseas Group Companies received four Responsible Care Achievement Awards in the Responsible Care Initiatives areas of Process Safety code, Employee Health and Safety Sumitomo Chemical Singapore code, Pollution Prevention code and Community Awareness and Emergency Response code. The Responsible Care awards will Sumitomo Chemical Singapore ( SCS ) was established in provide added impetus in our commitment towards sustainability 1996 and is engaged in the manufacture and sale of Methyl and to strive for continual improvement in the fields of health, Methacrylate monomer (MMA-m) and Methyl Methacrylate polymer safety and environment of employees and the community. (MMA-p). With the Sumitomo Chemical Group Responsible Care General The manufacturing plants of MMA-m and MMA-p are operated Standards and Guidance, SCS has established and will be in the Singapore MMA & Acrylic Group (SMAG) Complex, which implementing the rules of specific procedures for Responsible Care is situated at Jurong Island in Singapore. SMAG complex consists this year. of manufacturing of MMA-m, MMA-p, and other Acrylic derivative SCS will continue not only to achieve the specific targets of chemicals. Overall complex operations are managed by SCS. Sumitomo Chemical Group Medium Term plan on Responsible Care Until now, SCS boasts of the single largest production site but also to be active with Responsible Care activities through for MMA-m and MMA-p in the business field, with an annual Community Outreach programmes with industrial players with the production of 223,000 tons of MMA-m and 100,000 tons of view of improving health, safety and environment and product MMA-p. And, we are now embarked on the new expansion project stewardship performance in the chemical industry. of MMA-p and the annual production volume will reach 150,000 tons in 2012. SCS cer tified ISO 9001 and ISO14001 in 2001 and 2006, Thet Naing Sumitomo Chemical respectively. In 2010, SCS implemented new SS506 Part 3: 2006 Singapore Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) management system Deputy Manager, Health, Safety & Environment particularly requirements for the chemical industry by Ministry of Manpower, Singapore. With clear policy on Health, Safety and Environment and Quality As a Responsible Corporate Citizen management system established, we have achieved no Lost Time The Polyolefin Company (Singapore) Injury (LTI) since plant startup in 1999 till now as to MMA-p plant. In 2006, SCS committed to as a signator y of Responsible Care Company in Singapore Chemical Industry Council (SCIC). The Polyolefin Company (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., or TPC, is the first Since then, SCS has been actively conducting annual voluntary polyethylene & polypropylene manufacturer in South East Asia and submission of Responsible Care self-evaluation and KPIs to SCIC one of the largest polyolefin producers in the region, with an annual and involving in the Responsible Care activities through Community output of more than 800,000 tons. TPC is located on Jurong Island, Outreach programmes such as student (secondary, polytechnics which is designated as world-class chemical hub. TPC became and universities) visit to the plant, product safety awareness talk one of the first 50 companies in Singapore to pledge themselves at the schools, Chemical Industry Manpower Advisory Committee as Responsible Care signatories, initiated by the Singapore (CHIMAC) HR forum, etc., Chemical Industry Council (SCIC) on October 15, 1999. With that, In addition, SCS plays the contributing role in the neighboring we are committed to implementing RC activities in our plant and to indus trial communit y organiza tions such as Sakr a Owner s promoting RC among chemical companies in Singapore, as well as Roundtable (SORT) and Sakra Industries Community Awareness for our customers, suppliers, contractors and community. Group (SICA), which are composed of the company members in Over the years, TPC has made significant progress in the Sakra cluster in Jurong Island, in terms of HSE related matters and reduc tion o f ma terials consump tion, including energy and sharing of best practices amongst the companies. water, and waste generation and disposal to landfill. TPC has In SCIC Responsible Care Awards presentation 2010, SCS implemented and continuously enhanced its health, sa f e t y & envir onment (HSE ) mana gement s y s t em t o s e cur e the occupational safety and health of not only its employees but also of its business associates, including contractors and all other service providers. The HSE management system was certified to meet the internationally recognized OHSAS 18001: 2007 and Singapore Standard SS 506 Part 3 in May 2010. We actively engage with the government agencies in the development of regulations and standards to safeguard the community, workplace, and the environment. TPC suppor ts community awareness and outreach programs organized by SCIC, such as the annual Jurong Island Open Day, and plant visits, when SCIC Responsible Care Awards ceremony. Katsuhisa Dehara, General Manager of the plant, is fifth from left. students from tertiary institutions are invited to visit our workplace, 34 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Responsible Care Activities enjoy firsthand experience of the petrochemical industry, and Risk prevention Inspection and improvement Handling Learning interact with our engineers. High-level management Safety inspections Disaster and accident Sumika safety guide on TPC also participates in the Process & Engineering Committee organization and system management by level basic operations led by the SCIC, with the objective of effectively promoting Work environment Voluntary enhancement of assessment Regular meetings for exchanges members’ interest by addressing concerns and capacity building safety and health awareness with Group companies Annual health checkups on process engineering, process safety, and other technical issues. Annual encouragement and improvement plans TPC has renewed its commitment to the RC initiatives in 2010 activities and was honored to be presented with the Responsible Care Achievement Award in Process Safety, Community Awareness and “learning.” At each stage we formulate specific action plans & Emergency Response and Product Stewardship, and the through detailed discussions and then implement them. Gold Award for Pollution Prevention by the SCIC in April 2011. In fiscal 2010 we conducted the following activities: With this recognition, TPC strives to discharge corporate social · Educated employees on occupational safety and health and responsibility and will continue its efforts in RC activities and environmental protection to increase their awareness of basic contribute positively as a responsible corporate citizen to the wellRC ideas. being of all stakeholders. · Enhanced management in response to changes in manufacturing pr o c e s s e s. A f t er lis ting up all p o s sible r isk s, de vis e d countermeasures and incorporated them into the work manual. Educated employees to further increase their risk awareness. · Improved employees’ safety awareness by announcing cases of lost-workday injuries reported by safety managers at the entrance and exit of the facilities. · Fostered improvement proposal activities for safety, such as reviewing the work environment and workflow and improving equipment. · Announced the results of safety patrols conducted by senior managers, departmental managers and employees in charge TPC members participating in the SCIC Annual Dinner (April 2011) of safety via the intranet, including problems and proposed (Managing Director Hajime Sadatoshi of TPC is front row, second from right.) countermeasures. Encouraged employees to learn through case studies, and implemented relevant measures speedily across the board. Moreover, we provide employees commuting to the company Ensuring Occupational Safety and Health as the by motorbike with support for the inspection and maintenance of Basis for the Company’s Sustainable Development their bikes, as well as risk prevention and riding skills training. In Sumika Technology (Taiwan) addition, we are implementing measures to eliminate danger zones on the routes taken by employees in negotiation with the related Since its foundation in April 2001, Sumika Technology Co., authorities. Ltd. has been fostering technological innovations to increase In recognition of these CSR activities, we received awards its corpor a te value and contribute to the de velopment of from external organizations in 2010, including a workplace health society, while providing the LCD industry with polarizing plates, certification from the Bureau of Health Promotion, Department of color filters, aluminum targets, and other components. For the Health, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. (Taiwan), a corporate contribution company’s sustainable development, we are conducting CSR award from the Council of Labor Affairs, Executive Yuan, and a activities in consideration of the concerns of all our stakeholders, sustainable development award from the Executive Yuan. including shareholders, employees, business partners, and local communities. We aim to retain a good balance between the following three types of activities: economic activities; RC activities Han-Jung Chen Vice President, for the environment, safety, and quality assurance; and social Administration activities. The specific CSR initiatives taken by the company are Headquarters Sumika Technology Co., Ltd. introduced in its CSR report, which has been published annually since 2009. Sumika Technology believes that employees should play a core role in its CSR activities and accordingly gives due consideration to employees, in particular by conducting safety promotion activities focusing on occupational safety and health in its RC activities. Our safety promotion activities are composed of the following four stages: “risk prevention,” “inspection and improvement,” “handling,” 35 CSR Report 2011 Major Targets and Results Responsible Care Activities GRI EN5 EN18 4.2 LA7 PR2 Category Target Measures Taken Object Sustainable environmental management Promotion of sustainable environmental management Making economic activities and environmental protection Non-consolidated/Group compatible Global environmental protection Prevention of global warming Reduction in CO2 emissions Non-consolidated Group Prevention of ozone layer depletion Reduction of CFC emissions Non-consolidated/Group Establishment of a Energy savings Improvement in unit energy consumption Non-consolidated recycling-based society Environmental Protection Group Waste reduction Reduction in the amount of generated waste; promotion Non-consolidated of recycling Group Reduction in waster use Improvement in unit water usage Non-consolidated Preservation of the Appropriate chemical substances management Promotion of risk management according to the Non-consolidated living environment Proper handling of PRTR substances environmental risk and prevention of health hazards Group Reduction in VOC emissions Reduction in VOC emissions Non-consolidated Prevention of soil and groundwater contamination Promotion of soil and groundwater contamination risk management Non-consolidated/Group PCB countermeasures Proper storage and disposal of PCB waste Non-consolidated/Group Prevention of accidents causing environmental contamination Reduction of environmental risks involving operating activities Non-consolidated Promotion of occupational health and safety Prevention of occupational accidents Elimination of accidents resulting in lost workdays for employees Non-consolidated of Sumitomo Chemical and contractors/affiliate companies Use of Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) to reduce potential occupational safety risks Prevention of problems caused by human factors Promotion of disaster prevention activities Prevention of major accidents Reduction of process-related risks Non-consolidated Safety Promotion of chemical safety management Ensuring chemical safety Enrichment of safety information and proper management of Non-consolidated chemical substances Promotion of safety activities in logistics Ensuring safety, environmental protection, Reducing risk of occupational accidents and injury in logistics; Promotion Non-consolidated and maintaining product quality during of a transport system that exerts less impact on the environment; logistics operations Promotion of measures to prevent quality irregularities in logistics Continuous improvement of Use of audits to evaluate and improve Promotion of integrated Responsible Care activities and Non-consolidated/Group Quality Auditing Responsible Care activities Responsible Care activities Responsible Care audits throughout the Group Strengthening of corporate governance Strengthening of compliance Determination of priority areas for auditing: zero accidents, measures to strengthen compliance Assurance Promotion of quality assurance activities Prevention of quality problems (including PL Further improvement of quality awareness; Enhancement of the quality assurance Non-consolidated/Group problems) system in consideration of product features; Improvement of the entire Group’s quality assurance system; Enhancement of quality management at outsourcing companies 36 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 ●＝ Target achieved or satisfactory progress ◆＝ Almost achieved ■＝ To be achieved Achievement Target Performance in Fiscal 2010 Assurance Status Responsible Care Activities · Achieved definite results for each of the items (Reviewed some of the commitments in · Promote measures to fulfill the commitments made under the Ministry of the Environment’s Eco-First program consultation with the Ministry of the Environment) · Formulate mediumto long-term emission reduction targets for PRTR substances and VOCs based on risk assessments · Completed the risk assessment work and set new PRTR targets · Meet the common environmental protection and management targets Achieved certain results across all items and launched measures to attain the new targets ★ ● · Examine the use of environmental efficiency evaluation methods · Continued studying environmental impact assessment based on JEPIX and LCA methods · Examine the use of environmental accounting methods · Continued evaluating the effectiveness of the material flow cost accounting (MFCA) method Reduce unit CO2 emissions from fossil fuels for captive consumption by 20% Improved unit CO2 emissions by 24.1% relative to fiscal 1990 (by 3.2% from the previous fiscal year relative to fiscal 1990 levels by fiscal 2015 ★ ● Reduce unit CO2 emissions by 6% relative to fiscal 2002 by fiscal 2010 Improved unit CO2 emissions by 6.4% relative to fiscal 2002 (by 3.4% from the previous fiscal year) ★ ● Eliminate the use of refrigeration units that use specified CFCs as coolants by fiscal 2025 · Promoted systematic replacement of refrigeration units · No coolant leakages occurred. ★ ● Reduce unit energy consumption by 25% relative to fiscal 1990 by fiscal 2015 Improved unit energy consumption by 18.3% relative to fiscal 1990 (by 1.3% from the previous fiscal year) ★ ● Reduce unit energy consumption by 9.5% relative to fiscal 2002 by fiscal 2010 Improved unit energy consumption by 7.5% relative to fiscal 2002 (by 0.5% from the previous fiscal year) ★ ■ · Reduce volume of waste disposed of in landfill by 90% relative to fiscal 1990 · Landfill disposal: Reduced the volume of waste disposed of in landfill by 94.4% relative to level by fiscal 2010 fiscal 1990 (66.2% reduction from the previous fiscal year) ★ ● · Stop the disposal of red bauxite through sea dumping by fiscal 2015 · Sea dumping: Stopped sea dumping in March 2011 Reduce volume of waste disposed of in landfill by 48.9% relative to fiscal 2002 levels by fiscal 2010 Reduced the volume of waste disposed of in landfill by 68.2% relative to fiscal 2002 (down 4.2% from the previous fiscal year level) ★ ● Reduce unit water usage by 25% relative to fiscal 1990 levels by fiscal 2010 Improved unit water usage by 29.6% relative to fiscal 1990 (by 3.2% from the previous fiscal year level) ★ ● Reduce total emissions (into the air and water) of substances subject to the Reduced total emissions by 63.4% relative to fiscal 2002 (down 4.7% from the previous PRTR Act by 50% relative to fiscal 2002 levels by fiscal 2010 fiscal year level) ★ ● Reduce total emissions (into the air and water) of substances subject to the Reduced total emissions by 73.6% relative to fiscal 2002 (down 49.4% from the previous PRTR Act by 60% relative to fiscal 2002 levels by fiscal 2010 fiscal year level) ★ ● Reduced VOC emissions by 44.1% relative to fiscal 2000 (down 34.3% from the previous Reduce VOC emissions by 30% relative to fiscal 2000 levels by fiscal 2010 fiscal year level) ★ ● Keep hazardous materials strictly within Company premises and conduct the · Soil contamination survey, evaluations, and required remediation currently near completion required inspections and improvements. Company premises to be kept under · Monitoring of groundwater near boundaries has confirmed that levels of hazardous continuous monitoring/supervision. materials are below those stipulated by environmental standards. ● · Continued monitoring of groundwater Promote appropriate storage and recovery of PCB waste and complete PCB Some factories completed PCB waste treatment, and those that had yet to complete it waste treatment by March 2014 continued the strict recovery and appropriate storage of PCB waste ● Achieved the target of zero accidents and major problems Completely eliminate accidents and major problems ● · Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: <=0.1 There were two accidents resulting in lost workdays at Sumitomo Chemical and nine in total · Severity rate of lost-workday injuries: <=0.01 at its contractors/affiliate companies, and thus the targets were not achieved · Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries = (number of lost-workday injuries/ · Sumitomo Chemical: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.16; severity rate of lostman-hours) x 1,000,000 workday injuries: 0.003 ★ ■ · Severity rate of lost-workday injuries = (number of lost-workdays/man-hours) · Contractors/affiliate companies: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.81; severity rate x 1,000 of lost-workday injuries: 0.82 · Eliminate major accidents · Occurrence of one serious industrial accident (tank rupture) · Give no impact outside the premises · Continued to conduct process risk assessment and implement safety measures ■ Conduct various studies and risk assessments and enrich safety information Carried out the risk assessments of effects of exhaust gas and wastewater on human related to Responsible Care for chemical products health and the environment; the risk assessments of chemicals handled at workplace for occupational health and safety; and the risk assessments of newly developed chemicals for ● consumer safety, and improved the levels of risk assessment. Promote advanced approach for chemicals management Promoted voluntary programs to compile existing findings and information and fostered the operation of comprehensive chemical management systems (SuCCESS) to manage the safety information properly, and make more effective use of it ● · Achieve zero accidents resulting in lost workdays at partner logistics companies · There were two lost-workday accidents at partner logistics companies, and thus the target was not achieved. · Reduce annual unit energy consumption by 1% · Unit energy consumption increased by 3.8% relative to the previous fiscal year, and thus the target was not achieved. ★ ■ · Achieve the management target for logistics quality irregularities (Reduce major incidents to six or fewer) · The number of logistics quality irregularities was below the target level (two major incidents), and thus the target was achieved. · Enhance global Responsible Care audits Reviewed the Responsible Care audit checklist, improved the risk detection level, and built · Expand support to Responsible Care improvements a system to support RC improvements across the Group based on the Group RC Activity Standards ● Achieve zero major quality problems There were two major quality problems; Educated employees on the quality risk assessment method; Expanded internal audits on quality; Started application of the Group RC Activity Standards; Set the management policy for procured materials(After describing “achieved zero major quality problems in ★ ■ fiscal 2009” in the CSR Report 2010, we had two such problems.) 37 CSR Report 2011 Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group ★ Responsible Sumitomo Chemical collects and totals the Group’s environmental data, including data on its energy and resource Care consumption, production quantities, and environmental impact (e.g., release of pollutants into the air and water). Activities We also introduced environmental accounting for the Group and continuously publicize the results. GRI 2.8 3.7 3.9 EN1 EN3 EN4 EN8 EN16 EN18 EN19 EN20 EN21 EN22 EN30 Primary Environmental Performance (Fiscal 2010) Letters in black: Sumitomo Chemical Group*1 Letters in blue: Sumitomo Chemical I N PU T Energy and Resources*2 Energy 2,440 1,485 Exhaustible resources Water 1,441.3 548.1 (Fuel, heat, and electricity) Industrial water 72.3 66.0 Hydrocarbon compounds 3,178 2,889 (Calculated as kl of crude oil) Thousands of kl Thousands of kl Metals 90 83 Drinking water 1.0 0.4 (excluding rare metals)*3 Seawater 1,338.3 455.6 Rare metals*4 0.21 0.07 Groundwater 26.1 23.1 Thousands of tons Thousands of tons Other water 3.6 3.0 Millions of tons Millions of tons Sumitomo Chemical Group PCB/CFCs under Secure Storage No. of electrical devices containing PCBs 1,230units 135units PCB volume 32.2㎥ 27.7㎥ No. of refrigeration units using speciﬁed CFCs as coolant 72units 22units O UTPUT Product Manufacturing and Environmental Impact Products Waste materials Atmospheric emissions (Calculated on the basis of 2,619 1,660 Waste generated 283 65 Greenhouse gases(six gases)*6 4,407 ethylene production)*5 Thousands of tons Thousands of tons Landﬁll 35.7 2.5 CO2 4,354 (ﬁnal disposal) N2O 52 On-site landﬁll 0 0 HFC 0.5 PFC 0 External landﬁll 35.7 2.5 Methane 0.1 Red bauxite sea dumping 117 117 Sulfur hexaﬂuoride 0 Thousands of tons Thousands of tons Emissions from 6,620 3,743 Water pollutant emissions energy use (CO2) Thousands of Thousands of tons of CO2 tons of CO2 COD 1,396 1,266 Others Nitrogen 1,609 1,505 NOx 5,190 2,689 Phosphorus 51 48 SOx 4,348 1,477 Substances 57 30 Soot and dust 296 181 subject to the Substances subject to 630 394 Tons Tons PRTR Act*7 the PRTR Act*7 Tons Tons *1. Sumitomo Chemical and the following 16 domestic Group companies: Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Koei Chemical Co., Ltd., Taoka Chemical Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd., Sumika Color Co., Ltd., Nihon Medi-Physics Co., Ltd., Nippon A&L Inc., Thermo Co., Ltd., SanTerra Co., Ltd., Sumika Kakoushi Co., Ltd., Asahi Chemical Co., Ltd., Shinto Paint Co., Ltd., Sumika Styron Polycarbonate Ltd. (former Sumitomo Dow Ltd.), Sumika Bayer Urethane Co., Ltd., Nihon Oxirane Co., Ltd., and Sumika Agrotech Co., Ltd. *2. See page 21 of the DATA BOOK for performance data on energy consumption, CO2 emissions, water usage, and landfill disposal amounts for major overseas Group companies. *3. Calculations include the following 12 metals: iron, gold, silver, copper, zinc, aluminum, lead, platinum, titanium, palladium, gallium, and lithium. *4. Calculations include the following seven rare metals: nickel, chromium, tungsten, cobalt, molybdenum, manganese, and vanadium. *5. Certain assumptions were made in calculations due to the difficulty of obtaining weight-based figures for some products. *6. The method used for calculating CO2 emissions (i.e. CO2 emission coefficient, types of greenhouse gases targeted for calculation, and emission sources) has remained unchanged since the calculation of environmental performance data was started. *7. Calculated based on the amount released into water/the air of each substance subject to the initial version (before revision) of the Order for Enforcement of the PRTR Act (promulgated on March 29, 2000) 38 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Evaluation of Environmental Protection Costs and (5) Outline of the results (investment and expenses) Responsible Care Activities Economic Effects through Environmental Accounting Investment amount increased by 4.3 billion yen compared with fiscal 2009, due to the establishment of biomass power generation Sumitomo Chemical continuously gathers and evaluates data on facilities. environment-related expenses, investments, and economic results Expenses also increased by 2.3 billion yen year-on-year, in line with the Company’s environmental accounting system because the depreciation cost and the materials and utilities costs introduced in fiscal 2000. increased following the launch of wastewater treatment facilities and the start of biomass power generation, respectively. Items Pertaining to Environmental Accounting ( 1 ) Period: Fiscal 2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) ( 2) Scope: Sumitomo chemical and 18 ma jor consolida ted *18 major consolidated subsidiaries: subsidiaries (12 in Japan and six outside Japan)* Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd.; Koei Chemical Co., Ltd.; Taoka Chemical Co., ( 3 ) Composition ( Cla ssifica tion): Ba sed on Minis tr y o f the Ltd.; Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd.; Sumika Color Co., Ltd.; Nihon MediPhysics Co., Ltd.; Nippon A&L Inc.; Thermo Co., Ltd.; SanTerra Co., Ltd.; Sumika Environment guidelines Kakoushi Co., Ltd.; Nihon Oxirane Co., Ltd.; Sumika Agrotech Co, Ltd.; Dongwoo Fine( 4 ) Indep enden t a s sur a nc e: C onduc t e d b y K PMG A Z S A Chem Co., Ltd.; Sumitomo Chemical (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.; The Polyolefin Company Sustainability Co., Ltd. (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.; Sumika Technology Co., Ltd.; Sumika Electronic Materials (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.; and Sumika Electronics Materials Poland Sp. Zo.o. Environmental Protection Cost (Unit: 100 million yen) Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Classification Details of Major Initiatives Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Investment Expenses Investment Expenses Investment Expenses Investment Expenses Business Area Costs 52 157 66 229 20 183 109 258 Prevention of air pollution, water pollution, soil contamination, noise pollution, odors, ground Pollution Prevention Costs subsidence, etc. (50) (114) (63) (156) (17) (139) (21) (176) Breakdown Global Environmental Protection Costs Prevention of global warming and ozone layer depletion, and other measures (0) (0) (1) (3) (0) (0) (82) (10) Resource and energy conservation, water conservation and rainwater usage, waste reduction/ Resource Recycling Costs disposal treatment, recycling, etc. (2) (43) (2) (70) (3) (44) (6) (72) Green purchasing, recycling, recovery, remanufacturing and appropriate treatment of products, Upstream/Downstream Costs recycling costs associated with containers and packaging, environmentally friendly products and 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 services, etc. Costs associated with environmental education, environmental management systems, Administrative Costs the monitoring and measuring of the environmental impact of business activities and products, 0 6 0 11 0 6 0 11 environmental organization operations, etc. Development of products with attention to environmental safety, research into energy-saving R&D Costs processes, etc. 0 63 0 63 0 63 0 64 Protection of the natural environment and enhancement of its scenic beauty and greenery, support Social Activity Costs for community initiatives aimed at environmental protection, support for environmental preservation 0 4 0 7 0 4 0 7 groups, environment-related paid contributions and surcharges, etc. Environmental rehabilitation of contaminated environments and other environmental damage, Environmental Remediation reserve funds to cover environmental recovery, etc. 0 11 0 11 0 4 0 4 Costs 52 241 66 323 20 260 109 346 TOPIC Improving the Cost Efficiency of Environmental Protection Economic Effects (Unit: 100 million yen) Cost Efficiency of Environmental In fiscal 2009, we began implementing Protection Measures Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 measures to improve the cost efficiency of （％） Results 120 Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated our environmental protection measures by *Figures are index values (’05 =100) making sure that all activities were as cost 100 104.6 101.3 Reduced costs through effective as possible. We will implement 100 energy conservation 6 7 15 17 more effective measures by analyzing and 88.2 80 82.8 studying the breakdown of our environmental 80.3 Reduced costs through protection costs and reviewing each item to 60 resource conservation 12 12 5 6 determine its importance. We calculate the cost efficiency of our environmental protection 40 Reduced costs through as the ratio of annual total production value to recycling activities 23 24 38 39 total environmental protection costs, in order 20 better to reflect actual production activities in 0 Total 41 43 58 62 the calculation. ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Base year) 39 CSR Report 2011 Energy and Environmental Protection Responsible Sumitomo Chemical is implementing measures to improve its productivity and reduce Care its environmental impact to achieve an even higher level of sustainable environmental Activities management. Promoting Sustainable Environmental Management GRI 3.9 3.10 EN5 4.2 EN18 Sumitomo Chemical aims to achieve an even higher level of sustainable environmental management by conducting a range of specific activities. These include activities to achieve the common environmental reduction targets of the Group; foster the standardization and systematization of environmental management operations; enhance risk management based on environmental risk assessment; and examining the practical use of environmental efficiency indicators and environmental accounting methods. Sharing Environmental Protection Management Targets throughout the Group We achieved meaningful results for the targets toward fiscal 2010, and have started new measures to achieve the targets for Sumitomo Chemical has set out common targets for energy fiscal 2015. (For details, see page 18 of the DATA BOOK.) and environmental performance with its Group companies both within and outside Japan and is implementing specific measures to Fostering the Standardization and Systematization achieve the targets. of Environmental Management Operations Targets and Actual Results for 16 Sumitomo Chemical Group Companies ★ For environmental management oper a tions tha t entail a significant amount of regular work, we have been improving their ■ Unit energy （％） *Figures are index values(’02=100) efficiency by fostering standardization and systematization. We 100 consumption index 100 will reduce onsite workloads through these measures so that the 7.5% 97.3 improvement responsible employees can spend more time in data analysis and 93.9 93.3 93.0 evaluation, thereby sophisticating environmental management and 92.9 92.5 90 enhancing our compliance system. 90.5 Results Targets 80 ‘02 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Base year) (Note) In fiscal 2010, the calculation basis for unit energy consumption Examining the Standardization and Systematization of of Sumitomo Joint Electric Power was changed to the actually Environmental Management Operations measured heating value of each fuel type to increase the accuracy of data, and this calculation method was adopted retrospectively for past years, including the base year (fiscal 2002). System introduction/change Launch Outline ■ Unit CO2 emissions （％）*Figures are index values(’02=100) Visualization of energy use and Data collection and disclosure on a 100 101.6 index 100 CO2 emissions real-time basis (colleting data from 98.9 6.4% 2010/10 improvement factories and analyzing them on a 97.1 97.0 96.9 monthly basis) 93.6 94.0 90 Revision of the energy and greenhouse Data tabulation and reporting to gas data tabulation system governmental authorities in compliance 2013/10 with the Act on the Rational Use of (Planned) Energy and the Act on Promotion of Results Targets Global Warming Countermeasures 80 ‘02 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Base year) Revision of the PRTR totaling system Compliance with the revised Order for Enforcement of the PRTR Act Use of 2011/4 output files for electronic notification ■ Substances subject to 3,000 (Tons) Addition of a VOC data tabulation function the PRTR Act emissions 2,602 *Figures are index values(’02=100) (into the air and water) (100) Introduction of a waste Central management of waste 73.6% 2,000 reduction management system 2011/4 disposal contracts, permissions, 1,613 manifests, etc. 1,441 1,379 (62.0) 1,340 1,325 (55.4) (53.0) (51.5) (50.9) 1,041 Promotion of the use of electronic Increase of the digitization 1,000 686 (40.0) manifests based on the Waste rate to 70% (26.4) 2008/4 Management and Public Cleansing Results Targets Act of Japan 0 ‘02 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Base year) ■ Waste landfill 150 (Thousands of tons) *Figures are index values(’02=100) 112 100 (100) 89 68.2% (79.0) 70 74 reduction (62.1) (66.1) 57 50 41 37 36 (51.1) (36.5) (33.2) (31.8) Results Targets 0 ‘02 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 (Base year) Updated menu screen of the PRTR data tabulation system 40 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Enhancing Risk Management based on Environmental Risk Assessments with relevant analyses. The companies’ total environmental Responsible Care Activities impact decreased by 23% relative to fiscal 2005, when we began PRT R conducting the survey. Among the substances newly designated under the Japanese Assessing environmental impact of each product by LIME PRTR Act following the revision of the law in November 2008, we For more pr a c tical use o f L C A *2 da ta (including CFP *3 have completed the risk assessment work for all the substances assessment specialized for CO 2 ) both internally and externally, handled by Sumitomo Chemical, spending more than two years we use LCA software (JEMAI-Pro and MiLCA ) from the Japan on this project. Based on the risk assessment results, we are Environmental Management Association for Industry to undertake continuing to take a series of risk management measures. environmental impact assessments of our major products using Based on the results, we ha ve also se t a new targe t of the LIME method. “achieving a 60% emission reduction from the fiscal 2008 level by Trial Evaluation of Material Flow Cost Accounting ( MFCA)*4 fiscal 2015.” Ba s e d on the r e sult s o f tr ial e v alua tions ma de a t our VOCs manufacturing facilities for pharmaceutical intermediates, we are We have been systematically reducing VOC emissions by continuing to evaluate the effectiveness of the accounting method prioritizing measures against VOCs emitted in large amounts. We and standardize methods and procedures. In fiscal 2010, as in the are also examining the use of the ozone creation potential for previous fiscal year, we disclosed the relevant data and fostered each VOC as a VOC emission reduction indicator. In response to information exchanges through meetings of academic societies, the results of assessments made by The Japanese government seminars, and contribution of articles to professional journals. on the rela tionship be tween V OC emissions reduction and the photochemical oxidant concentration, we will examine the *1. Environmental Policy Priorities Index for Japan (JEPIX): This method, which employs a uniform single indicator called “Ecopoints” to evaluate necessity of implementing new measures. environmental impact, is derived from the Swiss LCIA Eco Scarcity methodology. The current method evaluates the discrepancy between targets (e.g. laws and environmental policies) and actual conditions based on Examining the Practical Use of Environmental Efficiency Indicators and Environmental Accounting Methods material flow data. *2. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): A method for evaluating the environmental Assessing the environmental impact of each Group company using JEPIX impact of products and services throughout their lifecycles *3. Carbon Foot Print (CFP): Identification of lifecycle CO2 emissions from In fiscal 2010, as in the previous fiscal year, we undertook products and services environmental impact assessments targeting each Group company *4. Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA): An environmental cost accounting method that identifies input costs of materials, processing, electricity, fuel, in Japan using JEPIX *1, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of and others, and compares them with the energy and resources lost in this index as a strategic management indicator, and continued manufacturing processes Improving the Management of Substances Subject to the PRTR Act Based on Their Environmental Risk 2009 2010 2011 No. Description 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 Surveying production and treatment volumes Studying improvement Implementing improvement 2 Improving company-wide totaling system program measures measures 3 Standardizing calculation method 4 Measuring concentrations at control points 5 Risk assessment 6 Quantifying reduction by substances 7 Formulating specific reduction plan and schedule 8 Setting new targets ◎ Launching new targets 9 Identifying results 10 Notifying governmental authorities Breakdown of Aggregate Values for Environmental Impact (for the Sumitomo Chemical Group) ★ (Ecopoints*5 ×108 ） 600 544 534 509 460 434 409 300 229 242 243 230 185 204 178 171 145 160 138 104 75 76 78 76 74 79 52 41 43 24 22 21 0 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 Global warming (six gases): Total emissions of six greenhouse gases Water quality: Total emissions of BOD, COD, ◆Water quality improved through measures to reduce nitrogen. Air quality: Total emissions of substances that destroy nitrogen, and phosphorous ◆ Air quality improved through measures to reduce the the ozone layer, hazardous air pollutants, photochemical Waste: Amount of waste disposed of in landfills emissions of substances subject to the PRTR Act and of oxidants, NOx, and SPM10 Total CFC compounds. *5. Ecopoints: An indicator for total environmental impact—the smaller the value, the lower the environmental impact. 41 CSR Report 2011 Responsible Care Activities Environmental Protection Activities GRI 3.7 3.9 4.2 4.11 EN16 EN18 EN19 Sumitomo Chemical is proactively implementing measures for the achievement of a recycling-based, low-carbon society, while making strenuous efforts to contribute to the protection of local environments and prevent health damage in the areas where it operates. Toward the Improvement of Environmental Performance Promoting Anti-Climate Change Measures and Energy-Environment Strategies Sumit omo Chemic al r e gar ds the f ollo wing a s it s c or e implementation targets: to promote anti-climate change measures We aim to achieve the world’s highest level of energy efficiency and energy-environment strategies and to identify optimum mix in the manufacturing process of our ma jor products, and are of appropriate legal compliance measures and voluntary activities. achieving definite results by improving our operation methods and We are implementing specific plans to achieve these targets, the efficiency of our facilities and equipment while rationalizing thereby improving our environmental performance in a tangible processes. manner. Also, f or the proa c tiv e de v elopment o f processes and products that contribute to CO 2 emissions reduction, we are making maximum use of our advanced technologies through Creative Hybrid Chemistry (for details see page 8) to develop and commercialize a series of Green Processes and Clean Products. For CO 2 emission sources, we are also examining and Targets and Actual Results for Energy Conservation and CO2 Emissions implementing systematic and proactive measures. Energy Conservation CO2 Emissions Target Improve unit energy consumption by Reduce unit CO2 emissions from fossil Volume of CO2 Emissions by Source ★ (1,000 tons of CO2) 25% related to fiscal 1990 by fiscal fuel for captive consumption by 20% Total Energy Origin Environmental Treatment FY Process 2015 relative to fiscal 1990 by fiscal 2015 Emissions Fossil Fuel Consumption Purchased Electricity/Steam Incineration Effluent Results Achieved a 18.3% reduction from Achieved a 24.1% reduction from the 1990 3,687 2,184 1,038 282 22 161 in Fiscal the fiscal 1990 level (1.0% reduction fiscal 1990 level (3.2% reduction from 2006 4,794 2,496 1,599 299 29 371 2010 from the fiscal 2009 level) the fiscal 2009 level) 2007 4,711 2,248 1,769 282 27 385 2008 4,351 2,110 1,655 218 22 346 2009 4,364 2,159 1,628 200 18 359 2010 4,354 2,198 1,545 210 19 382 (Note) Figures do not include emissions from fuel consumed for electricity or steam Energy Consumption, Unit Energy Consumption, CO 2 Emissions from Fossil sold outside the Company. Fuel for Captive Consumption, and Corresponding Unit Emissions ★ TOPIC Identifying the Use of Steam etc. Energy consumption CO2 emissions from fossil fuel for captive (1,000 kl in terms of crude oil) consumption (10,000 tons of CO2) (1,000 kl) (10,000 tons of CO2) (unit) 1,600 Unit energy consumption Unit CO2 emissions 300 1.8 1.744 (1,000 kl in terms of crude oil/tons of ethylene) (tons of CO2/tons of ethylene) (100) 1,537 1,485 249.6 1,462 250 1.6 The Oita Works manufactures more than one product within a single 1,429 224.8 1,405 Target plant, and the amount of steam and electricity used in the manufacturing 1,400 218.4 215.9 219.8 1,371 211.0 1.395 process differs by product. We have installed flowmeters to indentify the (80.0) 1.449 200 1.4 usage amount for all products at the entrance of each plant. There were, 1.427 (83.1) (81.8) 1.352 1.367 however, some cases in which we were not able to identify the amount (77.5) (78.4) 1.324 of steam for a new product to be manufactured or an existing product 1,200 (75.9) 150 1.2 1.095 for which the production quantity had been increased due to the limited (100) capacity of the flowmeters. To deal with this problem, we inspected all 0.965 (88.1) 0.904 100 1.0 the flowmeters to replace the ones that did not have sufficient capacity 0.879 0.880 (82.6) 0.895 (80.2) (80.4) (81.7) Target with more suitable ones. As a result, we 1,000 0.821 (75.0) can now appropriately identify the results 50 0.8 of our energy conservation activities by using the flowmeters. 800 0 0 ‘90 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘15 (FY) Akio Kudo (Note) Figures in parentheses are index values (fiscal 1990 = 100). Production Planning Indicator of a flowmeter installed at Department Oita Works Oita Works 42 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Calculating Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Based on the Act on the VOICE Responsible Care Activities Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Yasutaka Ishibashi Engineering Section, Manufacturing Department Gifu Plant All 34 sites of Sumitomo Chemical need to report their energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions to governmental authorities under the law. In fiscal 2010, total energy use by the Increasing Energy Efficiency of Combustion Air Blower sites came to 1,321,000 kiloliters in crude oil equivalent, down 1.4% At the Gifu Plant, combustion air was supplied to the wastewater from the previous fiscal year, and their CO 2 emissions from the treatment facility (submerged combustion furnace) by a large blower use of energy totaled 3,414,000 tons, down 4.0% year-on-year. (75 kW) and the combustion air volume was controlled by a damper. Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions of All To increase energy efficiency by improving the air volume control, we Sumitomo Chemical Sites Calculated in Compliance with the Law ★ introduced an inverter to control the rotational speed of the blower Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 motor. After checking the operational conditions of the furnace and the actual operation and controllability of the combustion air blower, we Energy consumption (1,000 kl in terms of crude oil) 1,340 1,321 decreased the use of power by the motor and inverter to 55 kW, thereby Greenhouse gas emissions (1,000 tons) achieving a 30% increase in energy efficiency. We will continue to make CO2 emissions from energy use 3,556 3,414 steady efforts for energy conservation. CO2 emissions from energy use (adjusted)* 3,517 3,408 CO2 emissions from other than energy use 31 29 CO2 emissions from the use of waste as fuel 75 80 Methane (CO2 equivalent) − − N2O (CO2 equivalent) 58 49 HFC (CO2 equivalent) − − PFC (CO2 equivalent) − − Moritoshi Niino SF6 (CO2 equivalent) − − No. 2 Tank Yard Section, No. 4 Manufacturing Department (Note) The “–”mark indicates that reporting is not mandated under the law. Chiba Works * CO2 emissions from energy use (adjusted): CO2 emissions from energy use from which emissions reduced by the use of carbon credits, such as Building a C4-fraction Pipeline in Cooperation with Fuji Oil those obtained through the Kyoto mechanism and those obtained within Japan, are deducted. C4 fractions, raw materials used at ethylene plants for thermal No. 2 Manufacturing Section Misawa Works decomposition, were previously transported by ship from Fuji Oil Co., Katsuya Fujita Ltd. (in Sodegaura) to our facility (in Anesaki). As part of an industrial Increasing Energy Efficiency by Replacing Boilers complex cooperation project supported by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Fuji Oil and neighboring Sumitomo Chemical’s facility in Sodegaura were connected by a pipeline that was then used in conjunction with the existing one connecting our facilities At the Misawa Works, one waste-heat boiler (using heat wasted from in Sodegaura and Anesaki. This has contributed to the rationalization gas turbines) and 13 once-through boilers were used to generate the of operating equipment at the ethylene plant and Fuji Oil and to the necessary steam. Last year, however, we removed 12 out of the 13 stabilization of production. CO2 emissions by marine vessels were also once-through boilers (with a total steam generation capacity of 20 tons/ reduced by 300 tons a year. year), which had been installed 13 years earlier and were becoming We will continue to implement rationalization measures in cooperation decrepit. In place of them we installed five new boilers (with total steam with neighboring companies, including measures to protect the global generation capacity of 20.1 environment. tons/year). The Works have both batch and continuous plants, : Newly installed pipeline Sumitomo Chemical’s facility in Anesaki : Existing pipeline and demand for steam varies : Former marine substantially by the hour. transportation route The generation of steam by old once-through boilers, Fuji Oil’s refinery in Sodegaura however, could be controlled in only three stages (0%, Replaced boilers 50% and 100%), and thus excessive amounts of steam were sometimes generated. To resolve this problem, we replaced them with inverter-type boilers, which generated steam only to the necessary amount. As a result, the total boiler efficiency* was improved by about 6%, increasing energy efficiency by about 220 kiloliters in crude oil equivalent (equivalent to 1.6% of the Sumitomo Chemical’s facility in Sodegaura Works’ annual energy use) while also reducing steam loss. * Total boiler efficiency: Ratio of the total fuel heating value of boilers to the value of heat absorbed by steam. 43 CSR Report 2011 Responsible Care Activities Optimum Mix of Appropriate Legal Compliance Measures and Voluntary Activities GRI 3.9 4.11 4.2 EN14 EN20 EN22 We will combine legal compliance measur es and voluntar y ac tivities in an optimal manner to r educe our environmental impacts. Outline Emissions of Substances Subject to the PRTR Act ★ (Tons) 1,500 For pollutants released into the environment, such as exhaust Emissions into the air gases, wastewater, and solid waste, we are actively promoting Emissions into water 1,158 multifaceted measures and strengthening management by widely 1,000 adopting the concept of risk management, in addition to complying with legal standards and meeting the criteria agreed with local Emissions 665 governments. 1,027 606 552 Reduced by 63.4% In addition, we are continually deepening communications 500 445 424 579 with people living in the neighborhoods around our facilities by 631 551 394 411 394 proactively listening to their opinions. Through these measures we 131 34 55 158 34 30 aim to further improve our environmental performance based on 0 ‘08 ‘09 Results ‘10 Targets ‘02 ‘06 ‘07 even better relations of trust with local communities. (Base year) (Targeted fiscal year) efforts to maintain the equivalent emission levels. (For details, see Trends and Topics of Major Environmental Performance Items page 14 of the DATA BOOK.) Prevention of air and water pollution Waste We are endeavoring to reduce emissions of SOx, NOx, and Landfill disposal: We achieved our initial target of reducing landfill soot and dust into the air, and of COD, nitrogen, and phosphorous disposal amount by 90% from fiscal 1990 levels by fiscal 2010 by into water bodies. Moreover, we are fostering the effective use of restraining waste generation and fostering the reuse and recycling water (to improve unit water use). (For details, see page 4 of the of waste. We will continue our efforts to achieve the new target DATA BOOK.) figures. (For details, see page 15 of the DATA BOOK.) Major Environmental Impact Indicators for Air and Water Pollution Prevention ★ Waste Generation and Landfill Disposal Amount ★ (Tons) (Tons) (1,000 tons) 4,000 400 400 NOx emissions Soot and dust emissions Waste generation amount Landfill disposal amount COD emissions Total phosphorous emissions (internally and externally disposed amount) Total nitrogen emissions 300 SOx emissions 3,141 238 225 2,890 2,982 219 3,000 300 200 192 2,921 270 2,689 154 157 2,517 266 2,573 100 2,050 2,007 44.4 1,959 Reduced by 2,000 200 13.6 9.2 7.7 7.4 94.4% 4.4 2.5 181 0 165 171 ‘90 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 Results ‘10 Targets (Base year) (Targeted fiscal year) 136 1,505 1,503 1,477 Disclosing information about the maintenance and management 1,473 1,266 100 of waste disposal facilities: In response to the revision of the Order 1,000 906 63 for Enforcement of the Waste Management and Public Cleansing 48 Act of Japan, Sumitomo Chemical began disclosing information about its waste treatment facilities (incinerators and landfills) on its 0 0 Web site pages covering CSR in April 2011. ‘90 ‘00 ‘05 ‘10 (FY) PCB waste: We ha ve completed the trea tment of waste Substances Sub ject to the PRTR Act and VOCs containing PCBs at high concentrations by commissioning the PRTR: We achieved our initial target of reducing total emissions treatment to JESCO * at all our sites, excluding some factories. by 50% from fiscal 2002 levels in fiscal 2010 through drastic We aim to complete the treatment at all facilities by March 2014, risk management based on our risk assessment results. We will earlier than the legal deadline. Also, for waste containing PCB at continue to make efforts to achieve the new target. (For details, low concentrations, we are continuing surveys and studies for see page 9 of the DATA BOOK.) early treatment and disposal VOCs: We achieved our initial target of reducing emissions *Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO): A company that under supervision of The Japanese government treats PCB waste at its five by 30% from fiscal 2000 levels in fiscal 2010 by implementing treatment facilities located across Japan; commissioned by companies storing systematic emissions reduction measures. We will continue our PCB waste. 44 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Halting Sea Dumping of Red Bauxite: Red bauxite is the VOICE Responsible Care Activities residue of natural bauxite from which aluminum hydroxide, the Noboru Yamamoto raw material for alumina products, is extracted. This substance Environmental Affairs Section, No. 1 Manufacturing Department Oita Works is composed of insoluble mineral constituents and saltwater. Sumitomo Chemical has been safely disposing of red bauxite Measures to Reduce Odor in the sea in accordance with the relevant Japanese laws. In (Covering the sedimentation tank) addition, the Company formulated a policy to switch to the use At the Oita Works, we are making daily efforts to reduce the generation of imported aluminum hydroxide, which generates no red bauxite, of odor, noise, and vibration to maintain our trusted relations with local with a view to stopping the dumping of red bauxite in the sea as inhabitants. In particular, regarding odors, we have been striving to early as possible, while continuing its alumina products business. identify the source to eliminate it or install deodorization equipment In May 2010, we completed the shift with the understanding of our to treat any unpleasant odors. Despite these efforts, we faced the major customers. Subsequently, in March 2011, after finishing the necessity of implementing new anti-odor measures due to changes in treatment of red bauxite remaining at our facilities, we completely the products manufactured by the Works. stopped sea dumping of the substance. Also, in fiscal 2010 we In response, we covered the sedimentation tank of our activated sludge treatment facility for wastewater, thereby preventing odors made effective use of approximately 400 tons of red bauxite as from leaking from the tank and achieved the anticipated improvement. materials for use in cement in cooperation with cement companies. We will continue stable operations of the facilities and make further Soil and groundwater contamination improvements, as needed. We h a v e c o n t inu e d s ur v e y s a n d e v a lu a t io n s o f s o il contamination as well as remediation work on our land. We have also monitored groundwater close to our boundaries to confirm that levels of hazardous materials are below those stipulated by environmental standards. Specif ied CFCs We are continuing the replacement of refrigerators using specified CFCs as coolants with those using alternative coolants, Sedimentation tank before aiming to complete the replacement by 2025. (For details, see improvement page 14 of the DATA BOOK.) Biodiversity We plan to publish Sumitomo Chemical’s action guidelines on biodiversity within fiscal 2011 to outline the Company’s basic ideas and policies for biodiversity conservation. In the future we will Sedimentation tank covered by white sheeting foster specific biodiversity conservation measures based on the guidelines. Yoshiteru Yamashita No. 5 Manufacturing Section (Environmental Rihei Kobayashi Management), Manufacturing Department No. 2 Manufacturing Section Osaka Works Misawa Works Stabilizing Wastewater Treatment Painting Chimney to Blend in (Improving the aeration piping of the activated sludge with the Local Environment aeration tank) We are responsible for treating waste and managing wastewater. At the Misawa Works, we treated most of wastewater from the We conduct activities not only to reduce our environmental impact but facilities by the activated sludge treatment method, but due to an also to make our facilities more acceptable to the local community by increase in the amount of wastewater containing nitrogen, it was measures such as increasing green spaces and preventing white smoke becoming difficult to continue this wastewater treatment method in a from being exhausted from the stable manner. The treatment of wastewater containing nitrogen can be chimneys. Moreover, for the first improved by ensuring the appropriate operation of the reaction tanks time in 19 years, we have painted (removing oxygen from the anaerobic tank and supplying oxygen to the the chimney, covering its redanoxic tank), but the multi-point measurement of oxygen concentrations and-white façade with a soft blue in the tanks revealed that insufficient oxygen was being supplied to the that blends in better with the local anoxic tank due to the unsatisfactory performance of the aeration pipe. environment. To resolve this problem, we replaced the one-sided swirl flow-type In recent years the amount aeration pipe with a whole-area aeration type and are now operating the of high-rise housing has been tanks on a trial basis. The replacement piping appears to be effective increasing in our neighborhood, for the stabilization of wastewater treatment for both the anaerobic and and in response we are improving aerobic tanks. the landscape of our site in Image consideration of the view from people’s homes. 45 CSR Report 2011 Occupational Safety and Health/Industrial Safety and Disaster Prevention Responsible Sumitomo Chemical is conducting safety activities to achieve zero-accident and zero-injury operations Care based on its fundamental principle of “Making Safety the First Priority,” in cooperation with all its employees Activities and all other stakeholders, including employees of Sumitomo Chemical's affiliate companies. Initiatives for Occupational Safety and Health GRI 4.11 LA7 Sumitomo Chemic al ensur es s a f e t y by execu ting a PDCA c ycle f or it s occupa tional sa f e t y and healt h management system (OSHMS). Safety Performances in Fiscal 2010 In Japan in fiscal 2010, two accidents resulted in lost workdays Frequency Rate of Lost-Workday Injuries ★ (frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.16), with nine such (Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries) accidents occurring at contractors ( frequency rate of lost6 workday injuries: 0.81). The annual average for the frequency of lost-workday injuries during the 10 years from fiscal 2001 to 2010 5 was 2.8. 4 Japan-All industries Sumi t omo Chemic al ha s b e en a ggr e s si v e in pur suing occupa tional sa f e t y and health ac tivities to pre vent labor 3 accidents under the fundamental principle of “Making Safety the Japan-Chemical industry First Priority.” To this end we are repeating the PDCA cycle to 2 indentify all conspicuous and potential risks and hazards in each 1.61 workplace and implementing a series of measures, including 1 0.72 Members of the Japan Chemical Industry Association making improvements based on the results of risk assessments. Sumitomo Chemical 0.42 0.16 As a result of these efforts, all our sites have already acquired 0 ‘75 ‘80 ‘85 ‘90 ‘95 ‘00 ‘05 ‘10 (FY) certification for their OSHMSs. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet achieved our target of zero accidents. In fiscal 2010, w e began enhancing a culture o f sa f e t y throughout the company for all employees to truly understand and practice our principle of “Making Safety the First Priority,” which will help us achieve and maintain our zero-accident target. VOICE VOICE Kayo Maie Yasushi Komoda Technical Office Ohe Works and Sumika Assembly Techno Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Research Laboratory Experiencing the Great East Japan Earthquake Safety Awareness Activities within the Ohe Works The earthquake that took place at 2:46 p.m. on March 11 was the At the Ohe Works, occupational safety and health are fostered through biggest that we had ever experienced at the site. Fortunately, however, awareness-raising by the use of audiovisual devices. Specifically, an none of our members, including their families, suffered damage from the electronic bulletin board equipped with a navigation system is installed at mega earthquake. Also, there was no serious damage to our facilities, the main gate, and voice recorders are installed at major crossings and which we confirmed by making a patrol of the site after the shaking staircases within the premises. The bulletin board is used to provide all stopped. No reagent bottles fell down from the shelves, and the anti-slip those entering the site with safety information while the voice recorders mats, belts, and bars effectively prevented devices from falling. The antiare used to give oral safety messages, such as “Cross after looking both seismic measures taken at the site thus proved to be very effective and ways”; and “Hold the hand-rail when you walk up/down stairs.” I believe we were able to resume our research these measures have contributed to improving the safety level of the activities soon after the disaster. site substantially. Electricity generated by solar power generation is used to power the devices, which also helps increase employees’ environmental awareness. Main gate bulletin board and voice recorder 46 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Measures Implemented in Fiscal 2010 workday injuries for 20 years or more to our sites, who gave us Responsible Care Activities to Enhance a Culture of Safety tips on enhancing our safety culture by lecturing on his experience in building the safety management foundations for the factory. Sumitomo Chemical has been nurturing a culture of safety and The former manager gave lecture at 10 of our sites, including mutual respect based on the principle of “Making Safety the First the Works and Research Laboratories, on themes covering the Priority” and encourages all its organizations (workplaces) and essential roles to be played by top executives in safety assurance. individuals (employees) to understand the importance of safety and voluntarily undertake necessary actions. In fiscal 2010, we implemented the following two measures to further enhance our safety culture. Preventive measures taken at the head off ice, br anches, and sales off ices During the past three years, there were three injuries suffered by employees of the head office in Tokyo: falling on an icy road, coming into contact with a car while crossing a street, and spraining a joint when involved in a car accident in a taxi (while not wearing a seatbelt). These accidents were caused by unsafe Lecture given at the Chiba Works behavior and could have been prevented if the employees were The lecturer gave inspiring comments to participants based on more cautious, although there might have been some inevitable his own experience, such as “Top executives should take action factors. based on their own safety principles”; “The opposite of safety is At the head office and other non-manufacturing sites, safety not danger but unconsciousness”; and “Individuals should increase activities were not conducted so proactively as at the Works and their own safety awareness and sensitivity.” Research Laboratories, because the risk of occupational accidents Following this advice from the lecturer and also as one of the was thought to be lower. In consideration of the actual situation measures to communicate the corporate principle of “Making as explained above, however, we decided to improve the safety Safety the First Priority” more clearly to all employees, we management systems of our head office, branches, and sales designated the first Monday of each month as the Company’s offices to prevent occupational accidents at the administration and “safety day,” on which all employees are expected to think sales departments. Moreover, we plan to create and distribute a seriously about safety. rulebook on occupational safety and health to increase employees’ In 2011, Japanese industry celebrates the 100th anniversary safety awareness and prevent employees from getting involved in of the launch of comprehensive industrial sa fety activities. accidents at offices and outside. Commemorating this anniversary as a member of the industrial framework, Sumitomo Chemical will further foster activities to Learning from a factor y achieving excellent safety performance enhance its safety culture, aiming to pass down its tradition of We invited a former manager of a factory that achieved no lostsafety commitments and activities to the next generation. VOICE VOICE Tokushige Seki Takuro Nasu No. 3 Manufacturing Section, Kikumoto No. 1 Manufacturing Department Process ＆ Production Technology Department Ehime Works Ohe Works Fiscal 2011 Slogan for Occupational Fiscal 2011 Poster for Safety and Health Occupational Safety and Health “Increase safety awareness and We designed the poster to emphasize sensitivity and enhance our culture of safety” the importance of making a concerted effort to enhance our culture of safety towards the final goal of “zero accidents” In order to achieve zero accidents, it is essential to identify risks at across the Company. workplaces, for which individual employees need to increase their safety The poster is intended to urge awareness and sensitivity through education and practice of 4RKY.* We individual employees to understand and created this slogan believing that we can achieve zero accidents through implement the fundamental principle of mutual enlightenment and risk detection among all employees. “Making Safety the First Priority” and I wish for your safety! achieve zero accidents on an individual *4RKY: Four-Round Kiken Yochi (risk detection) activity level as the first step to achieving zero accidents across the Company. 47 CSR Report 2011 Responsible Care Activities Industrial Safety and Disaster Prevention GRI 4.11 EN23 4.2 LA7 Sumitomo Chemical is building a robust industrial safety and disaster prevention system, making the safety of everyone the first priority. Safety and Disaster Prevention Management for Process Safety Management from Research and Preventing Accidents at Plants and Assuring Safety Development to Plant Operation and Dismantling The foremost mission of disaster prevention management is to In an effort to reduce environmental impact and achieve zeroprevent unforeseen plant accidents by ensuring process safety accident and zero-disaster operations, Sumitomo Chemical and plant integrity. Plants must also be protected against natural performs safety assessments at each stage from new chemical disasters and terrorist attacks. Stringent risk assessments are process R&D to plant design, construction, operation, maintenance, therefore conducted, in addition to continuous safety improvement and dismantling. and comprehensive voluntary safety management. (1) Examination of Process Safety Unfor tuna tely, however, we had three accidents in fiscal The Process Safety Review Committee convenes at every step, 2010, including a serious accident resulting in the death of a from R&D through to industrial scale production processes, to subcontractor. Two other accidents occurred at facilities dealing oversee a system in which the safety of each stage is thoroughly with hazardous chlorine and hydrochloric acid, but fortunately verified before moving on to the next stage. The system is in nobody was injured in those accidents. We apologize to neighbors use at Sumitomo Chemical, and all Group companies are being of the facilities and related authorities for causing concern instructed to adopt it. regarding these accidents. (2) R&D Safety Confirmation Taking these accidents very seriously, we are implementing At the R&D stage, materials safety data and other related data measures to prevent the reoccurrence of similar accidents on on the chemicals to be handled are examined and assessed in a company-wide basis. We are promoting safety management detail. This data is then used to select the safest chemicals and toward zero accidents and injuries, focusing on optimizing the to assess the required amounts in order to ensure that R&D will plans and processes f or work to be conducted during the utilize only fundamentally safe chemical processes. shutdown maintenance period and on further clarifying safety The construction materials for new chemical plants are also measures and disseminating them among employees. examined and evaluated to select the optimum materials with lower lifecycle costs. (3) Plant Safety Confirmation While plant design and cons truc tion are based on legal technical standards, processes are additionally subjected to hazard assessments in order to highlight potential dangers and incorporate, from the standpoint of self-administered management, Tank Rupture at the Misawa Works more stringent safety precautions into the design and construction processes. A t a n k w a s r u p t u r e d a t S u m i t o m o C h e m i c a l ’s M i s a w a In addition, operational manuals are created and training is Wo r k s d u r i n g i t s s h u t d o w n m a i n t e n a n c e p e r i o d o n provided for operators. The Company also regularly conducts September 24, 2010, causing the death of an employee process hazard evaluations attended by relevant persons after the start of plant operations and when operating parameters or of a contractor who was engaged in onsite welding facilities are modified. o p e r a t i o n s . We w o u l d l i k e t o e x p r e s s o u r h e a r t f e l t s y m p a t h y t o t h e v i c t i m ’s f a m i l y a n d a p o l o g i z e t o a l l Evaluation of new processes those concerned for the concerns caused to them by this accident. Information collection and compilation The accident did not cause a fire or have any impact about process safety on the surrounding environment, but taking the accident Regular review of Management v e r y s e r i o u s l y, w e w i l l i m p l e m e n t a l l n e c e s s a r y existing processes Process risk assessment of changes Process Safety Review Committee measures to prevent accidents or injuries, including measures to ensure the safety of repair/installation work, Pre-Startup Safety Review so that we can regain the trust from local communities Operation and other stakeholders. Set forth in the Company’s standards (Safety Management Guidelines) 48 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Advanced Self-Administered Safety Management Reviewing Measures Based on Lessons Responsible Care Activities Learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake Aiming to achieve advanced self-administered management, Sumitomo Chemical’s Process & Production Technology Center We will continue implementing measures against possible works to improve and effectively utilize the support system and earthquakes while fostering risk reduction and ensuring compliance tools obtained from various sources. Its mission is to support with our predefined emergency response procedures. process safety and disaster prevention management, prepare Moreover, in consideration of the damage caused by the various safety and disaster prevention guidelines, and compile unprecedented scale o f the ear thquak e and tsunami, w e a database of safety information ( technical information and are reviewing our anti-seismic measures to prepare against accident reports) and risks related to the mixing of, or contact earthquakes that are larger than the conventionally foreseen ones. with substances. We will also ask all Group companies to consider implementing In fiscal 2010, in order to ensure compliance with the guidelines similar voluntar y anti-seismic measures so tha t the entire on static electricity safety measures and on chemical process Sumitomo Chemical Group can achieve further risk reductions. sa f e t y, which are integr al par ts of the disaster pre vention guidelines, we held briefing sessions on the guidelines at each of our sites, while developing and examining a system to assess fire and explosion risks caused by electrostatic discharges. We are thus taking a number of initiatives towards further risk reduction. TOPIC Participation in an Emergency Drill by the Chiba Works Collective Training at the High-Pressure Gas Treatment Facility The Chiba Works has been participating in practical emergency drills The Oita Works belongs to a local high-pressure gas safety council jointly conducted by the Japan Coast Guard (Chiba) and local companies. in Kyushu and is designated as a member that will provide emergency In fiscal 2010, in a drill based on a simulation where crude benzene had support if any member of the council becomes involved in an accident leaked into the sea in the Sodegaura I district, participants—including those during the transportation of chlorine or sulfurous acid gas. from the Chiba Works—learned how to detect gas, set up a caution zone, Every February the Oita Works conducts a collective drill to ensure that install an oil fence, rescue victims, and report to the related authorities. it can promptly respond to a request for emergency support from the They were also trained by the Japan Coast Guard staff on the skills to council. In the drill, support team members gather together to check and recover and transport the leaked chemical substances, decontaminate prepare the necessary materials and equipment, load the equipment onto a the sea area, and spray water to diffuse the remaining contaminants. The transportation vehicle, and drive to the front gate of the site. drill provided participants with an important opportunity to learn how to In response to the retirement of baby boomers, the Works also provides undertake responses to a marine incident. younger employees with training on the handling of materials and equipment used for support work. Training on skills to spray water to diffuse remaining contaminants Driving to the front gate as a part of the drill Training on skills to set an oil fence Putting a chlorine cylinder into a case 49 CSR Report 2011 Chemical Safety Initiatives Responsible Sumitomo Chemical is promoting product stewardship* initiatives as a member of the chemical Care industry. Activities Safety Management of Chemicals throughout Their Entire Life Cycles GRI 4.11 4.13 4.2 PR1 Sumitomo Chemical conducts chemicals management based on risk assessments of chemicals throughout their entire lifecycles using the latest scientific knowledge and advanced technologies, and makes the results available to the public. Approach to Chemical Risk Reduction to Environmental Health Science Laboratory Meet Increasing Global Requirements Playing a Central Role in Safety Research In August 2002, the World Summit on Sustainable Development A t Sumitomo Chemical, the Environmental Health Science (WSSD) was held in Johannesburg, the Republic of South Africa. Laboratory plays a central role in a diverse variety of safety The Summit proposed targets for 2020, aiming to ensure that assessments for various products developed by the Sumitomo “chemicals are used and produced in ways that lead to the Chemical Group. minimization of significant adverse effects on human health and The Laboratory conducts sophisticated research in diverse the environment.” This led to the adoption in February 2006 of fields ranging from genetics to environmental and ecological the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management science on a global scale, making use of the latest scientific (SAICM) in the international Conference of Chemicals Management knowledge and advanced technologies as well as the Company’s (ICCM-1). Global initiatives towards reducing risk throughout the abundant expertise in chemical safety assessment developed lifecycle of chemical substances have thereby been accelerated. over many years. In addition, as the core laboratory supporting As a member of the chemical industry, Sumitomo Chemical is the technological aspects of RC activities for chemical safety at advancing initiatives for both regulatory compliance and voluntary Sumitomo Chemical, the Laboratory provides the entire Company measures to strengthen risk-based chemicals management in our with safety information and the results of risk assessments in commitment to contribute to the implementation of SAICM. order to ensure safety and protect the environment throughout the lifecycles of chemical products. It is also implementing measures to continuously improve its risk assessment level. *Product stewardship: Initiative to ensure that chemicals available in the market are safely handled and used throughout their entire lifecycles. TOPIC Predicting Toxicity and Elucidating the Mechanism of Toxicity through MicroRNA Expression Analysis Tissue-specific expression Functional regulation in cells In the dramatic progress of genome research, small RNAs, composed of about 20 nucleotides and called “microRNAs” (miRNAs), are attracting Liver Brain Lung Muscle much attention, along with messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding proteins. It has been revealed that miRNAs regulate the expression of mRNAs or proteins and are related to embryonic development, functional regulation in cells, and to the onset of various human diseases, including cancers. Sumitomo Chemical is working on a study of toxicity prediction and elucidating the mechanism of toxicity through miRNA analysis, focusing attention on the fact that many miRNAs are expressed in a tissuespecific manner, and that intrinsic miRNAs are highly resistant to RNA Pathological samples Urine Blood degrading enzyme (RNase) and could be extracted relatively easily from blood, urine, and stored pathological samples. Recently, it has been revealed that the blood concentration of one or more tissue-specific miRNAs changes when a tissue begins to exhibit toxicity. Such research activities are expected to contribute to the safety miRNA expression analysis assessment of various chemicals, including agricultural chemicals, and also to the early diagnosis of diseases. Sumitomo Chemical will continue proactive research in this important field. Application to the safety assessment of chemicals and to the early diagnosis of diseases 50 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Effective Use of the Comprehensive Chemical Management System (SuCCESS) Careful Consideration for Animal Experiments Responsible Care Activities With an increase in international awareness of the need for In the process of developing useful chemical substances, a appropriate management of chemicals, it is becoming extremely large variety of safety assessments are required. Some of these important for chemical companies to collect and manage chemical assessments, however, cannot be completed without conducting safety information in order to properly respond to chemical e xperiments using labora tor y animals. Sumitomo Chemical regulations that are becoming stricter every year and ensure advocates humane treatment of laboratory animals and applies chemical safety based on risk assessments. In a proactive the 3Rs of animal use and animal welfare: replacement, reduction, response to these trends, Sumitomo Chemical launched a and refinement. Beyond the standards specified by current laws program for compiling existing findings and information on the and regulations on animal care and use (welfare and management) safety management of chemical products in 2005. And in order issued by the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, to properly manage all safety information and utilize it effectively, Science and Technology, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Sumitomo Chemical has developed a new-generation database and Ministr y of Agriculture, Forestr y and Fisheries, we also system, the Sumitomo Chemical Comprehensive Environmental, have internal rules for conducting animal experiments and have Health & Safety Management System (SuCCESS). established the Animal Welfare Committee to verify compliance A t present, information about the compositions of all the with these rules and to ensure that animal experiments are products, intermediates, and materials treated by Sumitomo conducted properly and appropriately with due consideration for Chemical, as well as about the laws and regulations on chemical animal welfare. substances, are stored in the SuCCESS, which enables us to We regularly monitor the care and use of animals as specified make prompt responses to customers’ inquiries about substances in the law, as well as our internal regulations, and ask external contained in our products. Moreover, when any changes or experts, such as university professors specializing in the ethics of additions are made to substances subject to regulation following animal experiments, to evaluate our animal experiments for further the revision of laws, etc., we can easily check which of our improvement. products contain the substance in question, thereby ensuring legal We have also been actively improving our system for educating compliance. those engaged in animal experiments and developing alternatives Also, for some of our products, we are starting to prepare to animal experimentation. GHS * 1 compliant MSDSs * 2 using the SuCCESS. We are scheduled to improve the function to output GHS compliant TOPIC MSDSs for all products of Sumitomo Chemical and have already established the operating system. Moreover, in fiscal 2011, we will Efforts to Develop a New Mutagenicity start discussing a plan to expand the scope of the SuCCESS to Testing Method (In Vivo Comet Assay) Group companies. Mutagenicity tests are conducted to predict the risks posed by *1 Globally Harmonized S y s tem o f Classification and Labeling o f chemical substances to human beings, such as carcinogenicity and the Chemicals (GHS): Globally harmonized system that establishes a set of genetic disease in future generations. These tests include a range of criteria for classifying and labeling chemicals according to their hazards. detection tests, such as the Ames test and the chromosomal aberration *2. Material Safet y Data Sheet (MSDS ): A document that describes test. In recent years, as a new mutagenicity test, an in vivo comet assay information necessary for the safe handling of chemical products (properties, has been attracting much attention. handling methods, safety measures, etc.). The in vivo comet assay is a single cell gel electrophoresis assay conducted using isolated cells of animals under specific conditions to detect the DNA damage of each cell. In this assay, if the DNA is Active Participation in Voluntary Programs in Japan and Overseas damaged, the fragmented DNA shows an image like a comet. This testing method is expected to be applicable to any tissues from which At the ICCM-1 held in 2006, the International Council of Chemical cells can be isolated, including those obtained for other toxicity testing, Associations (ICCA), representing the global chemical industry, to detect damage to the DNA of the cell with high sensitivity and in made its commitment to implementing SAICM by the launch of the a relatively simple manner. The use of this method will help reduce Responsible Care Global Charter and the Global Product Strategy the frequency of animal tests and is therefore keenly anticipated to (GPS) for the management of chemicals in their entire lifecycles contribute to animal welfare. throughout the supply chain. A s a member of the chemical At present, international validation tests are being conducted to develop the guidelines for the testing method, in which Sumitomo industry, Sumitomo Chemical is proactively participating in these Chemical is also participating, by conducting studies to establish the voluntary programs. The Company is also playing a core role optimal testing method. We will continue making efforts to improve in the committees and task forces set up by the ICCA and the the method, while proactively introducing new mutagenicity tests to Japan Chemical Industry Association to promote the GPS, thereby contribute to bettering the safety assessments of chemical substances. contributing to the achievement of the SAICM targets. Moreover, Sumitomo Chemical has been proactively participating Direction of DNA migration Direction of DNA migration (-) anode (+) cathode (-) anode (+) cathode in and providing support to the Long-Range Research Initiatives (LRI) for research on the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment, which is fostered jointly by the Japanese, American, and European chemical industry associations under the Nucleus Nucleus Fragmented DNA ICCA. Normal cell DNA-damaged cell 51 CSR Report 2011 Quality Assurance Initiatives Responsible Sumitomo Chemical works to supply high-quality products and services that satisfy customers’ Care needs and ensure safety in their use. Activities Group-Wide Initiatives VOICE Hsiu Li Yang Sumitomo Chemical has been promoting quality assurance RC Department, Sumipex Techsheet Co., Ltd. activities throughout the Group. In fiscal 2010, 73 Group companies have begun applying Group Quality Assurance Standards and 74 Pursuing Even Higher Quality Following the Group companies Group PL Standards, in line with their business Launch of Production for the Japanese Market operations. To achieve successful application, these companies are creating new in-house rules as required. We will continue to Sumipex Techsheet (STS) began operations in January 2009. We are conduct quality assurance activities while enhancing the integrity manufacturing MMA cast sheets. Initially, sales to the domestic market in of activities across the Group. Taiwan accounted for 10% of total sales, with the remaining 90% occupied by exports to the United States, Australia, South Africa, the Middle East, ISO 9001 certif ication of Group companies etc. Vector Health International Ltd. (VHI) in Tanzania and Zhuhai STS has an ISO 9001-based management system to manufacture highSumika Polymer Compounds Co., Ltd. in China newly obtained quality products that are greatly appreciated by the market, focusing on ISO 9001 certification, based on the reports made by Sumitomo risk management and disaster prevention. We began manufacturing products for the Japanese market in November Chemical Group companies in 2010. 2010. We need to meet higher quality requirements for products exported VHI is manufacturing the Olyset™ Net, a long lasting insecticidal to Japan compared with those that have been exported to other countries, net effective for malaria control, manufactured under Sumitomo and all employees are conducting operations in a responsible manner to Chemical’s royalty-free license of its manufacturing technology meet such requirements. since 2007. Various efforts, including frequent visit and instruction We will further improve the quality of our products and increase the by Sumitomo Chemical’s own technical experts, to improve the rate of products that can pass the inspection tests while also increasing quality consciousness by local employees, and understanding and production quantities. practice concerning quality assurance by local managers , have led to the company’s obtainment of ISO 9001 certification. Sumipex Techsheet Co., Ltd. Initiatives at Sumitomo Chemical Sumitomo Chemical is conducting quality assurance activities on a company-wide basis as well as by business sector, site, and department. In fiscal 2010, we were able to achieve steady results for all the important items from the viewpoints of “human Employees of VHI proudly showing their ISO 9001 certificate resources,” “produc ts,” “Sumitomo Chemical Group,” and “purchasing and outsourcing,” although the IT-related Chemicals Sector and the Agricultural Chemicals Sector (present Health & Crop Sciences Sector ) faced ma jor quality problems for photoresists and product labels, respectively. In response, we are implementing measures to prevent the reoccurrence of similar problems. 52 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Enhancing quality assurance activities Cross-Industry Initiatives Responsible Care Activities Acquiring certification for a Quality Management System (QMS) is evidence of appropriate quality assurance activities. Although Sumitomo Chemical has been actively promoting joint activities ISO 9001 standards are the most famous and universal standards with other companies, not only in the chemical industry but also in on QMSs, there are also other quality management standards. other industries. Sumitomo Chemical became the third Japanese company to acquire FAMI-QS certification for methionine *1 in November 2010. Communicati ng i nf or mation about chemical substances In order to comply with the FAMI-QS standards on animal feeds, contained in products we implemented new initiatives, including efforts to understand and The chemical industr y had been providing customers with practice the HACCP*2 method, which is often applied to food. information about chemicals in the form of JIS*1-compliant MSDSs A s a company tha t provides customer s with a range of (see page 51). Recently, however, more detailed information products, Sumitomo Chemical will further enhance its quality has been required in some cases, and in response, Sumitomo assurance activities through various new approaches. Chemical established JAMP *2 jointly with other manufacturers of chemical substances, companies that mix and combine chemical substances or manufacture parts using those substances, and Examples of Quality Management Systems companies that assemble the parts into final products, with a view to creating and revising standardized information communication ISO 9001 Quality management systems – Requirements forms (i.e. MSDSplus *3 and AIS *4 ). In fiscal 2010, for the further ISO/TS 16949 Quality management systems – Particular requirements for the application of ISO 9001: 2008 for automotive production enhancement of this initiative, Sumitomo Chemical held the briefing and relevant service part organizations concerning JAMP for its suppliers. ISO 22000 Food safety management systems – Requirements for any We will continue to foster the activities of JAMP through various organization in the food chain measures. ISO 13485 Medical devices – Quality management systems – Requirements for regulatory purposes GMP Good Manufacturing Practice; Standards for the manufacturing management and quality control of pharmaceuticals, etc. FAMI-QS European Feed Additives and Premixtures Quality System *1. Methionine is used as a feed additive. It is one of the essential amino acids and promotes the growth of animals. *2. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) is an approach to clarify both hazards and control points in manufacturing processes to ensure safety. “Visualizing” quality assurance activities The level of quality assurance activities can be “visualized” by calculating the cost of quality . Sumitomo Chemical had calculated the following cost: external failure cost (of paying to customers who suffered inconvenience); internal failure cost (of dealing with quality problems inside the Company); and the appraisal cost (of evaluating products). In fiscal 2010, we began including prevention The briefing concerning JAMP at the Sumitomo Chemical head office in Tokyo cost, such as the cost to prevent quality problems by making changes to the processes, in order to determine the costs of quality from a broader perspective, and reviewed the scope of *1. Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) Industrial standards formulated on the basis of the Japanese Industrial data collection and classification for each of the cost items. Standardization Act, and one of Japan’s national standards. We will efficiently enhance our quality assurance activities in *2. Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP) reference to the collected data. Established by companies as a rational information communication system for regulated substances contained in products. For details, visit the JAMP website: http://www.jamp-info.com/english *3. MSDSplus Information communication form developed by JAMP for regulated substances contained in chemical products. *4. Article Information Sheet (AIS) Information communication form developed by JAMP for regulated substances contained in products. 53 CSR Report 2011 Initiatives for Ensuring Quality, Safety, and Environmental Protection in Logistics Operations Responsible Based on the fundamental principle of giving first priority to safety in logistic operations, Sumitomo Care Chemical is cooperating with partner logistics companies, upholding a basic policy of ensuring safety Activities and giving due consideration to the environment, while providing customers with high-quality logistics services. GRI 3.9 4.11 4.2 EN17 EN18 EN29 Initiatives for Improving Logistics Safety and Quality Promoting RC activities in cooperation with logistics companies Sumitomo Chemical, which commissions all its transportation activities to partner companies, conducts the followings as its two core RC logistics activities: (1) promoting cross-organizational RC activities through “the Sumitomo Chemical Logistics Partnership Council”; and (2) providing individual instructions, such as “logistics RC audits”. As part of these activities, we conduct a nationwide competition for tank truck drivers to provide participants with opportunities to learn from each other about the prevention of accidents. At the prefectural forklift competition held in Ehime Prefecture, participants from partner logistics companies of the Ehime Works General meeting of the Sumitomo Chemical Logistics Partnership Council (May 24, 2010) won the first, second, and third prizes. Initiatives to assure quality for customers Sumitomo Chemical is implementing IT-based measures to prevent human errors of shipping and delivery on a company-wide basis. For example, the Osaka Works has been adopting a system that utilizes QR code and IC tags to inspect shipping and manage the use of returnable containers for its semiconductor-related products since March 2010. Semiconductor-related products are shipped to companies in the IT industry who demand high quality assurance, and the aforementioned initiative at the Works helps us highlight our commitment to quality. We will expand the initiative to other Works and logistics centers. First competition for tank truck drivers (held on Sept. 25, 2010, with the participation of 13 companies providing us with transportation services) TOPIC System to Prevent Shipping Errors Using QR Codes and IC Tags The Osaka Works has introduced a system to prevent shipping errors for its semiconductor-related products and manage the use of returnable containers. Winners at the 24th prefectural forklift competition held in Ehime Prefecture (held on June 27, 2010, with the participation of 22 employees from 10 logistics companies) Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Logistics Operations Sumitomo Chemical has been actively implementing a modal shift to rail and ship transportation while increasing transportation efficiency through upsizing delivery volume. As a result, the unit energy consumption of our logistics operations has reduced annually by 1.1% on average over each of the past four years, although it increased by 3.8% year-on-year in Japan in fiscal 2010. The unit energy consumption increased in fiscal 2010 because Inspection using a handy terminal the rate of energy-efficient marine transportation decreased following discontinuance of sea dumping of red bauxite. 54 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Reduction of Environmental Impact in Logistic Operations Incidents Involving Employees of Responsible Care Activities (Actual Results for Fiscal 2006 to 2010) ★ Partner Logistics Companies Energy Consumption Energy consumption In fiscal 2010, we were not able to achieve zero incidents: there (1,000 kl in terms of crude oil) (kl/ton-kilometer) 50 Unit energy consumption 0.0115 were two lost-workday injuries involving employees of our partner logistics companies within the premises of our factories. 0.0114 0.0111 (1) A t the stock yard for bauxite, an employee of a par tner 0.0109 40 0.0110 logistics company was operating a caterpillar excavator to move the piled-up bauxite. During this operation, the floating front part 0.0105 0.0105 30 0.0105 of the vehicle hit the ground and rebounded, causing the driver to hit his head against the front windshield glass. The driver, who 40.3 39.7 34.7 32.8 32.2 was a starter, was unfortunately injured during his first onsite work 20 0.0100 conducted under the supervision of a manager. (2) An employee of a partner logistics company was placing 10 0.095 polyethylene packaging materials (in the form of a roll) onto pallets. A roll sticking out from a pallet suddenly fell on the worker, who took the weight of the roll on his chest. Following this incident, we 0 0 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 （FY） improved related working methods and implemented necessary measures, including those to prevent objects falling from pallets. CO 2 Emissions (1,000 tons) Occurrence of Logistics Quality-Related Incidents 110 105.5 104.9 Against the target of keeping the number of major incidents to below six, we faced two incidents in fiscal 2010. 100 (1) Liquid leakage due to the overturning of a marine container (at a container yard in Kobe) 91.7 (2) Erroneous delivery of aluminum targets (Delivery to the wrong destination on the wrong day due to errors in the delivery slip 90 86.7 85.4 made by the shipper) 80 Occurrence of major Logistics Quality-Related Incidents during the Past 10 Years (Note) Sumitomo Chemical classifies major incidents into Rank A, B, C in descending order of severity from the worst to least). 70 We had no Rank A incidents during the period, and the graph shows ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 （FY） the frequency of Rank B and C incidents. TOPIC （cases） 16 Rank B 14 Drill to Tackle the Leakage of Hazardous Rank C 12 Substances during Transportation 10 In order to prevent leakages during transportation, we ensure 8 compliance with the rules and regulations on the safety management of hazardous substances during transportation. Moreover, we have built up 6 an emergency communication system and regularly conduct emergency 4 drills in preparation for any occurrence of such incidents. Also, simulating a small leakage during transportation in an ISO 2 container from the Oita area to the Ehime area, we conduct a drill to 0 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10（FY） make the necessary reports to the related departments and prevent the spread of the leakage. Drill to tackle the leakage of hazardous substances held on June 28, 2010, with the participation of four internal departments and five external companies 55 CSR Report 2011 Progress in Fulfilling Eco-First Commitments Responsible As a leading company in the chemical industry, Sumitomo Chemical is committed to fulfilling Care its Eco-First commitments to the Japanese Minister of the Environment, while ensuring legal Activities compliance and enhancing RC activities. GRI 4.11 March 2010 to March 2011 ◎：Very favorable ／○：Generally favorable ／△：Further study needed Management of chemical substances and promotion of risk communication Evaluation Reviewing the safety information on chemicals and conducting risk assessments ◎ · Proceeding favorably as planned · Approximately 50% of hazard assessment completed and risk assessments performed for 59 chemical substances Voluntarily inspecting the safety of HPV chemicals and conducting LRI activities ◎ (1) Voluntary inspection on the safety of HPV chemicals · Conducted in cooperation with the world chemical industry; led and completed the inspection on three substances *1 (2) LRI · Participated in the LRI project implemented by the Japan Chemical Industry Association as a member of the taskforce on science and leader of the planning and management panel*2 Halving the release of substances subject to the PRTR Act into the air and water ◎ · Systematically reduced the amount released based on risk management · Achieved the initial target of reducing 50% from the fiscal 2002 level (baseline year) by fiscal 2010 Enhancing information disclosure and risk communication ◎ · Published the Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report (in Japanese and English) and also the Report on the Environment, Health and Safety by each individual Works on a regular basis · Published local PR newsletters, made school visits, accepted student interns, and engaged in dialogues with local residents at each of our worksites Preventing global warming Improving unit energy consumption and reducing unit CO2 emissions at all Works ○ *3・◎ *4 · Unit energy consumption and unit CO 2 emissions decreased by 18.3% and 24.1%, respectively from fiscal 1990 levels (baseline year) · Implemented multifaceted energy conservation measures, including improved operation methods, process rationalization, improvement of facility and equipment efficiency, and efficient use of energy in cooperation with neighboring companies Developing and making practical use of innovative energy conservation technologies to recover previously unusable ○ low-temperature heat (130℃ or below) generated by our petrochemical plants and reuse it at manufacturing plants · Participated as an advisor in a joint R&D project conducted by universities and machinery manufacturers, which was fostered by NEDO as a project to develop innovative technologies to conserve energy Test data is now being collected using a small prototype machine Continuously improving unit energy consumption in our logistics division ○ · Continuing to implement measures to increase the rate of transportation by rail and ship and to upsize transport containers Reducing CO2 emissions by households in cooperation with the labor union ◎ · Conducted a wide range of activities, including the creation of posters, introducing examples of energy conservation in the internal magazine, opening a CSR webpage on the intranet, and distributing our “Environmental Accounting Book” Creation of a recycling-based society Reducing the generation of industrial waste and landfill through recycling and other means and achieving ◎ *5・◎ *6 zero waste emissions · Achieved the initial target of reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill by 90% from fiscal 1990 levels (baseline year) by fiscal 2010 · Made steady progress to achieve zero waste emissions at all our manufacturing facilities by fiscal 2015 *1. 2-tert-butyl-5-methylphenol, 2,2'-methylene-bis-(6-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol), and resorcinol *2. Commissioned expert research into ecotoxicity (environmental toxicity), carcinogenicity, immunotoxicity, more precise risk assessment, and neurotoxicity, and held a meeting to report the research results. *3 . Unit energy consumption *4. Unit CO2 emissions *5. Reducing the generation of industrial waste and landfill *6. Zero waste emissions (Note) The Japanese Ministry of the Environment reviewed the Eco-First program in October 2010. Accordingly, Sumitomo Chemical also made some changes to its Eco-First commitments in January 2011 and has been implementing measures to fulfill the revised version since April 2011. (For the full text of the Eco-First commitments, see page 24 of the DATA BOOK.) 56 Social Activities 4 As a member of society, Sumitomo Chemical strives to enhance its relations with local communities, customers, business partners and employees. We are also committed to conducting social contribution activities that are unique to Sumitomo Chemical through our business activities with a focus on covering three different areas: coexistence with local communities, continued suppor t for sustainable society and responsible business as a global company. Moreover, we are working toward increased information disclosure and the promotion of dialogue with multi-stakeholders. CONTENTS Hand in Hand with Customers 58 Hand in Hand with Business Partners 59 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society 60 Hand in Hand with Employees 66 External Commendations and Marks Approved for Use 72 57 CSR Report 2011 Hand in Hand with Customers Social The Sumitomo Chemical Group works to supply high-quality products and services that satisfy Activities customers’ needs and ensure safety in their use, thereby building and maintaining relations of trust with customers. GRI 4.15 4.16 At Sumitomo Chemical, employees in charge of sales and qualit y assurance cooperate together to increase customer satisfaction. Measures for Higher Customer Satisfaction also substantially and rapidly changing. In response to these changes, the Plastics Technical Center will continue to develop Sumitomo Chemical operates a product quality information and propose highly value-added new processing technologies, management system to make appropriate and prompt responses materials, and products in a speedy manner to customers. to complaints and requests made by customer s about the Company’s produc ts. Through this s y s tem, we ensure the Co n su l t a t i o n S e r v i c e Pr ov i d e d by t h e Pr o d u c t incorporation of customers’ opinions about our products into our Promotion Department of the Crop Protection Division quality assurance activities. Each business sector of the Company analyses the information The Product Promotion Depar tment of the Crop Protection registered with the system and implements measures to prevent Division provides customers with consultation ser vices about the occurrence of similar problems. Also, the Works, Research Sumitomo Chemical’s agricultural chemicals within Japan. Laboratories, and sales personnel share information regarding The department’s consultation service members are committed customers’ complaints and improvement requests about product to responding to customers from a customer’s viewpoint, and quality as important data, based on which the entire organization based on the Company’s compliance policy. should make responses to customers. Customer s ask the ser vice staf f questions about various issues, such as the appropriate usage of agricultural chemicals Plastics Technical Center and food safety, and the members provide them with precise information in an easy-to-understand manner in compliance with The Plastic Technical Center, which is located in the Chiba related laws, including the Agricultural Chemicals Control Act of area, conducts research for the application and processing of Japan. The members receive internal training on frequently asked petrochemical products in response to market needs. The center questions (FAQs) and proactively participate in external seminars supports corporate customers in commercializing resin products to learn how competitors and companies in other industries deal and new materials from various aspects. with customers, thereby sharing knowledge and increasing their Specifically, the center considers and proposes new resin job skills. processing technologies to manufacture lighter, stronger, and Through the consultation ser vice, the depar tment actively multifunctional resins, and provides information about materials communicates with customer s, and improves and develops and processing technologies for practical processing evaluation. produc ts giving due consider a tion to their requests. When Moreover, using the nex t-generation plastics computer aided r e ceiving complaints about the Company’s pr oduc t s, the engineering (CAE) technologies, the center designs high polymer department cooperates with other departments to make prompt materials and supports not only formability assessment, such as responses. flow analysis but also product per formance assessment, such Moreover, the customer ser vice members hold information as shock analysis. The center also makes proposals for highexchange /study meetings with their counterpar ts working at per formance resin processed products with new functions and other Sumitomo Group companies engaged in agriculture-related for technologies to commercialize such products. business for mutual improvement. Through these activities, the The environment surrounding the petrochemical industr y department is working to increase the credibility of the Sumitomo is unde r going gr e a t cha nge s, a nd cus tomer s’ ne e ds a r e Chemical Agro Group as “total solution providers.” Plastics Technical Center Consultation service members 58 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Hand in Hand with Business Partners Social Sumitomo Chemical has been implementing its responsible procurement initiatives for the Activities purchase of raw materials and packaging materials. GRI 4.11 4.15 4.2 4.16 Social Activities Sumitomo Chemical is committed to building sound mutual relations with business partners based on the Basic Procurement Principles. In addition to ensuring fairness, equitability, and transparency in our transactions with business par tners, we are also encouraging business par tners to promote their CSR activities through our responsible procurement activities. Basics of Responsible Procurement Initiatives in Fiscal 2010 Clarif ying regulations within the Company Monitoring Sumitomo Chemical clearly states the following basic principle of In fiscal 2010, Sumitomo Chemical monitored the implementation responsible procurement in its Basic Procurement Policies (shown of CSR measures by all new suppliers and by current suppliers below): with manufacturing facilities located overseas, using the CSR “4. In its procurement, the Procurement Section shall give Deployment Check Sheets. preference to those suppliers that are active in CSR initiatives, Introduction to Group companies with the aim of fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities and Sumitomo Chemical held a briefing session targeting Sumitomo building sound relationships with suppliers.” Chemical Shanghai and Sumitomo Chemical India to help In addition, we clearly state our basic responsible procurement employees of these subsidiaries in China and India to deepen policy in the Group Business Standards of Procurement, which their understanding of the measures taken by Sumitomo Chemical apply to Group companies both in Japan and overseas. for responsible procurement and especially the CSR Deployment Means to foster Responsible Procurement Guidebook and Check Sheets. (1) Using the Sumitomo Chemical Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Exchange of responsible procurement information with competitors Guidebook and Check Sheets Also in fiscal 2010, employees of Sumitomo Chemical in charge Sumitomo Chemical has created the Sumitomo Chemical of responsible procurement exchanged opinions about responsible Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook, which explains CSR procurement ideas and systems with their counterparts working items to be focused on by suppliers. Sumitomo Chemical aims to for competitors. help its suppliers address their issues by monitoring and providing feedback on the results of their self-evaluation using the Sumitomo Fiscal 2011 Targets for Responsible Procurement Initiatives Chemical Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Check Sheets and helping them promote CSR activities by repeating the PDCA cycle. Global implementation (2) Web Page on Procurement Information In fis c al 2011, w e will c ontinue t o us e our r e sponsible Sumitomo Chemical has a CSR Procurement section in its procurement system to monitor and provide feedback on CSR Procurement Informa tion website linked from the Company initiatives undertaken by all new suppliers and current suppliers, homepage in order to broadly inform its stakeholders about its particularly by overseas suppliers, to further promote responsible CSR procurement initiatives. This CSR Procurement web page procurement. allows suppliers to download the guidebook and check sheets and (1) Onsite survey at manufacturers report the results of their self-evaluations. We will conduct onsite surveys on CSR initiatives taken by Procurement Information website: suppliers when we make visits to their local factories for quality http://www.sumitomo-chem.co.jp/english/csr/society/business_partner/ audits and other purposes. Basic Procurement Policies ( 2 ) Cooperation with Sumitomo Chemical Shanghai and 1. The Procurement Section shall strive to conduct procurement Sumitomo Chemical India transactions on the basis of fair, equitable, transparent and free compe tition without involving per sonal interes ts or arbitr ar y We will ob tain the re sults o f self -e v alua tion from local considerations. manufacturers in China and India and conduct onsite surveys by 2. The Procurement Section shall strive to select suppliers to transact with in accordance with the most appropriate and economically the use of the responsible procurement system and in cooperation r a tional me thods and shall pur sue the maintenance of sound with the two local subsidiaries. business relationships with suppliers, aiming for mutual growth and development. Deployment to Group companies 3. The Procurement Section shall strive to provide corporate services We will check the responsible procurement measures fostered globally throughout the entire Group. by Group companies and promote responsible procurement as the 4. In its procurement, the Procurement Section shall give preference to those suppliers that are active in CSR initiatives, with the aim entire Group. of fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities and building sound Review of the Sumitomo Chemical Supply-Chain CSR Deployment relationships with suppliers. 5. The Procurement Sec tion shall s trive alwa y s to mee t qualit y Guidebook and Check Sheets requirements of Sumitomo Chemical’s internal sections that request We will review the details of the Guidebook and Check Sheets purchase of Goods and Services. 6. In performing Procurement Operations, the highest priority shall be in response to social needs, including the need for biodiversity given to safe and stable operation in order to achieve zero-accident conservation. and zero-injury operations. 7. In performing Procurement Operations, the highest consideration shall be given to customer satisfaction. 8. T he Pr ocur ement Se c tion shall ensur e the tr anspar enc y o f Procurement Operations. 59 CSR Report 2011 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society Social Sumitomo Chemical has been strengthening measures to support its head office, other worksites, Activities and Group companies to ensure employees’ safety and health and protect the environment; help employees raise children who will lead the next generation; and assist in natural disaster relief, based on the three pillars of “community contribution,”“future contribution,” and “global contribution.” For the Future of Local Communities and Children GRI 4.2 4.15 EC8 Sumitomo Chemical conducts a variety of localized activities at its worksites for information disclosure and communication with local residents on a daily basis, and education of children who will be the next generation of leaders. We are endeavoring to help local residents deepen their understanding of our activities and to build and maintain good relations with them. Organizing Tours to the Works and Community Beautification Activities Research Laboratories and Providing Access to Corporate Facilities Sumitomo Chemical’s worksites are also conducting cleanup and beautification activities around their premises and actively Sumitomo Chemical’s Work s and Research Labora tories participating in community cleanup events. organize tours of their facilities as a way of educating local The Misawa Works participated in a planting activity conducted children, who will lead the next generation and of disclosing by Misawa City, and employees planted flowers in front of the information to local residents and governments. The Company also main gate of the Works. provides locals with free access to its welfare facilities. For instance, the Health & Crop Sciences Research Laboratory offered a tour of its facilities for persons concerned who were engaged in agriculture, local communities, the members of local police and schools. This tour served as an opportunity to promote sharing and exchange of information. Employees planting flowers (Misawa Works) Tour in the Health & Crop Sciences Research Laboratory Cleanup activity conducted around the Tsukuba Research Laboratory VOICE Michiaki Ishiguro General Affairs Department, Ehime Works Aiming to Become Works Friendly to Local Residents At the Ehime Works, we are implementing a range of measures to help local residents deepen their understanding of the Works. Since 2010 we have been organizing holiday factory tours for locals, in response to requests to organize tours to the Works and Sumitomo Chemical’s history museum located next to the Works. We publicized the information about tours through the local government’s newsletters and local newspapers to invite more people to the tours. In the tour organized in 2011, as many as 700 Inviting local residents to the history museum on holidays (Ehime Works) people participated. We intend conducting more of these activities in the future. 60 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Supporting and Participating in Community Events Conducting Special Lessons at Social Activities Elementary and Junior High Schools As part of our measures to strengthen communication with local communities, Sumitomo Chemical supports and participates Sumitomo Chemical sends instructors to elementary and junior in local events. For example, the Oita Works participates in the high schools for School Science Visits and Environment Education Honba Tsurusaki Dance Festival, and employees of the Osaka Initiatives, aiming to stimulate children’s interest in science and to Works volunteer to support the table tennis championship for contribute to natural science education. Every year the instructors the disabled. The Misawa Works provides special support for prepare creative programs to show children how fascinating the Misawa International Wheelchair Tennis Tournament, and science is, and they enjoy interacting with the students. employees of the Works also participate in the Nagashi Odori In addition, the Chiba Works continues to promote the Ichiharaparade. Sodegaura Young Inventors’ Club, with enthusiastic support of Moreover, we provide free access to our facilities during the employees, retirees, school teachers, and local residents. periods of local events. Employees of the Misawa Works participated in the Nagashi Odori parade, one of the main events of the Misawa Festival. Giving a class on dyeing (Osaka Works) Employees of the Osaka Works participated in the table tennis championship for the disabled as volunteers. Ichihara-Sodegaura Young Accepting Student Interns Inventors’ Club (Chiba Works) The internship program is intended to provide students with an Promoting Sports opportunity for work experience related to their chosen subject area or future career, and to nurture their own view of occupations To promote the healthy development of children through sport, and work. Every year, we accept local senior high school and we also sponsor and support various sporting events. junior technical college students as interns at our worksites, where The Oita Works has long been supporting Tsurusaki Junior Cup they deepen their understanding of what it means to work and the Soccer Tournament for children, and the 20th event was held in kind of work people do in a chemical company. 2010. In 2010, the Okayama Plant began accepting junior high school students as interns to provide them with work experience, in addition to the internship program for senior high school students that the plant had launched in 2005. The plant provides the interns with practical training in a way that sti mulates their intere st in chemistry while giving due considera tion to their safety. Supporting a local football Accepting local junior high school competition for children students as interns (Okayama Plant) (Oita Works) 61 CSR Report 2011 Social Activities Regional Safety and Risk Communication GRI 4.11 4.16 4.2 4.17 Sumitomo Chemical actively conducts risk communication activities, clarif ying problems and targets based on its company-wide policies on risk communication. In these activities, the Company gives first priorit y to increased information disclosure and the promotion of dialogue. To this end, each of its worksites formulates specific action plans and executes a PDCA cycle. We are also making ef for ts to improve the landscape and environment at our worksites in response to comments we have received. Localized Information Disclosure by Worksites TOPIC Each worksite of the Company publishes its own environmental and safety report every year to report on its local activities in Developing “Environmental Communicators” detail. The reports of the worksites complement the Company’s The Osaka Works is located in a residential neighborhood, and own CSR Report. now several condominiums are under construction as part of urban In addition, three Works (Ehime, Osaka, and Oita ) publish development plans. In addition to changes in the local environment, local newsletters for the proactive distribution of area-specific the ideas and ways of thinking of local residents are also changing. information, often delivered to citizens as newspaper inserts. Under these circumstances, in order to help locals understand the measures taken by the Works for the environment, it is necessary to develop “environmental communicators” who have a range of Engaging in a Variety of Dialogues communication abilities and sufficient environmental knowledge. In fiscal 2010, the Work s launched a progr am to nur ture Each Work s engages in a varie ty of risk communica tion employees in charge of environmental protection into “environmental activities for various purposes. These include risk communication communicators.” These employees already had knowledge about model pro jec ts carried out jointly with local gover nments, the environment, but needed to acquire the ability to communicate environment and safety suppor t pro jects for domestic and the knowledge appropriately to a wide range of people, including those belonging to different age/job groups. In the environmental overseas governments and businesses, regular meetings with local communicator development program, the Works had trainees (1) residents, and dialogues with the community based on cooperation participate in the Special School Visits and factory tours organized with the chemical industry. by Sumitomo Chemical; ( 2) mak e presenta tions a t dialogue Moreover, the head offices (in Tokyo and Osaka) participate meetings held in Osaka; (3) attend the training seminars on risk in a range of committee activities conducted by the national communication held by the Japan Chemical Industry Association; and ( 4 ) under tak e e x changes with people in charge of risk government and industrial associations as well as in industrycommunication both within and outside the Company and build an government-academia seminars and lectures to disseminate the information network with them. Moreover, as the final task to be latest information and exchange opinions. The overall aim is to performed by trainees in the development program after acquiring help people deepen their understanding of Sumitomo Chemical and basic knowledge and expertise as environmental communicators, win more trust from the public. they engaged in the ESD* training program initiated by the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for the promotion of science and technology. Specifically, the trainees Company-wide policy · Promoting communication with society formulated plans, undertook negotiations, and then implemented the plans for the ESD training held in January 2011. As a result, Tasks · Increasing information disclosure the training was very successful, and moreover, participants in the · Promoting dialogue program continued to receive follow-up support from the trainees who had finished the environmental communicator development Specific initiatives · Proactive information disclosure through program. The development program thus achieved even greater CSR reports, environmental and safety results than expected. reports, and local newsletters All employees, not only those designated as “environmental · Broad risk communication communicators,” will face communication demands in a range · Cross-divisional implementation of situa tions. The Osaka Works will continue to improve the communication abilities of employees through the environmental communicator development program. Participants in the ESD training program Local newsletter published by the Osaka Works (delivered to households biannually inserted in *ESD newspapers) Education for Sustainable Development. 62 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Social Activities Support to Africa Social Activities GRI 4.12 EC8 4.2 EC9 Sumitomo Chemical is suppor ting Africa and contributing to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals through the business operation of the Olyset™ Net, an insecticidal mosquito net that helps prevent the spread of malaria. Toward the Achievement of the Donating Olyset™ Nets Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Sumitomo Chemical has been donating Olyset™ Nets to NGOs In Africa, in particular, in the Sub-Saharan region, people are and international organizations. In particular, in 2006 we donated facing a range of problems, including poverty, infectious diseases, about 33 ten thousand Olyset™ Nets to an international NPO and high death rates for pregnant women and infants. In response, named Millennium Promise, which is committed to supporting the the United Nations has set the Millennium Development Goals* as achievement of the MDGs and overseeing the Millennium Village immediate measures to solve the problems. Project*. In 2010, we decided to donate another 40 ten thousand Through the business of the Olyset™ Net ( for details, see nets to the NPO over the period 2010 to 2011. page 28), a malaria control mosquito net developed by using its *Millennium Village Project proprietary technologies, Sumitomo Chemical has been directly A plan to help “eradicate extreme poverty and hunger,” which is one of the MDGs, by assisting people living in about 80 villages in 10 African countries contributing to the MDGs, such as Goal 6 Combat HIV / AIDs, to lead self-sufficient lives. Comprehensive support is given in areas such as malaria and other diseases, Goal 4 Reduce child mortality, Goal agriculture, health and sanitation, and education. 5 Improve maternal health,” Goal 1 Eradicate poverty, and Goal 2 Achieve universal primary education. Educational Support for the Leaders of Tomorrow *Millennium Development Goals represent the goals and action plans set by the United Nations with regard to Sumitomo Chemical has been supporting education in Africa eight issues such as poverty, education, the environment, and human rights to be urgently implemented and achieved by 2015. by using a portion of sales from the Olyset™ Net business. In cooperation with the NGOs, “World Vision Japan” and “Plan Malaria Control Initiatives and the Olyset™ Net Japan,” we have supported nine projects to construct primary and secondary school buildings, as well as dormitories for teachers Sumitomo Chemical’s Olyset™ Net is highly evaluated and and school lunch facilities in the five countries of Ethiopia, Kenya, recommended by the World Health Organization ( WHO) as a Uganda, Tanzania, and Zambia. At present we are supporting critical means of controlling malaria. In Sauri village in Kenya, another three projects in Ghana, Mali, and Malawi. Once the the number of people with malaria parasites is reported to have construction is completed, we will continue to provide support for decreased from around half of the total population in 2005 to 8% school fees and supplies, thereby helping the next generation of in 2008. leaders get the education they need. A s a member of the interna tional community, Sumitomo Creating Employment through the Local Chemical will continue to support Africa proactively toward the Production of the Olyset™ Net achievement of the MDGs. Sumitomo Chemical’s educational support in Africa Sumitomo Chemical provided its Olyset™ Net manufacturing School construction technology free of licensing fees to a local company in Tanzania Improving the educational environment and established a joint venture with the company, which created jobs f or about 7,000 people, thereby contributing to local economic development. Mali According to the report made by the University of London School o f Oriental and A f rican S tudie s in A pril 2011, the Ghana Ethiopia Olyset™ Net manufacturing operation accounts for 20% of all Kenya manufacturing jobs in the Arusha region . About 70% of the Uganda workers of the Olyset™ Net manufacturing factory were able to move out of financial insecurity, plan for the future and pay for Tanzania their children’s education. Malawi Zambia Photograph Ⓒ M. Hallahan/Sumitomo Chemical 63 CSR Report 2011 Social Activities International Contribution Europe Asia GRI EC8 The Sumitomo Chemical ● Hungary G r o u p i s c o n d u c t i n g l o c a li z e d University scholarship program ● South Korea “Run Together “ marathon social contribution ac tivities. ● China The following shows some University scholarship program representative examples of these Acceptance of student interns Support for elementary schools in activities in various regions. Anhui Province Assistance with tree-planting activities ● Uganda ● Taiwan Supporting activities to improve the educational environment and Making visits to schools for disabled construct school buildings children ● Ethiopia Making visits to child welfare facilities Supporting activities to improve the educational environment Holding a Japanese language ● Kenya competition for university students Supporting activities to improve the educational environment and Donating books to libraries donating Olyset™ Nets ● Thailand ● Tanzania Assistance with tree-planting activities Donating Olyset™ Nets Beach cleanup activities ● Mozambique ● Indonesia Donating Olyset™ Nets Assistance with tree-planting activities ● Senegal ● Malaysia Donating Olyset™ Nets Assistance with tree-planting activities Africa ● Congo ● Singapore Donating Olyset™ Nets Acceptance of visitors to the plant (Others) Acceptance of trainees Donating Olyset™ Nets to Millennium Villages across Africa A range of scholarship programs Support for musical activities “Sumitomo Chemical’s Forest” in Ranong the amounts under the Matching Gift program, which is promoted Province, Thailand in cooperation with the Company’s labor union. The area for which the Company is providing support as of To help prevent global warming and conserve biodiversity, March 2011 consists of about 175,000 mangrove trees over 70 Sumitomo Chemical has been conducting a mangrove planting hectares and is managed as “Sumitomo Chemical’s forest.” Since project in cooperation with OISCA in Thailand’s Ranong Province fiscal 2008, Sumitomo Chemical has been dispatching volunteer since fiscal 2008. employees and a delegation to the site of the activity to provide Many mangrove trees were felled in Thailand to provide land cooperation and make exchanges with local residents. for shrimp cultivation and charcoal production, and as a result the forest area has decreased substantially. Mangrove trees are “Run Together” Marathon for People said to be especially effective in the prevention of global warming with and without Disabilities because they have a high capacity to take in and fix CO2. These trees also help mitigate tsunami damage and conserve biodiversity. Dongwoo Fine-Chem has been continuously conducting a Their disappearance would have a serious negative impact on the range of social contribution activities at its office in Seoul, as lives of local people. well as at its factories in Iksan and Pyeongtaek. In particular The project’s aim is to plant mangrove trees in order to recov many employees of the factory in Iksan participate in the great er a rich forest that was de“Run Together” marathon held every April, in which people both vastated by destructive felli ng. It is being fostered throu gh cooperation between the Thai government, local resid ents, OISCA, and Sumitomo Chemical. Sumitomo Chemi cal provides funding for the project in the form of donat ions made by directors and employees of the Sumitomo Chemical Group, matching 64 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Social Activities America ● United States of America Protection of a forest preserve in Mettawa Support for NGOs through donations Participation in Relay for Life fundraising event ● Haiti Donating Olyset™ Nets Oceania ● Australia Assistance with the control of red imported fire ants ● Fiji Assistance with tree-planting activities with and without disabilities run together American Cancer Society support vital programs. over a distance of 6.5 km. The marathon Employees of Valent U.S.A. have participated in the Walnut provides participants with an opportunity Creek event for three years and have raised over $5 ten thousand to enjoy e xchanges and deepen mutual for the American Cancer Society. The team raises funds by asking understanding, and the 8th such event was for sponsorships from family and friends, and by holding activities held in 2011. such as cake and cookie sales in the office and raffling off a quilt Dongwoo Fine-Chem has been supporting that was handmade by Valent employees. the organiz a tion o f the mar a thon with Valent team members get to be a part of a life-changing event the help of its executives, employees, and their families since that gives everyone in the community a chance to celebrate the 2004, when the event was held for the first time, by providing lives of people who have battled cancer, remember loved ones participants in the event with food and donating money to support lost to cancer, and fight back against a disease that touches organizations for people with disabilities. Dongwoo Fine-Chem will everyone. The 2011 event was especially meaningful for employees continue to conduct a range of social contribution activities. of Valent as they honored and celebrated the life of their coworker, Nancy Engman, who died from cancer in January 2011. Participating in Relay for Life, a Fundraising Event to Support People Suffering from Cancer Every year in the United States more than 55 ten thousand people die of various forms of cancer. Ever y year across the United States thousands of people participate in Relay for Life, a series of local events that support the programs of the American Cancer Society in its fight to reduce the devastating effects of cancer. Relay for Life fundraising events are held nationwide, including Walnut Creek, California where the Late Nancy Engman, an employee of headquarters of Valent U.S.A. Corporation is located. Various Valent U.S.A. community groups and businesses such as Valent form teams that commit to walking or running in a relay-fashion around a track for Members participating in the 2010 Relay for Life (late Nancy Engman in a 24-hour period to raise money and raise awareness to help the the center of the first row). 65 CSR Report 2011 Hand in Hand with Employees Social Sumitomo Chemical is working to create a workplace environment in which individual Activities employees can make the most of their abilities, giving due consideration to compliance and diversity among employees. Personnel System and the Use of Diversified Human Resources GRI LA11 LA13 Sumitomo Chemical has introduced a personnel system to reward employees who have made contributions to the Company with high motivation and abilities regardless of their age, nationalit y, or gender. We are also employing diverse human resources and suppor ting their activities to enhance the organizational strength of the Company. HR System that Inspires Greater Motivation Reemployment of Retirees (of Sumitomo Chemical) (1) Role-Based HR System Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sumitomo Chemical has introduced a role-based human Retirees 205 167 176 134 resources system to treat employees appropriately according to the level of their contributions to the Company. The reemployed 129 88 116 97 We are applying the role-based evaluation criteria and evaluation Reemployment rate 62.9% 52.7％ 65.9% 72.4％ system implemented at Sumitomo Chemical also to employees having important positions in overseas Group companies, while attributing importance to the identification and development of next-generation leaders. In the future we will build up a uniform Employment of People with Disabilities★ HR system for the entire Sumitomo Chemical Group, including overseas Group companies. Sumitomo Chemical has been actively employing people with disabilities. When we accept them, we assign them suitable work, (2) Evaluation System and modify the workplace where necessary so that they can Both managerial and non-managerial employees are evaluated make the most of their abilities. not only for performance but also for competencies, behavioral Employment Rate for People with Disabilities processes, and attitude. The aim of this system is not merely the pursuit of short-term achievements, but rather employee Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 development and mediumto long-term corporate development. Employment rate 1.93% 1.95% 2.01% 1.96％ In the evaluation system, managers talk with their subordinates on a regular basis to help employees increase their motivation and abilities by giving feedback not only on their performance but also on the good points and points to be improved regarding Diversified Employment ★ their actions. Managers also talk with their staff about workplace policies, what is expected of individual members, and career plans. Sumitomo Chemical looks for and recruits talented people, regardless of age, gender, or nationality in a wide range of areas, (3) Compliance and CSR Evaluations and a diverse spectrum of people are working in the Company. In Compliance and CSR are included in the items evaluated for fiscal 2010, the Company recruited 269 people, including 19 foreign non-managerial employees with a view to raising their compliance nationals. and CSR awareness. CSR evaluations focus on Responsible Care We are also commit ted to pro viding emplo y ee s with a (safety, environment, and product quality). workplace in which they feel comfortable working, regardless of gender, and an increasing number of women feel able to exercise Reemployment of Retirees★ their talents at the Company. Since fiscal 2006, Sumitomo Chemical has been implementing Numbers of New Women Employees and Female Managers a system to reemploy retirees to provide them with opportunities Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 to demonstrate the skills and expertise they have gained through working for the Company. In fiscal 2010, we reemployed 97 New women employees 78 81 45 23 (72.4%) from among 134 retirees (of Sumitomo Chemical). Percentage of new women employees 17.0% 19.1％ 22.4% 8.6% Moreover, to help employees make plans for their postNumber of female managers* 127 149 155 161 retirement lives, we provide all employees reaching the age of 50 Percentage of female managers 4.1% 4.6% 4.8% 5.1% with a seminar on life design. In addition, employees talk with their managers on their post-retirement lives on three occasions—when *As of August 1 of each fiscal year they reach the age of 55, 57, and 59. 66 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Managing the Physical and Mental Health of Employees and Giving Social Activities Support to Their Social Contribution Activities GRI 4.2 4.15 LA8 Sumitomo Chemical is implementing a range of measures to help employees maintain and promote their physical and mental health with the assistance of the chief occupational health physician of the Company. We are also improving the working environment to support employees’ social contribution activities in a more proactive manner. Mental Health at the cafeterias at its sites according to the criteria set down by the “TABLE FOR TWO” (TFT) organization. When employees Employees are able to use the counseling services provided by choose to eat any of the healthy meals, 20 yen per meal is the in-house mental health facilities and also by external specialist donated to the TFT secretariat and the money is used to pay for institutions. In fiscal 2010, seminars on caring for mental health a school lunch for one child in an African country. In this way the were held for new employees, newly promoted employees, and Company is helping to alleviate hunger in Africa while also helping for sectional managers and team leaders. employees avoid obesity and lifestyle-related diseases at the In addition, in order to help employees who have been absent same time. from work for extended periods due to mental health problems Fur thermore, as a Ma tching Gif t, the Company makes a return to work, we introduced a work rehabilitation system in April donation to the TFT secretariat matching employees’ donations, 2009. Under this system, an onsite occupational health physician, and donations to this organization totaled 8,740,280 yen as of the an HR staff member, and the employee’s manager cooperate end of March 2011. in helping the employee start working again by determining the working days, hours, and other details for the employee. Volunteer Leave System★ Physical Health We have instituted a volunteer leave system that enables employees to take paid volunteer leave up to two consecutive Since April 2008, the health insurance associations of companies working da ys per year to suppor t their social contribution have been required by law to have all employees and their activities. Since launching this system in April 2008, 29 employees dependents aged 40 or older undergo special health checks and have made use of it (for a total of 68 days) as of the end of receive guidance on preventing metabolic syndrome. Sumitomo March 2011. Chemical works with its health insurance association to ensure that all employees and their dependents undergo the special health checks, regardless of age, and employees and their dependents aged 35 or older receive guidance on preventing metabolic syndrome, thereby helping employees with early diagnosis and the VOICE prevention of lifestyle-related diseases. In fiscal 2010, the Company dispatched its chief occupational Yasushi Goto Environmental Protection & Utilities Section, Oita Works health physician to provide medical counseling and evaluate the medical service environment to Saudi Arabia twice and to China, Taking Volunteer Leave to Singapore, Thailand, and India once each to provide support for employees working overseas and their families. Make Contributions to Society I work for the local rubber-ball baseball federation as one of ★ Participating in the TABLE FOR TWO Program its directors, belong to the local association of baseball umpires, and also work as an umpire for the Oita High School Baseball Sumitomo Chemical has been participating in the TABLE FOR Federation. I serve as an umpire for a range of baseball games, TWO program since May 2008 to promote employee’s health and including those for children and adults, and local, prefectural, and contribute to society. The Company serves healthy menu options Kyushu district-level baseball tournaments. Thank s to the under s tanding and suppor t of workplace members and the Company’s volunteer leave system, which allows me to take paid holidays, I have been able to make my shif t work at the workplace and the aforementioned volunteer activity compatible. Neighboring companies do not have such a leave system, and those working with me as volunteer umpires envy me. While making effective use of the volunteer leave system, I would like to continue making contributions to local communities and children by serving as a baseball umpire, which I always wanted to be in my childhood. TFT menu at the head oﬃce in Tokyo 67 CSR Report 2011 Social Activities Initiatives to Promote Diversity and Work-Life Balance GRI 3.9 LA15 In or der to “develop a vibr ant corpor ate cultur e and continue to be a company that societ y can trus t,” Sumitomo Chemical is proactively working to promote diversity and work-life balance among employees as one of its priorities. Improving the Workplace Environment to We use the results of the surveys to enhance our measures for Increase Employees’ Motivation and Morale diversity and work-life balance, thereby helping employees raise their motivation and morale. Sumitomo Chemical is promoting diversity among employees, so tha t individual human resources can make most of their (2) Analysis of Problems and Examination of Measures abilities and work with motivation and morale. To this end we are In November 2010, we established the Labor-Management implementing measures focusing on providing female employees Committee for Diversity and Work-Life Balance to provide with more opportunities to display their abilities. management and the labor union with a forum to share information To promote diversity, it is essential to provide all employees and exchange opinions about the promotion of diversity and workwith comfortable workplaces where they can make the most life balance. of their skills and abilities in a variety of situations. To meet this The committee is composed of representatives from the labor requirement, Sumitomo Chemical is also implementing work-life union and the Company and of female employees. Based on the balance-related measures to help employees make their private results of interviews with employees and the employee awareness and business lives compatible and lead sound and fulfilling lives. survey, the Committee identified various problems and developed specific action plans. Initiatives in Fiscal 2010 (3) Implementation of specific measures (1) Employee Surveys Ba sed on the results o f the e x amina tions made b y the In order to work on diver sit y issues on a full scale, we committee, we are implementing specific measures to promote established the Diversity Promotion Office in April 2010 and diversity and work-life balance. appointed diversity facilitators at each of our sites. As for work-life balance improvement measures, we revised Moreover, we conducted a series of employee surveys on the employee support programs and have been implementing work-life balance. First in June to July 2010, we interviewed a total the revised programs since April 2011 to help employees make of 105 managers and female employees across the Company and subsequently in August 2010 we conducted an awareness survey targeting all employees working for Sumitomo Chemical (97% of them replied to the questionnaire). Promotion of Diversity and Work-Life Balance life-b alance a n d workrs it y g dive nd en hancin ting a Promo Implementation of Analysis of specific measures problems and examination of measures Surveys Revision of the labor-management agreement Employee awareness survey (on the working system, etc.) Interview with employees Labor-Management Committee for Diversity and Work-Life Balance Appointment of diversity facilitators at each site 1st 2nd 3rd meeting meeting meeting Establishment of the Diversity Promotion Office April May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. March April May June 68 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 their work and childbirth/childcare or nursing care of their families Revision of Major Employee Support Programs (April 2011) Social Activities compatible, and also to encourage male employees to participate Program Details Before revision After revision in childcare. Extending the period Until the child becomes 18 months old Until the end of the first April after the child becomes three years old Sumitomo Chemical will continue to implement measures to Lifting the limit on the Only once in principle No limit promote diversity and improve work-life balance while paying Childcare leave number of applications attention to the progress of the measures. Introducing paid holidays Unpaid Paid for consecutive seven days (can be taken up to four times) Extending the period Up to one year Up to 365 days in total Nursing care leave Lifting the limit on the Only once per event No limit number of applications Paternity leave Newly established Paid holidays up to five consecutive days, including the day of the childbirth Available also for other reasons such as morning sickness Expanding the scope Available only to undergo Maternity leave maternity checks and other health problems related with pregnancy Relaxing the limit on application Once a month Up to 20 days in total TOPIC VOICE Chihiro Yaginuma CSR Office Initiative Taken by the In-House Childcare Facilities P ar ticip a ting in the L abor Sumitomo Chemical has been actively establishing in-house M a n a g e m e n t C o mmi t t e e f o r childcare facilities as part of measures to support employees raising Diversity and Work-Life Balance children. In addition to the facilities established since fiscal 2008 in Ehime, Osaka, and Chiba, we opened the fourth one, named As a working mother, I am now utilizing Sumitomo Chemical’s “Sumika Kids Tokyo,” at the head office in Tokyo in August 2010. childcare support program. Thinking it necessary to better the At all our in-house childcare facilities, pre-school aged children, program to enable more working mothers to use it easily to work including infants in their first year (of mothers who have returned more comfortably, I decided to participate in the committee. to work) are taken care of until 8:00 p.m. or even only for several At the meetings of the committee I made recommendations hours in response to the needs of their parents. The facilities based on my own experiences as a user of the childcare leave program. To my pleasure, the Company expanded its support in Tokyo and Osaka also accept children of local residents to program for employees in fiscal 2011, incorporating the results of contribute to resolving the serious the examinations made by the committee. social problem concerning the long I would like to continue tackling various problems, not limited waiting lists for nursery schools. As of to those related to childcare, and urge the Company to take April 1, 2011, a total of 101 children are measures so that more employees, regardless of their positions, taken care of at the in-house childcare can improve their work-life balance to work with more peace of facilities. mind. Children painting pictures on the “picture wall” at Sumika Kids Tokyo Systems and Measures for Better Work-Life Balance (Fiscal 2010)★ System/Measure Description Number of users in fiscal 2010 Childcare leave Available until the child becomes 18 months, regardless of reason 60 employees Nursing care leave (unpaid) Available when nursing family members (for one year) None Support for childcare and nursing care Nursing care leave (paid) Up to 20 days per event; available when taking care of sick children or nursing family members 77 employees Maternity leave (paid) Available once a month, when the applicant undergoes an antenatal examination under the Maternal and Child Health Act 37 employees Special reserve leave (paid) Available when employees cannot work for five consecutive days or longer because of nursing care, childcare, or illness 11 employees *１ Reduced working hour system Working hours are reduced by up to three hours per day for employees with children in the third grade at elementary school or younger and for employees nursing family members 53 employees Reemployment system Employees who left the company because of childbirth, or for childcare, nursing, etc. are given the opportunity for reemployment subject to certain conditions 13 employees *2 Establishment of in-house childcare facilities Established on the premises of the Ehime, Chiba, and Osaka Works and the head office in Tokyo — Grant for childcare (Mutual aid association) Every month 10,000 yen is paid per child to working employees if they have children younger than school age who attend childcare facilities 140 children Childcare and nursing care support services Childcare and nursing care services are provided by welfare service companies with which the Company has formed partnerships — Leave and working hours Introduction of a “refreshment day” Employees are encouraged to leave work on time on “refreshment days” designated by each individual workplace and worksite at least once a week — Number of annual paid holidays Paid holidays of 20 days are granted to all employees from the first year of work — Systematic allocation of annual paid holidays Annual paid holidays are allocated systematically by each worksite — Half-day paid holidays Employees under the flextime program without any core working time are also eligible for half-day holidays — Special leave for employees going abroad because of job transfer of spouse Employees going aboard because of the job transfer of their spouses can take this special leave subject to certain conditions 7 employees *3 *1 Only for childcare and nursing care *2 Number registered as of the end of March 2011 *3 Number of users as of the end of March 2011 69 CSR Report 2011 Social Activities Labor-Management Relations and Human Rights GRI 4.4 4.16 HR3 Sumitomo Chemical and it s labor union have been cooper a ting as good management par tner s to mee t challenges and achieve targets based on long-term mutual understanding and trust. The Company also implements measures to enlighten employees about human rights toward the elimination of all forms of discrimination. Labor-Management Initiatives At Sumitomo Chemical, central labor-management meetings and regional labor-management meetings are held semiannually for the parties to exchange opinions. The Company and the labor union also hold meetings to discuss and formulate various programs for non-managerial employees to enable them to increase their morale and motivation at work. In fiscal 2010, the Labor-Management Committee for Diversity and Work-Lif e Balance was established to promote labormanagement discussions on relevant issues, including future challenges and measures. Moreover, the Company and its labor union are cooperating in suppor ting the anti-global warming measures and social contribution activities initiated by employees. Social contribution activities promoted through labor-management cooperation (1) Promoting CO2 emissions reduction in the household In cooperation with its labor union, Sumitomo Chemical is Donation presentation ceremonies wiht ASHINAGA (top) and OISCA (bottom) encouraging reductions in CO2 emissions, not only in its factories and offices, but also in its employees’ households. protection and the prevention of global warming. Specifically, Since fiscal 2008, the Company has been distributing its employees and executives donated 5,783,163 yen and 5,924,671 own “environmental accounting books” to all employees and yen to ASHINAGA and OISCA, respectively and the Company also encouraging them to identify the sources of CO 2 emissions in donated the same amount to the organizations. their homes. In fiscal 2009, we started a program to encourage Using part of the money donated to OISCA, we have been employees to reduce CO 2 emissions at home and to commend helping them to plant mangrove trees in Ranong in the south of those who achieve substantial reductions. Thailand since fiscal 2008. *1. ASHINAGA is a private NPO established to provide physical and mental support for children who have lost their parents because of illness, accidents, or for other reasons. The money donated to this organization is used to provide a scholarship fund for these orphans. *2. OISCA is a global NGO engaged in rural development and environmental protection mainly in the Asia-Pacific region. The money donated by Sumitomo Chemical to this organization is used for its Children’s Forest Program and to plant mangrove trees in Ranong, Thailand. Protection of Human Rights★ Environmental accounting book To educate employees on human rights issues and responsible (2) Matching Gift program ★ behavior, Sumitomo Chemical holds a meeting on human rights In fiscal 2007, Sumitomo Chemical started its Matching Gift ever y year, formulates annual policies on human rights, and program jointly with its labor union. In this program, donations implements measures to protect human rights, including measures are made by employees and executives of Sumitomo Chemical to eliminate discrimination. Group companies, and Sumitomo Chemical matches the amount Moreover, based on the concept of providing employees with collected. The total is then donated to the organizations selected workplaces where they can display their abilities with ease of as recipients. mind, we are addressing the issues of sexual harassment and In fiscal 2010, we donated to ASHINAGA,*1 a private NPO, power abuse, in addition to discrimination, mainly by holding as par t of our suppor t for childcare and education. We also enlightenment seminars. made a donation to the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and In fiscal 2010, we held a total of 84 seminars, lectures, and film Cultural Advancement-International (OISCA)*2 to support its treeshows as a part of the in-house training curriculum, in which a total planting activities as part of our support for global environmental of 3,124 employees participated. 70 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 Human Resources Development Social Activities GRI LA11 Sumitomo Chemical is implementing a range of programs and measures to help motivated employees fully display their abilities. Important Targets for Human Resources Development Training Rotation System★ In fiscal 2010, we provided employees of different job grades Since fiscal 2004, Sumitomo Chemical has been carrying out with necessary training and implemented measures according to systematic training rotations of younger employees to ensure that their positions, to meet the following important targets: individuals are placed in the positions for which they are most (1) Planned development of global leaders who will play a central suited. Under this system, we are using the preferences submitted management role by employees and the development plans made by their managers (2) Smooth inter-generational transfer of technologies and skills to help employees plan and develop their ideal careers. that support our business In fiscal 2009, we launched a new training rotation system (3) Support in strengthening workplace management targeting all non-managerial employees and some managers. ( 4 ) Suppor t for employees in acquiring and developing the In addition we provided employees with “career development knowledge, skills, and competencies necessary for their job training” to give them opportunities to look back on their past jobs grades and get some tips for future career development. Training rotation plans were made and implemented for 898 Development of Global Talent employees and for 880 employees in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, respectively. To develop global business leaders, we are providing managers both within and outside Japan with training, dispatching employees Creation of Training Guidelines overseas for studying purposes, encouraging employees to sit for the TOEIC examination, and holding various English-language In August 2010, Sumitomo Chemical created training guidelines courses, including writing courses, for employees. for employees, to which they can refer in considering what abilities In fiscal 2010, we began providing younger employees expected they should develop in the field for which they are most suited or to become global leaders in the future with training seminars to in which they desire to work in the future. help them improve their business communication skills in English. The guidelines, which clearly show the knowledge, skills, In addition, we started to train managers at overseas Group reference materials, and training necessary for each job type, are c omp anie s t o mak e them mor e c ommit t e d t o our Gr oup available to all employees. management. Mentor and Trainer Systems ★ Sumitomo Chemical introduced a Trainer System in January 2008, under which older employees who are highly skilled and have an aptitude for teaching the young are certified as trainers. These trainer s provide instructions and advice to younger emplo y ees to f acilita te their de velopment and ensure the succession of skills from generation to generation. As of April 2011, a total of 62 employees have been certified as trainers throughout the Company. In April 2010, we also introduced a Mentor System to give supervisors and potential supervisors on-the-job training. We are Global leader training using this system to enhance the development of core talent for manufacturing departments. Overseas manager training 71 CSR Report 2011 External Commendations and Marks Approved for Use Social The Sumitomo Chemical Group received the following commendations from external Activities organizations and obtained approval for the use of the following marks. GRI 2.10 Major External Commendations (Fiscal 2010) Commendation Recipient Organizer Best supplier award for fiscal 2010 (in the division of liquid crystal panels) Sumitomo Chemical Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Commendation in recognition of energy conservation activities for consumer products Sumitomo Chemical Japan Chemical Industry Association Agrow Awards for 2010 (“Best Innovation in Non-Crop”) Sumitomo Chemical Olyset™ Net Agrow Magazine (United Kingdom) Incentive award for fiscal 2010 from the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare (Commendation by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare given to business establishments, Chiba Works and Chiba Research Laboratory Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare organizations and individuals who achieved excellent results in occupational safety and health) Commendation given by Ichihara City to companies giving exceptional support to employees raising children (for fiscal 2010) Chiba Works Ichihara City, Chiba Prefecture Prize of excellence for fiscal 2010 given by Ibaraki Prefecture to companies fostering Tsukuba Research Laboratory Ibaraki Prefecture support to childcare (in the division of support for compatibility between work and childcare) Fourth Annual Responsible Care Award Tsukuba Research Laboratory Japan Responsible Care Council Prize for innovative management leadership for fiscal 2010 (South Korea) Dongwoo Fine-Chem Co., Ltd. *1 Korea Management Association Certification as a family-friendly company (for fiscal 2010) Dongwoo Fine-Chem Co., Ltd. Korean Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Gold prize, Workplace Safety Health Awards 2010 Petrochemical Corporation of Singapore *2 Singapore Government Award for corporate reporting for 2010 (Taiwan) Sumika Technology Co., Ltd. *3 Taiwan Sustainable Energy Research Fund *1, 2, 3: Group companies in South Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan, respectively Marks Approved for Use Kurumin Mark Eco Rail Mark PRTR Awards Eco-First Mark Major SRI* indices in which Sumitomo Chemical is included *Socially Responsible Investment (SRI): Investment based on evaluation criteria th a t i n c l u d e i te m s o n C S R m e a s u r e s implemented by companies 72 Independent Assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. GRI 3.13 VOICE In the CSR Report 2011, Sumitomo Chemical has made a self-declaration on the GRI application level of B+, as a result of improving the disclosure concerning its management approach and performance indicators in line with the GRI guidelines. We provide assurance on that assertion, i.e. that the self-declared GRI application level conforms to the criteria set up by the GRI, as well as on the reliability of the performance indicators disclosed in the CSR Report. It is appreciated that Sumitomo Chemical has attempted to improve the effectiveness of disclosure to its stakeholders by including a self-declaration on the level of conformance to the criteria of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting guidelines and having it assured by a third party. In light of the fact that the Company is a participant of Global Compact LEAD, it is recommended that the Company work to make a self-declaration on the GRI application level of A+, the highest GRI application level to which external assurance has been provided. To this end, it is hoped that the Company will continue implementing measures to enhance the scope of reporting—in particular for social performance indicators. As for the environmental and safety performance indicators, the Company had set the targets of many items of the “Primary Responsible Care Initiatives” for fiscal 2010, and implemented the initiatives. As a result of systematically taking such measures, the Company achieved the initial targets for most items. The Company has now set new targets and is continuously developing and enhancing relevant measures, which is highly evaluated. Meanwhile, concerning the aggregation of environmental and safety performance indicators, it was revealed through visit to one of the Company’s factories that there was a case in which an employee in charge had changed the final disposal rate used to calculate the landfill disposal amount at the person’s own discretion, because there were no relevant calculation rules. The change was rational and acceptable, but the final disposal rate is an important factor that affects the calculation of landfill disposal, with which targets are set in the “Primary Responsible Care Initiatives.” It is therefore important to ensure that employees do not alter the residue rate at their own discretion. It is hoped that the Company will clarify the rules for the calculation of the rate and other items for which no clear rules exist at present. Also for the environmental and safety performance indicators as a whole, the percentage of environmental impact of overseas factories has been increasing in line with an increase in the share of overseas sales. Accordingly, the Company is expected to set targets for the entire Sumitomo Yoshitaka Ohno Chemical Group, including overseas factories, and enhance its management system to reduce the KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Group’s entire environmental impact. 73 GRI Content Index The GRI application level of the Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2011 is“B+”according to the definition in Version 3.1 of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GRI 3.12 Global Repor ting Initia tive ( GRI) is a Ne therlands-based applied the GRI reporting framework. Accordingly, we self-declare non-profit organization committed to creating guidelines for that the GRI application level of this report is “B+.” interna tional sustainability repor ting. Version 3.1 of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 Guidelines) provides The table in the following page shows the GRI Content Index. guidelines applicable across the world as a framework to disclose performance information in sustainability reports. GRI recommends that report preparers self-declare the level to which they have Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B OUTPUT 2.1-2.10 1.2 G3 Profile Disclosures 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not required Management Approach Management Approach Standard Disclosures Disclosures for each disclosed for each OUTPUT Indicator Category Indicator Category G3 Management Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at and Sector Supplement OUTPUT G3 Performance Indicators including at least one from least one from each of: indicator with due regard to & Sector Supplement each of: social, economic, economic, environment, the materiality Principle by Performance Indicators and environment. human rights, labor, society, either: a) reporting on the product responsibility. indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. 74 GRI Sustainability R eporting Guidelines (G3.1 Guidelines) R eference Table Number Description Repor t Page Number Description Repor t Page 1. Strategy and Analysis 4. 9 P r o c e dur e s o f t h e hig h e s t g o v e r n a n c e b o d y f o r o v e r s e e ing t h e p19-20,22,31 o r g a niz a t io n’s iden t i f ic a t io n a n d ma n a g emen t o f e c o n omic, 1. 1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., p2-3 envir onment al, and social per f ormance, including r elevant risk s and C E O, c ha ir, or e qui v a len t s enior p o si t ion ) a b ou t t he r ele v a n c e o f oppor tunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed sustainabilit y to the organization and its strategy standards, codes of conduct, and principles 1. 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and oppor tunities p1-3,11 4. 10 P r o c e s s e s f o r e v a l u a t i n g t h e h i g h e s t g o v e r n a n c e b o d y ’ s o w n p19 per formance, par ticularly with respec t to economic, environment, and 2. Organizational Profile social per formance 2. 1 Name of the organization p4 ■Commitments to Ex ternal Initiatives 4. 11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionar y approach or principle p19-22,32,422. 2 Primar y brands, products, and/or ser vices p4,26-28 is addressed by the organization 51,54-56,59,62 2. 3 Oper a tional s t r uc t ur e o f t he or ganiz a tion, including main divisions, p4-5 4. 12 E x t er nally developed economic, envir onment al, and social char t er s, p22,63 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures principles, or other initia tives to which the organiza tion subscribes or 2. 4 Location of organization’s headquar ters p4 endorses 2. 5 Number of countries wher e the organiza tion oper a tes, and names of p5 4. 13 Member ships in a ssocia tions (such a s indus tr y a ssocia tions) and /or p22,51 countries with either ma jor operations or that are specifically relevant national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: to the sustainabilit y issues covered in the repor t Has positions in governance bodies; 2. 6 Nature of ownership and legal form p4 Par ticipates in projects or commit tees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or 2. 7 Market s ser ved (including geographic breakdown, sector s ser ved, and p4-5 Views membership as strategic t ypes of customers/beneficiaries) ■Stakeholder Engagement 2. 8 Scale of the repor ting organization, including: p4-5,24,38 Number of employees; 4. 14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p18 Number of operations; 4. 15 Ba sis f or identifica tion and selec tion o f s t ak eholder s with whom t o p18,58-59,60,67 Net sales or net revenues; engage Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equit y; and 4. 16 A p p r o a c h e s t o s t a k e h o l d e r e ng a g eme n t , in c lu ding f r e qu e n c y o f p18,58-59, Quantit y of products or ser vices provided engagement by t ype and by stakeholder group 62,70 2. 9 Significant changes during the repor ting period regarding size, structure, p4-5,26-27 4. 17 K ey t opics and concerns tha t ha ve been r aised thr ough s t akeholder p12-13,62 or ownership including: engagemen t , and how t he or ganiz a tion ha s r esponded t o t hose k ey The location of, or change in operations, including facilit y openings, topics and concerns, including through its repor ting closings, and expansions; and Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations 5. Management Approach and Per formance Indicators 2. 10 Awards received in the repor ting period p72 【Economic】 Management Approach p11-13 3. Repor t Parameters ■ Aspect: Economic Per formance ■Repor t Profile EC1. Direc t economic value gener a ted and dis tributed, including revenues, p24-25 3. 1 Repor ting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided p1 o p e r a t in g c o s t s , e mp l o y e e c o mp e n s a t i o n, d o n a t i o n s a n d o t h e r communit y inves tment s, r e t ained earnings, and pa yment s t o capit al 3. 2 Date of most recent previous repor t (if any) p1 providers and governments 3. 3 Repor ting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) p1 EC2. F in a n c ia l imp li c a t i o n s a n d o t h e r r i s k s a n d o p p o r t uni t ie s f o r t he p39 3. 4 Contact points for questions regarding the repor t or its contents Back cover organization’s activities due to climate change ■Repor t Scope and Boundar y EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ― 3. 5 Process for defining repor t content, including: p1,18 EC4. Significant financial assistance received from government ― Determining materialit y; ■ Aspect: Market Presence Prioritizing topics within the repor t; and Identif ying stakeholders the organization expect to use the repor t EC5. Range of r a tios of s t andar d entr y level wage by gender compared t o ― minimum wage at significant locations of operation 3. 6 Boundar y of the repor t (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, lea sed p1 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) EC6. Policy, practices, and propor tion of spending on locally-based suppliers ― at significant locations of operation 3. 7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundar y of the repor t. p1,38-39,42 EC7. Procedures for local hiring and propor tion of senior management hired ― 3. 8 Ba sis f or r epor ting on joint ventur es, subsidiaries, lea sed f acilities, p1 from the local communit y at locations of significant operation out sourced opera tions, and other entities tha t can significantly af fect comparabilit y from period to period and/or between organizations ■ Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts 3. 9 Da t a measurement techniques and the bases of calcula tions, including p25,38-44, EC8. Development and impac t of inf r a s truc tur e inves tment s and ser vices p60-61,63-65 a s sump t ions a nd t echniques under lying es t ima t ions a pplied t o t he 55,69 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro compilation of the indicators and other information in the repor t bono engagement 3. 10 E xplanation of the ef fect of any re-statements of information provided p40 EC9. Under s t anding and describing significant indir ec t economic impac t s, p28,p63 in earlier repor ts, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ including the ex tent of impacts a c qui s i t io n s , c h a ng e o f b a s e y e a r s / p er io d s , n a t ur e o f b u s ine s s , measurement methods) 【Environmental】 3. 11 Signif ic a n t cha nge s f r om pr e v ious r ep or t ing per io ds in t he s c ope, p1 boundar y, or measurement methods applied in the repor t Management Approach p12-13,30-31, 36-37 ■GRI Content Index ■ Aspect: Materials 3. 12 Table identif ying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the repor t p74-76 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume p38 ■ Assurance EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ― 3. 13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking ex ternal assurance p1,p73 for the repor t. If not included in the assurance repor t accompanying the ■ Aspect: Energy sus t aina bili t y r ep or t , e x plain t he s c ope a nd b a sis o f a ny e x t er nal EN3. Direct energy consumption by primar y energy source p38 assurance provided. Also explain the relationship bet ween the repor ting organization and the assurance provider(s). EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primar y source p38 EN5. Energy saved due to conser vation and ef ficiency improvements p36-37,40 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN6. Ini t ia t i v e s t o pr o v ide ener g y e f f icien t or r ene w a ble ener g y b a s e d p9-10 products and ser vices, and reductions in energy requirements as a result ■Governance of these initiatives 4. 1 Governance s truc ture of the organiza tion, including commit tees under p19 EN7. Ini t ia t i v e s t o r e duc e indir e c t ener g y c onsump t ion a nd r e duc t ions ― the highes t governance body r esponsible f or specific t a sk s, such a s achieved set ting strategy or organizational oversight ■ Aspect: Water 4. 2 Indica te whether the Chair of the highes t governance body is also an p19 executive o f f icer (and if so, their f unc tion within the or ganiza tion’s EN8. Total water withdrawal by source p38 management and the reasons for this arrangement). EN9. Water sources significantly af fected by withdrawal of water ― 4. 3 For organizations that have a unitar y board structure, state the number p19 EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ― a nd g ender o f memb er s o f t he highe s t g o v er na nc e b o d y t ha t a r e independent and/or non-executive members. ■ Aspect: Biodiversit y 4. 4 Mechanisms f or shar eholder s and employees t o pr o vide p19,70 EN11. L oca tion and size of land owned, lea sed, managed in, or ad jacent t o, ― recommendations or direction to the highest governance body protected areas and areas of high biodiversit y value outside protected areas 4. 5 Linkage bet ween compensation for members of the highest governance p19 b o d y, s enior ma na ger s, a nd e x e cu t i v e s ( including dep a r t ur e EN12. Description of significant impact s of activities, product s, and ser vices ― arrangements), and the organization’s per formance (including social and on biodiver sit y in protected areas and areas of high biodiver sit y value environmental per formance) outside protected areas 4. 6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts p19 EN13. Habitats protected or restored ― of interest are avoided EN14. S tra tegies, current ac tions, and future plans for managing impac t s on p45,Back cover 4. 7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and exper tise of p19 biodiversit y t he memb er s o f t he highe s t go v er na nc e b o d y a nd i t s c ommi t t ee s, EN15. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conser vation list species ― including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversit y with habitats in areas af fected by operations, by level of ex tinction risk 4. 8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, p6-7,18,30 a n d p r in c ip l e s r e l e v a n t t o e c o n o mi c , e n v ir o nm e n t a l, a n d s o c i a l per formance and the status of their implementation 75 GRI Sustainability R eporting Guidelines (G3.1 Guidelines) R eference Table Number Description Repor t Page Number Description Repor t Page ■ Aspect: Emissions, Ef fluents, and Waste ■ Aspect: Non-Discrimination EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p38,42,43 HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ― EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p55 ■ Aspect: Freedom of Association and Corrective Bargaining EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved p36-43,55 HR5. Oper a t ions a nd signif ic a n t supplier s iden t if ied in which t he r igh t t o ― exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight p38,43 or at significant risk, and actions taken to suppor t these rights EN20. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by t ype and weight p38,44 ■ Aspect: Child Labor EN21. Total water discharge by qualit y and destination p38 HR6. Operations and significant supplier s identified as having significant risk ― EN22. Total weight of waste by t ype and disposal method p38,44 f or incident s o f child labor, and mea sur es t ak en t o contribut e t o the ef fective abolition of child labor EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills p48 ■ Aspect: Forced and Compulsor y Labor EN24. Weight of tr anspor t ed, impor t ed, expor t ed, or tr ea t ed wa s t e deemed ― hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, HR7. Operations and significant supplier s identified as having significant risk ― and percentage of transpor ted waste shipped internationally for incidents of forced or compulsor y labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsor y labor EN25. Identit y, size, pr otec ted s t a tus, and biodiver sit y value of wa ter bodies ― and related habitats significantly af fected by the repor ting organization’s ■ Aspect: Securit y Practices discharges of water and runof f HR8. HR 8 P er c en t age o f s ecur i t y per s onnel t r aine d in t he or ga niz a t ion’s ― ■ Aspect: Products and Ser vices p olicies or pr o cedur es c oncer ning a spec t s o f human r igh t s t ha t ar e relevant to operations EN26. Initia tives to mitiga te environment al impac t s of produc t s and ser vices, p9-10 and ex tent of impact mitigation ■ Aspect: Indigenous Rights EN27. Per cen t age o f pr oduc t s sold and t heir pa ck aging ma t er ials t ha t ar e ― HR9. To t al number o f incident s o f viola tions involving right s o f indigenous ― reclaimed by categor y people and actions taken ■ Aspect: Compliance HR10. Per cent age and t o t al number of oper a tions tha t ha ve been sub jec t t o human rights reviews and/or impacts assessments EN28. Monet ar y value of significant fines and tot al number of non-monet ar y We received no fines sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or sanctions for HR11. Number o f gr ie v a nces r ela t ed t o huma n r igh t s f iled, a ddr es sed a nd noncompliance with resolved through formal grievance mechanisms environmental laws and regulations. 【Societ y】 ■ Aspect: Transpor t Management Approach p12-13,20-22 EN29. Significant envir onment al impac t s of tr anspor ting pr oduc t s and o ther P55 g o o d s a n d m a t e r i a l s u s e d f o r t h e o r g a ni z a t i o n’s o p e r a t i o n s , a n d ■ Aspect: Local Communit y transpor ting members of the work force SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local communit y engagement, ■ Aspect: Overall impact assessments, and development programs EN30. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by t ype P39 SO9. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities SO10. Pr e ven tion and mitiga tion mea sur es implemen t ed in oper a tions wit h 【Labor Practices and Decent Work】 significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Management Approach p12-13,66-71 ■ Aspect: Corruption ■ Aspect: Employment SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related p20,21 to corruption L A1. Total work force by employment t ype, employment contract, and region, ― broken down by gender SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies p20,21 and procedures L A 2. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by ― age group, gender, and region SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ― L A3. B ene f i t s pr o v ide d t o f ullt ime emplo y e e s t ha t a r e no t pr o v ide d t o ― ■ Aspect: Public Policy temporar y or par t-time employees, by significant locations of operation SO5. Public policy positions and par ticipation in public policy development and p22 L A15. Return to work and retention rates af ter parental leave, by gender p69 lobbying ■ Aspect: Labor/Management Relations SO6. To t al v alue o f f inancial and in-k ind contributions t o political par ties, ― politicians, and related institutions by countr y L A 4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ― ■ Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior L A5. Minimum no t ic e p er io d( s ) r eg a r ding op er a t iona l cha nge s, including ― whether it is specified in collective agreements SO7. Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and ― monopoly practices and their outcomes ■ Aspect: Occupational Health and Safet y ■ Aspect: Compliance L A6. Percentage of total work force represented in formal joint management― worker health and sa fet y commit tees tha t help monitor and advise on SO8. Monet ar y value of significant fines and tot al number of non-monet ar y ― occupational health and safet y programs sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations L A7. Ra tes of injur y, occupa tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and p36-37,46,48 number of work related fatalities by region and by gender 【Product Responsibilit y】 L A8. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in p67 Management Approach p12-13,30-31, place to assist work force members, their families, or communit y members 36-37 regarding serious diseases ■ Aspect: Customer Health and Safet y L A9. Health and safet y topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ― PR1. Lif e c ycle s t ages in which health and sa f e t y impac t s of pr oduc t s and p50-51 ■ Aspect: Training and Education ser vices are a ssessed f or impr ovement, and per cent age of significant L A10. A v er age hour s o f t r aining per y ea r per emplo y ee b y gender, a nd b y ― products and ser vices categories subject to such procedures employee categor y PR2. To t a l numb er o f inciden t s o f nonc omplia nc e w i t h r egula t ions a nd p36-37 L A11. Pr ogr ams f or skills management and lifelong learning tha t suppor t the p66,71 volunt ar y codes concerning health and safet y impac t s of produc t s and continued employabilit y of employees and assist them in managing career ser vices during their life cycle, by t ype of outcomes endings ■ Aspect: Product and Ser vice Labeling L A12. P er cen t age o f emplo yees r eceiving r egular per f or mance and c ar eer ― PR3. T y p e o f p r o du c t a n d s er v ic e in f o r ma t io n r e quir e d b y p r o c e dur e s , ― development reviews, by gender and per cent age o f signif icant pr oduc t s and ser vices sub jec t t o such ■ Aspect: Diversit y and Equal Oppor tunit y information requirements L A13. C omposition o f go ver nance bodies and br eak down o f emplo yees per p66 PR4. To t a l numb er o f inciden t s o f nonc omplia nc e w i t h r egula t ions a nd ― emplo y ee c a t egor y a c c or ding t o gender, age gr oup, minor i t y gr oup voluntar y codes concerning product and ser vice information and labeling, membership, and other indicators of diversit y by t ype of outcomes L A14. Ra tio of ba sic salar y and remuner a tion of women t o met by employee ― PR5. Practices rela ted to customer sa tisfaction, including result s of sur veys ― categor y, by significant locations of operation measuring customer satisfaction ■ Aspect: Marketing Communications 【Human Rights】 PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntar y codes related ― t o mar k e ting c ommunic a tions, including a d ver tising, pr omo tion, and Management Approach p70 sponsorship ■ Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices PR7. To t a l numb er o f inciden t s o f nonc omplia nc e w i t h r egula t ions a nd ― v olun t a r y c o de s c o n c er ning ma r k e t ing c ommunic a t io n s , in clu ding HR1. Percent age and tot al number of significant investment agreement s and ― adver tising, promotion, and sponsorship by t ype of outcomes contrac t s tha t include clauses incorpora ting human right s concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening ■ Aspect: Customer Privacy HR2. Per cen t age o f signif ican t supplier s, con t r a c t or s and o t her busines s ― PR8. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer ― par tners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken privacy and losses of customer data HR3. Total hours of employees training on policies and procedures concerning p70 ■ Aspect: Compliance a spec t s of human right s tha t are relevant to oper a tions, including the percentage of employee trained PR9. Mone t ar y v alue o f signif icant f ines f or noncompliance with la w s and ― regulations concerning the provision and use of products and ser vices 76 Photographs on the front cover ❶ ❹ ❷ ❺ ❶ Market held in front of Sumitomo Chemical’s h e a d o ff i c e i n To k y o j o i n t l y w i t h t h re e neighboring companies as a means of supporting the areas devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake ❷ C h i l d re n s t u d y i n g i n a s c h o o l b u i l d i n g constructed by the support of Sumitomo Chemical ❸ Manufacture of the Olyset™ Net ❹ Employees giving a lesson on dyeing in a junior high school near the Osaka Works ❺ Sumitomo Chemical Group employees participating in a mangrove tree-planting ❸ activity in Thailand For information about Sumitomo Chemical’s CSR activities, please also refer to the following: Sumitomo Chemical CSR Highlights 2011 This booklet introduces Sumitomo Chemical’s history, technologies and products for a better tomorrow, agriculture suppor t activities, and other initiatives in an easy-to-understand manner. Website The CSR Report 2011 is also available online at the following website: http:/ /www.sumitomo-chem.co.jp/english/csr / Click “CSR Report.” 77 As a Responsible Care company, Sumitomo Chemical voluntarily implements policies that take safety, the environment, and health into consideration in all processes, from chemical substance development to disposal. The Responsible Care mark and logo may only be used by companies that are members of the Japan Responsible Care Council. Sumitomo Chemical has participated in the initiative for private engagement in biodiversity, “Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership” launched at the Tenth Ordinary Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention of Biological Diversity (COP10) held in October 2010. Only companies participating in the partnership can use this logo mark. Printed without using water. Water-free printing produces a beautiful finish, and does not produce wastewater containing hazardous substances. Sumitomo Chemical is conducting its business operations giving due consideration to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as a company participating in the initiative. The logo mark demonstrates that this CSR Report represents Sumitomo Chemical’s annual report to all its stakeholders as a “Communication on Progress” and a member of the UN Global Compact. This Report is printed with vegetable oil ink, an environmental ink made with vegetable oil instead of petroleum-derived solvents. This minimizes the generation of volatile organic CSR Office compounds (VOCs), and helps conserve precious Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building (East) petroleum resources. 2-27-1 Shinkawa, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8260 Tel.: +81-3-5543-5107 Fax: +81-3-5543-5901 11-10 3000TY
