Salsabil Company For Canning & Bottling Presented By: Salsabil GM AlSabora, Reef Damascus P.O.Box 11 Syria Tel +963113921725 Fax +963113921732 Website: www.salsabil.com E-mail: info@salsabil.com General GM Support Overview Statement I would like to start by conveying my sincere gratitude and respect to all people who worked, helped and supported Salsabil business grow throughout the years. Their efforts along with the company's vision ensured growth of the company in an ever changing Global and Local marketplace which by turn transformed Salsabil to one of the leaders in Soft Drink Manufacturing companies in Syria. We at Salsabil support the 10 principles of the Global Compact in respect to continuously working on protecting the environment, insure internationally respected human rights principles, adhere to Local and International labor rights and work against corruption. Such clear guidelines are integrated in our company policy in several sectors and with the support of the UN, continuous improvements and achievements on all principles is taking place. General GM Support Overview Statement Furthermore being a franchisee of the Oldest International Soft Drink Company in the world puts more pressure on Salsabil to act globally and comply with International standards. With the support of Stakeholders, Board members, Licensor research & development and the UN Global Compact Network in Syria, Salsabil is able to comply and progress with International practices and strive to achieve higher levels of corporate sustainability performance. Finally, we would like to thank all our associates, suppliers, business partners and workers for their long efforts and support put towards Salsabil. Salsabil Company GM Muhannad Turk General General Overview Overview Salsabil Soft Drink Bottling & Canning kicked off operations in 1991. Situated in Damascus Countryside, Sabborah were water reserve is plenty with 4 running wells. Sabbora is long known for quality of water derived from Jabal Al Shiek Mountain. Salsabil commenced operation bottling and filling brand names such as Crush, Canada Dry, Sport Cola under licence from Schweppes International Limited. The company started with two production lines, CAN and PET then ventured into a third production line for bottling RGB In 2007, the world largest beverage company Coca Cola acquired the beverage section of Schweppes International Limited; hence, Salsabil Co. became part of the Coca Cola International system. Salsabil was awarded ISO certificate in 2001 and later was awarded many quality and environmental certificates such as Q1, Q3, E1, E3, HACCAP, GMB. General General Overview Overview Salsabil Capital expenditure expansions included Coolers & RG injection, new trucks, investing in new molds in addition to major overhauling for PET line which increased production capacity. Salsabil throughout its years was continuously searching for innovative products and packages by following international trends and meeting local needs. Striving to satisfy market demands, Canada Dry Mineral Water 2005 & Fire Energy Drink 2006 and Capo Still Drink 2006 were introduced and distributed throughout Syria using Salsabil strong distribution chain. In 2009, Salsabil was able to sign a co packing agreement with CCI, Coca Cola Franchisee in Syria, toll filling Coke, Sprite and Fanta products in the factory as per Coke standards. The Co packing agreement proved Salsabil unique capabilities, high production standards and managerial skills which landed the co packing contract. Mission Serving refreshment to local Syrian customers through high quality soft drinks from well known and trusted brand names. Vision Enhancing Nutritional values, following market trends and capturing market share. Production Type of Production lines: CAN, PET & RGB Production Packages on each line: CAN (330ML) SS PET (350ML) MS PET (2.25L, 1.75L, 1.25L) RGB (250ML) Production Capacity of Bottles/CAN per hour: CAN :30,000 CPH PET 2.25L :7,200 BPH PET 1.75L :9,000 BPH PET 1.25L :12,000 BPH PET 350ML :16,000 BPH RGB 250ML :60,000 BPH Line utilization efficiency: ALL LINES 80% Upgrades on the lines for the past 3 yrs: SALSABIL ADDED TWO NEW SETS OF MOULDS FOR 350ML & 1.75L Distribution Salsabil Co distributes their products in all Syrian Provinces using network of company branches and distributers. Our strength lies in Direct distributers, Pre Sellers, Wholesales and Company Branches who all work closely with the factory management to implement localized plans developed in partnership with Coca Cola Company. Distribution A fleet of 100 trucks carries various company products on a daily basis to place them within the consumer reach. Over 12,000 coolers are distributed and placed in outlets to ensure our products are served cold to the consumer. Around 250,000 Cases of Returnable Glass Bottles are distributed to wholesalers who by turn deliver to outlets. Social Responsibility Salsabil responsibility towards Global and Syrian Society and workforce is divided into four parts 1. Human Rights 2. Labour issues 3. Environment 4. Anti Corruption Social Responsibility -Human RightsPrinciple 1: Our Business Supports and respects the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights Basic human right in Salsabil starts from fair employment opportunity to all genders and religions. We try to create a healthy working environment, pleasant workplace and insure safety of all employees. A dedicated clinic on factory premises is available for employees. Standard safety measures & tools are applied in Salsabil to prevent accidents such as special uniforms like hats and shoes worn by production employees while working in separately designated and sealed production areas. In addition, fire drills are practiced twice every year in the plant in addition to having fire hydrants available on each area. Social Responsibility -Human RightsPrinciple 2: We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses As indicated previously, our company employees a wide range of females and males from different religions and Nationalities and we show respect to all by many procedures taken to protect their basic rights of religion practices, religious holidays and employment opportunities rights. Any abuse weather it is physical, verbal abuse or sexual harassment is punished according to our corporate policies. Social Responsibility -Labour issues Principle 3: Our Company upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Many steps are implemented in the company to insure voices are heard such as bi yearly meetings, yearly dinner gatherings and a suggestion box in the factory all measures and opportunities given to employees to discuss business with management and insure their voice is heard. Social Responsibility -Labour issues Principle 4: Salsabil dose not allow forced or compulsory labour in any respect shape or form in their operations Our company adheres to local regulations by applying clear procedure starting from hiring process to the freedom of leaving the company upon due notice. Minimum wages and standard working hours are all applied in Salsabil in addition to incentives, bonuses and extra hours pay when need arises. However we try to insure maximum working hours by applying one, two or three production shifts depending on the season. Social Responsibility -Labour issues Principle 5: We do not allow child labour People under the age of 18 are not allowed to work in our company. Principle 6: Salsabil dose not allow discrimination in its work place in respect to employment and occupation As previously mentioned, our company gives employment opportunity to all genders, Nationalities and religions with no discrimination. Salsabil policies found in HR clearly give equal pay standard to employees within the same qualification and experience. Social Responsibility Environment – Principle 7: Salsabil supports a precautionary approach to environment challenges Since water is life essence and is considered the main ingredient in our beverages, Salsabil continuously takes measures to improve water efficiency by working to reduce used water in our plant. This is done through improving water efficiency in our beverage manufacturing processes such as rinsing, cleaning, heating and cooling. Social Responsibility Environment – Principle 8: Salsabil undertakes initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Constant development to improve packaging material efficiency per liter of product sold. Salsabil also adopted couple of new designs and alteration on PET and CAN. A new light weighted PET bottle is used which reduces waste. In addition, change over parts were ordered for CAN line to change the CAN ends from a 206 diameter to a 202 diameter; this reduces aluminium waste. Social Responsibility Environment – Principle 9: We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Salsabil aim is to adapt measures that reduce absolute emissions from our manufacturing operations. Important steps in this direction were adopted recently such as purchasing new coolers equipped with energy management devices that reduce the energy consumption of cooler by 35% Social Responsibility Anti Corruption Principle 10: We are against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Management refuse any sort of corruption, bribery or extortion in our activities. Internal and external audit procedures are periodically preformed to insure no violations are non existent. Thank You
