 March 2011 UBS AG – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Introduction Detailed information relating to the Global Compact principles can be found in the Corporate responsibility and Our employees sections of the UBS Annual Report 2010 (Section 1: Strategy, performance and responsibility, pages 54-70, see PDFs below). This information together with additional detail pertaining to the Global Compact principles can be accessed on the UBS Corporate Responsibility website (www.ubs.com/corporateresponsibility). 2. UBS Sustainability Disclosure For 2010, UBS commissioned SGS to conduct an independent assurance of the GRI based Sustainability Disclosure. The SGS Statement on Assurance of UBS GRI Sustainability Disclosure 2010 confirms that UBS's Sustainability Disclosure as referenced in the GRI index meets the requirements of level A+ of the GRI (2006) … and fulfills the requirements for Communication on Progress (COP) under the UN Global Compact. The Statement has been published in the UBS Annual Report 2010 (page 70) and on the UBS Corporate Responsibility website: http://www.ubs.com/1/e/about/corp_responsibility/commitment_strategy/reporting_assurance.html In the UBS GRI index (www.ubs.com/gri) the following GRI indicators relate directly to the principles of the Global Compact (according to Annex A of the 2007 report Making the connection; The GRI Guidelines and the Global Compact Communication on Progress ): Human Rights Principle 1 – EC5, LA4, LA6–9; LA13–14, HR1–9, SO5, PR1–2, PR8 Principle 2 – HR1–9, SO5 Labor Principle 3 – LA4–5, HR1–3, HR5, SO5 Principle 4 – HR1–3, HR7, SO5 Principle 5 – HR1–3, HR6, SO5 Principle 6 – EC7, LA2, LA13–14, HR1–4, SO5 Environment Principle 7 – EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 Principle 8 – EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 Principle 9 – EN2, EN 5–7, EN 10, EN 18, EN 26–27, EN30, SO5 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – SO2–6 UBS_AR_Corporate_ Responsibility_2010.p UBS_AR_Our_Emplo yees_2010.pdf  3. Statements on UBS's commitment to the Global Compact and its principles a. Continued support for the Global Compact Statement by Kaspar Villiger, UBS Chairman (see http://www.ubs.com/1/e/about/corp_responsibility/commitment_strategy/chairman_statement.html): The Compact continues to be an important reference point for our corporate responsibility efforts. As one of the original signatories of the Global Compact, we demonstrated our conviction in the increasing importance of corporate responsibility. Key examples include our leading role in the issuance of the first global anti-money laundering principles in 2000; the launch of our internal Diversity initiative in 2002; the implementation of our climate change strategy in 2006; the introduction of our statement on Human Rights in 2006; and our responsible supply chain standard in 2008. Reference to UN Global Compact in Corporate responsibility section in UBS Annual Report 2010: In implementing environmental and social standards and conventions into our business practices, we benefit from participating in various external initiatives, including the UN Global Compact and its local network in Switzerland, the Wolfsberg Group, the UNEP Finance Initiative, and the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). b. Human Rights and Labor Standards: UBS has well established human resources policies and practices that address issues such as employment, diversity, equal opportunity and discrimination. Such policies also tackle human rights issues, as do policies relating to health and safety practices. UBS’s human resources policies and practices are regularly reviewed to ensure that labor standards are respected. In line with the firm’s endorsement of the UN Global Compact and its underlying principles, UBS adopted a statement supporting basic human rights in 2006. The implementation of its human rights statement is supported by a responsible supply chain guideline, by UBS's position on relationships with clients and suppliers associated with controversial activities (Including human rights, see next paragraph), and by industry sector guidelines supporting the consistent identification and assessment of environmental and social risks (including human rights) in the firm’s banking activities. In 2010, we further strengthened our environmental and social risk management (including human rights) by identifying controversial activities where we will not do business, or only do business under stringent pre-established guidelines. Therefore we will not knowingly provide financial services to corporate clients, nor will we purchase goods or services from suppliers, where the use of proceeds, primary business activity, or acquisition target involves the following: Environmental Risks: Extractive industries, heavy infrastructure, forestry and plantations operations that risk severe environmental damage to or through: • Endangered Species: of Wild Flora and Fauna listed in Appendix 1 of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) • High Conservation Value Forests: as defined by the six categories of the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) • Illegal Use of Fire: uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire for land clearance • Illegal Logging: including purchase of illegal harvested timber (logs or roundwood) • Palm Oil Production: unless a member in good standing of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and actively seeking to enhance certification of its production • Wetlands: on the RAMSAR List • World Heritage Sites: as classified by UNESCO  Social Risks: All commercial activities that engage in, or threaten: • Child Labor: according to ILO-conventions 138 (minimum age) and 182 (worst forms) • Forced Labor: according to ILO-convention 29 • Indigenous Peoples: all rights in accordance with IFC Performance Standard 7 • Diamond Mining and Trading: rough diamonds unless Kimberly Process certified In addition, our Global Asset Management decided not to invest in companies involved in the production of weapons banned under the 2010 Convention on Cluster Munitions and the 2008 Convention on Anti-Personnel Mines. The policy applies and has been implemented for its actively managed Switzerland and Luxemburg domiciled retail and institutional funds. c. Environment: UBS acknowledges that climate change represents one of the most significant environmental challenges of current times. In 2009, UBS supported the Global Compact's Seal the Deal! campaign calling for a fair, balanced and effective post-Kyoto climate agreement. In his testimonial for Seal the Deal! , UBS's Chairman of the BoD confirmed a cornerstone of the firm's climate change strategy in that UBS seeks to help clients address risks and take advantage of opportunities presented by climate change and the transition to a low carbon economy. With this in mind, UBS continued in 2010 to expand its offering of climate change-related products and services and to publish dedicated research reports. In addition, UBS seeks to lead by example by acting to reduce its own environmental impact. To this end, in 2006 the Group Executive Board (GEB) set a target to reduce the firm’s carbon emissions through 2012 by 40% from 2004 levels. In 2010 these measures allowed UBS to decrease its CO2 emissions by 33.5% compared with 2004, another step toward achieving the 2012 reduction target. The share of renewable energy UBS purchased amounted to 43% in 2010. In 2010, we further strengthened our environmental and social risk management (including human rights) by identifying controversial activities where we will not do business, or only do business under stringent pre-established guidelines. Therefore we will not knowingly provide financial services to corporate clients, nor will we purchase goods or services from suppliers, where the use of proceeds, primary business activity, or acquisition target involves the environmental and social risks listed above. We also require enhanced due diligence and approval processes in certain other areas, such as coal mining practices that use mountain top removal (MTR) in the US Appalachian Mountains as an extraction method. As part of this review, we assess to what extent companies rely on MTR mining for their revenue generation and we need to be satisfied that the client is committed to reducing its exposure to this form of mining over time. d. Anti-Corruption: In 2010, UBS continued to strengthen its efforts to both prevent and combat financial crime. Taking responsibility to preserve the integrity of the financial system, and our own operations, we are committed to assisting in the fight against money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. We employ a rigorous risk-based approach to ensure our policies and procedures correspond with those risks, and that relationships that are classified as higher risk are dealt with appropriately. We adhere to strict know-your-clients regulations, which do not, however, seek to undermine clients’ legitimate right to privacy. Ongoing due diligence and monitoring is undertaken to assist in the identification of suspicious activities, including the utilization of advanced technology to assist in the identification of transaction patterns or unusual dealings which, if discovered, are promptly escalated to management or control functions. In 2010, all business divisions were required to perform a legal and compliance risk assessment based  on 2009 data. This comprehensive process, which included an assessment of corruption and AML risks, is also forward-looking with follow-up actions to highlight the priorities and objectives for each business division. The risk assessment did not show any significant incidents of non-compliance with our anticorruption policy and other regulations related to anti-corruption.
