Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 About this Report Our Communication on Progress Report for 2010 highlights our performance and achievements during the calendar year 2010. It also adopts a new format, designed to focus on both the Global Compact Principles as well as the CSR Pillars that govern our efforts. As our work on corporate social responsibility develops and takes into account the changing and expanding portfolio of the EIL Group, future Communication on Progress Reports would integrate the efforts and initiatives of all member companies of the EIL Group of Companies. Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 CEO Commitment 1 EIL represents respect for people, ethical business practices, protection of the environment, creation of new value and contribution to society. Page 1 Our Responsibilities 2 Our Company Policies reflect our Commitment to conducting our business in an ethical and responsible manner, in accordance with established Principles. Page 2 CSR at EIL IN EIL, CSR is about representing our values beyond the borders of EIL; about conducting our 3 business ethically and contributing to the society’s wellbeing and development, about a commitment to providing safe working conditions while preserving the environment and about Page 3 improving the quality of life of our people – both inside and outside our Organisation Human Rights Good Governance [EIL CSR Pillar] 4 Our commitment to upholding these four pillars is evident in our Company Policies and Standard procedures and continuous improvements are being made by all our 600 employees Page 6 on a daily basis, in every aspect of our operations. Labour Practices Good Governance, Market Place [EIL CSR Pillar] EIL prohibits discrimination against employees or applicants based on race, colour, religion, age, 5 nationality, physical or mental disability, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, health Page 7 status, or social or economic class. The Company bases its employment decisions on merit, without discrimination based on any of the factors set out above and expect employees to conduct Company business in a similar manner. Environment [EIL CSR Pillar] The EIL Group is therefore committed to a policy of sound and responsible environmental 6 management, leading to a sustainable use of resources and optimal management of waste. We are dedicated to responsible environmental policies in all our operations and full compliance Page 10 with environmental laws and regulations. Anti-Corruption Market Place [EIL CSR Pillar] EIL has a strong commitment to high ethical standards. Every day employees may be faced with 7 challenges that test their ethical principles. We are a firm supporter of ethical business principles and expect all our employees to behave in a professional, ethical manner, whether Page 12 dealing with colleagues inside the company, or with customers, suppliers or other external organisations and individuals. Social Investment [EIL CSR Pillar] We will act as a responsible member of the community and consider how our activities impact 8 on it. Page 13 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 CEO Commitment CEO Commitment We will continue to promote Our Responsibilities CSR Management as part of our Corporate Strategy The year 2010 was a pivotal year in the development and evolution of EIL as a new corporate strategy emerged, following which, significant progress was made in crystallizing one of the largest growth CSR at EIL opportunities in our corporate history. Underpinning our performance and success in our new strategic direction of corporate growth is our commitment to human development, leadership and a culture of execution. This is our key strategy for business growth, aligned with our responsibilities and commitment to Human Rights our stakeholders. Responsible business practices is therefore at the heart of our strategy and the people at the EIL Group of Companies are committed more than ever, to being good corporate citizens, to leading change and being involved in solutions that can improve the societies in which we live and work. EIL therefore remains committed as a continuing participant and good corporate citizen in the United Nations Labour Practices Global Compact (UNGC) since 2007. Joining the Global Compact was natural to us as we focus our efforts based on our belief that doing “good” means doing “good business”. We are ever vigilant in our execution of our business practices and constantly work to improve the 4 Pillars which govern our CSR Activities Social Investment & Education, Good Governance, Environment, and Marketplace. Our main objective is to ensure that the 10 principles of the Global Compact forms an integral part of our Company’s culture and business Environment development. The following pages of this CoP report, describe the approach we have taken thus far in implementing the UNGC’s 10 principles within EIL. What started as an effort to communicate our progress became a maniacal focus on developing a formalized CSR structure that would allow for a more organised approach to Social Anti-Corruption responsibility and Corporate Citizenship. I am therefore proud to submit our second Communication on Progress Report on the developments made in supporting the ten principles espoused by the UNGC during the year 2010. Social Investment Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Major Stakeholders and the EIL Group’s Responsibilities EIL’s operations across various countries, cultures and legislative environments require responsibilities to an even wider cross-section of stakeholders. The CEO Commitment following table highlights our responsibilities, as we continue to operate across borders. Stakeholders Responsibilities Our Responsibilities • Customer Information and Relationship Management The EIL Group manufactures a wide range of Products from Customers Electrical Cables and Lighting Fixtures to PVC Pipes, Water • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction • Providing a Quality Product Tanks and Switchgear, allowing us to maintain a diverse • Providing appropriate and accurate range of customers, including residential, commercial, production information industrial and governmental bodies. • Providing excellent Customer Service and Support CSR at EIL • Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Approximately 600 employees are employed within the EIL • Developing Human Capital Employees Group, including those dispersed across the Caribbean • Conducting fair assessments and Subsidiaries. providing fair treatment • Providing a safe working environment With 11 Consolidated Subsidiary Operations scattered across the Caribbean Region, the EIL Group actively Human Rights Global promotes the preservation of our resources within these • Conservation of our limited resources Environment territories, as we continue to be good corporate citizens of Planet Earth. Government & Labour Practices Through our expanding regional operations, the EIL Group • Complying with Laws and Regulations of Government remains a true citizen in whichever country we are present. the Land Agencies • Engaging in social responsibility within the local communities in which we Local Environment Through our regional presence, we continue to carry out operate our business operations while respecting the various • Protecting and Preserving the Communities cultures, history and customs of the people in each country. surrounding environment • Respecting the Customs and Traditions of the local people Anti-Corruption NonWe continue to engage and draw from the knowledge, • Continue to offer support in addressing social, environmental and global issues Governmental experience and strengths of the NGOs within our country of • Collaborate in our activities geared operations. Organisations towards priority issues Social Investment The EIL Group has over 640 Suppliers, 400 of which are local • Select suppliers fairly and engaging in fair Suppliers to the Group's home country. business practices. Page | 2 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility at EIL CEO Commitment Commitment CEO Our OurResponsibilities Responsibilities CSRat at EIL EIL CSR Human Rights Rights Human Labour Practices Practices The establishment of the EIL Charitable Foundation as a registered company was a critical stepping stone in driving the organisation's CSR efforts and can Labour therefore be viewed as the Charitable Arm of the EIL Group. It is established with financial resources donated by the Group and from voluntary contributions through CSR initiatives. The Foundation is committed to dedicating its resources as it pertains to the four pillars that govern our CSR activities. During the year 2010, a CSR Committee was established to keep under review and make appropriate recommendations as it regards to the Company’s Environment management of Corporate Social Responsibility and the EIL Foundation as well as the conduct of business in accordance with the CSR Framework. Moving into 2011 however, the Committee’s vision and efforts were redirected towards the organization and execution of a core CSR initiative for each quarter of the year. Environment Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Social Investment Page | 3 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 CEO Commitment Our Responsibilities CSR at EIL Human Rights Labour Practices As part of EIL’s CSR Management program, the Steering Committee Members are mandated to manage the use of the Foundation’s resources & ensure that Environment the Foundation is used to channel resources into initiatives that are outlined in the CSR Framework & Policy and are directed to the following areas: 1 Social Involvement, Development & Investment 2 Corporate Philanthropy & Volunteering 3 Health & Wellbeing Anti-Corruption 4 Sustainable & Energy Efficient Technologies 5 Environmental Protection & Conservation 6 Fair & Ethical Business Practices 7 Health & Safety at Work 8 Workforce Training & Development 9 Supplier Relations through Engagement & Support Social Investment 10 Customer Relationship Management 11 Public Relations & Corporate Goodwill Page | 4 CEO Commitment Our Responsibilities CSR at EIL Human Rights Labour Practices Environment Anti-Corruption Social Investment Page | 5 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Electrical Industries Limited Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 CEO Commitment HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1 & 2 Gender Distribution 75% Respect for Fundamental Human Rights Industrial Relations Act 25% Our Responsibilities EIL takes all measures in order to remain aware of human rights concerns applicable to Trinidad & Tobago in order to avoid involvement in Human Female Male Rights violations. Our compliance with the IRA allows us to make better provision for the stabilisation, improvement and promotion of industrial Resolving Grievances relations across our organization. Staff Association (TEMCO Staff Association) Minimum Wages Act CSR at EIL The TSA represents the interests of all EIL employees and supports, EIL also maintains compliance with the Minimum Wages Act, respecting promotes, and defends employee compensation and benefits, career minimum wages and terms and conditions of employment. development, working conditions, and the general welfare of staff members and their families. Occupational Health and Safety Act Human Rights As part of EIL’s holistic approach to Health and Safety, the OSH Act provides the foundation for us as an employer, to provide a workplace free of recognized safety hazards that are likely to cause injury or death. Occupational Health and Safety Act Labour Practices As part of EIL’s holistic approach to Health and Safety, the OSH Act provides the foundation for us as an employer, to provide a workplace free of recognized safety hazards that are likely to cause injury or death. Workmen’s compensation Act Highlights of 2010 EIL also maintains compliance with “Worker Comp.” as it relates to Environment payment for compensation to workmen for injuries suffered during the 1. Occupational Health and Safety Act course of their employment. During 2010, over 220 hours of training related to Occupational Health and Safety were conducted with employees. These included: Fundamental Principles and a. OSH Surveillance Rights at Work b. Risk Assessment Anti-Corruption Employee Handbook c. Safety Awareness EIL recognizes that there is importance in not only implementing our d. Safety Induction human rights policies but also in communicating it. 2. Employee Handbook Fairness and Equal Opportunity While a revised Employee Handbook was due in 2010, based All employees at EIL are well-treated, fairly appraised on a semi-annual on the pending acquisition of another organization, a Social Investment basis and compensated based on their achievements at work. Equal decision was made to postpone the publication of this new employment and promotion opportunities are ensured to men and handbook until an integrated one could be developed. women, individuals of all ethnicities and religions irrespective of their age. Page | 6 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Labour Practices Principles 3-6 2. Soft Loans CEO Commitment All weekly paid employees can access a Soft Loan from a $10,000.00 float. Child Labour Applications must be submitted to the HR Department Abolition of Child Labour Employee Benefits EIL strictly prohibits the employ of child labour and will continue to identify EIL contributes 2/3 of the total premium for Group Health and the entire and encourage the abolition of child labour within our own supply chain. premium for Group Life and a 5% contribution to the Employees’ Pension Our Responsibilities Plan. Age Verification Upon employment all individuals must submit their personal documents. Flexible Working Hours Human Resource Department verifies the person’s age during recruitment EIL strives to enhance systems that allow employees increased flexibly to and ensures that provision regarding child labour is not violated. select working styles according to their personal circumstances. Flexible working hours are intended to support the employee in maintaining a Civil and Political Rights healthy balance between work and family life. EIL believes that only when the employee has struck an effective work-family balance, can they CSR at EIL Collective Bargaining achieve their best at work. All our employees have the right to collective bargaining which takes place every 3 years or as requested by the TEMCO Staff Association. General Health and Wellness Employers’ Consultative Association 1. Sport Club and Gym Facilities Membership with the ECA provides an invaluable resource in addressing EIL has a Sports Club and Gym Facilities which is accessible to all employees Human Rights Issues. Their advice is sought after almost on a monthly basis in order to promote health and general well-being. Human Rights in order to promote fair Industrial Relations Practices. 2. Health and Wellbeing Programme A Wellness Programme was developed to expose employees to various Conditions of work and Social Protection training sessions aimed at equipping them with the knowledge and tools to manage their everyday lives. Compensation Benchmarking Insurance and Pension Plan Labour Practices This annual exercise serves as a useful tool for fair compensation and to attract and retain talent. Insurance Policies form part of our employee’s total compensation and are intended to provide protection for the employee and their dependents in Contracts of Employment the event of serious illness, retirement, disability or death. EIL contributes 2/3 of the total premium for Group Health and the entire premium for One way to help abolish forced and compulsory labour is through Group Life and a 5% contribution to the Employees’ Pension Plan. controlled and legal employment and employment relationships. EIL Environment therefore ensures that no employee enters into an employment contract without first understanding that they are not being employed under anything other than free and fair terms and conditions and that they are Highlights of 2010 free to terminate such employment at any time, of their own volition, with appropriate notice. 1. Health and Wellbeing Programme was executed a. Work-Life Balance Anti-Corruption b. Effective Parenting Employee Assistance Programs c. Managing Substances d. Meditation EIL recognises that there are times when personal problems can affect the employee’s well-being and performance. Due to this concern, EIL has 2. Employee Assistance Programme established an EAP to provide assistance to employees and their a. Employee Relief Program was accessed 7 times b. Soft Loans were accessed 61 times immediate family during times of need. Social Investment 3. Collective Bargaining 1. Employee Relief Program This process began in 2010 and continued into 2011. This programme offers financial assistance to weekly-paid workers in times of emergency. It is funded 50% by the Company and 50% by weekly and monthly paid employees via a weekly contribution of $1.25. Page | 6 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Employment and Employment Relationships Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work CEO Commitment Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) Standard Working Hours EIL greatly values its people, and therefore makes every effort to foster a EIL supports the principle of elimination of any form of forced and work environment that is based on respect and open communication. compulsory labour by establishing a 40-hour work week. While the hours Every year we conduct our Employee Opinion Survey in order to of work will be determined by the employee’s departmental requirements, Our Responsibilities understand and respond to some of the views of our employees. In 2009 every effort will be made to ensure that an employee’s normal hours of the results of the Survey was 74%, falling to 69% in 2010. There are a work are maintained. number of reasons for this reduction in employee satisfaction and a full analysis of these issues was conducted with a comprehensive action plan Health and Safety at Work ready for roll-out in 2011. Annual Risk Assessments Performance Management EIL currently undertakes an annual Risk Assessment, conducted by an As part of an employee’s career development and compensation for Independent Certified Party, the results of which are available to CSR at EIL achievements, all employees are subject to a semi-annual performance stakeholders. In 2010, Workplace Hazard Observation & Occupational Risk review. The Performance Appraisal system is used as a guide to offer Assessments were conducted and specific recommendations were made special incentives and also to direct management’s decisions in promoting with respect to preventive measures and controls to be implemented for employees and awarding salary increases. the mitigation of risks. Human Rights Recruitment and Selection Policy Environmental Testing and Surveillance EIL supports the principle to eliminate discrimination in respect of Laboratory testing, conducted by a certified Party, assesses all industrial employment and occupation. Our policy clearly defines the procedure of effluent, as well as Indoor Air Quality, Heat Stress & Noise, as part of personnel planning, search and selection. Our Policy states that employees regulatory requirements. EIL has, to date, passed all required testing and is Labour Practices are selected in accordance with their education, competence, professional in full compliance with all relevant Statutory and Environmental & Health qualifications, advancement potential and character without reference to Regulations. race, colour, class, or gender. Medical Testing and Surveillance Tendering Process Significant work has been completed in the development of this initiative, scheduled for a 2011 roll-out. This programme would encompass PreOur intention in 2010 was to review the Procurement Tendering employment, Pre-assignment, Periodic, Post accident / incident, for cause, Environment Procedures by possibly including labour standards and health and safety Employee Monitoring programs, Unannounced follow-up, Random. and environmental considerations into our contracting and procurement practices. Additionally, EIL was exploring opportunities to CSR-based questions as part of the contracting and supplier qualification process in Safety Committee order to gauge supplier commitment to human rights and practices. There The Safety Committee is responsible for review and oversight of the has been dialogue with Procurement Personnel in order to determine the Corporate QHSSE Policy. The Safety Committee communicates the Risk Anti-Corruption best mechanism for employing this initiative. However, with the Assessment to all Stakeholders as well as submits monthly Statutory acquisition of another organization, these efforts were postponed until Reports to OSHA and the EMA. 2011 when a Group Procurement Function would have been fully established. Safety Awareness and Education Supplier Engagement and Support The Health and Safety Department engages in continuous training sessions Social Investment with various groups of employees in order to bring awareness and Arising from a fully established Group Procurement Function, EIL also plans continuously educate on safety requirements both at the workplace and at to work with Suppliers who share our commitment to the sustainability of home. Human Rights. We will actively encourage those throughout the Supply Chain to abide by local laws that prohibit acts of key human rights issues such as child labour, discrimination and poor working conditions. Page | 7 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Human Development and Training in the Internal Selection CEO Commitment Workplace During the selection period, priority is given to EIL employees if they meet the requirements for the vacant position. If no adequate employees are Developing our Human Capital found inside the Company, an external search is conducted. Job ads do not The EIL Group’s ability to achieve corporate growth depends heavily on our specify sex or age of the potential candidate, only qualification ability to recruit, motivate and retain top talent. Essentially, it’s about requirements. identifying the right people with the right skills for the right job. It was Our Responsibilities therefore clear that a critical HR Strategic objective was the development Social Dialogue of our human capital to facilitate the achievement of corporate growth. We therefore had to look to the future and develop a Strategic Resourcing Plan that sought to meet future business needs for the long-term benefit Corporate Newsletter of the organization. Arising out of several strategic sessions, it was During the latter part of 2010, the Office of Strategy Management concluded that in order to promote individual career development and developed a strategic communication strategy, part of which involved the build potential across the organization, it meant that the learning use of a Corporate Newsletter to promote updates on corporate strategy, curriculum at EIL needed to be reviewed and improved upon so that a internal activities, innovation and recognition and general corporate CSR at EIL comprehensive learning and development programme could be developed. information. This strategic developmental plan is meant to provide routes to enhance employees’ knowledge, skills and abilities as they progress in their career. Governance Meetings As EIL moves towards a participative environment, a critical channel of Human Rights 1. Personal Goals Aligned to Strategy communication that is often utilized between management and employees is the Governance Meeting. These sessions encourage dialogue/feedback During the latter half of 2010, the Office of Strategy Management along from ALL employees. with the HR Department initiated a program of developing employees’ personals goals, whilst documenting and communicating this to them to ensure that all employees have a clear understanding of their roles and Labour Practices responsibilities as well as their contribution to achieving our corporate strategy. Highlights of 2010 2. Strategic Development Training Programme 1. Risk Assessments During the course of 2010, all recommendations that were made during our extensive annual risk assessment were This programme has been developed to assist in improving the knowledge, completed and fully implemented at all EIL locations. skills and abilities of the strategic job-holders in the organization in order 2. Safety Awareness and Education Environment to better equip them to meet the future demands of the organization. In 2010, 15 different health and safety related training sessions were held with several groups, totaling 1,189 hours of employee training time. EIL Leadership Programme 3. Personal Goals aligned to Strategy At the end of 2010, 82% of employees had their personal EIL’s continued expansion efforts require its executive management and goals developed and communicated to them. leadership positions to evolve and develop in synchronicity with the needs 4. Corporate Newsletter Anti-Corruption of the organization. Such leadership that is required by the organization Two quarterly issues of the newsletter were successfully created covering the period Q3 and Q4 2010. transcends any individual but is exemplified by the words and actions of all members of the leadership team. The leadership programme developed at 5. Developing our Human Capital A Strategic Development Training Programme was EIL aims to equip our leaders with the skills and techniques to manage developed to improve employee KSA’s. complexities and competing interests in the workplace; to develop their 6. Governance Meetings emotional intelligence; to enable their understanding of their roles in Each of the 10 Departments within EIL held on average 6 Social Investment Governance Meetings during 2010. strategy execution; to conduct effective root cause analysis as well as other self-awareness, mentoring, team-building and coaching-type training sessions. While this plan was developed in 2010, it is scheduled for implementation in 2011. Page | 8 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Environment Principles 7-9 Promoting Social Responsibility in the Sphere of CEO Commitment Sustainable Resource Use Influence Recycling Initiative Environmental Management Act As part of EIL’s ongoing commitment to the promotion and development EIL maintains compliance with the following environmental Act of Trinidad and Tobago: Our Responsibilities of the Global Compact principles, the QHSSE Department has developed • Water Pollution Rules and begun implementing a new Recycling and Waste Reduction Policy and • Noise Pollution Control Rules procedure with the aim of: • Trinidad & Tobago Waste Water Management Act 2001 EIL has the necessary environmental permits and authorisations to 1. Reducing our Carbon Footprint; operate, from the relevant authorities and has a systematic approach in 2. Reducing the quantity of waste sent to land-fills; place to ensure knowledge and compliance of new environmental 3. Conforming to best-practice standards and surpassing statutory legislation and any other legal environmental requirements. CSR at EIL and regulatory environmental requirements; 4. Incorporating new technologies for recycling and waste reduction The QHSSE Department has ensured that the following items are Highways Beautification Program successfully recycled or disposed of by utilizing waste reduction and proper EIL has partnered with the Government’s National Highways Beautification waste disposal methods as described in the company policy and Program, geared towards upgrading the appearance and aesthetics along Human Rights procedure: Batteries, Glass, Paper, Metal, Water, Wood, Textiles, Plastic, the main transport corridors of the country. Lubricants and Electronics. Quality Management System Membership on National Technical Committees EIL is committed to a Policy of responsible resource usage and EIL is an active member of the National Technical Committee a joint Labour Practices environmental management resulting in sustainable and efficient Committee of the Board of Engineering of Trinidad & Tobago and the management of resources and waste. EIL seeks to minimize its production Trinidad & Tobago Bureau of Standards, mandated to the continuous of waste and use of energy through our Quality Management System. ISO monitoring and revision of standards within Trinidad and Tobago. 9001:2008 specifies requirements for a quality management system. EIL is committed to implementing quality management systems and processes Energy Management that would enable the delivery of the highest quality products and services. Environment The QMS Policy outlines the quality system, documentation structure, EIL has not been blind in our assessment of the global changes and we are procedures and business practices which are used by EIL to achieve our very aware of our corporate responsibility to always act for the vision and ensure that our customer’s requirements are satisfied. preservation of our environment and efficient use of resources. At the beginning of 2010, EIL started a process of analyzing our energy usage and as part of this initiative, we have Power Factor Correction Equipment at Computer-Based Technologies replacing Paper-based our facility which has resulted in savings of 15% on our monthly electric Anti-Corruption bill. The savings are equivalent to annual greenhouse gas emissions from Systems 11 passenger vehicles or CO2 emissions from 140 barrels of oil consumed or carbon sequestered by 1,533 tree seedlings grown for 10 years every Since 2000, EIL has been making increasing strides in eliminating papermonth. based systems with computer-based applications in an effort to reduce our consumption of paper. We have been so impressed with the savings being generated and its Social Investment impact on our environment, that we have launched a new business line 1. Corporate Portal and Intranet focusing on energy management, leveraging on our first-hand technical All work related documents and information for employees are placed on expertise and experience gained with our own installation. This business the intranet. In 2000, absolute access to this information was ensured to all line is directly related to our values of innovation and social responsibility employees; therefore the need to circulate hardcopy documents was and we are pleased to be at the forefront in our drive to help preserve our eliminated. environment. Page | 9 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Nation-wide Retrofitting Programme CEO Commitment Through an effective Lighting Audit, EIL helps business owners upgrade lighting fixtures and controls to more energy efficient Technologies. Lighting Retrofit technology helps achieve environmental synergy through energy-efficient lighting fixtures installed at commercial centers, industrial sites, schools and homes. The realized benefits are substantial and can be summarized as follows: Our Responsibilities • Energy-savings Through the use of energy-efficient Lamp and ballast technology • Pollution reduction – A Lighting Retrofit Project consumes less electricity and thus helps reduce CO2 emissions associated with power generation. Water Management System Management of Water Usage, including Preventive Maintenance, is part of CSR at EIL the PM5 System, and helps prevent wastage such as hose leaks. Human Rights Highlights of 2010 1. Computer-Based Applications A total of 5 Computer-Based Applications were developed Labour Practices across various departmental functions , ultimately replacing heavily paper-based systems. 2. Energy Management A 15% average on monthly savings was realized on our electric bill through the utilization of energy-efficient technologies. Environment Anti-Corruption Social Investment Page | 10 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Anti-Corruption – Principle 10 that they are aware of in the workplace, such as malpractice, criminal CEO Commitment offences, non-compliance etc. Code of Conduct and Ethical Business Practices EIL recognizes that corruption is a major hindrance to the sustainable development of an organization and its communities. The development of rules for corporate governance rules around the world has prompted EIL to Our Responsibilities focus on anti-corruption measures as part of our need to protect the reputation and interests of our stakeholders. Code of Conduct EIL’s Code of Conduct Policy provides employees with a set of standards CSR at EIL meant to promote honest and ethical behavior in the conduct of the Company’s business. Employees, in discharging their duties, have a legal obligation to act honestly, ethically, in good faith and with the best interests of the Company in mind. To this end, the HR Department conducts a Code of Conduct/Ethics session Human Rights with new recruit during their orientation period as well as outlines all policies relevant to employees in the Employee Handbook, which is revised on an on-going basis. Labour Practices Conflict of Interest This issue is addressed as part of the Code of Conduct Policy as well as incorporated into the Employee Handbook. The Policy recognises that although employees’ have the right to engage in activities outside of their employment, such activities should not, in any way, conflict with the Company’s business. It then proceeds to identify activities from which the Environment employee must refrain. Internal and External Audit System We have developed an effective Internal Audit System that monitors the internal control process. Together, the internal and external auditors Anti-Corruption secure assurance concerning the state of the organisation’s internal controls. Highlights of 2010 Whistle-Blowing Policy 1. Code of Conduct Social Investment EIL holds a positive commitment and open approach to whistle blowing 98% of all new recruits obtained education on business and encourages employees to raise concerns about a dangerous or illegal ethics, rules and regulations of the organization during activity that they are aware of in the organisation. their orientation exercise . This Policy is in line with our commitment to Integrity and Social Responsibility. Employees are able to raise concerns about illegal activities Page | 11 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Social Investment CEO Commitment Social Investment and Estimated Distribution of Donations Education Family Crisis Centres Senior Orphanages 5% Citizens 5% Within the community, EIL continues to act as a responsible member of the 2% Disease Support Centres community and consider how our activities impact on it. The Company 2% Religious Organisation aims to support the creation of educated, sustainable and prosperous Our Responsibilities 3% communities in which we operate. We will continue to build positive Sporting Clubs relationships with our communities and actively encourage our employees 8% to participate in activities that will benefit our environs. At EIL, we believe Education Disaster Preparedness 50% that it’s not just about keeping our house in order, but reaching out to 5% support, financially or otherwise, our neighbours. Community Initiatives CSR at EIL 20% Education and Development Part of EIL’s CSR Strategy involves investing our time and efforts into promoting educational awareness. In 2010, EIL partnered with the Adult Literacy Tutors Association in their approach to assisting primary school Human Rights kids who had difficulties with reading and writing. We also offered financial assistance to several primary schools in their efforts to promote learning amongst their pupils. Health and Wellbeing Labour Practices EIL continues to engage in and provide support to initiatives within the community that are geared towards promoting good health and wellbeing. Philanthropy Environment Grants/Donations are given to projects that are deemed appropriate, given EIL's CSR framework & policy. Highlights of 2010 Anti-Corruption 1. Education and Development Through an informal Corporate Volunteering Programme, an Orphanage was adopted, to which both the EIL Foundation and employees donate of time and money to help improve the Social Investment lives of the children. Page | 12 Electrical Industries Limited Communication on Progress Report 2010 Core Achievement Initiatives for 2010 Target for 2011 Area in 2010 Corruption Code of Conduct Training 0% Complete Code of Conduct Training w ith relev ant personnel AntiPromote the Whistle Blow ing Policy as w ell as a Speak Up Progamme in orderto encourage communication of unacceptable practices w ithin the organisation Adopt-a-beach Campaign & Measure 0% The CSR Steering Committee to rev iew the env ironmental projects to be ex ecuted during 2011 Results Implement Bottle Bank 100% Promote the Bottle Bank initiativ e and ex pand to all locations w ithin the Group Initiate Plant-a-tree Programme & 0% The CSR Steering Committee to rev iew the env ironmental projects to be ex ecuted during 2011 environment Measure Results Launch The Green Room on Website 0% Establish a Project Team to address the CSR Section of the Corporate Website Plan & Implement a major fund-raising v enture targeted tow ards an 0% The CSR Steering Committee to rev iew the env ironmental projects to be ex ecuted during 2011 env ironmental project Implement a comprehensiv e measurement sy stem for all items in the recy cling initiativ e Dev elop CSR Gov ernance Structure 100% Rev iew CSR Policy and Structure in line w ith new Group Structure Dev elop CSR Policy 100% Rev iew CSR Policy and Structure in line w ith new Group Structure Dev elop Human Rights Statement 0% Dev elop a Statement on Human Rights and incorporate it into the Employ ee Handbook Human Rights Rev ise & Distribute 2010 Employ ee 0% Distribute rev ised Employ ee Handbooks to all employ ees w ithin the EIL Group Handbook Complete the Collectiv e Bargaining Process continue promoting initiativ es that allow employ ees to thriv e irrespectiv e of gender in an attempt to increase the recruitment of female Employ ees. Conduct Employ ee Surv ey and roll 75% Conduct Employ ee Surv ey in 2011 and dev ise action plan targeting identified w eak areas out Action Plan Dev elop & Implement EIL New sletter 100% Continue publication of this Strategic Communiation Tool to a w ider audience Implement EIL Leadership Programme 75% Implement Leadership Program and Succession Plans for all key senior posiitons w ithin the EIL Group Measure Emergency Relief 100% Continue to monitor the effectiv eness of the employ ee assistance program Programme Measure Employ ee Assistance Labour Practices 100% Continue to monitor the effectiv eness of the employ ee assistance program Programme Measure Soft Loans 100% Continue to monitor the effectiv eness of the employ ee assistance program Rev iew Tendering Process & 5% Rev iew opportunities to incorporate funadamental human rights requirements through the tendering process Implement Changes Supplier Engagement 5% Promote the global compact principles through the Supply Chain Complete the Personal Goals Alignment Process for all relev ant employ ees Conduct annual risk assessment and surv eillance and then dev ise strategies to address the recommendations for improv ement Implement the Medical Testing and Surv eillance Program Measure and Monitor Strategic Dev elopment Training Program to identify shortfalls and/or effectiv eness Promote Health and Safety Aw areness through Seminars and Programs investment Dev elop a Plan for Child Dev elopment 100% Implement specific activ ities geared tow ards child dev elopment social Establish at least 1 major project in each area of Social Inv estment during 2011 Page | 14
