Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 Turning Vision into Value. Contents Foreword.................................................................... 6 The Company Area 4 Integrated strategy for sustainability............................. 8 Attractive working environment................................... 66 Area 1 Area 5 Sustainable products and services..............................22 Corporate citizenship...................................................84 Area 2 Area 6 Active climate protection............................................. 38 Compliance.................................................................94 Independent Assurance Report.......................... 104 Information on this Sustainability Report......... 106 Implementation of International Reporting Standards............................................................... 106 GRI External Assurance and Index Based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines..........................................107 Area 3 Resource protection....................................................54 Publication Details and Credits........................... 111 Wherever you see this symbol in the report, you will find links to institutions whose URLs are indicated on the relevant pages. Our Company at a Glance in 2011 Corporate Headquarters HOCHTIEF Americas Division HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division The HOCHTIEF Americas division coordinates the activities of The HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division orchestrates our activities in HOCHTIEF’s companies in the US and Canada. the Asia-Pacific region. HOCHTIEF holds the leading position in the Australian market through its majority share in the Leighton Through its subsidiary Turner, HOCHTIEF is the leading general Group. Capabilities include building, infrastructure construction, builder in the USA, the world’s largest construction market. mining and concessions, real estate development, maintenance, Turner has long been number one in the high-growth segments and services. of education, healthcare, and commercial properties as well as in the green building segment. The company is also increasingly With seven operational units—Leighton Contractors, Thiess, active in services. John Holland, and Leighton Properties in Australia, plus Leighton Asia, Leighton International, and Al Habtoor Leighton in the Gulf The civil engineering company Flatiron has complemented region—Leighton covers every link in the construction value chain. HOCHTIEF’s presence in North America since 2007. With operations in the USA and Canada, Flatiron is among the top ten proLeighton is systematically expanding its leadership position as viders in US transportation infrastructure construction. Flatiron operator and manager in contract mining. The company is also is also a major pillar of our activities in the growth segment of a market leader in the infrastructure and real estate developpublic-private partnerships for infrastructure projects. ment sectors. Working from a strong base in its home market of Australia, Leighton is intensifying activities in selected Asian HOCHTIEF further extended its position in the growing market countries and the Gulf region. for US infrastructure projects with the acquisition of E.E. Cruz and Company in 2010. The company specializes in heavy construction projects in the New York metropolitan area. *For further information on the HOCHTIEF divisions, please see www.hochtief.com. 3 Sustainability Report 2011 (management holding company)* HOCHTIEF Concessions Division HOCHTIEF Europe Division HOCHTIEF Concessions AG is a wholly owned subsidiary of the The HOCHTIEF Europe division brings together the core busiHOCHTIEF Group and is responsible for the development and ness of the HOCHTIEF Group in Europe and selected regions implementation of concessions and operation projects. worldwide. The division is spearheaded by HOCHTIEF Solutions AG, which designs, develops, builds, operates, and manages The business segments served by HOCHTIEF Concessions real estate and infrastructure. include airports along with roads, social infrastructure, and other public-private partnership (PPP) projects. HOCHTIEF ConcesCapabilities include real estate development, building construcsions, the parent company of HOCHTIEF AirPort and HOCHTIEF tion together with civil and structural engineering, property and PPP Solutions, is one of the world’s major industrial infrastrucasset management, and comprehensive services in the facility ture investors. and energy management segments. The company’s portfolio comprises interests in Athens, Budapest, The company focuses on lucrative growth markets and delivers Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Sydney, and Tirana airports together with sophisticated one-stop solutions. Expertise in design, develop17 PPP projects in Germany, the UK, Ireland, and Canada. These ment, construction, and services is dovetailed to meet customer include seven roads, over 100 schools, 18 police facilities, a needs, generating powerful synergies. The service portfolio is community center, and a barracks. HOCHTIEF Concessions is continuously being added to and spans the entire infrastructure also developing two geothermal power plants and is in two inproject, real estate, and facility life cycle. In many regions and vestment partnerships. segments, the company ranks among the market and innovation leaders. Our Company at a Glance 4 Sustainability Report 2011 ➩ Creating Sustainable Value— Embracing Responsibility HOCHTIEF is one of the leading international providers of construction-related services. We deliver integrated services covering the life cycle of infrastructure projects, real estate, and facilities. Thanks to its global network, HOCHTIEF is on the map in all the world’s major markets. We believe in sustainable growth and take on responsibility. HOCHTIEF offers a portfolio comprising the three modules developing, building, and operating. Our well-coordinated capabilities allow us to offer clients premium quality and solutions individually tailored to their needs. Our company’s expert staff create sustainable value for clients, shareholders, and HOCHTIEF alike. HOCHTIEF has a tradition of nurturing the relationship between business, the environment, and social responsibility. This is one of the major factors in our long-term success. Our clear commitment to sustainability presents us with very special challenges, as each of our projects is unique. We thus accept great responsibility toward people and the environment, now and in the future. The photo spreads in this Sustainability Report show HOCHTIEF employees who contribute in very different ways toward our concept of sustainability. With their professional expertise, innovative solutions, and great personal dedication, they make a key contribution to our corporate success in terms of sustainability. Corporate responsibility at HOCHTIEF is not just a principle or a strategy, but the way we work—thanks to our employees. Sustainability Report 2011 5 Foreword Dear Readers, to current and future generations. HOCHTIEF has made a long-term commitment to sustainability: The goal of sustainability is embedded in our corporate strategy. In 2008, we joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative; we actively support the ten principles set forth in the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and we work to further them wherever possible. HOCHTIEF is considered a pioneer in sustainability in our industry. The Group boasts a proud tradition and successful track record, and in my function as the new Chairman of the Executive Board I intend to work with my colleagues on the Board, the managers, and our company’s entire workforce to carry these on. We have set ourselves clear, quantifiable corporate goals. During the last two years, we have come appreciably closer to attaining these goals. We have achieved a great deal— for example, we have met our objective of significantly increasing the number of sustainably constructed, green buildings among our international projects. We have also achieved the targeted expansion of our energy contracting business segment and as a result cut carbon emissions by over 100,000 metric tons in 2010 on behalf of our clients. What’s more, we have expanded our range of facility management capabilities with the addition of our blueFM serv­ ice, which focuses on sustainability aspects. You will find Taking responsibility: It’s up to all of us. Every citizen, and many more examples described in this Report. every company as well, can actively contribute toward making our world a more sustainable place. The HOCHTIEF In other areas, we are still working toward achieving our Group has targeted and embraced this challenge. goals. And we’re working at full steam. Particularly challenging issues for us in the future will be ensuring the reliable Our activities alone entail a huge responsibility: Our active supply of energy and harnessing energy from alternative role in the process of creation is in the nature of our business sources, as well as work safety. It goes without saying that as a provider of construction services. With our projects, areas where we have already achieved success will remain we bring spaces to life. In doing so, we impact the people in our focus for still further improvement. who use them and the natural environment that surrounds them. Acting responsibly is our obligation to the community, 6 Sustainability Report 2011 This will take the full dedication of our workforce—and a We attach great importance not only to the internal docuworking environment in which each and every employee mentation of our accomplishments but also to making it can make an individual contribution. Our corporate culture externally quantifiable and comparable. To that end, this depends on this individual commitment, and on the strength Report again publishes detailed facts and figures on susof our teams as well. We have created the best possible tainability at HOCHTIEF. Our new reporting system, CRedit, internal structures in order to implement our shared suswill further expand the database and continue to improve tainability goals together. data quality. In this Report, we have again adhered closely to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). To us, taking responsibility also means departing from faAnd, as in the past, this Report has also been appraised miliar paths and developing new solutions. That is why we by public auditors. at HOCHTIEF encourage innovations and actively push new developments forward. The construction industry has We shape HOCHTIEF in a process of continuous dialog with a special role in issues such as the reliable supply of energy our stakeholders and we are guided by their expectations into the future. We make a key contribution here with our and needs. Your suggestions, advice, and questions on commitment to renewable energies: HOCHTIEF implesustainability and responsibility at HOCHTIEF are helpful ments wind and hydropower and geothermal projects. As stimuli for us. Please contact us at nachhaltigkeit@hochtief.de. investor, builder, and operator of these facilities, we can play a vital part in the switchover to renewable energy We will continue to grow HOCHTIEF systematically. To ensure planned by the German government. Of course, we are this, we have set ourselves clear goals—economic, ecoalso working hard on solutions to the urgent issues of storlogical, and social. They will be our yardstick. Because we ing and transporting energy from renewable sources. take responsibility. You will find a wealth of information on these topics in this Report. Sincerely yours, You’ll see: With its strategy of covering the entire life cycle of infrastructure projects, real estate, and facilities, HOCHTIEF is also committed to sustainability in its operating business. Dr. Frank Stieler Our integrated approach enables us to ideally network Chairman of the Executive Board development, building, and operation in our projects— of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft and that also means saving money, boosting efficiency, and protecting the environment. Our specialized services go a long way toward conserving energy throughout the project life cycle. We are a leading international player in our industry; our work is instrumental in actively shaping the market and setting new standards. Sustainability Report 2011 7 HOCHTIEF: The Company We are a winning team—and we deliver the whole package. Florian Maas and Katrin Köncke from HOCHTIEF Solutions beam with justified pride. Working with staff from a total of seven different corporate units, they have successfully delivered Nordex Forum in Hamburg. The new headquarters for one of the biggest makers of wind power systems is the result of outstanding collaboration among HOCHTIEF experts, who put together an ­efficient full package solution. This exceptional team effort garnered them the HOCHTIEF Cooperation Award 2010. Nordex Forum is truly a winning example of HOCHTIEF’s integrated approach in action: We serve all phases of the infrastructure project, real estate, and facility life cycle—our tried and trusted formula for 8 Sustainability sustainable business success. Report 2011 Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2011 8 Sustainability Report 2011 9 The Company Integrated strategy for sustainability For further information on HOCHTIEF is one of the leading international providthe HOCHTIEF Group, please see ers of construction services. In the market for over Our products and services www.hochtief.com. 140 years, we today provide integrated solutions spanning the entire infrastructure project, real esDevelop tate, and facility life cycle. Our portfolio consists of This module includes development, integrated design, three modules: developing, building, and operating. financing, insurance, construction, and marketing for The global HOCHTIEF network puts us on the map in all types of project, plus consulting—with all services all the world’s major markets. available separately or in a packaged solution. Sustainable strategy Our long-term, forward-thinking corporate strategy is all Develop about generating value for shareholders, clients, trading partners, and HOCHTIEF. The focus is on sustained, strong business results and dynamic growth. Operate We pursue a package of strategic initiatives adopted in recent years: • Life cycle concept: Linking our full portfolio of capabilities Build and leveraging the resulting synergies to benefit clients and HOCHTIEF • Financial fire power optimization • E xpansion into high-growth markets: Deploying highWhen clients use all modules in our portfolio in a single project, we generate maximum value—and our clients benefit from the margin services and new client-specific solutions to tap synergies. into new areas of business in profitable growth markets such as renewable energy and transportation infrastructure as well as to establish positions in upcoming marBuild kets such as Qatar, India, and Canada This module comprises our mainstream construction • Differentiation through technology: Excelling in technical business together with construction management in prowess, German engineering expertise, and process HOCHTIEF’s building construction, civil engineering, know-how, HOCHTIEF stands out from competitors and and infrastructure segments. Alongside construction creates added value for clients with innovative services and construction management, HOCHTIEF also proand tailored solutions cures materials, systems, and services, and provides • Increase service business: Focusing on services such as site facilities. energy consulting, facility management planning, and efficient facility operation Operate • HOCHTIEF: Best place to work This module embraces all activities relating to the operation of infrastructure projects, real estate, and faciliOur clear strategic orientation gives us the sure footing ties and the management of business processes, inand the reach to tackle new tasks and master challenges. cluding asset, property, facility, and energy management. The module also includes the concessions and operation business featuring our airport holdings, our publicprivate partnership projects such as roads and social infrastructure, and contract mining with its focus on operation. 10 Sustainability Report 2011 HOCHTIEF life cycle management for Nordex Forum Development: On behalf of tenants Procurement: HOCHTIEF procured all Nordex SE, HOCHTIEF produced a real materials, systems, and essential services. estate development plan, acquired the land from the city, and took charge of Construction: HOCHTIEF built the construction. project on a turnkey basis. Our Shell Construction/Industrial Construction unit Planning: Together with architects was responsible for the entire construcSchenk + Waiblinger and the City of tion process. HOCHTIEF Consult BuildHamburg, the project was designed ing had charge of quality control and and planned around the tenant’s needs, watched over compliance with the DGNB incorporating stringent real estate manguidelines to satisfy the criteria for gold agement and urban planning requirecertification. O n e -s to p s ho p p i ng: HOCHTIE F a s li fe cyc l e m a n ag e r. O u r ments. s e r v ic es a r e ba s e d on s u s t a i n a b ilit y p r i nc i p l es . Logistics: HOCHTIEF subsidiary Streif Marketing/leasing/sale: HOCHTIEF Baulogistik delivered the necessary loFocus on the project life cycle marketed the project directly without gistics expertise and site installations. A cornerstone of HOCHTIEF’s corporate strategy is our outside brokers. The Legal, Insurance, service portfolio spanning the entire project life cycle. We and Finance corporate departments Operation: HOCHTIEF facility man­ provide services for infrastructure projects, real estate, and provided consulting. At the outset of agers provided key substantive input in facilities in all project phases—from the initial idea right the project, Nordex, the sole tenant, negotiating both the rental agreement through to completion, from commissioning to revitalizasigned a 15-year rental agreement with and the contract of sale with the investor. tion. This approach is fundamentally sustainable: Serving two renewal options. This made it posand shaping the entire life cycle produces top quality end sible to secure Swiss Life as the project Energy management*: HOCHTIEF’s to end. From long before the construction phase begins, investor, long before the building was energy management experts help clients we work in close partnership and dialog with clients and finished and with progress payments make better and more efficient use of others involved, and plan well ahead to build in sustainabilduring construction. energy. These services are mostly taken ity considerations such as energy efficiency and project life up by industrial and public-sector clients cycle assessments. It pays to look ahead in this way—for Finance: HOCHTIEF was able to fiand for complex properties. clients, for HOCHTIEF, and for the environment. nance the entire project out of the progress payments from the investor. Property management: The project Life cycle management at HOCHTIEF is closely tied to our team consulted with HOCHTIEF’s propproject production process. The separate phases are well Construction planning: HOCHTIEF erty management experts in calculating illustrated in the Nordex Forum office building project in formart was in charge of relations with operating costs and drafting related Hamburg, which was truly a winning team effort, with nuthe investor, while our Building unit parts of the rental agreement. merous HOCHTIEF units contributing their expertise and looked after overall project execution capabilities. The project team won the Group’s internal management and relations with the tenInsurance: HOCHTIEF Insurance proHOCHTIEF Cooperation Award 2010 for their successful ant. vides coverage for project risks Groupcollaboration. In January 2011, the project also secured wide before, during, and after construcgold certification from the German Sustainable Building Construction management: The tion. HOCHTIEF Insurance notably Council (DGNB). Further sustainability aspects of Nordex HOCHTIEF team drew up a compresupported the project team during the Forum are presented in the gray boxes in the sections that hensive site logistics and management site purchase phase. follow. plan, adherence to which was tracked continuously. This provided assurance for elements such as work safety and uninterrupted execution. *This HOCHTIEF unit was not involved in the Nordex Forum project but is included here to explain the life cycle approach. Sustainability Report 2011 11 Responsibility by conviction sustainability on record once again in November 2010 by As a future-focused company, HOCHTIEF acts on its resigning the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business, sponsibility toward society and the environment. Sustaingiving our voluntary pledge along with 20 other corporate ability and corporate responsibility (CR) are part of our corgroups to sustainability, social partnership, merit, and fair porate strategy and are enshrined in our values, vision, and competition. Our shared aim is to set standards for reguiding principles. Our vision: sponsible entrepreneurial activity that are visible, relevant to everyday life, and capable of being verified. “HOCHTIEF is building the future.—Along with our partners, we expand horizons, link people and or­ Sustainability as an opportunity ganizations, create new ways to think and act, and Sustainability guides our work in many areas of operation continually enhance the values entrusted to our and presents new business opportunities for HOCHTIEF. care.” Closely integrating sustainability into corporate strategy and implementing sustainability in core business activities *For further information, Our guiding principles* help implement the HOCHTIEF has been identified by many international companies as a please see www.hochtief. com/sustainability. ­vision. They are based around four main areas and fully key challenge in the years ahead. A New Era of Sustaincover the Global Reporting Initiative criteria: ability, a study by Accenture for the UN Global Compact, • Client-oriented service spectrum showed that 93 percent of the 766 CEOs surveyed believe • Successful employees sustainability will be critical to their companies’ future suc• Sustainability cess. No less than 96 percent said sustainability must be • Value-oriented strategy fully integrated into corporate strategy and core business. As early as 2000, we became the first construction comHOCHTIEF has a tradition of nurturing the relationship bepany in the world to sign up to the standards of the Intertween business, the environment, and social responsibility. www.ilo.org national Labor Organization (ILO) aimed at enabling This is one of the major factors in our long-term success. women and men the world over to work in conditions of We firmly believe in the benefits and in the efficiency of freedom, equity, security, and human dignity. In 2008, sustainable business and development. Demand for suswww.unglobalcompact.org HOCHTIEF joined the United Nations Global Compact tainable real estate, infrastructure, and facilities continues —the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative—to to grow across the board—from development to construc**For further information, underscore our commitment to responsibility and publicly tion and operation. An example is provided by the steadily please see page 24 onwards. highlight that commitment. We put our commitment to growing number of sustainable buildings produced by HOCHTIEF the world over. We have secured ourselves a CR Organization leading position with our expertise in the market for green building.** HOCHTIEF Executive Board CR: Organization and objectives Strategy Recommendations The close integration of corporate responsibility (CR) into HOCHTIEF’s corporate strategy is reflected in how CR is • Investors CR Committee: Sustainability • Clients organized: Management of sustainability issues is per• Associations/ • Chairman of the excellence • Associations/ NGOs Executive Board team: NGOs formed by the CR function within HOCHTIEF Corporate • Employees • Representatives • Representa• State/public Development. In this way, sustainability is incorporated or• Journalists of corporate detives of operaauthorities • Scientists partments tional units • Scientists ganizationally into the development and shaping of strat• School • Representatives • Representa• Subcontracegy and innovation processes. ­students / of divisions tives of corpotors undergradu• Works council rate depart• Suppliers ates /gradu• CR function ments • Local Sustainability at HOCHTIEF is concentrated in six focus ates • CR function residents areas which form the basis of our CR strategy: • Sustainable products and services CR program Information CRedit ­ xchange e • Active climate protection • Resource protection Divisions/ • Attractive working environment operational units • Corporate citizenship • Compliance and ethics management 12 Sustainability Report 2011 The investor on Nordex Forum Are green buildings a better investment It goes without saying that a property must be then? profitable for us, but in the long term that only Without any question yes. works if users consider it attractive and are happy with it. Nordex’s CEO, Thomas Richterich, conWhat were the winning factors with firmed only shortly after moving into the new Claudia Rehschuh, Head ­Nordex Forum? headquarters how much the workforce liked of Real Estate, Swiss Life Asset Management For some time, we had wanted to supplement having everything far closer together; he said GmbH, Munich our real estate portfolio with some attractive communication had improved within the comcommercial property in a structurally well-propany and there was also a measurable boost to What makes green buildings so attractive vided area like Hamburg. What clinched Nordex motivation. for an investor? Forum in the end was the excellent architecture We look upon real estate as a long-term investand the integrated overall design: a green buildWhat part did DGNB certification play in ment. Green buildings have far lower running ing that scores very well on resource efficiency your investment decision? costs than conventionally built properties. They and where great emphasis has been placed on DGNB certification involves assessing the whole are highly attractive to an investor because they sustainability features. These include roof greenspectrum across construction and operation of are easier to rent out—and to tenants because ery, zero-emission materials and the fact that a building along with an analysis of efficiency of the lower operating costs. And not least, we rainwater is used for all sanitation, and then the for users. This makes it a precise way of gaughave social responsibility as corporate citizens, optimized total cost of ownership and high ening efficiency on a real estate investment. Nordex both for the environment and for future generaergy efficiency. As a result, the new Nordex Forum’s DGNB gold certification confirms and tions. The consequences of climate change headquarters is not just architecturally attracrewards our efforts with regard to sustainability and scarce energy resources are now apparent tive, it is also highly economical. And that is and is a further reason for us to carry on exactly to all, and we cannot just ignore them. So when exactly what Swiss Life looks for in a real estate as we are. we invest in real estate, we are very careful to investment—the best possible business case look for a sound energy budget and a modercombined with environmental quality. ate environmental footprint. These are relevant to all of our segments and help us in ployees can learn about all discussion topics and meeting delivering on our social responsibility. Putting them into acoutcomes on the corporate intranet. tion is our daily challenge. To reinforce integration and knowledge transfer on sustainThe CR Committee, established in 2007, is in charge of ability issues within the Group, the sustainability excellence ongoing development of the HOCHTIEF CR strategy. It team was formed in 2008. This is made up for the most also translates that strategy into targets and action items, part of employees from operational units. With support then initiates and monitors their implementation. In its from the CR Committee, the sustainability excellence team work, the Committee makes use of the Group’s tried and translates strategic ideas into sustainable products and true management systems, including the environment and services along the length of the project life cycle and safety management system and the compliance system, brings those products and services to market. The team which features both internal and external audits. The CR meets regularly for this purpose at various locations. Committee reports to the Executive Board on CR initiatives, providing advice and making recommendations. The The composition of these central decision-making bodies Committee meets on a quarterly basis. HOCHTIEF emreflects the rigorous alignment of our activities to stake*For further information, holder* interests. Representatives of the Works Council please see page 101. Sustainability Report 2011 13 Stakeholders have and of the Investor Relations and Corporate Communications departments, for example, are among the members their say of the CR Committee. The sustainability excellence team interfaces with clients. The financial market Further improvements in CR data compilation and quality For accurate targeting of our sustainability strategy, HOCHTIEF works continuously to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of CR data. The aim is to make success measurable using meaningful performance indicators. Roger Baumann, Director Real Estate Asset Management, In 2010, we introduced a HOCHTIEF-developed IT-based Credit Suisse AG, Zurich reporting system, CRedit, in which quantitative and qualitative data are collected on our strategic focus areas. Data Where do you see the benefits of green real estate funds? quality improves as a result, with standardized definitions, In the European Union, real estate accounts for 42 percent of final energy consystems and processes. The tool is integrated into our existsumption and 35 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions. Green real estate ing IT systems so that sustainability data can be compiled funds that verifiably invest in sustainable properties encourage energy efficiency easier and faster than before. From 2012, CRedit will proand give responsible investors a way of buying into a special class of assets that vide comprehensive information on specified indicators and have built-in provision for the future. Investors and construction clients are dethematic areas for external sustainability reporting as well monstrably ready to shoulder a higher investment outlay for certified buildings as internal sustainability monitoring and control. and tenants are willing to pay higher rental costs. CR is international What criteria must a sustainable property satisfy to be suitable for such In Germany, the USA, and Australia, CR is a key issue in funds? industry and society that HOCHTIEF’s country-level subThe property sector does not have a generally accepted definition of sustainable sidiaries have taken on board in their organizational strucreal estate. Sustainable properties share features like efficient use of natural retures, with due allowance made for national differences. In sources, utilization of environmentally friendly building materials, reduced emissome other countries and regions where HOCHTIEF opersions, waste avoidance, consideration of total cost of ownership, health factors, ates, however, sustainability is not yet given the same level and also social factors as well as comfort and convenience for users. Labels, of importance. Here, too, we raise the bar for the sector as seals of quality, and certification play a key role in this context by providing guida whole. HOCHTIEF Polska, for example, was invited in ance for fund managers and investors. Real Estate Asset Management at Credit 2010 by a major Polish industry association, Employers of Suisse defines sustainable investments with reference to its own “greenproperty” Poland, to serve as patron for the construction industry in certification system, which is based on a nationally recognized standard (further a national coalition for responsible business. The aim here information: www.credit-suisse.com/greenproperty). is to establish sustainability issues in the market and among the workforce. Who are the investors? So far, sustainable real estate investments are mainly the focus of institutional inInternational rankings affirm strategy vestors. As yet, hardly any sustainable real estate funds have been approved for The viability and success of our rigorously implemented retail investment and so there is not much opportunity for private individuals to corporate strategy also shows through in HOCHTIEF’s exget involved. cellent scores in global and national corporate rankings. A case in point is the international ranking of the world’s largHow do you expect green real estate funds will develop in the future? est construction companies compiled by the trade magaDemand for sustainable real estate investments will continue to grow. Sustainzine Engineering News-Record, in which HOCHTIEF reguability certificates will consequently become increasingly important as an integral larly comes out in front. In 2010, HOCHTIEF secured first part of the investment strategy for such assets. In the medium term, the still relaplace in the Top International Contractors category for the tively small number of certified properties on the market will be insufficient to third year in a row. No other company in the industry is as meet investor demand. international as HOCHTIEF. At the Best of European Business awards in February 2010, HOCHTIEF was named winner in the “Growth despite crisis” category for its successful business performance. 14 Sustainability Report 2011 Our company’s strong reputation is also reflected in our As these index listings demonstrate, the capital market good position in the Fortune Magazine ranking of the recognizes and rewards HOCHTIEF’s commitment to susWorld’s Most Admired Companies. In this ranking, tainability. They mean that HOCHTIEF shares are suitable HOCHTIEF is once again among the 350 internationally for investors who align their portfolios to strict sustainabilmost admired companies in 2011. In the global construcity criteria. And such investors are steadily growing in numtion industry, we occupy sixth place. In the Social Responber. In the Corporate Responsibility Review 2011 published sibility category, we even come in eighth out of the 673 by oekom research, sustainable investments as a whole companies included in total. are shown to have further gained in market share and volume during the financial and economic crisis. According to Capital markets reward responsible business the study, some EUR 8 trillion was invested worldwide at HOCHTIEF once again qualified in 2010 for the highly rethe end of 2009 on the basis of social, environmental, and garded Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI)—for the good governance criteria, no less than EUR 5 trillion of fifth time in succession and still as the sole German conwhich was in Europe. struction services provider. The DJSI is exclusively restricted to companies that implement and track ecological and social as well as financial criteria. February 2011 also Ownership structure (as of June 30, 2011) brought the renewal of HOCHTIEF’s listing—dating back to Free float 39.84% 2007—in the Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence Europe. We are one of four European companies from the construction industry and the sole German construction Qatar Holding LLC, company to be listed in this index. The index is published Doha 10.0% by an independent consulting company for socially responsible investment and ranks listed companies according to performance on a range of issues such as employACS* 50.16 % incl. 4.46% ees, environment, corporate governance, and social HOCHTIEF treasury stock responsibility. *ACS ACTIVIDADES DE CONSTRUCCIÓN Y SERVICIOS, S.A., Madrid Corporate responsibility Our overarching objective: We a i m t o b e a r e s p o n s i b l e c o r p o r a t e c i t i z e n a n d s e t s t a n d a r d s i n o u r i n d u s t r y. We n u r ture the interrelationship in our company bet ween business, the environment , and social r e s p o n s i b i l i t y a n d w e e n g a g e i n o p e n d i a l o g w i t h s t a ke h o l d e r s . Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Improve organizational structure and Expand CR Committee to include CR Committee expanded, CR Direcprocesses in CR management ­operational units (divisions), compile tive drafted and consultation comand implement CR Directive, update pleted, updated OSHEP Directive in OSHEP* Directive consultation *Occupational Safety, Health and Environmental Improve CR data quality Select web-based data entry and CRedit integrated reporting tool deProtection ­validation software and implement veloped, migration of existing data Group-wide complete See page 101 for stakeholder dialog Carry out regular image/reputation activities; develop stakeholder dialog survey reporting system and implement in Intensify and structure stakeholder CRedit and the HOCHTIEF intranet dialog Planning complete, implementation Most recent HOCHTIEF image survey started November 2010 Sustainability Report 2011 15 Key figures Extract from the Five Year 2006 2007 2008* 2009** 2010 Summary in the HOCHTIEF Annual Report 2010 New orders EUR million 20,565 23,509 25,284 22,473 29,627 Of total: domestic 1,744 3,192 2,549 1,919 2,524 international 18,821 20,317 22,735 20,554 27,103 Work done EUR million 16,719 18,773 21,620 20,566 23,234 Of total: domestic 2,222 2,410 2,820 2,284 1,804 international 14,497 16,363 18,800 18,282 21,430 Order backlog at year-end EUR million 25,134 29,894 30,961 35,374 47,486 Of total: domestic 2,799 3,904 3,603 2,996 3,726 international 22,335 25,990 27,358 32,378 43,760 Employees (average for year) Total Number 46,847 52,449 64,527 66,178 70,657 Of total: domestic 9,639 10,152 11,004 11,135 10,821 international 37,208 42,297 53,523 55,043 59,836 External sales EUR million 15,466 16,452 18,703 18,166 20,159 Increase/decrease on prior year in % 13.3 6.4 13.7 – 2.9 11.0 Materials EUR million 11,682 12,327 14,273 12,563 13,764 Materials ratio in % 75.5 74.9 74.7 69.0 67.8 Personnel costs EUR million 2,584 2,807 3,266 3,501 4,081 Payroll ratio in % 16.7 17.1 17.1 19.2 20.1 Depreciation and amortization EUR million 325 312 392 501 679 Profit from operating activities EUR million 179 123 287 525 715 Net income from participating interests EUR million 130 354 306 227 223 Net investment and interest income EUR million 29 24 (96) (155) (181) Profit before taxes EUR million 338 501 497 597 757 * Restated due to the retrospective application of IFRIC Interpretation 15 ** Restated due to the retrospective application of IFRIC Interpretation 12 New orders by region Work done by region Order backlog by region Asia/Pacific/Africa 64.3 % Asia/Pacific/Africa 57.3 % Asia/Pacific/Africa 71.0 % Americas 24.2 % Americas 29.5 % Americas 17.4 % Germany 8.5 % Germany 7.8 % Germany 7.8 % Eastern Europe 2.0 % Eastern Europe 3.1 % Eastern Europe 1.3 % Rest of Europe 1.0 % Rest of Europe 2.3 % Rest of Europe 2.5 % 100% = EUR 29.63 billion 100% = EUR 23.23 billion 100% = EUR 47.49 billion 16 Sustainability Report 2011 HOCHTIEF around the world HOCHTIEF around the world: A selection of the many companies in our divisions shows HOCHTIEF’s global presence. For further F L AT I R O N information, please see LEIGHTON www.hochtief.com. DURST-BAU F L AT I R O N LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON LEIGHTON Leighton Holdings LEIGHTON Corporate Headquarters (management holding company) HOCHTIEF Americas HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific HOCHTIEF Concessions HOCHTIEF Europe Turner (USA) Leighton Holdings (Australia) HOCHTIEF Concessions (Germany) HOCHTIEF Solutions (Austria, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Flatiron (USA, Canada) Leighton Contractors (Australia, HOCHTIEF AirPort (Germany) Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Greece, E.E. Cruz (USA) New Zealand) Hungary, India, Ireland, Luxembourg, Peru, Poland, HOCHTIEF AirPort Capital (Germany) Qatar, Romania, Russia, South Africa, Sweden, SwitThiess (Australia, India, Indonesia) Airport Partners (Germany) zerland, UK, Ukraine) John Holland Group (Australia) Sydney Airport Intervest (Germany) HOCHTIEF Global Trade (Germany) Leighton International (India, Qatar, FHK Flughafen Hamburg KonsortialHOCHTIEF Procurement Asia (Hong Kong) United Arab Emirates) und Service-Gesellschaft (Germany) HOCHTIEF ViCon (Germany, Qatar) Leighton Properties (Australia) HAP Hamburg Airport Partners Durst-Bau (Austria) Leighton Asia (Brunei, Cambodia, (Germany) China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Laos, Streif Baulogistik (Austria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Germany, HAP Hamburg Airport Partners Holding Macao, Malaysia, Mongolia, PhilipPoland, Qatar, Russia, Ukraine) Verwaltungsgesellschaft (Germany) pines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, HOCHTIEF Property Management (Germany) HOCHTIEF AirPort Retail (Albania) Vietnam) aurelis Real Estate (Germany) HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions Al Habtoor Engineering (Qatar, HOCHTIEF Energy Management (Germany) (Canada, Chile, Germany, Greece, ­United Arab Emirates) Ireland, UK, USA) HOCHTIEF PPP Schools Capital (UK) HOCHTIEF Concessions India Sustainability Report 2011 17 INTERVIEW Renewable Energy: Mastering the Infrastructure Challenges Professor Bullinger, Germany aims to go sustainable in energy generation and distribution by 2022. What do you reckon are the biggest challenges on the way there? Prof. Hans-Jörg Bullinger: The current rethink on nuclear power as a transition technology forces us to accelerate the shift to renewables. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft has shown in a number of studies and projects that, if done systematically and consistently, even a complete switch to renewable energy is within reach. This means more than just changes at the generation end, though: We have to look at the system as a whole, develop new storage technologies and smart grids and, most of all, cut consumption. What form of renewable energy do you think has the greatest potential? Prof. Bullinger: We showed in our Energy Concept 2050 how to give Germany a reliable, low-cost, resilient energy supply based on renewable energy by 2050. The most robust energy system features a mix of all renewables—­ hydro, wind power, photovoltaics, solar thermal, biomass, and geothermal. Wind and solar energy have the biggest potential. There is tightly restricted scope for hydropower and geothermal, and biomass only makes sense as a use for waste. Professor Hans-Jörg German government plans for a major switchover to Dr. Frank Stieler: The biggest potential for Germany is in Bullinger, President and Member of renewable energy open up enormous potential for wind power. Energy generation using the sun’s heat—solar the Executive Board, German business. Professor Hans-Jörg Bullinger, thermal energy—can also make a major contribution, esFraunhofer-Gesellschaft President and Member of the Executive Board of pecially in countries of the South. Exploiting this potential the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, and Dr. Frank Stieler, takes massive investment. That puts the onus on industry Chairman of the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF both as investor and for construction and operation. The Aktiengesellschaft, spoke with the Sustainability technology will only win through if the new-generation sysReport editorial team about the opportunities, the tems can be built quickly and cost-effectively. challenges, and the changes needed to make the environment policy goals a reality. HOCHTIEF is an industry pioneer with its offshore wind power activities. Special equipment like our Thor and Odin jack-up platforms and the “Innovation,” our future lifting vessel, mean we can build and maintain wind power installations in record time. We also benefit here from our bridge and port construction experience. 18 Sustainability Report 2011 Are many people right in saying the switch to renewables is too costly or poses a threat to Germany’s industrial base? Dr. Stieler: We cannot push industrial policy or indeed energy policy in Germany without popular acceptance. At the same time, we—policymakers and industry alike—owe it to our fellow citizens to be straight about the implications of switching to renewables. This is all about cost and the public acceptance of energy installations. One thing we have learned in the last few years is that wind power can be a far better economic proposition than was once thought. I am less concerned about higher generating costs than about popular acceptance of the investment involved. To secure energy supplies with wind power, we need high-voltage power lines from the coast to consumers, and then energy storage systems—such as pumped storage power plants—to provide load balancing storage. Policymakers will have to push the rollout of these systems just as doggedly as some battled to phase out nuclear power. Government and industry must gain the acceptance needed and lead public opinion. They must not leave it to other interest groups. Prof. Bullinger: Expanding renewables incurs extra costs up front, but these are slated to peak at around EUR 17 billion in 2015—equivalent to only about eight percent of the total German energy spend. After that, the costs go A distributed energy supply using renewable energy Dr. Frank Stieler, Chairman of the back down, so from then on we will be reaping the returns sources requires a new grid structure. Smart grids Executive Board, on today’s investment outlay for renewables, and will have are said to be coming. What is the state of play here? HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft to pay less for our power. On top of this, German industry can translate its lead in renewables and energy efficiency Prof. Bullinger: A lot more research is needed. A distribinto new export successes on the world market. The German uted energy supply using renewable energy sources calls industrial base is already benefiting from the move to refor a different network structure from the one we have now. newables, with new companies sprouting up and many new In the future, there will be many solar, wind, and biomass jobs. power installations right across Europe that all have to be coordinated with their load and yield projections. Shortfalls due to the variable availability of sun and wind have to be made up using fast storage systems and balancing power stations. Sustainability Report 2011 19 In the end, it is all about applying numerous technical reA further unconventional idea is to use surplus electricity finements to make the power grid smarter. In what we call to electrolyze water. Researchers plan to combine the rea smart grid, the many generating installations and electrisulting hydrogen on a large scale with carbon dioxide to cal appliances intercommunicate and coordinate things as produce methane, which can then be used as a chemical the supply of wind and solar power varies. Much more reenergy store and fed into existing natural gas networks. search is needed on this. Fraunhofer is closely involved in In this way, the existing natural gas infrastructure with its developing and implementing new ideas. As an example, large storage capacities could be used as temporary energy scientists from IWES are working with nine other industry storage. Another alternative could be to store electricity and research partners on a new research project called not solely in large central storage facilities but also on a Combined Power Plant 2. Working in models and field distributed basis in consumers’ homes—directly in lithium ­trials, this entails using modern information and communibatteries, for example, or also indirectly using smart gencations technology to connect up wind, biogas, and solar erating systems and appliances. power installations to create a virtual power station. Through this project, the researchers aim to show in detail that a Dr. Stieler: The thing is, we cannot afford to wait until all fully renewables-based energy supply is realistic, and that the technical advances are ready for use on an industrial low winds or lack of sunshine do not mean blackouts. scale. We have to store increasingly large quantities of energy on a temporary basis in the next few years. Pumped How can HOCHTIEF contribute in expanding and storage power plants are excellently suited to this task. converting the grid? HOCHTIEF has already built a number of these in the past. Some of these existing power plants can be enlarged Dr. Stieler: Traditionally, power generation infrastructure without any added impact on the landscape. has been built near to consumers. That is no longer possible with alternative energy sources. Offshore wind farms are We are also currently seeing if the pumped storage approach located to the north of Germany while the biggest energy can be used in disused workings such as gravel and limedemand is in the west and south. Connecting all this up stone quarries where water management systems are alwill take some 3,600 kilometers of power lines in Germany ready in place, or on small watercourses in regions like alone. In 2010, 180 kilometers were added. So in the next Eastern Europe. few years we have to lay new power lines along many times that distance. HOCHTIEF is getting ready for this. We can Energy efficiency not only means sustainable power draw here not just on expertise in surface power lines, but generation and smart grids, but energy economy. in building power tunnels to transmit electricity across What, in your opinion, are the options here? densely populated regions. Prof. Bullinger: If we want power, heat, and mobility to “In the end, it is all about Output from renewable energy sources fluctuates, stay affordable going forward, we must use energy more applying numerous technical refinements to make the creating a need for effective energy storage. Are the efficiently. The number one priority here is low energy repower grid smarter.” necessary storage media available? furbishment of existing buildings. Buildings are one of the biggest sources of emissions. In Germany, buildings alone Prof. Bullinger: Energy storage technologies are where account for nearly 40 percent of energy consumption. we have the greatest need for research. One possibility for temporary storage could be redox flow batteries. These The second priority is energy-efficient production. In a are large, robust, long-lived vanadium flow batteries in which Fraunhofer study on this subject, we showed that up to 30 vanadium compounds alternately absorb and release percent of energy can be saved in industrial production in electrons at membrane surfaces. Several Fraunhofer instithe medium term. That is about half the electricity contutes are currently working together on flow batteries of this sumption of private households in Germany, or the output kind. The experts’ ultimate aim is a roughly 800-squareof four 1.4 gigawatt power stations. meter battery installation with a capacity of 20 megawatt hours, capable of powering about 2,000 homes through a long winter night or a cloudy day. 20 Sustainability Report 2011 A third issue is lighting: Nearly 20 percent of electric power What do you regard as the most important chalworldwide goes on lighting. If we convert lighting to LEDs lenge for your organizations in this development that use 80 percent less electricity, we can save over 56 process? terawatt hours in Europe—that’s nearly six nuclear power stations. Prof. Bullinger: We are outstandingly placed to develop ideas and solutions for the changeover to renewable enerDr. Stieler: There are also major energy savings to be had gy in Germany. Some 2,000 scientists from 16 institutions in building and operating real estate. This goes for existing are involved in this as their main research focus in the as well as new properties. There are already certification Fraunhofer Energy Alliance alone. They are developing schemes for energy-efficient buildings. HOCHTIEF is a system technologies such as power grids and means of leader in the development and delivery of sustainable real storage and are conducting research into how to boost estate. We design both office and residential buildings to energy efficiency. Their efforts are supplemented by those use little energy. Our buildings repeatedly gain awards, like of other teams of scientists from the Construction Alliance Nordex Forum in Hamburg. I am especially pleased in this and the Transport Alliance, who likewise dedicate a subconnection to see that investors are already homing in on stantial share of their work to energy issues. The Fraunthe added value in sustainable real estate and are prehofer-Gesellschaft is supporting German industry in the pared to buy into green buildings. Energy efficiency pays— switch to renewables with innovative ideas and new techeconomically as well as socially. nologies. But we are not going to sit on our laurels. We are reDr. Stieler: HOCHTIEF can make a substantial contribusearching into ways of extracting further energy savings tion in the challenge to transform our energy systems facout of new building materials and innovative technologies. ing society today. We provide our knowledge and experience together with the equipment needed to build and Other potential we can tap into involves operating buildassemble wind farms, power grids, and pumped storage ings and industrial facilities as a service for clients. For inpower stations. We can also improve energy consumption stance, HOCHTIEF specialists analyze energy use in buildin real estate not just on a piecemeal basis, but to lasting ings and facilities and make suggestions on how to cut effect over the entire life cycle of a building. In this, we can consumption. The options include installing state-of-the-art draw on capabilities acquired in the development, concombined heat and power plants. These are efficient and struction, and operation of infrastructure projects, real esgenerate the energy needed on site. Our energy managers tate, and facilities. can often pinpoint measures that cut consumption by up to 30 percent on their very first analysis. With this integrated approach and our life cycle management strategy, HOCHTIEF is already playing an instrumenNew power plants and installations, expanding and tal role in the supply of energy in Germany. We will conconverting power grids—these are all long-term tinue to build on this commitment—all over the world. projects. How long will it be before the scenario of a “Energy efficiency pays— economically as well as sustainable energy supply becomes reality? ­socially.” Prof. Bullinger: Putting energy systems in Germany and Europe on a sustainable footing involves deep-rooted changes to today’s industrial society. It will take four dec­ ades, but a fully renewable energy supply is achievable by 2050. In the process, we must continue to guarantee security of supply and avoid backing the wrong technologies. Sustainability Report 2011 21 Area 1 Sustainable products and services Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance We make sure everything runs— now and in the future. Norbert Kopp, caretaker at Waldschule school in Obertshausen, has everything under control. He‘s used to handling all kinds of problems, large and small, that come up daily in his job, including a flat bicycle inner tube every now and then. A seasoned professional, he has been working at the elementary school for nearly two decades. The school is one of 50 educational facilities in the Offenbach district that HOCHTIEF PPP Schulpartner will operate until 2019. HOCHTIEF takes on a major responsibility with long-term cooperation deals like this public-private partnership (PPP). Our projects have an enduring impact on the environment. That is why we insist on high environmental standards and take an end-to-end view of the entire life cycle of real estate, infrastructure projects, and facilities. We aim to be the world leader in sustainable products and services. Area 1 Sustainable products and services The challenge: Through our projects, we design the Europe is not the only region where experts project a spaces where people live and shape the environment growth surge in green building. Our American subsidiary for a long time to come. This brings with it an enorTurner arrives at similar findings in its 2010 Green Building mous responsibility. We embrace this responsibility, Market Barometer. Around half the companies surveyed for example, by striving to offer more sustainable said they planned to begin construction or renovation projproducts and services. Forward-looking innovations, ects incorporating green features within the next twelve intensive gathering and transfer of knowledge between months. Notable reasons cited include better energy efficorporate units, and our commitment to green buildciency and lower costs of operation and maintenance. ing form the foundation of this approach. As a rule, the capital expenditure for a property that meets Our objective: We aim to be the global market leader high sustainability standards exceeds the expense of conin sustainable construction and construction-related structing a conventional building. However, clients and invesservices. Achieving this goal means expanding our tors are increasingly willing to pay this premium. A recent range of offerings along the entire life cycle of infrastudy by Roland Berger Strategy Consultants indicates that structure projects, real estate, and facilities. users are also prepared to pay an average of 4.5 percent more rent to live in sustainably designed properties. Sustainable action has a long tradition at HOCHTIEF. As an international provider of construction services, evidence Green pays off of this is provided especially by the sustainable products This has also been confirmed by a HOCHTIEF-commisand services we develop, refine, and implement the world sioned 2010 study by Technical University Munich in which over in line with market requirements and with an eye toissues including how office users perceive sustainability ward the future. Just a few years ago, for example, green criteria, what they value most and whether they are prebuilding was considered by many to be a short-lived trend. pared to pay for it were investigated for the first time. The HOCHTIEF never shared this opinion and for years has subjects of the study included building features such as been a believer in the tangible benefits of sustainable conthe option for users to control the indoor climate, green struction. The proof is in our numerous completed projects open spaces, and the potential for additional energy conthat meet above-average environmental standards. servation. The most important conclusion was that green building features produce potential additional value of up Good reasons for green building to 10.5 percent over typical local rents. Buildings account for 42 percent of all energy used in the European Union and emit 35 percent of the total greenhouse For investors, the benefits of green buildings are mainly in gases. This is where green building comes in. Deutsche lowering ancillary costs. In contrast, the unquestionable Bank Research puts the energy conservation potential of improvement in the comfort of building users and the reecologically designed buildings at an average of 30 persulting productivity boost are factors considered only rarely cent. In addition, their reduced water consumption and by decision-makers. An internal analysis conducted by lower maintenance costs take pressure off the budget. The HOCHTIEF underscores this finding. The ancillary cost use of environmentally friendly construction materials consavings generated by a certified building and the possible serves natural resources—not to mention the fact that they productivity increases by its users due to an improved provide users with a pleasant living and working atmosphere. working environment were compared. The result was that The voice of the market: For all these reasons, Deutsche Bank experts forecast the positive effects on personnel came in at around EUR Our US subsidiary Turner’s Green Building Market Bagreen building to become the standard within ten years. 21 per square meter per month, greatly exceeding the anrometer indicates that green cillary cost savings of EUR 0.91 per square meter per buildings are increasing in popularity. month. 24 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance The Nordex Forum as seen by the client employees to work in a green building. Because Do you feel comfortable in the new it takes a motivated and satisfied team to create ­building? Are there noticeable positive value. ­effects, for instance, on the working ­atmosphere? Which building features do you consider We feel very comfortable in the new building. Wolfgang Haller, particularly valuable as a user? The positive effects can be seen in the bright, Head of Corporate Real Estate Management, In addition to the building’s “greenness,” flex­ sunny offices and in the increased efficiency of Nordex SE, Hamburg ibility, transparency, and low energy consumpcommunication compared with our previous tion are very important to us. location thanks to open spaces, transparent Why did Nordex opt for a green office offices, meeting places, and shared use of the ­building? As a tenant, how were you able to influgarden areas for reflection and relaxation. Nordex is committed to the principles of susence the planning of the Nordex Forum? tainability, including treating our world’s natural As a tenant, we had nearly unlimited opportuniresources in an environmentally and economities to get involved in the project’s design thanks cally responsible way. Our contribution to this to our cooperation with the HOCHTIEF project effort is developing and installing competitive team. wind turbines. Nordex’s focus is on people as employees, business partners, clients, investors, and, last but not least, as consumers. That is why we are so happy to enable our Setting standards with sustainability An in-house research project at HOCHTIEF compared the HOCHTIEF is a committed trailblazer in green building. costs and benefits of DGNB certification for selected The number of sustainable projects we have completed is HOCHTIEF projects. The study indicated that the buildings growing continually, both in Germany and internationally. we have completed generally meet high standards and Our strategy of providing solutions throughout the entire would be eligible for bronze certification, even in cases life cycle* of infrastructure projects, real estate, and faciliwhere the planning process did not concentrate explicitly *For further information, please see page 11. ties lays a foundation for especially efficient projects. As on the DGNB’s sustainability criteria. In addition, all buildearly as the planning phase, we can set the stage for suings had the potential to obtain gold certificates if the perior sustainability in building construction and operation. ­appropriate measures were taken. With our know-how, we participate in initiatives and orgaOur commitment to green building is also reflected in our nizations focused on further promoting the concept of enextensive educational work and multi-faceted planning ergy-conserving and environmentally friendly construction. and consulting services. We employ trained DGNB audiIn 2007, for example, HOCHTIEF was among the founding tors to evaluate our clients’ properties and subsequently members of the German Sustainable Building Council submit them for certification. Our employees provide in­ (DGNB: www.dgnb.de). The first German sustainability cerformation about the DGNB and other certifications in tificate was created by the DGNB in cooperation with the HOCHTIEF’s in-house training sessions on green building. Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Urban Affairs and association members and has served since 2008 as Founded in early 2011 by HOCHTIEF Consult and Technical an important quality seal recognizing outstanding buildUniversity Darmstadt, ina Planungsgesellschaft mbH delivers The HOCHTIEF Group company ina delivers consulting ings. Economic, ecological, technical, sociocultural, funcservices including end-to-end development of sustainable and development services to tional, and process quality factors make up the rating. buildings and urban developments as well as life cycle reduce the power required by buildings with high energy assessments of construction materials and buildings. standards and to meet operating energy needs from renewable sources whenever possible. Sustainability Report 2011 25 International exchange: HOCHTIEF presented its global experience in green building at the Future Proofing Property Forum, a sustainability conference held in Brisbane (photo left). HOCHTIEF House in Munich: The office property in the heart of Munich received DGNB pre-certification in gold and the GreenBuilding seal for exceptional energy efficiency. At the end of June 2011, we participated for the fourth Leighton jointly supported the first German-Australian contime in the Consense conference held annually in Stuttference on sustainability in Brisbane. gart. The international trade fair and congress for sustainable building, investment, operations, and maintenance HOCHTIEF’s own buildings also green has developed into a meeting place for experts in just a As a passionate advocate of green building, HOCHTIEF of few years. course ensures that its own buildings also meet sustainability standards. The new HOCHTIEF Houses currently Turner also number one green builder being constructed in Berlin, Hamburg, and Munich are a Our American subsidiary Turner has established itself in good example. These properties are modeled on the “one recent years as the leading green building company in the roof” concept with all corporate units in a particular locaUSA. Turner generated sales of some USD 3.5 billion in tion consolidated at each site. This stimulates the direct this segment in 2009—45 percent of the company’s total exchange of know-how while also enabling our clients to sales. This secured Turner the top place in the September obtain a complete overview of HOCHTIEF’s product and 2010 ENR list of America’s Top 100 Green Contractors. service spectrum when they visit. The HOCHTIEF House Projects designed and built by Turner are certified to the in Hamburg has already been awarded silver-level preLeadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification, and the one in Berlin aims for the same. In standard issued by the United States Green Building Munich, HOCHTIEF is moving into the “smarthouse.” This www.usgbc.org Council . The number of green buildings completed or office complex also used by other tenants was one of the under construction by Turner came to some 616 as of the first buildings in Germany to receive DGNB gold pre-certiend of June 2011. Of these, 207 carry LEED certification fication. One of the many unique features of the Munich and a further 247 are in the list of registered green buildHOCHTIEF House is the two charging stations for electric ings. To meet demand for resource-saving, environmentalcars that came pre-installed. ly friendly buildings, Turner has trained over 1,200 staff as LEED Accredited Professionals for LEED certification— HOCHTIEF’s international subsidiaries are housed in simimore than any other construction company in the world. larly eco-friendly and resource-saving buildings. Flatiron in the USA took up occupancy in new headquarters in 2010. HOCHTIEF also operates in the green building sector in The corporate headquarters in Firestone, Colorado, earned Australia via its subsidiary Leighton. The buildings there LEED Silver certification for its above-average energy and are rated by the Green Building Council of Australia water efficiency, among other features. Similarly, the conwww.gbca.org.au (GBCA) . As with HOCHTIEF in Germany and the United version of the Turner offices in Albany, New York, has been States, Leighton also employs trained auditors. In Septemawarded LEED certification. Winning features here included ber 2010, the project developers at Leighton Properties innovative lighting, a 35 percent cut in energy consumption renewed their membership in the GBCA for the fourth and modern ventilation systems. In addition, staff contribconsecutive time, and in November 2010, HOCHTIEF and uted their own green ideas—such as the use of mugs in26 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Outstanding HOCHTIEF Group corporate headquarters: Our Australian subsidi­ ary Leighton received a 6 Star Green Star rating by the GBCA for its head office in Brisbane (photo left). Our US subsidiary Turner built the new headquarters for fellow Group company Flatiron in Firestone, Colo­ rado. The project was awarded LEED Silver cer­ tification. stead of throw-away cups. No fewer than eight Turner ofconsumption 15 percent compared with conventional fices already had LEED certification at the end of 2010. In buildings. Brisbane, Australia, the new Leighton Contractors headquarters, completed in 2010, was awarded a 6 Star Green Green services on the march Star rating by the GBCA. The building’s features include HOCHTIEF focuses on building sustainability into projects excellent energy and water efficiency with annual savings throughout their entire life cycle*. Besides green building *For further information, please see page 11. of 2,270 metric tons of CO2 and over three million liters of and the use of resource-conserving, environmentally water. The construction materials were made up of 40 perfriendly materials, technologies, and components, our serv­ cent recycled concrete and 60 percent recycled steel. ices therefore include sustainable services such as energy management. This service helps our clients to improve the Promoting green building worldwide performance of their energy systems, reduce emissions of HOCHTIEF promotes sustainable construction the world pollutants and markedly lower operating costs**. **For further information, please see page 46. over. Initiatives and initial work projects in non-industrialized countries show how environmental awareness in the conSustainable building operation struction and real estate sector is increasingly spreading In 2011, HOCHTIEF began increasingly stepping up sustainthere as well. To cite three examples involving HOCHTIEF: able facility management activities. With our new “blueFM” Our US subsidiary Turner is a founder-member of the Green quality seal, our facility management experts have entered Building Council in the South American island state of Trini­ into a voluntary obligation to improve climate protection, dad and Tobago. In 2010, together with a local company, use scarce resources responsibly, and reduce the levels of Turner International built a new production location in Costa pollution emitted by the buildings and properties we manRica for medical suppliers Boston Scientific. The project is age. It is primarily the combination of our facility managethe country’s first to be awarded LEED certification. In the ment and energy management services that enables us to Vietnamese capital, Hanoi, our US subsidiary is building a identify substantial optimization potential for our clients and 362-meter-tall business center consisting of two skyscraper accordingly develop sustainability concepts. We project towers. Numerous sustainable features ensure high stand­ that the CO2 levels emitted during the operation of buildards of efficiency and environment-friendliness, including ings and properties can be reduced by up to 20 percent in rainwater filtration and a daylight system to make best the next five years by taking the appropriate steps, includpossible use of natural light. Currently, Leighton Asia is ing in technical building services. Our employees responconstructing the Zuellig Building, the first certified green sible for these properties will take part in special blueFM office building in the Philippines. The project has already training courses held during the year so that they are prereceived Gold LEED pre-certification for the many environpared to meet the increased requirements for these projmentally friendly features planned, such as a centralized ects. garbage recycling system and its energy plan to reduce Sustainability Report 2011 27 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance We also implemented another project-specific sustainable Green airports facility management approach. HOCHTIEF employees As an airport operator, HOCHTIEF increases the value of joined a team of experts and applied their constructionits airport holdings continually with sustainability playing a related DGNB and LEED experience to facility managekey role as early as the master planning phase. This longment for a leading German financial institution. For the first term view takes into account factors that boost the ecotime, this new model means that office properties can also nomic efficiency of the airport, reduce or optimize its footbe certified during operation. Our aim is to further build on print, or improve passenger comfort, for instance. What’s this innovative facility management concept in the medium more, our objective is to analyze the environmental susterm so that the sustainability of existing buildings can also tainability of a planned airport expansion project, while at be ensured. the same time integrating the needs of local residents and adjoining communities into the planning process. In addiDiagnosing existing buildings tion, our airport experts have joined with the specialist departAround three-quarters of all commercial and residential ments of other HOCHTIEF units and developed integrated properties in Germany are more than 30 years old. Most services/sustainable airports service, a market strategy for of them have long failed to meet current climate protection environmental consulting services. One of the four consultand energy efficiency standards. Property owners will thereing cornerstones involves inspecting and evaluating existfore spend over EUR 530 billion in 2011 for this purpose, ing airports for potential energy savings and making sugaccording to forecasts by market research firm Eurocongestions for improvement. Other components include struct. HOCHTIEF building diagnosis is an innovative tool overseeing expansion approval processes and designing for profiting from this high-growth market and providing waste management concepts for airports. ­effective support for owners. Continual innovation management The process involves incorporating future operating costs Most of our projects are complex and unique, always reinto planning, and the resulting total cost of ownership quiring HOCHTIEF to do something new. Mastering these analysis makes it possible to grow the value of the properchallenges and offering our clients real added value necesty for the long term. A building diagnosis starts with an insitates funneling new ideas and customized research and ventory of the operating costs and technical condition of development services into nearly every construction projthe property. These findings then underpin the recommenect. Managing innovations effectively is a major factor in dations for revitalizing the building we make to the client, HOCHTIEF’s sustainability activities. We therefore continuwhich differ in the varying amounts of capital expenditure ally optimize this process. In addition to project-related inrequired and the related returns that can be achieved. novations, we update our internal workflows and processes on an ongoing basis to set HOCHTIEF apart from the com­ petition that much more. Nordex Forum: Designed HOCHTIEF was involved in the ergy usage and the burden on the • Stable value: Making the Nordex for sustainability Nordex Forum project from the environment were minimized, while Forum fit for the future required payearliest planning phase and the comfort and profitability of the ing attention to flexible layouts, up­a lways kept the entire life cycle building were improved. gradable state-of-the-art technology, of the property at the forefront: • Optimal use and management: and reconfiguration options. The build• Integrated planning: Experts from One of the keys to optimal building ing can be adapted to future requirevarious fields were involved in the opera­tion and facility management ments thanks to the height of the planning process from the very start is comprehensive building docufloors, mobile dividing walls, adaptso that an end-to-end building conmentation. For Nordex Forum, able installation systems and reconcept could be developed as part of HOCHTIEF produced building docu­ figurable technical building systems, an overall sustainability strategy. This mentation based on the recommenallowing it to remain an attractive included addressing all phases from dations of the Federal Ministry of property with a stable value for a development and design to construcTransport, Building and Urban Affairs. long time to come. 28 Sustainability Report 2011 tion and operation. As a result, enVarious paths to innovation Innovations are developed at HOCHTIEF at three levels. Stakeholders The first level is central innovation management, which relates to issues with a long-lasting effect on the Group’s have their say business. An innovation committee composed of representatives from all HOCHTIEF units decides whether projNetworks ects will be carried out. In fiscal 2010, HOCHTIEF spent approximately EUR 4.9 million on such innovations. The second level is innovations in the divisions with each HOCHTIEF unit developing, financing, and executing the ideas itself. The third level consists of project-specific inProf. Ger Maas, President, European Network of Construction novations. These research and development services are Companies for Research and Development performed when we acquire or work on projects. The de(ENCORD) velopment costs in each case are folded into projects and therefore are not documented separately. What is the role of sustainability in the construction industry’s innovation management process today? Ample room for new ideas Construction plays a crucial role in Europe’s economy. Construction is the largest The HOCHTIEF Ideas Room on the intranet of all Germanemployer and is a supplier of products to other major economic sectors. Construcspeaking units is our core idea management tool. This is tion companies are embedded in society and influence people and the environwhere employees post their ideas for innovative processment. As the largest industrial sector in Europe, this industry must accept the poes, new business models, and sustainability measures. litical goals set by the European Commission: smart growth, sustainable growth, Topic sponsors and regional idea commissions evaluate and inclusive growth. The industry should meet these goals through innovation the proposals and help to implement them. The best ideas management. are honored and receive awards at an annual meeting. In fiscal 2010, HOCHTIEF employees published 567 ideas in Why does ENCORD advocate a shared commitment of construction the Ideas Room, around 40 percent more than in the precompanies to sustainability? vious year. The aim and the added value of a Sustainable Development Charter for the European construction sector are to encourage members to go beyond legislation Here are two examples of award-winning suggestions by and to take voluntary actions to make their products and services more sustainour employees. Thanks to an improved loading technology able. The charter provides members with a way of demonstrating their actions for cranes, the HOCHTIEF subsidiary Streif Baulogistik that are aimed at improving their sustainability performance. saves roughly EUR 45,000 per year and eliminates extra truck trips. The optimized power supply to the ventilation Where do you see the greatest potential for sustainable innovations in equipment in the mask technology center for chip manuthe European construction industry? facture in Dresden reduces not only energy consumption, The life cycle approach delivers the greatest potential for innovation in our industry. but also cuts costs by EUR 66,000 per year. In accordance It brings us in direct contact with the needs of our clients and makes construction with the contract, we share these savings with the clients. companies responsible and accountable for their services. Responsibility and accountability open up new ways of thinking in design, negotiations, contracts, Cross-border research and development tenders, construction, and maintenance in our building industry. As an international construction services provider, we build projects around the globe that meet above-average sustainability standards. This is why we participate in cross-border organizations and research initiatives. Sustainability Report 2011 29 In development: We are currently working on a specialpurpose vessel for commissioning, inspecting, and maintaining wind turbines. HOCHTIEF Solutions is therefore optimizing services throughout the life cycle of offshore wind farms. www.encord.org HOCHTIEF is a member of ENCORD , the research and Our Australian Group company Leighton Contractors used development forum for innovative European construction a warning system developed by a subsidiary in a road confirms, for example. In June 2011, the participating compastruction project for the first time. The Visionstream Telenies collectively signed a “Sustainable Development Charpath™ CB Radio Highway System identifies vehicles drivter” in which they agree to integrate sustainability into their ing too fast via radar and warns them of their excessive corporate strategies and promote this concept, especially speed using CB radio, for example. This innovation helps in research and development. As a partner to the EU InPro considerably reduce accident risk in road construction research initiative, HOCHTIEF conducted research through projects and improve work safety. the end of 2010 on how 3D and 4D models can be applied to the entire life cycle of buildings. Virtual design has been These are only a few examples of HOCHTIEF’s extraordi**For further information on used successfully at HOCHTIEF under the names Virtual nary power of innovation**. R&D/innovation projects, please see www.hochtief. Design and Construction (HOCHTIEF ViCon) and BIM com/rd. (Building Information Modeling) for some time. Working hand in hand with clients HOCHTIEF aims to develop long-term partnerships with Our US subsidiary Turner is the sole construction company clients based on trust. Due to the complexity of many of taking part in a research project on energy efficiency by our projects and our life cycle approach, we often work scientists at Penn State University. Part of the national Better with our clients for many years. HOCHTIEF promotes this Building Initiative, the project addresses sustainable criteria type of cooperation and understanding of our activities by and refurbishment systems for buildings. The aim of the adhering to open communications and information poli***For further information, Better Building Initiative is to make the USA home to the cies***. We always strive to perfect our broad portfolio and please see pages 101 and 102. most efficient buildings in the world. The energy efficiency develop innovative new products and services that add of commercial buildings is to be improved by 20 percent in value for HOCHTIEF and the customer for the long term, an the next nine years alone. approach that enables our clients to additionally benefit from synergies generated by collaboration within the closely Pioneering sustainable developments integrated HOCHTIEF Group. This combination is an effecMany of our innovation projects are initiated with a view to tive selling point and creates an atmosphere of trust. operating even more sustainably. For instance, we are continually expanding our portfolio covering the life cycle of *For further information, offshore wind farms*. Among other projects, HOCHTIEF please see page 40 onwards. Solutions is currently developing a special-purpose vessel for commissioning, inspecting, and maintaining wind turbines. The vessel features a transfer system that ensures the safe transfer of people and materials to the turbines, even in extreme weather conditions. 30 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance The schools of the future: Project company HOCHTIEF PPP Schulpartner is designing, financing, refurbishing, and operating a total of seven educational facilities in the city of Cologne in a publicprivate partnership. Modern heating and external thermal insulation composite systems will reduce the buildings’ energy consumption. In addition, 94 percent of the construction contracts were awarded to small to medium-sized companies from the region. An exemplary business model istrators, and clients of more than 100 PPP schools were Our PreFair business model makes it especially easy to questioned about how satisfied they were with the proprepare bids that impress clients with superior quality and gression of the project. The answers were compelling: 95 attractive prices. In a PreFair project, the cooperation bepercent of clients are satisfied with the quality of the parttween clients, architects, engineers, and our company benership, while 90 percent see advantages for their comgins in the initial project phase. We are therefore in the pomunities in a partnership with a private-sector company. sition to contribute our extensive real estate knowledge to More than three-quarters of school administrators report the project at an early stage and ensure optimal, efficient, positive experiences. The Fürst Wrede barracks in Munich and sustainability-oriented planning tailored to the wishes built/refurbished and operated by HOCHTIEF received the and needs of our clients. By making alternative proposals, 2010 PPP Innovation Award in the “Public-sector Building we unlock considerable potential for savings and optimizaConstruction” category from Bundesverband (Federal tion, which benefits the client in the long run. These include Association) Public Private Partnership and Behörden measures to reduce energy and water consumption to a Spiegel, an industry publication. The project is the first minimum. social infrastructure partnership between the German government and a private-sector company and was handed This innovative business model is a winning one for new over after less than two years—significantly faster than buildings as well as refurbishment and upgrading projects. originally planned. In working on such contracts, HOCHTIEF‘s consideration of the entire life cycle and many years of experience enable The willingness of the public sector to enter into partnerus to make tried-and-tested suggestions to measurably ships with private-sector companies continues to be strong, increase the quality and value of properties. An additional both in Germany and abroad. In 2010, we were able to benefit for our PreFair clients is our timely advising during enter the North American PPP market with two projects. the early planning phase to determine whether and which In Canada, our subsidiary HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions North DGNB certification their property can receive. Our successAmerica along with partners will design, finance, build, and ful model is oriented toward preconstruction management, operate ten schools in the province of Alberta, as well as which has long been used by our US subsidiary Turner. construct 18 police facilities in the province of Ontario with a partner and operate them for 30 years. In June 2011, a Partnerships spanning decades consortium including our subsidiary HOCHTIEF PPP SoluThe long-term partnerships we enter into with our service tions (UK) won a contract to design, finance, build, and or public-private partnership (PPP) project clients undersubsequently operate for 25 years two schools in Halton score the trust that customers place in us. Just how satisBorough serving a total of 2,500 students. The project is fied users are with projects is indicated, for example, by a part of the Building Schools for the Future investment prosurvey conducted by the Allensbach Institute for Public gram run by the British government. Opinion Research for HOCHTIEF. Parents, school adminSustainability Report 2011 31 Shiny and new: HOCHTIEF is developing and building the maxCologne project right on the banks of the Rhine River in Cologne. One part of the modern office complex is being constructed based on the existing building, which will be completely revitalized. The project has already received DGNB gold pre-certification for features including its efficient energy plan. Numerous repeat clients Green projects around the globe: Examples We see contract extensions and new projects for longHOCHTIEF has become established in many countries term clients as both a confirmation of the quality of our and regions as a pioneer in green building. The number of work and as a challenge to always keep increasing cusbuildings we have constructed and sustainable services tomer satisfaction. One of our repeat clients is Continental. we offer is growing continually. The following projects indiIn Hanover, the energy experts from HOCHTIEF Solutions cate how our company addresses the challenges of green have been delivering energy and production media to the building worldwide with customized architectural and techautomotive supplier for nine years now. This contract was nological solutions. extended for another five years in summer 2010. We will handle technical and infrastructure facility management at Office and commercial buildings the Continental plant in Nuremberg for five years as well. HOCHTIEF is developing and building the new maxCologne In spring 2011, HOCHTIEF won a property management office complex right on the banks of the Rhine River in contract from Deka Immobilien covering another 30,000 Cologne scheduled for completion by the end of 2012. Two square meters of rental area at three locations. In total, we existing buildings covering a total of 48,500 square meters now manage more than two million square meters of space will be brought up to new-construction standards. The ecofor this client. logical, sociocultural, and economic quality of the property became evident long before scheduled completion: The A statistic from our US subsidiary underscores the high maxCologne project was awarded DGNB gold pre-certifilevel of customer satisfaction with our services: In 2010, cation in February 2010. The concept includes wrapping Turner already generated 70 percent of annual sales with the building in two shells with integrated, individually adjustrepeat clients. able sun screens. Groundwater will be drawn up through two wells and used in the ceiling-mounted heating and Communication with diverse target groups cooling system to moderate temperatures in the office areas. HOCHTIEF maintains close contact with clients. But it is The building will also feature environmentally friendly buildalso important to us to include all stakeholders and proing materials. vide information without reservation. To accomplish this, we employ various tools and participate in trade shows The new corporate headquarters of international IT service *For further information, and professional events.* provider Atos Origin in Essen will be finished by the end of please see pages 101 and 102. 2011. The five-story office property with a gross area of some 8,400 square meters was developed by HOCHTIEF with ecological criteria in mind and has already been awarded silver pre-certification by DGNB. Among other things, the project will use environmentally sound construction materials and an energy-saving floor to conserve energy while 32 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Working green in Prague: HOCHTIEF’s Czech project development arm offers attractive office and commercial space at Office Islands. The project’s appeal stems not only from the large stretches of green and leisure space, but also the fact that it consumes 30 percent less energy than a typical building. heating and cooling the rooms. This system permanently well under 70 kilowatt hours per square meter per year. maintains high-quality indoor air and ensures a comfortThe church organization will move into the seven-story able temperature. building with rental area amounting to approximately 20,000 square meters in fall 2012. The lease agreed with Rüttenscheider Tor is another HOCHTIEF building to reHOCHTIEF’s project developers runs for 20 years and is ceive silver certification from the DGNB in 2010. Climate the most extensive single lease signed for a new building control in the office complex with a gross floor area of project developed in Berlin in 2010. around 16,500 square meters is regulated using a heating and cooling system in the ceiling. The primary energy At the end of 2010, Siemens moved its Düsseldorf offices ­requirement is well below the level stipulated by the 2007 to an office project built by HOCHTIEF in Airport City. The German Energy Saving Ordinance. Even during construcnew building fulfills the requirements for participation in the tion, an office for integrated environmental protection conGreenBuilding Partner program operated by the European tinually monitored the selection and use of materials as Union. Excellent thermal insulation, high-quality construcwell as the building process to ensure that it would not be tion materials, and a smart heating, lighting, and ventilation harmful to health. plan make it possible to reduce primary energy consumption by over one-quarter more than prescribed by the GerIn Münster, HOCHTIEF built the PortAL 10 project on a man Energy Saving Ordinance. brownfield site. The property features a good 7,500 square meters of flexible, attractive working space. Soundproof HOCHTIEF Polska is building the Brama Portowa office windows guarantee acoustic comfort, while a mechanical complex in Szczecin by the end of 2012. The project comnight cooling system provides thermal relief in the summer. prises two buildings and features a gross floor area of The property was constructed as a low-energy building 13,000 square meters. The new building is being conmeeting the requirements of the 2009 German Energy structed to fulfill the requirements for LEED certification. Saving Ordinance. The facade was designed as a thermal Modern systems for saving water and energy and optimal insulation compound system using a specific process. use of daylight are examples of the environmental and PortAL 10 received gold certification from the DGNB, not ­resource-conserving measures taken. least for its superior energy efficiency. In Prague, HOCHTIEF Development Czech Republic reThe new office building we constructed for the Protestant ceived silver-level LEED pre-certification prior to the start Agency for Development and Social Welfare in Berlin aims of construction work on the Office Islands project. Even to achieve DGNB gold certification. District heating, therbefore construction, the buildings, which consume 30 permoactive ceilings, and a special cooling machine are the cent less energy than typical buildings, were also awarded building blocks of its innovative energy concept intended a domestic Grade-A Energy Performance Certificate. to reduce the building’s primary energy requirement to ­Office Islands consists of a total of six individual buildings Sustainability Report 2011 33 The pinnacle of sustainability: In the USA, Turner is constructing a new operations center for Sacra­ mento’s public utility in a net zero energy, LEED Platinum project (photo left). Living on the water: The WaterHouses in Hamburg supply energy on site from their own solar and geothermal systems. The highquality HOCHTIEF residential property aims for a gold DGNB certificate. and features 70,000 square meters of office and retail HOCHTIEF’s subsidiary Leighton in Australia applied green space overall. Moreover, the property will have extensive standards when constructing the One One One Eagle Street green and leisure space. A variety of energyand wateroffice complex in Brisbane. The building features around saving measures, such as a rainwater retention basin, also 63,000 square meters of space distributed over 44 floors. contribute to the project’s sustainability. Completion of the A modern facade, graywater recycling for flushing toilets first phase is scheduled for the first quarter of 2013. and cooling with river water are just some of the features that combined are expected to result in a 6 Star Green At the beginning of 2011, our American subsidiary Turner Star rating from the Australian Green Building Council. secured the contract to build a 20-hectare operation center for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. As a speHealthcare properties cial highlight, the building will generate as much energy as Our Leighton Contractors subsidiary was awarded the conit consumes, making it the nation’s biggest net zero energy tract for construction of the new Royal Adelaide Hospital in project. To attain this ambitious goal, Turner is equipping June 2011. This is the largest public-private partnership the building and grounds with features such as photovolproject in the healthcare field built to date in Australia. In taic solar panels, evaporative cooling, geothermal energy order to prevent infection risk, all 800 patients will be housed storage as well as radiant slab heating and cooling. The in individual rooms. The building is being constructed acproject is aiming for the top LEED Platinum certification. cording to the most stringent environmental standards and, when completed in 2016, will not only be a hospital meetThe new North American headquarters for BASF in New ing the highest technical standards but also the “greenest” Jersey is a further example of green building at Turner. The project in South Australia. Thanks to numerous energy building with 30,000 square meters of usable space will likeand water management measures, emissions of greenwise seek LEED Platinum certification. This will be achieved house gases, for example, will be 50 percent lower than by features such as energy-efficient lighting and innovative those of other comparable hospitals. heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. There will also be a park for employee recreation. Turner is building a 168-bed hospital in San José, California. The project is to seek LEED certification. Features incorTurner and a consortium partner are transforming a 1960s porated for this purpose include an enhanced ventilation state-owned laboratory building in Washington D.C. The system as well as green roof areas to reduce energy conprimary objective here is to create modern office premises, sumption and improve indoor air quality. A large percentimprove the working environment for occupants and reduce age of construction waste is recycled and low-emitting energy consumption. Our US subsidiary is also taking care materials and sustainably harvested wood are being used to reduce and, where possible, recycle construction waste in construction. during the project. The project is aiming for LEED Gold certification. 34 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance The National Intrepid Center of Excellence built by Turner ing energy almost completely from renewable sources. in Maryland is a cutting-edge treatment center to provide The overall ecological and economic concept reduces the medical and psychological care for traumatized veterans annual primary energy requirement to an average of 15.3 and military personnel. Special focus areas in this project kilowatt hours per square meter. Residents moved into the included high indoor air quality and thermal comfort. This first row houses in summer 2011. entailed the use of low-emission materials and a special lighting system integrating the use of daylight. This is not Even before construction work was finished in May 2011, only energy-efficient, it also meets the needs of patients all 31 residential units in the Fontanepromenade 12-13 resi­ sensitive to glare. The project has been awarded LEED dential complex in Berlin were sold. The HOCHTIEF projSilver certification. ect, consisting of a six-story and a seven-story building, were constructed as low-energy structures according to Residential real estate the KfW Efficiency House standard. A geothermal system In January 2011, our Potsdamer Zwillinge project in Berlin supplies the apartments with heating. This results in 15 received a silver preliminary DGNB certificate, making it percent more primary energy savings than required by the one of the first residential properties recognized by DGNB. 2009 German Energy Saving Ordinance. Both buildings are designed as a KfW Efficiency House 70, which require only around 70 percent of the energy HOCHTIEF is building multi-story, carbon-neutral residenused by comparable, conventionally built buildings. Energy tial facilities for students in Greifswald under the BIONIQ is provided by their own combined heat and power station. brand. The buildings are constructed mainly of wood and The excellent infrastructure in the suburb of Berlin, the are therefore fully recyclable. The concept was developed resi­dential mix with highly efficient use of space, and the in close cooperation with a long-standing client of HOCHTIEF resource-conserving, high-quality construction methods and an architectural firm. The use of state-of-the-art techwere further arguments for the positive evaluation of the nologies such as geothermal energy and photovoltaic sysproject. High-quality natural construction materials, such tems as well as water reclamation with the help of a cistern as certified wood, were used exclusively in the 87 rental in the ground also contribute to a very good thermal balapartments. ance. The WaterHouses, which will be built in Hamburg by 2013, Educational properties are another first-rate HOCHTIEF property development The turnkey handover of a new daycare facility in Kriftel, project. Four triplexes offer space for three residential units Hesse, is slated for May 2012. The children served by the each. Another 22 apartments designed to be free of barriers center will be able to learn and play in a sustainable buildto accessibility are housed in the Watertower, and all building constructed by HOCHTIEF. A building shell made of ings meet the passive house standard. Dedicated solar highly thermally insulated components, solar water heatand geothermal systems contribute to achieving this aim. ing, and the use of a ventilation system with heat recovery The WaterHouses are situated in the middle of an approxiare among the features used to achieve the desired supemately 4,000-square-meter expanse of water that serves rior energy efficiency. as a rain retention pond for the entire complex. Terraces overlooking the water and boat docks lend the project a Turner delivered its 100th green building project, the unique character. The project is part of a case study at the Pleasant Ridge Montessori School in Cincinnati, Ohio, at Internationale Bauausstellung construction exhibition to be the end of 2009. The building was awarded LEED Silver held in Hamburg in 2013 and is aiming for gold-level certicertification for features such as a light-colored roof to fication from DGNB. reflect sunlight and reduce rapid interior heat absorption as well as the need for air conditioning. Daylight is used The new Gartenstadt am Ziegelhain project developed by where possible in rooms and corridors, natural materials HOCHTIEF on the approximately 33,000 square meters of provide added environmental benefits, and low-pressure land formerly occupied by a brick factory in Leinfeldensanitary fittings conserve water. Echterdingen features a green residential landscape without through-traffic. Fifteen row houses, three garden courtCovering some 334,000 square meters of floor space, the yard apartments, four city villas, and four to five multi-family Stanford University Graduate School of Business Knight homes will be built in the first of four total construction Management Center built by our American subsidiary prophases. A heating plant specifically for the complex provides students with a completely new learning experience. vides the property with environmentally sustainable heatThe center offers ample room for stress-free, shared learnSustainability Report 2011 35 ing along with generous green areas. The client specificaing control and other sustainability features will lead overtions were correspondingly demanding, especially in view all to ­reduced energy and water consumption as well as of the targeted LEED Platinum certification. Prevailing enoptimized operational costs. ergy efficiency standards had to be exceeded by at least 40 percent and at least twelve percent of electricity conInfrastructure projects sumed had to be self-generated. There were similar requireOur subsidiary Flatiron is among the leading US contractors ments with regard to water consumption and the use of when it comes to complex infrastructure projects such as materials. bridges and roads. Flatiron has long met the high environment and economy standards stipulated for such projects The new Wheaton’s Science Center in Wheaton, Illinois, by law. The USA’s Greenroads rating system aims to make was awarded LEED Gold certification in October 2010. sustainable roadway design and construction measurable Turner built the Science Center using recycled steel and and comparable. The rating is based on seven categories, regionally produced materials, among other things. Seventy with aims ranging from flora and fauna conservation to percent of the building’s electricity comes from a supplier cultural outreach in the vicinity of a project while still securof renewable energy. The Center uses 25 percent less ing an efficient overall solution. Criteria include use of maenergy overall than a comparable conventional building. terials, resources, construction activities, and pavement technologies. Flatiron is well placed with regard to rating At the end of 2009, Turner secured the contract to build a systems of this kind in the event that they become standard, learning and leadership development center for internaas our subsidiary already exceeds the requirements in many tional auditors Deloitte in Westlake, Texas. Deloitte Univeraspects. sity is being built to LEED Gold standards. Seventy percent of its energy is from renewable sources, energy efficiency Our Australian investment Thiess also fulfills sustainability has been enhanced by 14 percent, and water consumpstandards when building large-scale infrastructure projtion is 30 percent better than the standard. ects. The state of Victoria’s highway department declared the expansion of the West Gate Freeway a measuring stick Public buildings for other comparable road construction projects. Steel Our US subsidiary is currently building a new academy in consisting of 90 percent recycled materials was utilized in Queens for up to 2,000 New York Police recruits. The comthis project, for example. In addition, an innovative type of plex is slated for the award of LEED Silver certification. The asphalt that boasts a significantly longer life than convennecessary criteria will be met by using features such as tional road surfacing materials and a special e-crete, conenergy-saving green roofs, daylight harvesting, and storm crete containing a large percentage of recycled materials, water harvesting and reuse. were also used. The Columbus Convention Center Hotel in Columbus, Ohio, Thiess additionally applied comprehensive environmental is another Turner project with exemplary environmental management practices to the expansion of the Pacific Highcredentials. The ten-story, 532-room hotel utilizes the latest way, known as the Coopernook to Herons Creek Project. technology to cut energy consumption by 33 percent. Other For instance, more than one million liters of rainwater were green features include construction waste recycling, the collected and used at the construction site, and wasteuse of environmentally friendly regional materials, and the water was processed and used to tamp down dust kicked provision of bicycle storage for guests and staff. The projup during construction work. Fifty percent of the energy ect aims to achieve LEED Silver certification. required by the project came from renewable sources, a move that cut over 960 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. In the Province of Ontario, Canada, HOCHTIEF Concessions has the contract to design, build and finance seven police detachments, eight forensic identification units, and three regional headquarters. In cooperation with a local facility management partner we will be responsible to maintain the buildings—which are designed to achieve LEED Silver certification—for 30 years under a public-private alternative finance contract. According to the type of building and purpose, custom lighting systems including daylight36 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Sustainable products and services Our overarching objective: We a i m t o l e a d t h e g l o b a l m a r ke t f o r s u s t a i n a b l e p r o j e c t s i n t h e c o n s t r u c t i o n a n d c o n s t r u c t i o n r e l a t e d s e r v i c e s s e g m e n t s . We t h e r e f o r e c o n s t a n t l y a d d t o o u r r a n g e o f s e r v i c e s s p a n n i n g t h e i n f r a s t r u c t u r e p r o j e c t , r e a l e s t a t e , and facilit y life cycle. Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Continue sustainability excellence team activities 13th meeting in July 2011 Develop growth areas and models for cooperation Cross-business segment working groups set up; across business segments ten growth areas identified and corresponding business plans drafted Expand integrated services/sustainable airports The R&D project was successfully completed at the consulting service end of 2009 and another project, Airport Carbon Accreditation, was carried out in 2010; new project Develop new sustainable products at Tirana Airport launched and services along the life cycle Decentralize and internationalize ideas manage15 independent Ideas Rooms set up; Turner intement gration concept prepared Introduce blueFM (quality seal for developing and blueFM quality seal introduced; 40 property implementing sustainable operator concepts for ­managers trained ­clients) Offer engineering services (consulting, interdisciFounding of ina Planungsgesellschaft mbH plinary planning, validation, and certification) for ­energy-efficient and green building Increase the number of certified buildings with 1,247 LEED-accredited auditors, 207 LEED-certified HOCHTIEF involvement in America and 247 LEED-registered projects Increase the number of certified buildings with 105 Green Star-accredited auditors, 5 LEED-acHOCHTIEF involvement in Asia-Pacific credited auditors, 10 Green Star-certified projects, 2 Green Star-registered projects, 1 LEED-regisIncrease HOCHTIEF global presence tered project in sustainable construction Increase the number of certified buildings with 5 DGNB-accredited auditors, 2 LEED-accredited HOCHTIEF involvement in Europe auditors, 4 DGNB-certified and 14 DGNB-pre-certified projects, 2 LEED-certified and 5 LEED-registered projects Percentage of sustainably developed, certifiable Performance indicator included in the Balanced ­office properties in Europe: 80 percent of total inScorecard; certification planned or implemented vestments in this segment for a total of 82 percent of investments Implement “one roof” policy at more HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Houses in Hamburg, Berlin, and Munich ­locations in Europe under construction; aim for DGNB silver and gold Deepen integration between divisions certification Implement new online platform Group-wide Pilot phase launched for HOCHTIEF Solutions and (HOCHTIEF people.Net) HOCHTIEF Corporate Headquarters Develop online client portal with feedback structure Client portal launched; portal’s international features and contact options being improved further Enhance customer satisfaction Conduct regular customer surveys Study published on the influence of sustainability on the market value of real estate; customer survey on facility management completed Sustainability Report 2011 37 Area 2 Active climate protection 38 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance We shine new light—to brilliant effect. Gerhard Backhaus (left), lighting project manager at HOCHTIEF Energy Management, shows Ulf Bosold, technical director at the Staatstheater in Hanover, the stage secrets behind an acclaimed idea. Our experts deployed innovative LED technology to slash the theater’s lighting energy bills by up to 80 percent—and delivered a lighting system with great visual impact into the bargain. Their applause for a sparkling performance: the European Energy Service Award. Our energy contracting specialists also revamped the theater’s building systems, saving over 2,800 metric tons of carbon emissions in 2010—an example of our commitment to shrinking carbon footprints in partnership with clients, and to actively combating climate change. Sustainability Report 2011 39 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Area 2 Active climate protection The challenge: Buildings burn some 40 percent of Bright future with renewables global energy. Reducing this share for the future has The renewables share in Germany’s power mix is growing for years been part of our business. HOCHTIEF has fast. Renewables met nearly 17 percent of the country’s a tradition of sustainable construction, or green total energy demand in 2010, avoiding almost 120 million building. Implementing innovative energy managemetric tons of greenhouse emissions. The German government and business models based on renewables, ment targets a 35 percent share by 2020. The market for we also help prevent greenhouse gas emissions green power is expanding globally, too. From 2005 to 2009 and cut project running costs. alone, clean energy investment in the G20 states increased by no less than 230 percent to some EUR 112 billion a year. Our objective: We aim to save carbon emissions Even the global economic crisis did not greatly affect the ­together with our clients. sector’s dynamic growth. HOCHTIEF offers clients a variety of ways and means of using renewable energy. All these Climate change, energy efficiency, and renewables are the different sustainable alternatives to conventionally generatfocus of intensive global debate. They are also key issues ed power have one thing in common: huge long-term ecofor our Group. For HOCHTIEF, tackling climate change is nomic and environmental potential. not just a duty to society and the environment, it is a stra*For further information, tegic priority and a building block of corporate strategy*. Full-blown service for offshore wind power please see pages 6, 7 and 10. At the same time, it opens up many new business opporAlong with their onshore counterparts, offshore wind farms tunities that we readily exploit. Drawing on a versatile toolcan make a key contribution to sustainable energy supbox of solutions and measures, we work to actively complies. Higher wind speeds at sea make for a significantly bat climate change—for clients, in project work, and inside bigger energy harvest. By 2020, up to 10,000 megawatts our own organization. We continually invest to promote reof capacity is to be installed in German offshore wind newables, craft trailblazing solutions in real estate and facilipower installations. On German government targets, the ty construction and operation, and fine-tune energy manhuge windmills at sea will already be generating 25,000 agement. We likewise work hard to cut energy use and megawatts just ten years later. The Central Federation of raise energy efficiency within our own Group. the German Construction Industry (HDB) expects that EUR 25–30 billion will be spent on building wind farms in Acting on climate change the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. Wind power already Further underscoring our resolve to act on climate change, prevents some 28 million metric tons of greenhouse gas we joined forces back in 2008 with over 80 leading internaemissions annually in Germany today. tional companies to sign the CEO Climate Policy Recommendations to G8 Leaders. In 2010, the Carbon Disclosure HOCHTIEF focuses on the way forward, targeting early www.cdproject.net Project included HOCHTIEF in the Carbon Disclosure mover advantage in new, high-growth segments. A case Leadership Index for the first time. This index lists 30 major in point is offshore wind power, where we are already well German corporates that excel in transparency on carbon established with a broad service portfolio and innovative emissions. Our company ranked 14th, scoring 77 out of 100. engineering solutions. We design and emplace all types of This put us in Carbon Performance Group B, confirming foundations for offshore wind turbines as well as install, that climate change is very important to HOCHTIEF and maintain, and assemble met masts and the turbines themrelevant action and initiatives—such as lowering carbon selves. Our specialists plan logistics, simulate assembly in emissions—are built into our corporate strategy. varied weather conditions, and conduct subsurface investigations. HOCHTIEF offers a full service package, rigorously applying our life cycle strategy to the offshore wind power segment. We also operate our own special-purpose 40 Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholders have their say Government Ursula Heinen-Esser, Parliamentary State Secretary, Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, Berlin equipment for the offshore business. This includes our Renewable energy sources are pivotal in the transformation of Germany’s two jack-up platforms “Odin,” in service since 2004, and energy supply. What implications does that have for Germany as a busi“Thor,” launched in 2010 and currently in action at the ness location and for the expansion target? Bard Offshore 1 wind farm in the North Sea, where some The expansion of renewables in the last decade has massively boosted sales and 80 wind turbines are being erected. All of our offshore job creation in the renewables sector, which now has a 370,000-strong workforce. equipment is managed and operated by our own team. The construction industry also benefits with work such as building wind farms both on and offshore, laying new power lines, and sinking wells for geothermal energy. Summer 2012 marks the inception of Global Tech I, a further Of course, not everyone stands to gain from the structural transformation we are offshore project with HOCHTIEF participation. This involves going through. But research so far shows the expansion of renewables to have anchoring 80 bases, each weighing 950 metric tons, to had a net positive effect, also on the jobs market. And provision has long been the sea floor 40 meters down. Every one of these will supmade to cushion adverse effects like the impact of the renewable energy surcharge port a five-megawatt, 150-meter wind turbine for a total on electricity-intensive industries. The new arrangement we have made for this in output of 400 megawatts from mid-2013. Global Tech I is our Renewable Energy Act is fairer than ever because it is more linear. The expanthe first deployment for a special-purpose vessel develsion targets for renewables—at least 35 percent of electricity and 18 percent of oped by HOCHTIEF with a joint venture partner—the “Innototal energy use by 2020—are realistic, and with climate change and global revation,” a jack-up vessel that makes for even more efficient, source conflicts they are necessary and show the way forward. In the long run, safer assembly (see also page 42). the switch to renewables will make Germany a repository of expertise for and an exporter of sustainable energy technology—and that is something the construcWork also starts in spring 2013 on EnBW Baltic 2, a wind tion industry can capitalize on as well. farm in the Baltic Sea. HOCHTIEF is part of a joint venture delivering and erecting 80 foundations and looking after Where do you see the biggest growth prospects in renewables? logistics for construction of the towers and turbines. When In the short term, to be sure, the highest hopes are on wind power, and especially completed, the wind farm with a capacity of 288 megaoffshore wind power. There has also been rapid expansion in biomass use over watts will feed some 1,200 gigawatt-hours of electricity to the last few years. Looking toward the longer term, utilization of solar and geotherthe grid each year—enough for about 340,000 homes. mal energy will become quantitatively more significant. HOCHTIEF also serves the offshore segment outside of What role is played by energy efficiency in the transformation of energy Germany. Since December 2009, as strategic partner to supplies? the SMart Wind joint venture, we have been designated The German government’s expansion targets relate to total energy demand. The preferred supplier of turbine foundations with partial charge further we can get this down—by improving energy efficiency, reducing grid losses, of design and structural engineering for a four-gigawatt and smart load management—the sooner we can meet the targets. Raising energy project in the Hornsea zone off England’s northeast coast. efficiency is therefore central to our energy strategy. The key to better energy effiThe Hornsea development zone is part of a government ciency is the buildings sector. But academic research also points to potential anprogram to build offshore wind farms with a total capacity nual energy savings of EUR 10 billion from energy efficiency improvements in inof 32 gigawatts in UK territorial waters. Work on the first dustry. In both cases there is work for the construction industry. Government 500-megawatt subproject is scheduled to start in 2014. supports efforts to this end with grant programs and procurement stipulations. What contribution does government expect from the German construction industry? We work on the assumption that it is in industry’s own interests—and that includes the construction industry—to develop growth segments such as sustainable energy supplies and cut production costs by improving energy efficiency. Going beyond that, I would also like to see the German construction industry be proactive. That could show through in things like getting to grips with notions of resource efficiency, making allowance for climate adjustment in building projects, or simply by companies adopting in-house energy guidelines. POWER & INNOV TION CO2 -Einsparungen bei HOCHTIEF Innovative equipment and processes—HOCHTIEF are needed for each pile. The resulting noise pressure levels invests in offshore wind power can seriously harm marine fauna, especially harbor por“Innovation” jack-up vessel: HOCHTIEF partners with poises in the German North Sea and Baltic Sea. GeoSea, part of the Belgian DEME group of companies, to build and operate special-purpose offshore jack-up vessels. In our technique, called offshore foundation drilling, founA dedicated company, HGO Infra Sea Solutions, has been dation structures for wind turbines are anchored to the established for the purpose. On its launch, the “Innovation” sea floor by a drilling process. This reduces noise and— will be the most powerful crane jack-up vessel in the offbecause the method is highly adaptable—also opens up shore market today. The new special-purpose vessel is various other technical options, such as pile diameters bigger than the six meters that mark the limit for conventional pile driving. High-temperature heat pumps—heat from the ­refrigerator cycle Extracting a large amount of heat out of a small amount of energy sounds like a tall order, but that is just what HOCHTIEF Energy Management is confident of achieving with high-temperature heat pumps. Using this innovative technology, only about 25 percent of the heat energy has to be generated mechanically. The rest is scavenged from exhaust heat or the surroundings. The system is best suited for industrial clients, who can use it to save fuel for energy 147 meters long, has a beam of 42 meters, and can opergeneration. HOCHTIEF already provides high-temperature ate at depths of up to 50 meters. With an 8,000-metric-ton heat pumps in energy performance contracting models. payload and 1,500-metric-ton crane lift capacity, the vessel is ideally suited for installing all types of offshore foundations—and the only one of its kind anywhere in the world. The “Innovation” can be deployed in erecting turbines with Process heat, e.g. water at 90 °C outputs of five to ten megawatts and will substantially reduce assembly and service times for this latest generation Heat sink of offshore wind turbines. (condenser) HOCHTIEF not only developed the idea and the innovative design for the “Innovation” itself in conjunction with the joint venture partner, but will also operate the vessel and charter it out. We employ our own crew for the purpose. Compressor As demand for special-purpose equipment exceeds current supply, construction of further jack-up vessels is Refrigerant planned. Offshore foundation drilling: With its expertise in offshore wind farm construction, HOCHTIEF spans the full (evaporator) process—and has plans to improve it. In partnership with Heat source Herrenknecht AG, HOCHTIEF Solutions has now develExhaust heat, e.g. water at 40 °C oped a more efficient and, most of all, more environmentally friendly way of emplacing wind turbine foundations. Normally, piles for the towers are driven into the sea floor Maximum energy from minimum heat—the latest heat pumps point with large hydraulic hammers. Up to 8,000 hammer strikes the way 42 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Compelling returns, including for the environment: The new La Confluencia run-ofriver hydro project in the Andes reduces Chile’s carbon emissions by more than 400,000 metric tons a year. Our subsidiary Leighton Contractors undertakes onshore HOCHTIEF has long built hydropower schemes and dams wind power projects in Australia. Scheduled for complearound the world, including projects in Africa, Canada, China, tion in 2013, the Macarthur Wind Farm in western Victoria Scotland, and South America. Since 2010, HOCHTIEF will be the biggest wind energy installation in the southern Solutions has been working on a new hydropower scheme hemisphere. Leighton Contractors is responsible for prowith a joint venture partner in Cheves, Peru—at an altitude curing, transporting, and erecting the wind turbines and of some 2,000 meters. In addition to the subterranean power carrying out infrastructure work such as building roads, plant, the project also involves building 17 kilometers of transformer stations, and power lines. The wind farm is tunnel, two weirs, and a dam. The state government sees projected to generate 420 megawatts of electricity—enough the Andes project, with a design output of 168 megawatts, to power 220,000 homes. Leighton is also part of a conas a further step in switching energy supplies over to green sortium developing the Mumbida Wind Farm in Western power. Once completed, the scheme is intended to meet Australia, which is slated to be hooked up to the grid with peak electricity demand in the Lima region. In the design an output of 55 megawatts from November 2012. The phase, our company opted for construction of an inclined wind farm is expected to save 165,000 metric tons of shaft in place of the conventional pressure shaft. This made greenhouse gas emissions a year. it possible to save the fruit plantations of neighboring farm cooperatives. Hydroelectricity—long tradition of clean energy Hydroelectric power stations convert kinetic energy from A 160-megawatt hydropower scheme has been built for moving water into mechanical and then electrical energy. the same client in a joint venture south of Santiago, the Hydropower has made up a good share of the power mix Chilean capital. With a design of their own, the HOCHTIEF for decades. As far back as 1973, nearly 1,300 terawattexperts managed to increase the capacity of the La Conhours of electricity was generated in this way each year. fluencia hydro scheme by ten percent relative to the original Hydroelectric generation has since more than doubled to plans. The most important part of the scheme, the abovesome 3,300 terawatt-hours annually. This makes hydroground turbine house, was finished at the end of 2010, power one of the most important alternative sources of and work on the entire complex is to be completed in energy. About 20 terawatt-hours of electricity came from September 2011. hydropower in Germany in 2010, avoiding some 17 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. However, the opportunities for generating new energy from hydropower in Germany are virtually exhausted. Many other countries, on the other hand, still have untapped potential for the generation of low-cost, green power from flowing water. Sustainability Report 2011 43 Exelon City Solar in Chicago: SunPower tracker technol­ ogy makes the solar panels turn as the sun traverses the sky. This significantly adds to the power plant’s productivity. Solar power—attractive alternative The successful collaboration in this area with Darmstadt The sun’s energy exceeds global primary energy conTechnical University led to the launch of a new company, *For further information, sumption thousands of times over and for all practical purina Planungsgesellschaft*, in early 2011. The aim is for explease see page 25. poses is inexhaustible. In Germany alone, 6.6 terawattperience from the joint research project to be used in work hours of electricity was generated from the sun’s rays in such as developing energy-efficient, sustainably designed 2009. Only a year later, the figure was 12 terawatt-hours, buildings. saving seven million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuel. The steep upward trend is Solar technology is put to successful use in various set to continue, with the German environment ministry HOCHTIEF units and projects. Hamburg Airport, one of estimating the country’s potential for solar power at 115 our airport holdings, began reaping the benefits of solar terawatt-hours a year. The Renewable Energy Act—among power in the fall of 2010. A photovoltaic installation with an the most progressive energy legislation in the world—supannual generating capacity of some 18,000 kilowatt-hours ports this rapid growth with a suitable legal framework. of green power trims the airport’s environmental footprint Energy utilities are thus required to purchase renewablesby nine metric tons of carbon a year. Our US subsidiary generated electricity at a fixed tariff, which creates an inTurner completed work in 2010 on the Exelon City Solar centive for home builders to use solar energy. Project in Chicago, the home of electricity generator and distributor Exelon Corporation. Exelon City is the largest Our company helps fund solar energy research and develurban solar power plant in the USA, generating more than opment in areas such as net positive energy homes. In 2009, 14,000 megawatt-hours a year—enough to power some this included sponsoring a student team from Darmstadt 1,500 homes. The project involved installing over 32,000 Technical University taking part in the Solar Decathlon for photovoltaic panels on a 166,000-square-meter brownthe second time. The international collegiate tournament field site. John Holland, an Australian subsidiary, secured organized by the US Department of Energy challenged the contract from the state government as part of a conbudding architects to build an energy self-sufficient home sortium to conduct a feasibility study for construction of conceived for the year 2015. One of the winning features the 150-megawatt Solar Flair generating plant. The facility of the Darmstadt team’s surPLUShome was its exceptionis slated for completion by 2014 in Chinchilla, Queensland. al energy balance, with the net positive energy home designed for a family of two generating twice as much energy as it used. 44 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Upsurge in geothermal energy Extending and transforming the energy Power generation from geothermal energy is growing dy­infrastructure namically worldwide. Germany’s geothermal capacity has Expanding renewable energy and the corresponding infradoubled in the past 20 years to over 10,700 megawatts, and structure is a fundamental challenge in Germany and the by 2015 the country is expected to generate 18,500 megarest of Europe for policymakers, industry, and society alike. watts of electricity from geothermal sources. HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF can contribute significantly in this expansion is well established in this segment with its subsidiaries process. We aim to position ourselves in this segment as HOCHTIEF Solutions and HOCHTIEF Concessions. A partners to government and business. We are already esdedicated company, Süddeutsche Geothermie-Projekte tablished as innovation leaders and holders of expertise in GmbH (SGG), was launched with a number of partners at a number of areas—an example being offshore wind power. the end of 2007. SGG develops what are known as hydroWe also field expertise and many years of project experithermal power plants. These pump water at 130°C from ence in the development and construction of smart grids some 4,000 meters below ground. In the surface power and new energy storage systems.* In this way, we help en*For further information, please see page 18 onwards. plant, the water transfers its heat to a medium with a lower sure that renewables-generated electricity can be supplied boiling point. The medium vaporizes and drives turbines reliably and economically in line with demand. We expect that generate electricity. The residual heat can be used for to see considerable investment here in the years ahead. At a district heating network. SGG has successfully completed the beginning of 2010, HOCHTIEF became a founding drilling work on the deep boreholes for two geothermal member of the Friends of the Supergrid initiative, a Euwww.friendsofthesupergrid.eu power plants at Dürrnhaar and Kirchstockach in southern ropean business lobby whose aims include promoting deGermany. The next step is to develop these boreholes, velopment of the power transmission grid for the North known as doublets, into power plants. In a first for Germany, Sea. we have been able to arrange project finance for the Dürrnhaar plant. Under contract to SGG, HOCHTIEF Energy Effective energy storage and supply Management is now in charge of designing and building Pumped storage power plants are one technology where the plant as well as operating it for ten years. Construction we see major potential. Pumped storage is a highly efficient of the geothermal power plant began in January 2011. On energy storage system that has been proven on an induscompletion in 2012, the Dürrnhaar power plant will have an trial scale. When energy demand is low, water is pumped output of some 5.5 megawatts for an annual generating from a lower to an upper reservoir. At peak load times, capacity of over 46,000 megawatt-hours. water is then allowed to flow back down to generate hydroelectric power. Large pumped storage power plants are Harvesting growth in biomass only rarely approved, however, and there are consequently We are also in the business of operating and managing biohardly any such systems in Germany. HOCHTIEF is theregas generators. In 2011, we succeeded in signing a ten-year fore pursuing the idea of building and operating small to operation and management agreement for a biomethane medium-sized local pumped storage power plants at approgenerator. The owner and operator of the generator is a priate sites. To this end, we can draw on our globally acspecial-purpose investment fund. On behalf of the fund, cumulated expertise in constructing dams and hydroelecour experts at HOCHTIEF Energy Management are in charge tric power stations. of operational management of the plant, which generates synthetic natural gas (biomethane). The biomethane genAnother storage medium of the future may be hollow spheres erator is supplied by farms in the immediate vicinity. After installed on the sea floor and used to store wind and solar substantial refinement, the biogas generated is fed into the power. These exploit the pressure differential between the existing local natural gas network. Operating and managwater surface and the sea bottom to drive pump turbines ing technologically complex and sophisticated plant in the like those on a pumped storage power plant. Preliminary environmental sector is an attractive new area of business research on this innovative technology is being conducted for HOCHTIEF Energy Management. at HOCHTIEF. Sustainability Report 2011 45 A further HOCHTIEF innovation: The SurFace system delivers major safety and efficiency gains in surface decontamination. The system consists of a tool head, guide system, and powerful suction unit (photo left). Compelling resource conservation: HOCHTIEF supplies surface materials manu­ facturers Benecke-Kaliko with services including process energy, heat, cooling water, and compressed air. Running and energy costs have been cut substantially since the contract started. Carbon emissions have also been reduced by about 4,000 metric tons a year. A lack of power transmission capacity can be made up for an environmentally friendly facade and surface improvement with power tunnels. These subterranean energy superhightechnology in renovation and similar work. ways are an effective, technically and environmentally viable alternative to direct buried cable and, in HOCHTIEF’s view, Energy management a growing success factor can be an important feature of sustainable grid infrastrucAlongside the expansion of renewables, energy efficiency ture. As tunnel builders with decades of experience, we and energy economy also hold major potential in counterhave the requisite knowledge to construct power transing climate change. Cooling, heating, and running buildings mission tunnels of this kind. accounts for over 30 percent of Germany’s total carbon emissions. In an April 2011 position paper, the German www.baumev.de Safe nuclear decommissioning Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M.) Germany’s decision to phase out nuclear power will drive published a statistic estimating the overall potential for increasing demand in the years ahead for companies with saving electricity across Germany at 93.6 billion kilowattexpertise in decommissioning nuclear facilities. HOCHTIEF hours by 2016. B.A.U.M. also computed the outlay needed has relevant experience from building and maintaining nuto achieve this reduction: roughly EUR 42 billion, most of clear power stations. Services include custom-tailored dewhich can be recovered from cost savings. commissioning plans, approval and execution planning, and the performance of all forms of decommissioning work. HOCHTIEF Energy Management GmbH, a subsidiary of We have over 150 occupationally exposed employees from HOCHTIEF Solutions AG, concentrates on the growing all walks of the construction profession to carry out work energy efficiency segment. With a 300-strong workforce of this kind. An example is Stade nuclear power station, around Germany, the company is among the leaders in where we undertook the dismantling of the reactor shield energy management and energy contracting services. The and pool bottom from 2010 to 2011. The work included growth prospects are strong. Sectoral associations forepreparing the planning documentation, dismantling into cast a further marked rise in sales for the German energy segments, transporting the segments off site, and packing contracting market in the next few years. them ready for final disposal. Energy contracting lets HOCHTIEF generate measurable HOCHTIEF SurFace is our proven large-scale system for added value for clients: Using a range of different models, dust-free surface stripping in nuclear power facilities and we help clients cut operating costs, run energy systems buildings. Applications include decontamination of nuclear more efficiently, and reduce carbon emissions. We achieve and chemical facilities as well as refurbishment of water this by designing and implementing efficient solutions as treatment ponds. HOCHTIEF SurFace can also be used as well as by continuously monitoring system status and en46 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance ergy consumption. As the contractor, HOCHTIEF shoulders Spotlight on energy management at HOCHTIEF the efficiency risk. The examples that follow show how, in various areas, HOCHTIEF Energy Management helps save energy and In full service contracting, we also add technical and infracombat climate change. structure services, offering clients all features of standard contracting plus additional services for production locaDairy energy supply improved tions and properties. We have served the Heideblume dairy in Elsdorf-Rotenburg, Lower Saxony, as energy contractors for some Keeping energy costs predictable years. November 2010 brought a 15-year contract re­ In energy supply contracting, HOCHTIEF optimizes a client’s newal. HOCHTIEF Energy Management has made various systems and also directly supplies the required process changes, such as building and operating a new central enenergy and media. We guarantee savings for clients in the ergy plant. This centers on a combined heat, cooling, and form of competitive process energy and media prices. As power (CHCP) unit to supply electricity and process media part of the service, we carry out all necessary changes and like steam and refrigerant. We also installed an efficient comsecure reliable and efficient long-term energy supplies. pressed air generator. A state-of-the-art absorption refrigOur success speaks for itself: In 2010 alone, HOCHTIEF eration system provides exceptionally eco-friendly cooling Energy Management saved over 100,000 metric tons of for the dairy’s new logistics center. In total, HOCHTIEF’s carbon emissions on behalf of clients.* experts cut carbon emissions from the dairy by more than *Source of carbon conversion factors at HOCHTIEF 3,700 metric tons in 2009. Our activities have won dual Energy Management: gemis In early 2011, our company obtained DIN EN 16001 certifiacclaim: Early in 2011, the project was recognized by the 4.6 cation for its energy management system at five locations German environment ministry in the “climate-friendly use in Germany. The quality of all energy-related processes of refrigeration in food production” category of the 3rd Gerand structures within HOCHTIEF Energy Management was man Refrigeration Awards. The German Energy Agency analyzed and confirmed by independent auditors for the (dena) also accorded us its energy efficiency good pracpurpose. The certification affirms that our system makes tice label for energy contracting. energy flows transparent and verifiable, and continuously records, analyzes, and evaluates the related data. AddiAward-winning theater lighting system** **For further information, please see pages 38 and 39. tional locations are to be certified before the end of 2011. Theatrical lighting that is effective and economical at the same time has long seemed a hard act to pull off, but HOCHTIEF Energy Management has done just that with Energy efficiency stands out kicks in when the temperature out• Global warming potential (life-cycle Climate protection asamong winning features of the side drops below a set threshold. basis): The reduced energy needs pects of Nordex Forum Nordex Forum office building • Total primary energy consumption: and large renewables share give constructed by HOCHTIEF: Primary energy consumption underNordex Forum a global warming • Energy strategy: The goal was to cuts the level laid down in the Energy potential of 36.9 kg CO2 /m2 net floor create a building that uses minimum Saving Ordinance by 21 percent. area—29 percent better than comenergy and gets most of what it Factors here include the efficient parable buildings. The calculation does need from renewables. This is outer skin, optimum daylight use, takes into account construction of achieved with an ultra-efficient outer and innovative building systems. the building, its operation for 50 skin boasting a transmission heat • Renewables share: The large renewyears, and demolition at the end of loss some 50 percent better than able energy share is attained using its useful life. required by the German Energy air-water heat pumps. Geothermal Saving Ordinance (EnEV). The outer probes were ruled out because of skin also lets maximum daylight into groundwater issues. The average the interior to save on electricity for outdoor temperatures and heat pump lighting. At outdoor temperatures performance data result in a renewabove freezing, heat is supplied by ables share of about 35 percent of two heat pumps. A boiler system heat energy. Sustainability Report 2011 47 Banking on energy efficiency: Stuttgart’s Südwestbank secures energy savings with cutting-edge lighting and by Foto: xxxxxx making cooling and air conditioning run more efficiently—with the help of energy experts from HOCHTIEF Solutions. an acclaimed lighting system at the Staatstheater in Han­ supply. This success prompted the automotive supplier to over. We met this challenge by replacing conventional renew the contract in 2010 for a further five years. bulbs with 5,000 LEDs and improving the control rig. The outcome was up to 80 percent lower energy costs for Multipurpose arena to save EUR 250,000 lighting. At the same opportunity, HOCHTIEF’s experts imHOCHTIEF is heat supply contractor to O2 World Hamburg proved the building systems to reduce carbon emissions for the period 2011 to 2021. For the duration of the conby more than 2,800 metric tons in 2010. HOCHTIEF was tract, we will reduce heating costs from current levels by accoladed for the project in September 2010 with a Euroten percent a year. This corresponds to total savings of pean Energy Service Award in the lighting category. some EUR 250,000. The savings are achieved by installing a heat pump, which HOCHTIEF also operates. The heat Bank saves over EUR 100,000 in energy costs pump boosts waste heat from an ice rink chiller to tempera­ We took on energy performance contracting for the headtures usable for heating. quarters of Südwestbank in Stuttgart at the end of 2009 and cut costs there in 2010 by EUR 108,000—a saving Improving hospital energy supplies over 100 percent greater than pledged. The HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Energy Management is to reduce annual energy Solutions energy experts also reduced carbon emissions costs at the Krankenhaus vom Roten Kreuz hospital in in 2010 by about 270 metric tons. This success was partly Stuttgart by some 30 percent between 2011 and 2018 and down to LED tubes, which are used in place of about 1,000 carbon emissions by approximately 500 metric tons a year. fluorescent tubes and consume only about half the power. We have various plans for achieving these targets, including Operation of cooling and air conditioning systems as well a condensing boiler for hot water and an improved, centrally as the use of district heat were also better calibrated to managed, HOCHTIEF-monitored building control system. actual needs for further energy efficiency gains. The project’s energy efficiency has spurred the 110-bed hospital to apply for low-energy hospital certification from Automotive supplier contract renewed BUND (Friends of the Earth Germany). Ever since 2001, HOCHTIEF Energy Management has supplied the Continental factory in Hanover with energy such Berlin’s Bethel hospital likewise aims to secure BUND ceras electricity and process media such as steam, comtification. This involves cutting carbon emissions by 600 pressed air, and water. We have since cut energy costs by metric tons a year and energy costs by over EUR 110,000 about 2.6 percent a year. Carbon emissions were reduced a year. HOCHTIEF will help achieve these savings as energy by about 22,000 metric tons in 2009 alone. In the course contractor. Our action package includes replacing heating of the working relationship, we have continuously modernfacilities and the central cooling plant, plus installing lowized supply systems and networks. In running the energy energy lighting and advanced swimming pool systems. systems, HOCHTIEF guarantees maximum security of 48 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Going green: Berlin’s Bethel hospital aims to excel in energy efficiency as it does in medicine. The new systems needed to achieve the energy savings are managed and controlled online by HOCHTIEF. Berlin State energy economy drive European-level action on climate change Energy managers from HOCHTIEF Solutions have been in In June 2009, one of our airport holdings, Athens Internacharge of energy performance contracting for 18 propertional Airport, supported Airport Council International in ties belonging to the State of Berlin since 2009. The conlaunching the Airport Carbon Accreditation Scheme. The tract runs for ten years. We are improving energy supplies 40-plus participating European airports have volunteered at properties including the Red Town Hall, inland revenue to invest in tackling climate change and cutting carbon offices, and court buildings. Part of the contract entails inemissions. In the four-stage accreditation process, an airstalling modern heating and boiler systems. HOCHTIEF port’s carbon footprint is measured, targets are laid down also supplies the properties with energy from six new for carbon reductions, and an action plan is drawn up to combined heat and power (CHP) plants. For the lifetime of implement improvements. HOCHTIEF Concessions acthe contract, we are in charge of system maintenance and tively supports its airport holdings and others in this procontrolling as well as monitoring efficient system operacess. tion. In total, we aim to save EUR 4.5 million and avoid 22,000 metric tons of carbon emissions. The carbon footMultiple energy efficiency activities print was reduced by over 2,800 metric tons in the first 2010 saw Düsseldorf International Airport install two new year of the working relationship alone. combined heat and power (CHP) plants. With a capacity just short of two megawatts, these can generate some 15 Proactive climate change policies for airports million kilowatt-hours of electricity a year. This is about ten Action on climate change and energy efficiency are special percent of total energy consumption at the airport, the priorities for our airport holdings as well. HOCHTIEF has largest in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The new an excellence team dedicated to sustainable airport opera­ CHP plants also save around 8,500 metric tons of carbon tion. Our experts advise our own airports and others on emissions a year. Likewise in 2010, Hamburg International energy supply and savings, helping them cut costs and Airport added two new buses, taking the number of natufurther set themselves apart from rivals in terms of sustainral gas-powered vehicles in its fleet up to 45. The vehicles ability. HOCHTIEF Concessions pools these capabilities in run entirely on natural gas, avoiding about 65 percent of a Sustainable Airports service package. The approach also the carbon emissions put out by conventionally fueled includes advising clients on the use of renewable energy equivalents. Our Hamburg airport holding also joined forces sources—where possible right from the design phase. with a number of partners at the beginning of 2011 in a regional climate campaign in which passengers voluntarily make a small contribution to offsetting carbon emissions from their flights. The money is invested in projects to cut greenhouse gas emissions and counter the climate impact of aviation. Sustainability Report 2011 49 Addressing climate change within the HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF stages climate day Group As part of our climate protection campaign, which aims to As a company committed to sustainability objectives, we cut internal energy and fuel consumption in Germany by not only attach high priority to addressing climate change five percent and business travel by 2.5 percent by the end in our projects and services. We also act on climate change of 2011, we staged our first climate day in November 2009. in numerous ways within the Group. The diverse program included expert presentations, information booths at our main German locations, and fuel Carbon offsetting economy training for drivers. An additional theme was perHOCHTIEF generates carbon emissions in the publication sonal climate awareness. To save fuel costs for travel to of various print products. An example is the HOCHTIEF and from the climate day and limit emissions to a minimum, Annual Report 2010 which, with a print run of 14,000 copwe broadcast the presentations on the HOCHTIEF inies, resulted in emissions totaling 33 metric tons of carbon tranet. equivalent (a measure of how much the greenhouse gas emissions concerned contribute to the greenhouse effect). Turner improves office workflows and processes HOCHTIEF offset these emissions by investing in the YuntOur American subsidiary is the number one green builder dag Wind Power project—a Gold Standard carbon reducin the USA. Turner also works to further integrate sustaintion project—and received certification of the emission reability into day-to-day construction site and office workwww.firstclimate.com ductions from the First Climate AG emissions trading flows. This has led to a Green Workplace Checklist featuragency. We also offset the carbon equivalent of emissions ing ideas and changes that staff can implement on the from printing quarterly and sustainability reports. At the ground to boost energy efficiency, reduce occupational beginning of 2011, our sustainability excellence team offaccidents, and shrink the environmental footprint of work set the carbon emissions generated by its meetings in the activities. Each Turner construction site and office is called preceding year by planting a linden tree in the main city upon to supplement the checklist and explain action alpark in Essen. Offsetting is similarly planned for future meetready taken. ings. There are also plans to make all business rail travel in Germany climate-neutral. Offsetting projects are currently Leighton Contractors boosts energy efficiency being identified for this purpose. In its Energy Efficiency Opportunities Report 2010, the subsidiary of our majority-held Australian company Leighton Green mobility for facility managers presented action it is taking to minimize the corporate enIn summer 2010, the vehicle fleet used by facility managevironmental footprint. The report includes a presentation ment experts at HOCHTIEF Solutions gained its first elecof solutions to help save lighting costs. In Australian mine tric car. The service vehicle has a range of between 100 camps and road building work, for example, the company and 140 kilometers. This makes HOCHTIEF Solutions one uses LED lighting to consume 75 percent less energy than of the first German companies in facility management to before. With Green Office Management Plans, Leighton adopt electromobility. Our Karlsruhe project team of facility Contractors aims to identify and implement opportunities management specialists keep fit while doing a good turn to improve energy use, waste management, recycling and for the climate by using twelve company bicycles between consumption of materials in all work sites, business premsites on the Siemens Karlsruhe industrial park. As an added ises, and staff homes. The company also reports on a benefit, the bikes save the time and trouble it takes to look day-long training course for plant and equipment operafor parking spaces. tors with the aim of maximizing fuel efficiency and lower emissions. The two pilot events showed 24 and 16 percent improvements in fuel efficiency respectively. 50 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Key figures Greenhouse gas emissions*: Germany The key figures shown relate to the energy consumption 45,000 and carbon emissions of the main corporate units in Ger40,000 K Indirect emissions many, Europe, the USA, and Australia. The German and 35,000 K Direct emissions European data is estimated from material-specific cost 30,000 types assuming average prices. 25,000 20,000 Energy consumption levels and the greenhouse gas emis15,000 sions inferred from them directly depend on the nature and 10,000 scale of the projects in progress. A tunneling project with 5,000 a tunnel boring machine, for example, generates far greater 0 2008 2009 2010 indirect carbon emissions than a building construction site or a facility management project. The trend in the key figGreenhouse gas emissions*: Europe (except Germany) ures therefore indicates very little as regards actual climate 60,000 K Indirect emissions protection activity. K Direct emissions 50,000 All HOCHTIEF units (including HOCHTIEF-led joint ventures) in the 40,000 ­following countries are included in the data: 30,000 Australia (Leighton Holdings) Austria 20,000 Czech Republic 10,000 Germany Greece 0 2008 2009 2010 Hungary Luxembourg Greenhouse gas emissions*: Turner USA Poland 16,000 UK 14,000 K Indirect USA (Turner Construction) emissions 12,000 KD  irect emissions 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2008 2009 2010 Greenhouse gas emissions*: Leighton Australia 900,000 800,000 K Indirect emissions K Direct emissions 700,000 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 *Metric tons of carbon equivalent. 200,000 Source for carbon conversion factors: GHG Protocol tool for 100,000 stationary combustion Version 0 4.0 2008/2009 2009/2010 Sustainability Report 2011 51 Active climate protection Our overarching objective: We a i m t o s a v e c a r b o n e m i s s i o n s t o g e t h e r w i t h o u r c l i e n t s . Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Cut company carbon emissions in Status December 2010: Germany by 5 percent by end of 2011 6.5 percent cut in carbon emissions (2008 base year) from vehicle fleet 3 percent (absolute) cut in German office electricity consumption Switch major office locations in GerApprox. 5,300 MWh of green power many fully over to green power and inpurchased in 2010 clude additional locations Cut business travel kilometers by 2.5 Status December 2010: Business percent by end of 2011 (2008 base travel kilometers reduced by 17 perCut carbon emissions year); increase use of web and video cent per employee per year conferences Turner: Cut company carbon emisStatus December 2010: 3.4 percent sions by 5 percent by end of 2011 cut in carbon emissions (2006 base year) Implement energy efficiency initiatives 2010: Thiess and Leighton Contracin projects at Thiess and Leighton tors publish latest Energy Efficiency Contractors in Australia Reports Adopt new climate change mitigation Conceptual planning to start in 2011 targets Group-wide Offset carbon emissions from rail Suitable offsetting projects currently travel in Germany being identified Offset carbon emissions from printed Total of over 130 metric tons of carOffset carbon emissions publications produced by Corporate bon emissions offset with certified Headquarters wind power project Offer carbon-neutral construction Pilot project launched and operation Increase share of Further expand energy contracting 2010: 105,000 metric tons of carbon energy-efficient services business emissions saved for clients Add to service portfolio spanning life Orders secured for two new offshore cycle of offshore wind power installaprojects; building of “Innovation” jacktions up vessel on schedule (completion due mid-2012); construction of addiDevelop and expand wind energy tional vessel planned business models Push ahead innovation and research Innovative foundation emplacement in offshore segment method for wind turbines developed with Herrenknecht 52 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Develop and expand hydropower Bid for hydropower projects Hydroelectric power station in Chile business models due for completion in September 2011; further hydropower project started in Peru Develop and expand geothermal Develop and build geothermal power Dürrnhaar geothermal power plant ­energy business models plants designed, built, and operated by HOCHTIEF Energy Management; ­further project in development Build pumped storage power plants Business plan compiled with outputs up to 100 megawatts Develop and expand energy infraDesign, build, and operate buried Business plan compiled structure and storage business ­cable and power tunnels ­models Participate and initiate research into First research project started on new storage technologies ­hollow spheres on sea floor Develop and expand nuclear power Deploy HOCHTIEF technologies for Three decommissioning projects in plant decommissioning business decommissioning of nuclear power progress in Germany models plants Sustainability Report 2011 53 Area 3 Resource protection 54 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance We make a mark—by bringing nature back to landscapes. The landscaping along the new and upgraded stretch of the A4 highway near Eisenach is literally in their hands: HOCHTIEF employees Mandy Prager and ­Alexander Maul from concession company Via Solutions Thüringen are working on the extensive job of greening this stretch of highway and adjacent areas. Even during the construction phase, road builders and environmentalists cooperated closely, and now the area is being renaturalized. Notably in large-scale projects, our work is not done when construction is finished. We consider it vital to return the land and living spaces to their original state. In all of our projects, we aim to conserve and preserve natural resources. Area 3 Resource protection The challenge: Construction projects require a identifying the effects of our actions on the environment huge amount of materials; they use and largely early on and keeping these to a minimum. seal off whole areas of land, and produce considerable amounts of waste. Resource protection is To do so, we follow a directive in force throughout the therefore of particular importance to HOCHTIEF. Group since 2003 formulating our environmental and ­occupational safety policies. More than 60 percent of Our objective: We aim to conserve natural resources HOCHTIEF’s corporate units are certified according to and optimize the use of resources. the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. For many projects, we develop tailored environmental proActive environmental protection is a key component of all tection plans that integrate innovative ideas from our of HOCHTIEF’s projects and activities, both in Germany company. and in all other countries where we do business the world over. We consider it important that our employees develop High standards for infrastructure projects an in-depth understanding of ecology, so we continually Large-scale projects involving road, tunnel, or bridge provide education on this topic. The experts at HOCHTIEF construction in particular sometimes require substantial know how to conserve resources and what green buildintrusion into the environment as well as affecting the ing means in practice. We have set ourselves the goal of people living in the vicinity. We consider it our duty to Resource protection In building the Nordex Forum, Hamburg-Ochsenzoll hospital in a can be returned to the materials at Nordex Forum HOCHTIEF paid close attention location formerly used as a helicopcycle. Doing so requires accurate to resource protection and ter landing pad and sports field. The sorting of materials by type during planned the structure to ensure existing transportation and operatdismantling and extraction of highlow levels of resource consumping space of the facility was “recyquality recyclable materials from tion during operation as well. cled” for the Nordex Forum so that each building. The Nordex Forum • Sustainably sourced wood: no previously uncovered land had meets these requirements thanks HOCHTIEF used wood exclusively to be surfaced. to its facade, interior fittings, and from sustainably managed forests • Efficient use of space: Since the technical systems, which were dein building the Nordex Forum. These space in the Nordex Forum is used signed to be easily dismantled. The products included doors, room dioptimally and the proportion of difbuilding’s high green-building stand­ viding walls, and window sills that ficult-to-use space is low, HOCHTIEF ards and virtually complete avoidmeet Forest Stewardship Council was able to lower the relative conance of pollutants also lower the (FSC) and Programme for the Enstruction and operating costs. The quantity of waste requiring disposal. dorsement of Forest Certification environmental impact of the build• Water: The building consumes Schemes (PEFC) criteria. ing’s operation was also mitigated 7,308 cubic meters of water per • Waste management in the conas a result, because the scope of year. Rainwater is collected and struction process: Those particithe required heating, ventilation, used to flush toilets, and most surpating in the construction process and air conditioning systems is replus water is absorbed into the were trained specifically to avoid duced. The space efficiency factor, ground on-site. This saves drinking producing waste. HOCHTIEF monii.e., the ratio of usable space to water and reduces the amount of tored and documented materials gross floor area, is 0.68. waste water produced. sorting during the entire construc• Ease of disassembly/recycling: tion process. How readily a building can be dis• L and use: The Nordex Forum was assembled and recycled largely built on the former premises of depends on using materials that 56 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Formerly a hospital complex, now an urban development: The property previously housing Allgemeines Krankenhaus Barmbek in Hamburg is currently being converted into a new urban neighborhood. It features a mix of apartments in the revitalized historical buildings along with modern, new structures for commercial use and housing retail and service companies (photo left). Taking a river’s pulse: The ­Pineios River, which flows through the region where our Maliakos-Kleidi highway project is situated, ranks among the most important wetlands in Greece. This is why we continually monitored its water quality during the construction period. take appropriate measures before construction work High standards for airports even begins to reduce interference with flora and fauna The issue of environmental protection is also highly priori­ to a minimum and to eliminate or minimize disturbances tized in all activities at HOCHTIEF’s airport holdings, into the local population wherever possible. Often, the land cluding the use of eco-friendly and resource-conserving on which HOCHTIEF builds is renaturalized or compentechnologies and planning projects to make optimum use satory measures are taken after construction work is of the space available. In this way, our experts help aircompleted. ports conserve the available resources while also lowering energy consumption. Our focus here is on the workGovernmental requirements for PPP projects ing environment of employees as well as the quality of life Construction companies are required to submit extensive of the people living adjacent to the airports. For this reaenvironmental and resource protection plans, particularly son, we support a number of voluntary noise abatement when tendering for public-sector infrastructure projects. initiatives, such as those at the airports in Budapest, A case in point is the expansion of the A8 expressway Düsseldorf, and Hamburg, along with the use of lowbetween Ulm and Augsburg under a public-private partnoise aircraft and machines. nership (PPP) contract. In this case, the government agencies involved evaluated our documents based on various Working together for improved sustainability state and federal laws—from the Bavarian Soil Protection The Australian Green Infrastructure Council (AGIC) www.agic.net.au Act to the Habitats Directive. The authorities were impressed was founded in 2008 by a group of engineering, environby our measures to protect nature, shape the landscape, mental and planning, financial and construction-industry prevent emissions of pollutants, promote an animal-friendly companies and institutions with the goal of promoting environment, and reuse demolished or removed materials, sustainability during the entire life cycle of Australian inas well as our efforts to rehabilitate the environment or frastructure projects. The Council additionally aims to decompensate for environmental impacts. We fulfilled simivelop sustainability rankings and standards. Leighton’s larly stringent governmental requirements in the project to subsidiary Thiess is among the founding members of the build a new and expand an existing stretch of the Maliakosindustry group, and Leighton Contractors and John Holland Kleidi highway in Greece. These efforts entailed continually are also on its membership rolls. measuring construction site noise, managing waste efficiently, ensuring the minimal use of natural resources during Systematic waste management the construction phase, and appropriately handling archaeo­ Reducing garbage to a minimum and subsequently relogical finds along the stretch of highway we worked on. turning waste materials to the economic cycle is a primary component of our environmental activities. This is why at HOCHTIEF we sort all garbage by type on construction sites as well as in our offices. The waste recycling rate of Sustainability Report 2011 57 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Bild muss bestellt werden Waste management specialists in demand: At Luft­ hansa Technik in Hamburg, HOCHTIEF Solution’s facility managers select appropriate waste disposal facilities and ensure professional disposal and recycling of waste, some of it containing hazardous substances. our projects worldwide significantly outperforms the naOur US subsidiary Flatiron won the contract to replace the tional average in each country. In Germany, for example, deck of the Grand Avenue pedestrian bridge in the Glenour recycling rate is approximately 90 percent. Our US wood Springs area, Colorado, in 2010. One of the main subsidiary Turner recycled around 220,000 metric tons of reasons was an alternative proposal for an innovative storgarbage in 2010, equal to a share of 82 percent. In green age system for construction waste. This prevents construcbuilding projects, up to 90 percent of construction waste tion waste from entering particularly sensitive environments is recycled, while in infrastructure projects, HOCHTIEF deduring the construction work. velops plans at an early stage to keep quantities of excavation materials to a minimum and to reuse them where All of HOCHTIEF’s airport holdings have developed and possible. For instance, we use material excavated during implemented their own high standards for sorting waste. tunnel construction to produce concrete for road and path For instance, Budapest Airport is aiming for a recycling building projects. rate of 60 percent in the coming years, a figure exceeding the average recycling rate in Hungary by around tenfold. Some examples of the systematic approach to waste By the end of 2010, the airport had already hit 40 percent. management within the Group follow. For more than five years now, our subsidiary HOCHTIEF Polska has been Although the issue of recycling is not as firmly rooted in the sorting waste materials from construction sites and office Gulf region as in Europe, for instance, HOCHTIEF is actively buildings. Reusable materials, such as wood and scrap iron, promoting resource protection in the construction of Barwa are recycled. In addition, the company prepares detailed Commercial Avenue in Doha, the capital of Qatar. An exoverviews of the waste produced and monitors the disposal ample of these efforts is the sorting of paper waste at the activities of subcontractors. Timely, detailed planning of the eight-kilometer-plus construction site. Each month, approxiquantities of materials needed for projects also helps reduce mately 13,000 people generate more than one metric ton the amount of garbage generated. Moreover, HOCHTIEF of waste paper here which is returned to the materials cycle. Polska requires subcontractors to take back packaging materials. Waste management as a service In the HOCHTIEF Group, we have numerous waste disIn 2010, HOCHTIEF (UK) Construction exceeded its selfposal and recycling specialists. The HOCHTIEF Solutions defined goal and recycled more than 80 percent of its subsidiary Streif Baulogistik is one unit that prepares waste construction waste. In building the Newhaven incinerator, disposal plans for construction sites, calculates waste quanfor example, the company disposed of and recycled around tities and costs, assists clients in awarding contracts for 10,000 cubic meters of contaminated soil. disposal services or itself handles the disposal of all waste generated as well as accurately sorting garbage by type. During building of the new corporate headquarters of 58 Sustainability Report 2011 GNS Gesellschaft für Nuklear-Service in Essen, nearly 200 metric tons, or over 85 percent, of the trash generated at Stakeholders the construction site was sent directly for recycling. have their say Public/NGO The facility management experts at HOCHTIEF Solutions also handle waste management for their clients with a focus on environmental protection, hazardous materials as well as proper disposal and recycling of waste. As a certified specialist in garbage disposal, HOCHTIEF Solutions works for Lufthansa Technik in Hamburg, for instance, a company generating a broad range of hazardous wastes. HOCHTIEF Caspar von Blomberg, Managing Director, selects the appropriate disposal facilities after careful auditCarbon Disclosure Project Europe, ing. Since we are familiar with the client’s process chain, Berlin we can devise suitable and cost-efficient solutions. Why is transparent corporate water reporting important? Thiess Services, a subsidiary of our Australian Group comClimate change and population growth have an immense impact on the scope pany Thiess, is one of Australia’s leading waste manageand quality of water supply. The effects will be felt especially by the economy: ment service providers. The company’s knowledge of all Without systematic preparation to meet these challenges, the result could be serious aspects of waste management and technical equipment production and supply problems. Comprehensive, reliable, and comparable water make it possible to develop customized solutions along consumption data is therefore essential for risk assessment in the capital markets. the entire waste disposal chain for clients, both in Australia Water will be the factor separating the new corporate winners from the new corand abroad. In May 2010, Thiess Services Middle East porate losers, and investors must identify them early so that capital can be allobegan operating a processing plant in Abu Dhabi to recycle cated efficiently. Apart from that, companies must follow the same rules for water debris from construction and demolition projects, a conreporting as apply to climate reporting. The ones that recognize and address their tract that will run for 15 years. Concrete and asphalt are risks more promptly will also be more competitive, and reporting specifically helps first sorted and then crushed. Subsequently, the service with this process. provider uses the processed material to cover surfaces or as fill in new construction and infrastructure projects. The How important is water as a factor in risk assessment in corporations facility is the largest and most modern of its type in the today and in the future? Middle East. In Australia, Thiess Services now uses larger Despite the fact that as much as 86 percent of all of our reporting companies dump trucks to pick up and dispose of garbage which can anticipate water risks affecting their business model in the future, most of them transport over 40 percent more than conventional trucks. today are still at the very beginning of their learning curve. They lack the tools for These vehicles allow the company to save fuel and reduce systematic risk monitoring as well as those for measuring and managing water its carbon emissions by 800 metric tons per year. The usage. For many companies in particularly water-sensitive sectors, water risks Australian experts provide related information in their own will become very critical parameters in their risk management efforts. These showroom, where visitors can learn how to sort garbage companies face complex challenges arising from the broad regional differences correctly and which products can be recycled and which and specifics regarding the availability of water. cannot. What contribution to water issues can the construction industry make? Guaranteed water supply and quality The construction industry already plays a key role in overcoming water scarcity. Clean drinking water remains the most important substance Drinking water supply systems in some large European cities are quite antiquated for life, yet at the same time is becoming an increasingly and leak up to 30 percent of the water before it reaches consumers. And many scarce resource. A billion people around the world lack coastal cities around the world are threatened by rising sea levels due to climate access to clean drinking water today. HOCHTIEF is involved change. In addition to the physical impact on buildings and production facilities, in various projects that contribute to improving the supply this will also result in salinization of the groundwater, thereby endangering a vital of water to people and regions. This includes modernizing drinking water source for major cities. Smart, comprehensive infrastructure soluexisting water pipes and sewer systems, expanding the tions are required everywhere, and this is how the construction industry can help. water infrastructure, and building water treatment plants. Sustainability Report 2011 59 State-of-the-art technology: In Utah, Flatiron is helping to build a cutting-edge wastewater treatment plant (photo right). The contaminated groundwater is purified by using high pressure levels to force the water via various treatment trains through a semi-permeable membrane (see diagram below). Working worldwide to supply water In the Australian state of Victoria, drinking water stores In the region surrounding the city of Tábor in southern have shrunk considerably due to extreme droughts in the Bohemia, HOCHTIEF Solutions in the Czech Republic past. This is why the world’s most advanced seawater de­refurbished and expanded the water and waste water salination plant has been under construction there since system in a total of 23 construction phases, including reOctober 2009. Thiess is building this large-scale project in placing hydrants and installing a new main water supply a joint venture with another partner. Together, they will depump. To avoid impacting the historical old town center, sign and build the plant as well as operate and maintain it the company used a particularly gentle propulsion profor 30 years. In total, the project consists of 29 buildings cess for the tunneling and sewer system work. housing sorting, filtering, reverse osmosis, and other technical systems for making Pacific Ocean water drinkable. Semi-permeable membrane Our US subsidiary Flatiron is participating in a project to The plant is expected to produce up to 150 billion liters of build a cutting-edge groundwater treatment plant in West drinking water per year, or around one-third of the conPressure Jordan, Utah, by the end of 2011. This plant features a resumption of Melbourne, the second largest city in Austraverse osmosis process in which pressure is used to force lia. All facilities and pipelines will be powered exclusively water in three separate trains through a semi-permanent using renewable energies. In addition, a coastal park will Unfiltered Filtered membrane to filter contaminants out of the groundwater. be created around the plant with wetlands, swamps, and water water The process is exceptionally friendly to the environment woodlands providing new habitats for local flora and fauna. and resources because it uses no chemical substances. This is one of the largest ecological restoration projects in Once completed, the municipal facility will process more Victoria’s history. Reverse osmosis diagram than 29 million liters of water daily. Reverse osmosis diagram The desert state of Qatar is also investing in its drinking Leighton’s subsidiary John Holland is one of Australia’s water supply. Here, the Habtoor Leighton Group is comleading suppliers of water and wastewater infrastructure pleting two water supply networks by 2012. The contract services. Among the numerous projects finished or under includes the construction of two pumping stations and construction is the Mardi to Mangrove Link. In 2009, John around 16 kilometers of supply pipelines, as well as reserHolland was awarded the contract to further expand the voirs, buildings, and infrastructure. Mangrove Creek Dam into a water reservoir and, among other things, to erect an approximately 19-kilometer pipeWastewater disposal services line to nearby Mardi Dam. The project counts among the Alongside an adequate supply of drinking and recycled largest water infrastructure developments in the region water, an appropriately structured wastewater disposal since the 1980s and is a key element of the Water Plan system also plays an important role in the water cycle. 2050 which will help secure the water supply for the CenHOCHTIEF participates in various projects in this arena, tral Coast of New South Wales for the long term. such as the construction of sewage treatment plants. The 60 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Working for clean water: HOCHTIEF built a threestage sewage treatment plant in the Bulgarian city of Rousse. The facility treats the wastewater of more than 240,000 people, first roughly cleaning it mechani­ cally, then chemically, and finally biologically. Civil Engineering and Environmental unit is HOCHTIEF well as lifting and separation systems. The precipitation Solutions’ center of excellence for turnkey sewage plants. falling on the apron area and runways flows via clarifiers With their expertise, the unit’s specialists assist clients, into Kittelbach stream. Where de-icing agents are used, mostly municipalities, from development through financing the water is tested separately and, if the critical limit is exto construction and later operation of plants around the ceeded, transported to the city’s wastewater treatment world. We are currently working on projects in Romania, plant. Just like Düsseldorf International, Budapest Airport Bulgaria, and Germany. aims to improve the quality of the adjacent natural bodies of water and introduced a measurement and warning sysIn Australia, Leighton’s subsidiary John Holland has been tem in 2010. This system prevents contaminated water a partner to the city administration of Sydney in implementfrom flowing from the airport’s drainage canal into neighing extensive projects to modernize and expand the sewboring rivers and streams. Surface water flows are also age system in the region in a program running since 2002. directed into the airport’s canal network and only then into John Holland’s role is to build a total of five new pumping the surrounding waters if the quality is within the statutory stations and a good 90 kilometers of pipeline in the Upper parameters. In addition, our airport in Athens is introducBlue Mountains to which some 14,000 properties are coning a system of retention basins for surface run-off. nected. Upon completion of the project in 2011, some resi­dents will be linked to a modern sewage system for the Sydney Airport commissioned a wastewater treatment first time ever. plant at the end of 2009. In the first year alone, the plant was able to save the airport around 550,000 liters of fresh John Holland and Leighton Asia are participating in a joint drinking water per day. Instead, water recycled on-site is venture with another partner to build the world’s largest now used for flushing toilets and in the cooling towers of sludge incineration works to date in Hong Kong by 2013. the airport’s air conditioning units. Tirana International AirThe facility’s capacity will be approximately 2,000 metric port, HOCHTIEF’s airport holding in the Albanian capital, tons per day, and it will generate its own power. The project launched a wealth of activities in 2010 to reduce water conalso includes an environmental information center, gardens, sumption and prevent pollution of the nearby bodies of and a habitat for waterfowl. water. For instance, the airport is using fewer pesticides as well as introducing biodegradable aircraft cleaning supHOCHTIEF airports: Improved water infrastructure plies and de-icing agents. The environmental activities of our airport holdings also include treating the precious resource of water with care. For instance, Düsseldorf International operates a 120-kilometer drainage network with 2,900 wells, storm water sedimentation and retention basins, pumping stations as Sustainability Report 2011 61 Environmentally and resource-friendly coal mining in Indonesia: At the Senakin mine, Thiess is responsible for more than just excavating natural resources from the earth. As in many other projects, our Group company will subsequently rehabilitate the entire site. Renaturation in contract mining projects of this and, as early as the planning phase of construction With more than 60 years’ experience, HOCHTIEF has made projects, advocates maintaining biodiversity in the areas a solid name for itself as the world’s leading contract miner surrounding its projects. We develop customized environthanks to Australian subsidiary Leighton and the companies mental strategies to minimize the impact of our construction in its portfolio. We excavate more than 100 million metric projects on nature. Moreover, as a responsible corporate tons of resources each year in Asia and Australia on behalf citizen, we renature the affected land in many projects, of mine owners. In doing so, we put special emphasis on thereby protecting the local flora and fauna. efficient and environmentally friendly mining. Continual monitoring of the situation in the mines and the mining processes In September 2010, Germany’s Federal Minister of Transis standard procedure. Our mining specialists take various port opened the remaining stretches of the new, expanded *For further information, measures that aim to minimize the environmental effects A4 highway, known as the Hörselberge bypass*, to traffic. please see pages 54 and 55. of mining and improve the carbon footprint of projects, such Our subsidiary HOCHTIEF Concessions built the publicas using fuel-efficient machines or solar panels to generate private partnership project along with a joint venture partpower. In addition, we subsequently provide renaturation ner and will operate the bypass for 30 years. Immediately services. after the 22.5-kilometer stretch of new highway was finished, the operating company Via Solutions Thüringen In one case, Leighton subsidiary Thiess was awarded a began to shape the landscape directly adjacent to the new coal mining contract at Meandu Mine in the South Burnett route and near the highway section, thus helping to offset region of Australia. The company devised an environmenthe new construction by rehabilitating the local ecology tal management system tailored to the requirements of and landscape. Over 80,000 bushes, more than 8,000 the project in accordance with ISO 14001 guidelines. After saplings and nearly 450 full-grown trees were planted on mining ends, all affected land will be rehabilitated back to center medians, road embankments, ditches, and shoulthe condition of the local ecosystem. ders. Three valley bridges and numerous crossings for small animals provide the Hörselberge bypass with much Maintaining biodiversity and habitats better ecological permeability than the old route. In addiBiodiversity is the foundation for key industrial production tion, re-routing the A4 created a link between biotopes processes and the human environment. Society, the political which contributed significantly to reconnecting Hainich sphere, and the economy require continuously available National Park with the Thuringian Forest. ecosystems and genetic resources with their balancing effect. Using biological resources sustainably helps mainOur Australian majority interest Leighton received “Project tain the quality of habitats and therefore ensures that conof the Year” honors at the Infrastructure Partnerships Ausditions are in place for human health. So resource protectralia Awards in 2011 as the member of a joint venture. The tion is not just about the environment. HOCHTIEF is aware prize was awarded for the Gateway project expanding a 62 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance highway in Queensland. The contract entailed refurbishing Making space usable the existing bridge, constructing a second overpass and a In Australia, Thiess Services has become established as seven-kilometer, six-lane stretch of highway as well as upthe top company in remediating contaminated areas. The grading 16 kilometers of the existing road. The project was company has provided this service since 1984. Since also recognized for the environmental solutions implementthen, more than 70 large-scale remediation projects have ed. For instance, the joint venture identified a species of been completed, including properties used by chemical endangered plant on the construction site before building and industrial companies, oiland gas-producing facilities, began, acted to preserve the plant and then subsequently military installations, and landfills. A current example is a replanted it in its former habitat. Moreover, an 18-kilometer project undertaken by Thiess Services to clean the sedifence and three underpasses protect and allow for the ment layers of a section of the south arm of the Hunter mobility of the animals in the area. River in New South Wales, directly adjacent to a former steelworks, by 2012. The subsidiary of our Australian inBefore construction started on the Chevez hydroelectric vestee Thiess built the necessary facilities and is properly power plant in the Andes, government agencies and disposing of the contaminants. HOCHTIEF Solutions’ clients requested an across-the-board environmental protection plan. The first step was to prepare Reducing land use to a minimum an overview of the plants in the region facing extinction and One of HOCHTIEF’s goals is to build new properties and requiring protection. These are safeguarded during the confacilities while using as little land as possible. In addition, struction work and later replanted in their original environwe have had great success in rehabilitating brownfields ment. The performance standards are particularly stringent and closing existing construction gaps. Our specialists from since the World Bank’s International Finance Corporation is various fields apply their expertise to revitalizing existing partially financing the project. The objective of the various buildings. We devise sustainable plans of use, analyze the environmental protection regulations is to help prevent polprofitability of remediation projects, and prepare meticulution and maintain the cultural assets existing in the region lous proposals on how to improve the structure and energy as well as the living space of the local population. Biodiefficiency of buildings and properties to boost their quality versity is, however, not the only focal point in HOCHTIEF’s while at the same time cutting energy consumption and sustainability efforts in this project in South America. A costs. Our energy and facility management experts addicentralized energy supply system we set up allows much tionally deliver financially attractive and innovative contractless electricity to be used during construction work and ing solutions as well as guaranteeing sustainable operaresults in diesel fuel savings in operating generators. tion and an efficient energy supply. HOCHTIEF’s aurelis Real Estate is building Europaviertel The sustainable revitalization and expansion of the former (West) in Frankfurt am Main, a sustainable urban developUnilever building in Hamburg into the new Emporio high-rise ment with a gross floor area of approximately 560,000 complex is a good example of how existing buildings can square meters outstanding for its high-quality environmenbe made energy-efficient by undertaking various structural, tal features. A special effort is being made to protect varifacade, and technical systems projects. As a result, users ous species of plants and animals, including wall and sand can be provided with a pleasant, modern working and livlizards as well as rare grasshoppers. This is one of the reaing environment. The Emporio will feature an optimally ensons a total of 7.4 hectares is being devoted to ecological ergy-efficient double shell facade, lowering operating costs buffer areas, including 10,000 square meters of embankfor heating and cooling by more than 64 percent. Moreover, ments as retreat and overwintering areas, 29,000 square after the renovation project, the high-rise, which is a landmeters of grassland where animals can find food, and ample marked building, will have a softer impact on the environgreen roofs as well as generous green space. Europa­viertel ment thanks to producing almost 1,700 fewer metric tons (West) is participating in the pilot phase of the newly develof CO2 per year. The project aims to obtain LEED Gold oped New Construction of Urban Quarters category of the sustainability certification and already received pre-certiDGNB certification system. fication in silver from the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) in early 2009. Sustainability Report 2011 63 Our US subsidiary Turner also revitalizes existing buildings. There are two particularly successful cases in which the Key figures heritage of the legendary Bauhaus period was preserved. Water consumption (in m3) In Chicago, the company is refurbishing the Everett McKinley Dirksen United States Courthouse (Dirksen Federal Build450,000 K Germany ing) designed by former Bauhaus director Mies van der 400,000 K Europe (except Germany) Rohe. The work is slated for completion by 2012. Turner is 350,000 handling the construction planning and logistics for the 300,000 renovation work to modernize the building and make it 250,000 energy-efficient. Our US company built the corporate head200,000 150,000 quarters of American Life and Accident Insurance Company 100,000 in Louisville, Kentucky, back in 1974 according to plans 50,000 drawn up by the Bauhaus architect. Thirty-five years later, 0 Turner refurbished the technical systems in the insurance 2008 2009 2010 company’s building and greened the roof—the largest of The data is estimated from material-specific cost types a ­ ssuming ­average prices. HOCHTIEF companies included: See page 51. its kind in Kentucky—giving native plants a new habitat. At HOCHTIEF’s airport holdings, the use of space is also an important issue. Sydney Airport, one of our airport holdEnvironmental damage ings, improved its use of space according to its master plan In 2003, HOCHTIEF initiated a reporting system for enviwhich includes information on various issues, such as how ronmental damage to be applied across all divisions. No long the airport can operate with the available space, how environmental damage was caused in the period under the existing space can be ideally utilized, and how the airreview. port could be expanded in an environmentally friendly way. HOCHTIEF’s airport experts actively participated in draftOur subsidiary Leighton classifies environmental incidents ing the master plan based on strict statutory regulations into three levels: and the airport’s commitments to neighboring residents. Level 1: High severity, irreversible detrimental effect on the Our Düsseldorf International airport holding is one of the environment first companies in the capital of North Rhine-Westphalia to Level 2: Medium severity, persistent but reversible detricompensate for the additional space used due to continumental effect on the environment al construction work by paying into an “eco-account.” This Level 3: Low severity, detrimental effect can be reversed in covers areas on the airport’s premises as well as in the less than three months city of Düsseldorf and the adjacent Mettmann district that A Level 1 incident occurred at Leighton’s subsidiary the airport bought or leased. The environmental quality of Thiess in the 2008/2009 fiscal year. No high-severity incithis land will be improved with the funds paid into the acdents were recorded in fiscal year 2009/2010. count by way of greening, planting trees and meadows, For further information, please see www.leighton.com.au. and returning bodies of water to their natural state. In total, these measures have so far been applied to more than Fines 310,000 square meters of land. In the period under review, no fines were levied against HOCHTIEF for violations of environmental regulations. 64 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Resource protection Our overarching objective: We a i m t o c o n s e r v e n a t u r a l r e s o u r c e s a n d o p t i m i z e t h e u s e o f r e s o u r c e s . Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Structure and step up training meas­ Environmental protection issues ures for employees and partners ­integrated into HOCHTIEF Academy Avoid harm to the environment Harmonize reporting standard for Conceptual phase ­environmental damage Group-wide and integrate into OSHEP Directive Standardize environmental protection Facility management companies in processes and increase external Ireland and the UK obtained ISO ­certification 14001 certification in 2010; environmental certification Group-wide: 64.5 percent Develop uniform EU-compliant (REACH) Introduced across Germany and Improve organizational structure for hazardous substances management completed environmental protection system and make available to all EU corporate units Implement environmental issues in Environmental aspects included in an risk-oriented audit planning in Euroelectronic survey; initial survey begun pean units Promote international exchange of Joint meeting of European units environmental protection experience planned Continue green line for office supplies Around 25 percent of office supplies on the HOCHTIEF procurement platin Germany feature environmental form certification since introduction of the green line in 2009 Introduce standard for the procureFSC/PEFC certification included in ment of FSC/PEFC-certified wood HOCHTIEF standard bill of quantities Procurement/purchasing: Increase share of environmentally certified Minimize use of products containing Risks of products containing hazard­materials and products hazardous substances ous substances continually assessed by hazardous materials management system in Germany Increase use of green IT in European Since 2009, more than 5,800 pieces offices of IT equipment in Germany exchanged for new, US Energy Star-labeled ­devices Increase construction waste recycling Implement measures to improve Recycling rate in 2010: rate waste sorting at construction sites; Poland: 98 percent improve quality of waste quantity data Germany: 90 percent collection Turner: 82 percent HOCHTIEF UK: 77 percent Conduct worldwide market research Market research conducted Develop and build on business ­models along the life cycle of drinkStep up acquisition activities for Six complete sewage plants being ing water and wastewater treatment ­sewage plant construction in built plants ­Southern and Eastern Europe as well as the Middle East Sustainability Report 2011 65 Area 4 Attractive working environment 66 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance We conduct drills in case the worst comes to the worst—and we provide the highest safety standards. In order to make sure they can handle unexpected situations during bridge construction, Mike Kennard and Kevin Buch, employees of our US subsidiary Turner, simulate a rescue in ice-cold water. Their team receives the best possible preparation and training before going to work on the construction site. This builds trust and a sense of security—allowing workers to concentrate completely on their challenging jobs. As a company that acts sustainably, we take responsibility—first and foremost for the employees who are hard at work for us all over the world. It is our goal to provide the highest standards in occupational safety and the best possible health protection. This is just one of many ways we aim to further strengthen our status as an attractive employer. Area 4 Attractive working environment The challenge: HOCHTIEF is responsible for more HOCHTIEF also continues to receive positive feedback than 70,000 employees and more than 60,000 subthrough the “Employees Recruit Employees” campaign, contractors worldwide. It is our goal to create the launched at the end of 2007, in which HOCHTIEF staff can best possible working conditions for them and to recommend potential applicants for a position and receive provide the highest standards in occupational safety a bonus if the applicant is subsequently employed. The and the best possible health protection. In addition, success of the campaign prompted us to extend the prowe encourage a healthy work-life balance. gram to include the “Trainees Recruit Trainees” initiative. Our objective: We aim to further strengthen our High regard for employees position as a sought-after employer in the industry. In 2010, HOCHTIEF honored particularly successful colla­ borations between HOCHTIEF units for the first time with Strong reputation on the labor market the HOCHTIEF Cooperation Award. In total, 34 teams from The HOCHTIEF Group is a popular employer all over the throughout the Group competed for the award with a wide world. Some 40,000 applications received in Germany range of cooperation projects. The jury focused in particular alone in the period under review (2009–2011), to name just on the quality of cooperation, the tasks mastered together, one example, are a testimony to this. Our Australian and and the added value for the Group. The winner was the team American subsidiaries and associates are likewise highly responsible for designing and building the Nordex Forum, regarded by people seeking challenging, fulfilling careers. a multi-award-winning sustainable office building in HamOur US subsidiary Flatiron, which specializes in transporburg. A special award was also granted to the team that tation construction and civil engineering, received 24,650 acquired and successfully managed HOCHTIEF’s first major job applications between October 2009 and June 2011. PPP project, which was for schools in the Offenbach disOver 17,000 people applied for positions at Turner during trict. the same period. Partnership-based dialog with employees HOCHTIEF’s attractiveness is also reflected in excellent HOCHTIEF has a high-priority tradition of obtaining feedexternal rankings. In 2010 and 2011, undergraduates interback from employees and including them in processes viewed by the Immobilien Zeitung trade magazine voted and decisions. In Germany, the structured annual appraisal 20111 our company the number one preferred employer in the interview held between each employee and their superior real estate sector. According to a survey of German univeris an established tool for staff development. It focuses on sities by the consulting firm Universum, HOCHTIEF is one issues such as development opportunities, potential for of the top 20 most popular employers for engineers in 2011. improvement, and continuing education measures, as well We also scored very well in the “Top Employers in Germany” as taking stock of teamwork. In order to help make these survey conducted by the CRF Institute (Corporate Research appraisal interviews as efficient as possible and ensure that Foundation), receiving the “Top Employer in Germany” the agreed measures are put into action, HR managers certificate for the third time. receive an overview of the staff development measures agreed in the interview each year. We also use this triedIn the USA, our subsidiary Turner is also highly regarded and-trusted concept in many European HOCHTIEF comfor its efforts to promote diversity. For instance, the companies. pany is ranked 44th on Diversity Employers magazine’s list of the top employers for college graduates from a variety of backgrounds. One sign of employees’ satisfaction with our company is tenure of employment: The average in Germany is 13 years, and with Turner in the USA the average is 9.2 years. 68 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Proud winners: HOCHTIEF’s Cooperation Award honored teams that created added value for clients and thus also for HOCHTIEF through successful cooperation with other HOCHTIEF units. Employee feedback opens up opportunities In 2009, we introduced extensive restructuring measures As a responsible employer, it is our duty to be well informed in the HOCHTIEF Europe division, culminating in the estababout the mood in the workforce and current concerns lishment of HOCHTIEF Solutions AG in February 2011. In being discussed among employees. Only then can we this connection, the “Drive” program was launched in 2011. identify scope for improvement and take appropriate action. The aim of this initiative is to get employees involved in stratFor this reason, HOCHTIEF conducts regular employee egy development and implementation, to encourage crosssurveys. The most recent one was conducted in 2009 at cutting networked cooperation, and to open up new areas Corporate Headquarters in Essen as well as at operational of business. units across Europe. Our employees answered questions on issues such as pay, working conditions, continuing edu­ Successful start with induction programs cation, communications, involvement, and the situation in Every new employee at HOCHTIEF is personally prepared the individual corporate units. Participation was voluntary, for and inducted to their future tasks. In Germany, they also anonymous, and largely electronic. Recurring questions receive a manual with key information on topics such as make it possible to accurately compare the results. This the workplace, company rules, and directives as well as procedure enables us to give employees regular feedback. occupational safety and health. Whenever we identify negative trends, we can take prompt action to counteract them. At the same time, the survey is German university graduates start at HOCHTIEF either as an important tool for HOCHTIEF’s success on the labor martrainees or through direct entry. The trainee program genket. We postponed the employee survey originally planned erally entails a number of placements in selected parts of for 2010 due to the restructuring measures going on in the the company. In some cases, the trainee’s induction is crossGroup at that time. But the survey is to be conducted regu­ cutting and takes place outside Germany. There are also larly again over the next few years. accelerated programs for graduates with some professional experience. HOCHTIEF offers these individuals personalBiannual employee surveys are also conducted at Flatiron ized induction programs so they can get to know the Group in the USA. This gives the HOCHTIEF subsidiary a view of quickly. Similar programs have also been set up by our subthe workforce’s opinions on issues such as communicasidiaries Turner and Flatiron in the USA and Leighton in tion, training, and compensation, as well as health, workAustralia. The common goal of all these programs is to give life balance, and community involvement. The findings are new employees the best possible start in the HOCHTIEF used to define relevant metrics and action plans. Our US Group and to integrate them into existing teams. subsidiary Turner surveys staff on job satisfaction every three years, covering topics such as compensation, the tools available, internal communications, and organizational strategy. The latest survey was conducted in 2008, and the next is currently being prepared for 2011. Sustainability Report 2011 69 Focus on continuing education training in the areas of administration, negotiation skills, The professional and personal development of all employees finance, and computer skills. Our Australian Group comhas always been one of our Group’s most important sucpany John Holland won the prestigious Construction Skills cess factors. Only if we give our employees the opportuniQueensland Training Excellence Award 2010 for its exemty to continuously learn new things can they develop and plary employee training. meet the demands of their jobs effectively. The particular aim of HOCHTIEF’s training activities is therefore to promote Management culture further enhanced existing strengths Group-wide and to tap into potential. Since the start of 2010, HOCHTIEF’s senior managers have been assessed by their superiors in order to strengthen Wide range of internal training their personal development. Topics include staff manageIn Germany, we bring together continuing education and ment, strategic and entrepreneurial action, and dealing staff development in the HOCHTIEF Academy. Courses with clients and coworkers. Following assessments, crossoffered here include part-time study tailored to HOCHTIEF’s cutting feedback meetings are held with the Executive Board needs. This offer, which is unique to the industry, includes and divisional management, where targets and measures officially recognized degree programs with the qualification are discussed in order to ensure the continuous profesof “Bachelor of Engineering—Construction Site Managesional development of managers. ment” and “Bachelor of Facility Management.” It enables the company to prepare graduates individually for the reTurner in the USA joined with the Kellogg School of Managequirements of the Group. ment to launch three new seminars for general and senior managers on company management and critical decision Training in the reporting period primarily focused on the making skills. In 2010, Flatiron launched a series of semitopics of communications, staff management, conflict nars for managerial staff on the company’s guidelines, and management and methodological skills, and the HOCHTIEF is also collaborating with a number of colleges that teach Management Workshop series of seminars for middle content relating to core skills such as entrepreneurship, management. Including study programs, more than 97,500 people management, and occupational safety. Moreover, hours of training and 330 multi-day events were held at managers from the international HOCHTIEF companies HOCHTIEF in Germany in 2010. In total, 4,698 persons are increasingly taking part in staff development activities took part in training and special events. in Germany. This enables us to foster a common understanding of management culture throughout the Group Our international subsidiaries and associates also give their and further reinforce the HOCHTIEF network. teams’ personal and professional training high priority. Employees of our US subsidiary Turner, for example, pursue In Germany, cross-divisional talent pools provide another continuing education options at Turner University. In 2010, option for systematically preparing selected employees to some 680 training sessions in the form of one-day and take on functional and management tasks. The two-andmulti-day classroom-based training, as well as a wide range a-half-year program includes part-time training activities of online training programs were offered altogether. In addiand participants are assigned an experienced mentor. tion to training managers, the focus was on the work-life balance. Flatiron Construction University offered more Our PhD program gives particularly committed employees than 120 courses in 2010, focusing on performance and the opportunity to complete a doctorate at a German unitechnical skills, safety, leadership, team building and versity either part-time or full-time. In 2010, three PhD stubusiness management. Most classes offered through dents successfully completed the program and took on FCU are both instructor-led and web-based. more advanced tasks in Germany and abroad. Since 2011, we have linked PhD sponsorship with our research and HOCHTIEF Polska received the 2010 “Man: Best Investdevelopment program in order to provide innovative emment” award from the Polish Ministry for Regional Develployees with even more targeted support. opment for its training project “Development of engineering staff and employees.” The two-year program included 70 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Welcome to the team: 122 young people kicked off their careers in Germany in August and September 2010. Pictured are HOCHTIEF’s new trainees in Hamburg. Training young people for the future Our international subsidiaries and associates also offer As a company that acts sustainably, we take on respon­ professional training. The training program of the Thiess sibility for society. This commitment includes offering stunational company in Indonesia, for example, is considered dents attractive training places and thus opening the door to be the best vocational preparation in the entire country. to a career. HOCHTIEF traditionally trains more people in The program started in 1992 with eight participants. Today Germany than required for its own needs. On December it takes more than 500 trainees. High school and vocational 31, 2010, 455 young people were undergoing training with college graduates are trained over five years to be heavyus in more than 30 trade, technical, and commercial occuduty mechanics, automotive electronics engineers, and pations. Due to the restructuring in the Europe division, the welders. number of trainees fell by 13.8 percent from 2009 to 2010. This is the first decrease since 2005. HOCHTIEF stands Winning the enthusiasm of graduates for HOCHTIEF for high-quality training: Almost 97 percent of trainees from A shortage of specialist staff as well as demographic our company passed their final exam in 2010. More than change make it necessary to systematically push ahead half of the trainees were subsequently taken on. with the search for suitable young talent and to present HOCHTIEF as an attractive employer. In Germany, we HOCHTIEF used an online selection process to recruit train­recruit some 80 bachelors, masters, and other students ees for the first time in 2010, whereby students took a vocaeach year. Training and informal meetings help our gradutional aptitude test online from home. This speeds up the ates to network internally. selection process and makes it more efficient and cost effective. The search for suitable candidates—for instance, from the fields of economics and engineering—starts at universities. HOCHTIEF continued during the reporting period to supFor this reason, we took part in a number of university and port an Essen training initiative which enables students graduate fairs again in the reporting period, including bondfrom underprivileged backgrounds to familiarize themselves ing events, career days, and recruiting events. We also with construction-related professions through internships. have a presence at trade shows, such as Expo Real or the Over a period of two years, the participants spend a few Hannover Messe trade show. In addition, HOCHTIEF inweeks each at three different stations at HOCHTIEF. The creasingly works in collaboration with professors and plays program improves the young people’s prospects of finding an active role for students in a range of faculties, with leca training place. tures and training on topics such as applications and presentations. The success of these activities speaks for itself: Through close contact, qualified students develop an interest in our company and we win them as future HOCHTIEF employees at an early stage. Sustainability Report 2011 71 Stakeholders Anyone who performs well at HOCHTIEF during their inhave their say ternship or as a working student has the opportunity to be put forward for the intern retention program. The aim is to identify talented individuals at an early stage, to foster their Labor market talent through new experiences such as international assignments, and to recruit them to start their careers at HOCHTIEF. Furthermore, we continue to support five hand-picked students a year from the universities of Bochum, Essen, and Dortmund through a scholarship program. Julian Ziesing, Head of Research & Consulting, Our international companies pursue a similar course of Potentialpark Communications, action, with attractive programs that pull in talented, dediStockholm cated future employees. Turner in the USA, for example, Which criteria are used to choose an employer these days? offers the Bridge program to give college students a chance There are threshold criteria, like salary, which have to be right. But it’s difficult to to gain exposure to a construction profession during vacacreate a sustainable employer brand with them. The key factors are corporate tion time. Turner then supports successful interns during culture, interesting tasks, and development opportunities. These are the things their studies through to graduation. In 2010, Turner partthat are most likely to make people stay for the long term, because they enjoy nered with the York College School of Business and the working for the company. In the age of social media, the biggest challenge is to Small Business Development Center to establish the Concredibly set yourself apart from competitors in these criteria, with all employees struction Management Academy. It is open to all York Colacting as ambassadors for the employer brand values. This doesn’t work if you lege students and specialists in the construction industry. only focus on these aspects when there is a recruitment shortage. Rather, you Our American subsidiary E.E. Cruz is actively seeking spehave to work on them year after year over the long term. cialists in construction engineering; their efforts include grants for students in this field at the New Jersey Institute What role does a company’s reputation play in selection? of Technology. Many companies have the problem that they attract stereotyped profiles due to the way they are broadly perceived, but when it comes to jobs that don’t fit the Through its Early Talent Management program, Flatiron also bill, there is no interest. In this way, a company’s reputation can have conflicting maintains close relationships with top colleges and universieffects on recruitment. Employer branding should always address areas where ties in the USA and Canada. Flatiron employees share their the company aims to resolve a recruitment problem, whether current or anticipated expertise by giving classroom lectures, mentoring university for the future. If you want to be one of the most attractive employers in a target competition teams, serving as alumni contacts and particigroup, there’s no way around efficient talent acquisition. We believe the greatest pating in campus career fairs. shortcomings in this regard to be in user-unfriendly online application systems that can damage a carefully established reputation. The Australian HOCHTIEF subsidiary Leighton established a partnership with the University of New South Wales back What can a company do to make itself attractive to applicants? in 2004, where each year it supports future construction In terms of communications, have a presence, maintain a dialog, hold open a engineers with scholarships. The Leighton subsidiary Thiess range of channels, find out what works best in what way. The future probably has a two-year graduate program which helps to recruit doesn’t lie in a specific medium with standard rules of communication, but rather interesting candidates—between 50 and 80 graduates a is completely unpredictable. year—for the company at an early stage. What role does a company’s website play in recruitment? All applicants and potential applicants visit the career website at some point. If something is wrong here, it is always obvious. It isn’t the only source, but it must tie in with all the others, such as the company’s image in the media, on other online platforms and networks, as well as for customers and consumers. The career website acts as the pivot for all communications, even communications that don’t take place online. We are particularly impressed by the success of some companies with social media. They are treading new paths of recruitment and employer branding with their performance on these networks. They are adding a new dimension to their existing web presence with interactivity and personal contact. That’s where the most exciting competition lies for 2012. 72 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Identifying talent early: Interns or working students who perform well in the HOCHTIEF Group are encouraged and supported through to the start of their career. Work-life balance grows ever more important where we now have more than 330 of our own employees, Reconciling work with a private life is an increasingly ima Social Committee organizes get-togethers such as picportant factor for employee satisfaction. We want to create nics and sporting events for employees and their families. the necessary framework conditions for this work-life balThere are free swimming lessons for children. Since 2008, ance. For this reason, HOCHTIEF has initiated a range of HOCHTIEF has also been financially and organizationally individual measures in Germany. This includes the partnerinvolved in founding a German school in Doha. ship with B.u.K. (Betrieblich unterstützte Kinderbetreuung), which has been in place since 2005, and with FamilienBenefiting from diversity service. Both organizations advise and support our employPeople who work for HOCHTIEF differ—in gender, age, ees in finding qualified child care and nursing care. They also ethnicity, religion, views, and sexual orientation. This diverhelp in cases of family emergencies. HOCHTIEF covers sity is an important factor for our success. The diversity of the costs of the advisory service. talent, working methods, and experience has a positive influence on project work and enriches the corporate culture Special holidays and the families days on the Blue Site Park in our Group. activity building site of the HOCHTIEF subsidiary Streif Baulogistik also give families a break and bring our comDifferent measures ensure that every employee enjoys repany closer to our employees’ families as well. spect and individual advancement. At HOCHTIEF, equal opportunities are taken as read: We signed the Diversity Personalized reintegration measures help to ease the return Charter initiated by the German government back in 2008 to work after parental leave or long-term illness. Flexible and committed to creating a working environment free of workplace and working time arrangements as well as modprejudice. We adhere strictly to Germany’s General Act on ern IT allow HOCHTIEF to address the individual needs of Equal Treatment (AGG) and have additionally enshrined employees without disrupting work processes. Options equal treatment of all employees in our guiding principles. range from reduced working hours per day and a shorter We stringently ensure that these principles are put into pracworking week, through to modern home offices for anyone tice. If, in spite of this, employees find themselves being working from home. In 2010, 7.2 percent of HOCHTIEF discriminated against, in Germany, for example, they can employees in Germany worked part time. turn to an in-house conflict advisory service where members of the Works Council or human resources officers are Work-life balance is also a high priority at our international ready to help. companies. Flatiron, in the USA, provides employees confidential resources for counseling, legal, financial and worklife services, such as child care, senior care and parenting. In Qatar, where we have been represented since 2006 and Sustainability Report 2011 73 Opportunities for Australian minorities: The first graduates of a new recruitment program offered by Thiess have increased the number of trainees from indigenous communities. This program gives them the foundation for a long-term career within the company. Our US subsidiary Turner has established similar programs In the reporting period, there were no known violations and structures. The company is not only considered a top of rights of indigenous people or ethnic minorities at *For further information, employer by graduates of diverse backgrounds*. A survey HOCHTIEF. please see page 68. by DiversityBusiness.com placed Turner among the Top 50 Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities, The number of women engineers and architects, for inrecognizing the company’s achievements in partnering stance, at HOCHTIEF in Germany has grown steadily—by **For further information, successfully with subcontractors run by ethnic minorities a good 32 percent in the last five years**. The number of please see page 81. or women. Turner also supports Hispanic and Africanwomen in management positions has also risen, from 8.8 American engineers’ associations. percent in 2009 to 9.2 percent in 2010. Our Australian company Thiess sponsors a special scholarship program In October 2010, our Australian subsidiary Leighton launched for women in mining. Leighton intends to appoint its first a new Workforce Diversity Policy for the entire Leighton female member to the Board by the end of 2011. Turner Group. One of the aims of the policy is to further increase in the USA appointed its first female CFO in February 2011. the proportion of women and indigenous people in the workforce. Special training programs open up career paths In keeping with the international nature of our Group, into these target groups. Leighton is one of the founding cluding on the part of our shareholders, the HOCHTIEF members of the Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier Supervisory Board includes four members from Spain and www.aimsc.org.au Council (AIMSC) , an initiative that promotes and certione from Qatar. There are currently no female members. fies companies run by indigenous people. In December However, the Supervisory Board intends to encourage the 2009, Leighton signed its first contract under the AIMSC election of women into its ranks. In the interests of diversity with the telecommunications provider Message Stick Comin its future composition, therefore, the Supervisory Board munications. In addition, Thiess has a 20-week training has undertaken to ensure an appropriate degree of female program for young people from this ethnic minority in the representation when proposing candidates for recommenQueensland region, which prepares participants for a subdation to the General Shareholders’ Meeting. sequent apprenticeship in the company. The program is the result of a collaboration between commercial, social, and political institutions. It aims not only to get more indigenous Australians into work, but also to give them a foundation for success and to prepare them for long-term ­careers within the company. 74 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Regional working hours Fair pay and collectively agreed wages The working week is determined by the different laws, colHOCHTIEF employees are compensated according to their lective bargaining agreements, and company agreements qualifications and performance. Gender, age, ethnicity, in effect at the various HOCHTIEF locations. It varies from religion, view, and sexual orientation do not play a role. division to division from 35 to 48 hours. Part-time employOur Group and its companies adhere to the applicable ees can work from one to five days a week with varying collective bargaining agreements and corresponding wages, numbers of hours. or statutory minimum wages. HOCHTIEF expressly condemns wage and social dumping and advocates univerExceptional social benefits sally applicable collective agreements. We also support HOCHTIEF’s social benefit packages exceed national statu­ the investigative efforts of the competent authorities. tory requirements in almost all areas. Furthermore, employees of many of our companies receive additional voluntary Smooth employee integration benefits. As an employer that actively takes responsibility We consider the professional integration of new employees for its workforce, we make social provision for our employinto the HOCHTIEF Group a key factor in the success of ees. For this reason, many German HOCHTIEF companies company acquisitions. In 2010, we integrated 110 employhave set up a company scheme including an old-age penees of our new North American subsidiary E.E. Cruz into sion, an invalidity pension, and a surviving dependants’ the Group. In addition, following the acquisition of Vorwerk’s pension. This comprehensive package is based on three building management subsidiary Hectas Gebäudemanagecomplementary, matching modules: basic coverage, profit ment, 21 of that company’s former employees moved to contribution, and deferred compensation. The pension HOCHTIEF Facility Management. obligations are covered by HOCHTIEF Pension Trust e.V., pension liability insurance, and sound assets. Pension Social responsibility in workforce reductions payments are made out of the ongoing business and reAs a matter of principle, any redundancies at HOCHTIEF funded by HOCHTIEF Pension Trust at the year-end. are effected in a socially responsible manner. Before we part with a member of staff, we see if they can switch to Our international subsidiaries and associates offer flexible another unit or division within the Group. Where layoffs are options for insurance and provision. For example, health unavoidable, we help people to find new jobs as quickly as insurance is offered to employees in Poland. In the UK, staff possible, for example, through counseling and training. A members can pay into the company pension plan with total of 1,160 employees left HOCHTIEF in Germany in fiscal benefits including a lump sum in the event of occupational year 2010, 581 of whom handed in their notice. We recruited fatality and dependents pensions. Turner in the USA pro619 new employees for the company. vides various health insurance plans that differ in their contributions and benefits. The HOCHTIEF subsidiary also Constructive relations with works councils meets a part of the cost of medical consultations, hospital HOCHTIEF employees everywhere have the right to elect stays, and prescriptions. The Turner Retirement Investment their own representatives to safeguard their interests. Plan ensures that employees will be provided for as they Management expressly welcomes the right of employees get older. It consists of a savings plan made up of employee to union membership. Since 2010, 100 percent of the contributions and employer matching contributions along workforce are represented by works councils. Employee with health provisions to supplement health insurance benrepresentatives also sit on the Supervisory Board. For our efits. Our American subsidiary Flatiron contributes six permanagement, it goes without saying that employee concent of employee salary to a retirement savings account, cerns are integrated into business processes to the best regardless of individual contribution. The company also possible extent. For this reason, management and works offers several medical, dental, prescription drug and vision councils generally meet once a month, or more frequently plans and provides life insurance and other coverage for when occasion calls for it—for instance, in times of major employees. Flatiron has a robust health and well-being change within the company. Works council members also program, and on-site gyms at some locations. take part in regular meetings of occupational safety and health committees, in which over 90 percent of the workforce are presented Group-wide. Sustainability Report 2011 75 High priority for occupational safety: Regular emergency drills like this one on Tower 185 in Frankfurt improve safety. There has been a European works council at HOCHTIEF employees to work together. The nine-month pilot phase since 1996. It comprises representatives from Germany, for the project was launched in July 2011. Austria, Poland, Hungary, Luxembourg, and the Czech Republic and meets twice a year. It represents all employIntegrated environment and safety management ees of HOCHTIEF and its majority holdings in EU countries As a company that acts sustainably, we take responsibility and its role includes, for example, to promote a construcfor our employees. This includes providing them with an extive working relationship and social contact at European ceptionally safe working environment and the best possible level. Furthermore, the European works council has inforprotection for their health, throughout the entire HOCHTIEF mation and consultation rights vis-à-vis management with Group. A comprehensive organization makes it possible to regard to international measures that affect our employees. meet these high standards. In June 2008, at the World Congress on Safety and Health at Work, HOCHTIEF signed Transparent internal communications the Seoul Declaration, which aims to motivate governments, Our employees can count on being informed in a timely organizations, and industry to strive consistently toward and comprehensive manner about important developreducing work-related accidents and diseases. ments and changes within the company. HOCHTIEF has enshrined this principle in its corporate culture. We comThe HOCHTIEF competence center for occupational safety, municate with our employees through a range of publicahealth, and environmental protection (OSHEP) ensures that tions, such as the Group employee magazine “Baubude”, occupational safety and health are given a high priority which is published in German and English, newsletters, across the entire Group. The main tasks of the OSHEP and the HOCHTIEF intranet. In addition, the works council center include improving the integrated Group-wide enviand management issue invitations to meetings where ronment and occupational safety management systems comprehensive and up-to-the-minute information is proon an ongoing basis. It also monitors implementation of vided. regulations in the individual HOCHTIEF units. We have had some successes in this regard: In 2010, for example, the In Germany, HOCHTIEF is tapping into new forms of interaccident rate in the entire Group fell to 1.79 accidents per nal communications and information sharing with Corpo1,000,000 man-hours, down from 3.30 in 2008. rate Web 2.0. The “peopleNet” platform can be used to maintain contacts as well as share information and documents quickly and easily within project and specialist groups. Other tools include blogs, discussions, surveys, videos, and documents. The aim is to further improve internal networking between experts, to make information paths shorter and more efficient, and to make it easier for 76 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Different initiatives, one goal In April 2011, our subsidiary Leighton called on the AustraWhile looking back with pride on these positive trends, lian government to set statutory standards for workplace HOCHTIEF still does not intend to stop there. We are stepsafety to increase the responsibilities of everyone involved ping up activities designed to improve occupational health in the construction process. Under such regulations, deand safety in all units and companies. HOCHTIEF Polska, signers, buyers, tradespeople, contractors, and clients would for example, has been a partner in the Agreement for Work have to work together to improve safety. In November 2009, Safety in Construction since August 2010. The cooperaLeighton Asia launched the Strive for Life program, a comtion aims to reduce risk at construction sites and lower acprehensive occupational health and safety campaign which cident rates with training courses and other measures. includes three-level risk management and a change in Our Polish HOCHTIEF company has also supported a corporate culture. work safety in construction campaign bannered “Respect life! Safe work at heights” since 2010. E.E. Cruz, the subOur facility managers likewise aim higher than prevailing sidiary we acquired in 2010, has similarly been active, opindustry standards. Accordingly, a total of nine of our timizing occupational health and safety with initiatives ­facility management locations in Germany and the rest of such as establishing an Executive Safety Committee as Europe qualified for OHSAS 18001 certification in the rewell as monthly safety conference calls. porting period. OHSAS stands for “Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series” and is a management sysThe Nordex Forum provides offices fort include assessing the daylight showers and changing rooms for Nordex Forum for 600 employees. The sustainin the usable space. Here, too, the cyclists. offices able building has a wide range of Nordex Forum satisfies the highest • E xterior quality: There are various benefits for users: standards. areas open to users of the Nordex • Thermal comfort: This is the basis • User influence: In the Nordex Forum, Forum: Terraces and seating areas for efficient, high-performance work users can adjust individual functions offer recreation space facing in difand is directly correlated with user in the rooms to meet their needs: ferent directions. The top story has satisfaction. It can substantially afventilation, sun protection, glare proroof terraces in front of the offices. fect energy consumption in office tection, temperatures during and The roof vegetation has a positive and administrative buildings. The outside of the heating period, and impact on the microclimate. Nordex Forum more than meets the control of daylight and artificial light • Sound insulation: External noise is criteria for temperature, ventilation, in the workplace. This is also closely reduced to a minimum thanks to the and relative humidity in summer and correlated with performance and special facade construction. winter. satisfaction in the workplace as well • Indoor air quality: HOCHTIEF tested as having a significant influence on the indoor air quality for contaminants energy consumption. such as solvents and formaldehyde • Security and risk of accidents: Acdirectly after completion of the buildcess to the building is controlled by ing. The test results were all below technical security systems. The corthe guideline values and limits, in ridors inside the building and pathsome cases by up to 50 percent. ways outside are clearly set out, vis• Acoustic/visual comfort: Acoustic ible, and well lit. A security service is comfort means ensuring the noise available around the clock. level and intelligibility in the rooms • Accessibility: The building is wheelare such that they do not impair the chair accessible, as are selected health or performance of users. The workstations and the connected reverberation times in the Nordex building functions. Forum fall well within the recom• Cyclist-friendly: The underground mended values of the relevant DIN garage houses weatherproof, theftstandard. Measures for visual comprotected bike stands. There are Sustainability Report 2011 77 Realistic: Before employees of our Australian subsidiary Leighton use the giant excavators and dumpers in the mine, they practice driving them in a simulator. tem that delivers clear procedural instructions. It sets Multitude of success stories down, for example, how work-related accidents are to be We are achieving our goal of working accident-free on more handled or work materials tested. and more projects. In June 2010, HOCHTIEF Solutions (UK) celebrated a year without accident or disruption in the upEach year, the OSHEP center stages an Occupational Safety grade of the London train station Stratford—and this under Day. This is a joint event by all corporate units in Germany particularly difficult circumstances due to ongoing train to further promote safety awareness in the workforce. Disoperations. An integrated safety management system and cussion rounds and activities help to reduce work-related the close cooperation of all those involved in the project, accidents and diseases as well as to optimize existing for instance, in the sometimes daily safety meetings, conguidelines and standards. In 2010, the Occupational Safety tributed to this success. Day was held under the motto “Well Prepared for Emergencies”; in 2011, the topic was near-accidents. In addition, Turner’s office in North Carolina recorded four million hours a series of posters were displayed in offices and on conaccident-free on their projects in April 2011. In the past struction sites highlighting plain and practical information four years, the unit has received various commendations on occupational safety and health topics. for its positive occupational safety record. Many HOCHTIEF employees drive company cars or comPreventive occupational safety on our major Barwa Commercial vehicles on the road. In Germany, therefore, regumerical Avenue project in Qatar also paid off with an imlar driver safety training courses are held to practice corpressive result in February 2011: Some 10,000 people had rect conduct in a range of traffic scenarios and improve worked for 40 million hours on the construction site for the safe vehicle use. shopping boulevard without any serious accidents. By that point, 200,000 training hours had been completed, which Leighton employees at the UHG coal mine in Mongolia rewere mandatory for all those working on the project from ceive a special kind of driver training: Our Australian sub35 countries. Nevertheless, there were unfortunately two sidiary has developed a simulator in which employees can accidents with subsequent lost time. One more reason to train to use the heavy excavators and dumpers in a safe, further optimize the health and safety system. realistic environment. In November 2010, Leighton Asia gave a positive report for the construction work on the Masbate gold mine in the Philippines, where 1.5 million hours have been worked accident-free since October 2009. The Strive for Life occupational health and safety program also produced positive results on the North Luzon Expressway road building proj78 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Increased safety for the “greenhorns”: At our subsidiary Flatiron in the USA, all the newcomers wear green helmets so their more experienced colleagues can easily recognize them and lend a helping hand more quickly in an emergency. ect in Manila: Here, Leighton Asia recorded two million range of sports and health activities—for instance, discountman-hours without loss time injury from April 2009 to June ed membership of wellness facilities or anti-stress work2010. shops. For this health management, the HOCHTIEF unit won the Active Company award. Award-winning safety The commitment of HOCHTIEF and its employees to acOur subsidiary Turner’s North Office was designated a Fittive occupational safety and health has also received exFriendly Company by the American Heart Association in ternal recognition: In summer 2010, the BG Bau statutory 2010. The reasons? The office encourages healthy choices accident insurance institution awarded the Construction on a daily basis, such as taking the stairs rather than the Security medal to one of our employees for his exemplary elevator and eating light, nutritious meals. Flatiron offers dedication to occupational safety and health over some 30 free biometric health screenings for all employees and their years of service. Turner and Flatiron also received awards spouses at annual Health Fairs. The screenings help emfor above-average commitment to occupational safety. ployees identify risk factors in the areas of blood pressure, The Associated General Contractors of America comglucose and cholesterol. Similar check-ups, such as diamended both companies in March 2011. In addition, the betes screening, are also offered by our associate Habtoor two HOCHTIEF subsidiaries have been awarded Golden Leighton Group. Gate Recognition from the state of California for their health and safety program during the modernization and In Germany, we offer all HOCHTIEF employees the opporexpansion of the Sacramento International Airport. They tunity for regular check-ups in occupational medicine cenwere distinguished for their significantly lower risk of seriters. Individual workplace-related preventive checks help ous accidents at the airport building site as compared to to optimize working conditions and situations. Managers other workplaces in the industry. over the age of 40 can take advantage of regular, all-inclusive health checks. The targeted preventive check-ups help Intensive health management to avoid or eliminate risk factors and thereby achieve early Active people live healthier lives. This is HOCHTIEF’s firm diagnosis of physical problems or prevent them from arisconviction and the company acts accordingly. Thus there ing in the first place. In order to improve health awareness is a company sports association and various sports groups, overall, a number of training courses are offered that prowhich are very popular with employees. Some of these inivide information on general health issues, sports, and nutiatives have been going since the 1960s. trition. The facility managers at HOCHTIEF Solutions provide just one example of our health management in Germany: The Southeast Region, for example, offers its employees a Sustainability Report 2011 79 Key figures Key figures on employees in the HOCHTIEF Group Workforce structure 50,000 Waged/industrial employees 40,333 45,000 40,000 K 2008 men 35,000 K 2008 women K 2009 men K 2009 women 30,000 Salaried/office K 2010 men K 2010 women employees K 2011 men (as of Jun. 30, 2011) 33,655 25,000 As of Jun. 30, 2011 K 2011 women (as of Jun. 30, 2011) 20,000 Employees by ethnic group in 15,000 North America Afro-American 10,000 425 Native American 28 5,000 Other 51 0 Germany Europe/Africa Americas Asia/Pacific Latin American (except Germany) 938 Asian 314 White 5,558 As of Jun. 30, 2011 Age structure at HOCHTIEF in Germany as well as at HOCHTIEF workforce structure Turner and Flatiron in North America (years) The average age of the HOCHTIEF workforce in 60 % K Germany Germany is 43.3 years. The average age at inter­ 53.9 51.8 K North America national HOCHTIEF companies is 35.5 years. The 50 % share of women in the workforce grew again: On June 30, 2011, it was 19.7 percent Group-wide, 40 % and was at its highest in Europe (except Germany) 29.7 at 31.4 percent and Germany at 24.3 percent. 30 % 24.0 24.2 20 % 16.4 People with severe disabilities comprised 4.16 percent of the HOCHTIEF workforce in Germany as of 10 % December 31, 2010. As this is below the statutory 0% five percent quota, HOCHTIEF pays a compensa< 30 30–50 > 50 tory levy. As of Jun. 30, 2011 80 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Development of the number of female Development of the percentage of Development of trainees at engineers at HOCHTIEF in Germany women in the HOCHTIEF workforce HOCHTIEF in Germany (as of Dec. 31) in Germany (as of Dec. 31) (as of Dec. 31) 300 600 280 272 263 528 257 512 250 25 23.9 24.3 500 23.5 455* 22.8 200 20 400 150 15 300 100 10 200 50 5 100 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 (As of Jun. 30, 2011) (As of Jun. 30, 2011) *Please see page 71 Number of fatal accidents in the HOCHTIEF Group Region 2008 2009 2010 Subcontractors (in Europe) are not included in the table. However, they must comply with the safety standards that apply to HOCHTIEF. Americas 1 0 0 Obituary Asia/Pacific 8 0 2 We deeply regret that employees have died during their work. We extend our condolences to their families. Germany 0 0 1 Europe (except Germany) 2 1 0 At the Glendoe Hydro Scheme project in Scotland, HOCHTIEF was fined around EUR 304,000 in 2010 due to a regrettable occupational fatality in HOCHTIEF Group total 11 1 3 2008. Accident rate within the HOCHTIEF Group (accidents per million man-hours) 45 41.84 41.48 40 K 2008 To bring our accident statistics reporting in line with international standards, we now 35 K 2009 state the accident frequency rate (AFR) 30 K 2010 rather than the number of accidents per 1,000 employees. 25 20 14.7 15 12.54 11.4 10.0 10 5 3.0 3.26 1.1 1.36 0.86 1.8 0.98 0.83 0 Germany Europe Americas Asia/Pacific Construction (except Germany) industry overall in Germany* *Source: Annual accounts of German institutions for statutory insurance and prevention; figures for 2010 were not yet available as of the editorial deadline. Sustainability Report 2011 81 Attractive working environment Our overarching objective: We aim to further boost our position as a sought-after employer and, over the long term, establish ourselves among the most attractive employers in the industr y. Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Occupational safety and health Continue annual Occupational Safety Germany: Occupational Safety Day Day and poster campaigns at all with theme of near-accidents held at ­European and American units Germany and European locations in Avoid work-related accidents involvJune 2011 ing HOCHTIEF employees, partners Implement system for identifying Brochure on near-accidents compiled and subcontractors near-accidents in Europe and distributed Structure and intensify training meas­ Occupational safety topics integrated ures for employees and partners in HOCHTIEF Academy curriculum Foster shared Group-wide Promote international exchange of Joint conference of European units ­occupational safety culture experience on occupational safety planned Put in place risk-based audit planning Occupational safety risk factors were for internal occupational safety audits incorporated into an electronic survey; first survey launched Improve occupational safety Standardize occupational safety Nine Facility Management locations ­structures ­processes and increase external units were certified in accordance ­certification with OHSAS 18001 in 2009; 63.5 percent of Group certified for occupational safety Improve emergency planning Revise Group-wide crisis reporting Process drawn up for crisis pro­ process cedure in Group Keep employees healthy Continue vaccination advisory service Vaccination advice and preventive and preventive occupational healthcheck-ups for VDU users on Occupacare in Germany; introduce “Employtional Safety Day; biometric screening ee Wellness Program” at Flatiron offered to Flatiron employees Personnel development Increase employee satisfaction Continue regular, systematic employGermany: Further employee survey ee surveys as a management tool in planned after completion of restrucGermany and Europe; expand “Best turing measures; Flatiron: Employee Place to Work” action plan at Flatiron survey conducted in second quarter of 2011, new application initiated for Fortune’s 100 Best Places to Work ranking Adopt Group-wide basic principles Compile and apply Group-wide human Labor standards and human rights for human resources management resources directive setting out a standards have been incorporated framework, values and human reinto the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct sources mission statement; develop Group-wide human resources strategy 82 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Ensure availability of specialists in the Continue Bachelor of Arts Facility Facility Management: 37 students, 15 future Management and Bachelor of Enginew applicants neering—Construction Site ManageConstruction Site Management: ment degree programs as part of 64 employees qualified, 67 trained continuing education program as certified building construction site foremen Continue to expand international reExisting concept was revised; procruitment channels in line with corpogram set to launch in 2012 with an inrate strategy ternational job exchange Recruit and promote managerial ­talent Continue doctoral program; sponsor Five PhDs completed and more in new doctoral thesis proposals preparation, of which one sponsored through innovation management/ through the Innovation Committee Innovation Committee Increase employee connectivity Improved consistenty and quality of Launching simple connectivity Development Appraisal process, with ­measures to support Development special focus on collaborative career Appraisal process and career path path development with employees; development strenghtened consistency of succession planning process Train employees Expand professional development Continuing education programs were ­offerings and increase the number of revised in all HOCHTIEF companies training hours per employee; increase and expanded to include additional e-learning offers; develop Group-wide offers reporting standards Work-life balance Promote a balance between work Promote part-time jobs and working New, simplified company agreement and family from home introduced; implementation underway where possible and expedient; indicators integrated into new reporting system (CRedit) Fair pay Harmonize compensation systems Implementation underway: Introduc(in Germany) tion of company collective bargaining agreements in the Facility Management, Energy Management, and PPP Schulpartner units as well as HOCHTIEF Offshore Crewing GmbH Increase proportion of employment Implementation underway; company Ensure fair pay for all employees contracts with performance-based collective bargaining agreement in compensation and performance inFacility Management with incentive centives bonus and performance-based profit sharing Regular participation in remuneration The annual remuneration study for studies, annual internal salary analyBoard members and senior managers ses and annual division-level annual was conducted in May 2011, along analyses with other division-level analyses Sustainability Report 2011 83 Area 5 Corporate citizenship We score top marks— and we want to share our knowledge. Our subsidiary Turner is head of the class in the USA. For more than 40 years, Turner employees have been sharing their experience and knowledge of the latest technologies with smaller companies in the construction industry as well as companies run by ethnic minorities and women; like Cindy de Prater, shown here in Chicago, they teach free courses at the acclaimed Turner School of Construction Management. We take social responsibility wherever our company operates. We engage for the local communities, promote education and young talent, and support local industry. Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Area 5 Corporate citizenship The challenge: HOCHTIEF carries out projects—and ters’ House in Dessau, which since March 2011 is now therefore sees itself as a local partner—in all four presented in its original colors from 1926. corners of the globe. It is standard practice for us to employ mainly local people and subcontractors. We Promoting education and supporting young talent also support social and cultural initiatives. Here, the As a corporate citizen, we see it as our responsibility to two areas we focus our support on are education/ constructively promote the modern professional training nurturing young talent, and modern/Bauhaus archiand further development of young people. That is why we tecture-related projects. support related initiatives and institutions, providing both funding and our expertise. Our own programs focus on Our objective: We aim to get involved in the comtechnology-related higher education programs and profesmunity wherever our company is at work. sions. For HOCHTIEF, acting sustainably means engaging in the Foster enthusiasm for technology among young ecological and economic arenas. We also embrace social people and community responsibility wherever we are at work. It’s never too early to promote interest in the building inAmong other efforts, this includes hiring locals to fill vacant dustry. So HOCHTIEF goes to schools to reach out to posts and awarding contracts to regional subcontractors. young people. As a sponsor of the JAS—Jugend Architektur In order to maximize efficiency and in accordance with our Stadt (Youth, Architecture, City) association in Essen, we sponsoring directive, we have focused our sponsoring acinteract with children as young as five. JAS offers children tivities since 2007 on two areas. The first is Bauhaus and and teens the opportunity to voice their needs in terms of modern architecture. The second is supporting children the built environment so they will be able to contribute to and teens as well as the socially disadvantaged, and we planning processes in later life. promote their training and continuing education. In addition, we again participated in initiatives by various Many of our employees use their free time to engage for associations and organizations in 2010, such as the Assosocial issues. On their own initiative, they take responsibil­ ciation of German Engineers (VDI) Technology Day. This ity to support social, community, and charity activities. We initiative is all about showing young people how vital and are particularly proud of these members of our workforce exciting technical professions are and which ones they and extend our thanks to them; their exemplary conduct can train for at HOCHTIEF. We were also at Girls’ Day has a positive influence on the corporate culture at 2010, teaching schoolgirls at various locations, including HOCHTIEF. the HOCHTIEF Essen, Berlin, Hamburg, and Frankfurt locations, about the many opportunities open to women for Supporting Bauhaus and modern art training and jobs in the construction industry. The UniverAs an international construction services provider, sity of Duisburg-Essen pursues the same goal with its HOCHTIEF has a special commitment to preserving modSummer University, in which HOCHTIEF is also involved. ern architecture. That is why the Bauhaus school of art This one-week program offers young women the chance and architecture has been the focus of our sponsoring efto research, experiment, and test, giving them first-hand forts for years. To commemorate the 90th anniversary of experience of how enthralling the natural sciences and enBauhaus, we supported the largest Bauhaus showcase gineering can be. Technical, commercial, and industrial inever as the main sponsor in 2009. A total of 166,000 visiternships for students are also designed to initiate them tors enjoyed the show at the Martin-Gropius-Bau in Berlin. into these fields and generate interest in HOCHTIEF. In addition, we sponsored the exhibition “From Art to Life. What’s more, we have for years been involved in “Youth www.bauhaus.de Hungarians at the Bauhaus” at the Bauhaus Archive Dialog,” which is organized by the Initiativkreis Ruhr. This in Germany’s capital in December 2010. HOCHTIEF was project aims to bring together students and high-level exalso involved in the refurbishment of the Feininger Masecutives in the region and initiate dialog. 86 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environmental • Corporate citizenship • Compliance FOCUS ON: RUHR.2010 HOCHTIEF—corporate citizen in Essen: As partner sponsor of RUHR.2010 European Capital of Culture, HOCHTIEF participated in numerous projects and events, for example, as technical manager at the opening event (photo left) and at the “still life” celebration on the autobahn. HOCHTIEF is a company dedicated to doing business reSponsoring a unique medieval exhibition sponsibly and getting involved in society—including at its From February to November 2010, the LWL Museum of Arheadquarters in Essen. So it was perfectly natural for us to cheology—Westphalian State Museum in Herne transported support the RUHR.2010 European Capital of Culture projvisitors to the Ruhr region of the 13th century. Our company ect. In addition to financial backing, our company also sponsored “AufRuhr 1225!,” the largest medieval exhibition sent members of staff to help at no charge, supported ever staged in the region, by contributing to the construction various cultural projects, and made office and parking of a motte, for example. HOCHTIEF staff helped build the spaces available for free. The HOCHTIEF airport holding wooden structure right in the city center of Herne. Düsseldorf International was also a sponsor. Temporary housing: The paper house Technical management The world’s first building constructed out of recyclable reLong before the European Capital of Culture events got covered paper rolls was built at the Zollverein Coal Mine Inunderway in January 2010, our facility management spedustrial Complex, the hub of RUHR.2010. HOCHTIEF supcialists had already got started on the work they would ported this initiative, which stood for new directions in green continue with through the end of 2010. During that time, building. HOCHTIEF employees advised the architects on two HOCHTIEF specialists were responsible for the techstructural design and ventilation, while five of our trainees nical planning of the events. They assisted in implementing laid the foundation for the building, which was 39 meters large-scale projects and acted as the main contacts for long and nine meters wide. the artists. To name just one example, Jens Herre, event technologies expert at HOCHTIEF and technical manager Traffic-free freeway for a day of the RUHR.2010 European Capital of Culture project, Over 300 projects and some 2,500 events made up the started preparing in August 2009 for the opening ceremony year’s Capital of Culture program. A special highlight among on January 9, 2010 at the Zollverein Coal Mine Industrial them was the “still life” festival on July 18, 2010, for which a Complex, which was aired live on television throughout 60-kilometer stretch of the A40 autobahn was transformed Europe. into an enormous dining table. Daniela Böing, event expert at HOCHTIEF, achieved a master stroke in logistics: Her proInvolved in various projects fessional assistance made possible such feats as setting up “Change through culture; culture through change” was the 20,000 tables along the road. Some three million people concept that convinced the European Commission to setook the once-in-a-lifetime chance to walk, cycle, or skate lect the city of Essen, representing the Ruhr region, as the along the closed freeway and visit the tables to learn about Capital of Culture 2010. Within this framework, there was the huge variety of groups, events, and topics on offer in the plenty of scope for ideas and projects. HOCHTIEF contribRuhr region. HOCHTIEF tables were also part of the action, uted to their success in many ways—for example, by allopresenting an exciting program with live music. cating trainees and employees to help with masonry, earthworks, and reinforced concrete on several projects as well as by providing the site installations. Sustainability Report 2011 87 Experiencing jobs in construction: A visit to a construction site initiates young people like the participants in the Build-ABridge program run by our American subsidiary Flatiron into the world of HOCHTIEF. Our international subsidiaries and associated companies National and international efforts for education are pursuing similar initiatives to generate timely awareAll over the world, education is among the key factors in ness of HOCHTIEF Group companies among the younger ensuring quality of life and preventing or eliminating povergeneration. Our US subsidiary Turner, for example, with its ty. As a company which acts sustainably, we are commitTurner YouthForce 2020 is pursuing the goal of motivating ted to promoting education even beyond the scope of our young people to get a good education. Selected students company. One way we do this is by supporting the Forum— receive college scholarships to pursue engineering degrees. Young Migrant Talents (YMT) coaching center at the Theodor Turner also offers internships. Another activity designed to Haubach School in Hamburg. The organization nurtures draw students to engineering is the Adopt-A-School initiateens from immigrant families during their schooling, helptive. Additionally, Turner and its sister company Flatiron are ing them along their way toward successful careers. We involved in the national ACE Mentor Program, which gives have also been supporting the “Afrika kommt!” (Africa is high school students insights into architecture, construccoming!) project since 2010. This German industry initiation management, and engineering. Turner and Flatiron tive, launched in 2008, aims to teach young potential manemployees give lectures at local schools in communities agers in Sub-Saharan Africa the skills they need for interwhere the companies operate. Flatiron’s approach to atnational business. HOCHTIEF provides funding for the tracting young talent is comprised of three areas: educaproject and offers participants the opportunity to broaden tional outreach, internships, and university relations. For their knowledge in Germany. example, Flatiron has a company-wide education outreach program where students interested in studying engineering compete for scholarships and internships. Nordex Forum in Nordex Forum, a landmark and a The building itself is reserved for response to the client’s desire for public space newly created space, provides users. artistic design and are not related to positive stimulus for the site and • Architectural sculpture: The buildany function of the building. the surrounding area: ing’s facade boasts graphic ele• Public access: The Nordex Forum ments representing an artistic abgrounds are open to the public. straction of a forest, which is a They include seating and lounging defining element of the building’s areas not only for employees on location, and of wind energy, which their lunch break but for everyone. is Nordex’s business. They were a 88 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Five thousand euros for a good cause: With the Forum— Young Migrant Talents initiative, HOCHTIEF supports gifted but socially disadvantaged teens. For a number of years, the National Building Museum has We have also been very successful with visitors’ days at awarded the Henry C. Turner Prize—endowed by our subconstruction sites and projects. For example, the first sidiary Turner—to individuals and organizations exhibiting Large-scale Construction Sites Day was held in Hamburg innovative solutions and outstanding achievements in conin April 2010. Some 10,000 visitors took the opportunity to struction technology and practice. In 2010, the prize went get a glimpse behind the scenes of HOCHTIEF building to the group Engineers Without Borders—USA for their sites such as the Elbe Philharmonic Hall and the subway efforts to interest future generations of engineers in interline 4 station. Interest was similarly high in the open house national development projects. The organization focuses held by the company Via Solutions in summer 2009. The on connecting students in construction-related fields with company, in which HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions holds a international development initiatives. For example, they stake, designed, built, financed, and now operates the A4 help provide clean water, sustainable energy concepts, freeway between the capital of the federal state of Hesse and needed infrastructure to developing communities and Gotha. The event gave visitors the chance to learn around the world. about the project and the job of the road maintenance workers on site. Committed to public welfare We are members of the societies in which our projects Residents in the areas surrounding the airports in which create living space, so HOCHTIEF is dedicated to engaging we hold a stake deserve special care and attention on the with social and community issues in these regions. We part of HOCHTIEF Concessions. Budapest Airport, for exactively embrace responsibility in a sustainable manner. To ample, has been operating a voluntary noise abatement this end, all our national and international subsidiaries and initiative including ventilation systems and soundproof winassociated companies communicate openly with the people dows since 2007. The school sponsoring initiative of the in the regions where they are located and where they imple­ HOCHTIEF company has virtually become a tradition: For ment projects. years, HOCHTIEF Concessions has been supporting schools near our airport holdings by providing computers and the Intensive exchange with neighbors necessary equipment. It was decided in 2011 to extend We consider timely communication and intensive exthe program to include other segments. Three schools close change with people who live close to our projects vital to to the A4 highway operated in Thuringia by HOCHTIEF and success. That enables us to take the legitimate interests of consortium partners benefited from a donation. Students local stakeholders into account during planning, implenow have new IT equipment including an interactive board mentation, and operation of our projects. For projects of for multimedia learning. above-average size and complexity, we create an individual communications strategy before work begins. We use a variety of tools, such as newsletters or town hall meetings. Sustainability Report 2011 89 Stakeholders Our Australian Group company Thiess received outstanding recognition from residents and the government alike have their say for its community relations during the soil decontamination and remediation for the Homebush Bay project in Sydney: Subcontractor The contaminated grounds of a former chemicals plant were treated over the course of six years by Thiess so that now a new residential area can be built there. The company tasked a special community relations manager with keeping the public informed on the large-scale project and addressing such concerns as possible health-related issues for future residents. Cheryl Green, Principal Owner of Cheryl Green Studios, New York Close cooperation with local suppliers HOCHTIEF places a high priority on hiring as many local What were you looking to achieve when you signed up for Turner School subcontractors and employees as possible for all its projof Construction Management? ects. One example is the refurbishment phase of the pubAs an aspiring architect, construction means and methods are essential to a suclic-private partnership schools in the Offenbach district cessful design. I wanted to gain a better understanding of architecture from the completed in 2009. Over one in two construction conbuilders (contractors) perspective. tracts connected with this project were awarded to companies in the district or the surrounding area. Plus, 69 perWhat impressed you the most about the program? cent by value of the contracts for operating the schools The high quality of instruction and content of the Advanced Construction Managewent to subcontractors in the region. ment Certificate Program exceeded my expectations. My personal highlights were OSHA, Building Information Modeling (BIM) and Sustainable Building classes. Our choice of local partners, however, depends on other factors in addition to regional criteria. We also place a speWhat have you implemented from the program? cial focus on working more intensively with companies run Since graduating from the program, I obtained my LEED Green Associate Certifiby members of ethnic minorities and women. For example, cation, and have implemented learned project management standards. these target groups are offered training courses from our American subsidiary Turner through its in-company Turner How did the day-to-day experience of the presenters affect the School of Construction Management, on topics such as ­coursework? estimating, purchasing, logistics, financing, and safety. The knowledge, talent and skills of the teachers fully enriched the classroom More than 32,000 companies in 70 American cities have ­setting. The instructors were able to talk about construction projects they were benefited from this support program since its inception in working on day to day and site examples of current construction technologies as 1969. In 2010, Turner awarded contracts worth over EUR it related to classwork. Recently completed projects, and projects under construc670 million to these companies. Our American subsidiary tion were used as a basic for developing the class syllabus and class projects. Flatiron pursues similar objectives: Prior to the construction of the Exposition Light Rail Transit line in California, a What kind of networking opportunities did the program create with the job center was set up in order to recruit employees from other participants? the area and locate local subcontractors. I met Small Business Owners, Realtors, Contractors, Laborers, Plumbers, Munici­ pal Agency Employees, and Teachers. Everyone comes to the program for a difThe Australian HOCHTIEF Group companies Leighton and ferent reason. I wanted to enhance my Architectural background with a better Thiess are also committed to tapping the enthusiasm and understanding of Construction. Now having completed the program I’m giving potential of ethnic minorities and women. Leighton Asia, to consideration to transitioning to construction full time. I needed an immersion name just one example, successfully trains young female program geared towards working professionals with “working professionals” employees as drivers of heavy trucks. The company has been teaching the classes—and that’s exactly what I found at the Turner School of supporting small companies in rural areas in the Philippines Construction Management. since 2007. By hiring employees who live in areas where projects are carried out, Thiess aims to invest indirectly in the local community. 90 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Making connections: The HOCHTIEF subsidiary Flat­ iron supports the Bridges to Prosperity project. Putting their know-how and manpower to work on site, the employees help build hanging bridges in locations such as remote regions of South America (photo left). The first HOCHTIEF-trained female employee completed her qualification as a BIM manager in Qatar during 2011. She will use her newly acquired 3D computer modeling skills both on the job and to support the training of further Qatar employees. In Qatar, HOCHTIEF ViCon and a partner plan to establish sary to ensure access to healthcare, education, and ecoa BIM education and certification center in 2011. Short for nomic opportunities. In fact, Flatiron combined its educational Building Information Modeling, BIM is a modern method outreach with these community building efforts: Flatiron for optimizing the planning, implementation, and operation engineers challenged local university students to design a of buildings using a 3D computer model. The need for sustainable, inexpensive, and easily replicable footbridge such experts is growing rapidly in the Middle East, leading to be used for this program. Flatiron employees have built HOCHTIEF to train local project managers on site in virtual bridges in El Salvador and Guatemala. construction. Leighton India launched a project with an ecological slant: Great efforts for public welfare During a port construction project in India, the children Along with its subsidiaries and associates, HOCHTIEF taiwho live and go to school in the polluted areas surroundlors initiatives and events to the individual requirements ing the project receive free environmental education, for and needs of the company’s locations and projects. instance, in the form of games or drawing and writing contests. The aim is to raise their environmental awareness. Two cases in Germany: HOCHTIEF in Berlin/Brandenburg HOCHTIEF Polska is also participating in an initiative that has funded the Capital’s Award for Integration and Tolerbenefits children, donating some EUR 5,000 for the refurance carrying prize money of EUR 15,000 in 2011. The bishment of the new headquarters of the Committee for award honors the most compelling integration projects in the Protection of Childrens’ Rights in Warsaw. the city. Secondly, the facility managers at HOCHTIEF in Erlangen have for quite some time been bringing happiWe are committed to providing aid on an ad hoc basis in ness to the young patients at the Clinic for Children and the wake of natural disasters. Our US subsidiaries Turner Adolescents with small gifts and entertaining events. and Flatiron and their workforces donated some EUR 250,000 to relief agencies such as Doctors Without BorIn Port Elisabeth, South Africa, HOCHTIEF has continued ders, Save the Children and the Clinton/Bush Haiti Fund sponsoring of the Liebenhaus project. This boys’ home for the victims of the devastating earthquake in Haiti in supports children who have little hope of rising in society, early 2010. The Donations for Chile drive HOCHTIEF initioffering reading and mathematics lessons, plus computated following the earthquake in spring 2010 collected ers and the related software. In October 2010, the Liebenapproximately EUR 37,000, half of which was donated by haus received a media center sponsored by HOCHTIEF. staff in Germany and the other half by the company. The funds went to emergency relief for Chilean children. FolFlatiron extended its successful collaboration with the lowing the catastrophic flood around the 2010/2011 new Bridges to Prosperity initiative by an additional five years, year, our Australian subsidiary Leighton provided manin which Flatiron funds trips for employees to build footpower and machines as well as some EUR 1.5 million in bridges in remote areas, creating the infrastructure neces­financial relief. Sustainability Report 2011 91 HOCHTIEF often uncovers historical finds during excavaWell prepared for the future tions and civil engineering work. We are aware of the need As a company that acts sustainably, we need to react today to preserve these treasures for posterity. While our unit in to new developments whose full effects may only be felt by Cologne was restoring a part of the old dike on the banks future generations. One of these is demographic change. of the Rhine, they discovered the remains of a turntable The number of older people will grow significantly. The belonging to an old railroad station from around 1881. project developers at HOCHTIEF have responded to this Parts of the historic finds are now being integrated into the foreseeable trend by intensifying their collaboration with new Rhine Boulevard. In July 2010, workers employed by BeneVit, an operator of care facilities. Together the partour subsidiary E.E. Cruz also discovered “buried treasure” ners are creating new living spaces designed to meet the while working at Ground Zero in New York: They unearthed needs of the older generation. Eight such buildings based parts of a wooden ship from the 18th century that had on a community living philosophy had gone into operation been buried in mud. Just a few days before, their sister by mid-2011. Additional care facilities are planned. company Turner, working very close to the World Trade Center site, ran across the remains of an embankment We are also using innovative living concepts to respond to wall dating back to the 19th century. The finds were recovthe growing desire to reside in cities. This is equally true for ered by specialists. families, single people, and seniors. Each of these groups has individual ideas about urban life. The “le flair” in Düsselwww.flair-duesseldorf.de dorf shows how such projects might take shape. Key figures Distribution of value added 2008 2009 restated 2010 EUR million % EUR million % EUR million % Employees 3,261.8 82.0 3,508.6 81.7 4,078.4 80.3 Lenders 195.3 4.9 187.8 4.4 245.8 4.8 Minority shareholders 167.1 4.2 212.9 5.0 258.2 5.1 *The total dividend amount HOCHTIEF shareholders* 88.2 2.2 96.7 2.3 147.1 2.9 stated for 2010 is based on Public authorities 177.9 4.5 192.3 4.5 210.3 4.1 the dividend of EUR 2 per nopar-value share proposed by HOCHTIEF 86.9 2.2 95.0 2.2 140.9 2.8 the Executive Board and the Net value added 3,977.2 100.0 4,293.3 100.0 5,080.7 100.0 number of shares in circulation on December 31, 2010. Value added analysis shows how HOCHTIEF generates added value for the economy and how it is distributed to the various s ­ takeholder groups. HOCHTIEF donations and sponsorship figures broken down by region (2010) Germany/Europe EUR 362,184 Asia/Pacific Americas EUR 3,256,039 EUR 3,426,978 92 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Corporate citizenship Our overarching objective: We a i m t o g e t i n v o l v e d i n t h e c o m m u n i t y w h e r e v e r o u r c o m p a n y i s a t w o r k . Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Support local school and education Numerous examples from HOCHTIEF Promote educational projects and projects units worldwide; total donations and nurture young talent sponsorship in this area: approx. EUR 1.5 million Promote projects to support modern Additional sponsoring activities Involvement in RUHR.2010 European architecture and Bauhaus planned as soon as appropriate Capital of Culture projects; financial ­initiatives and projects are identified support for “From Art to Life. Hungarians at the Bauhaus” exhibition in Berlin and refurbishment of Feininger Masters’ House in Dessau Support populations in disaster areas Action such as donation drives Donation drives for earthquake ­according to current needs ­victims and flood aid: EUR 250,000 for Haiti EUR 37,000 for Chile EUR 1.5 million for Australia Promote sustainable development in Draw up and implement community 52 percent of John Holland projects vicinity of our projects and stakeholder management plans have implemented a community ­relations plan for subsidiaries Thiess and John ­Holland 20 percent of Turner’s contract volume Status 2010: 16 percent by value of awarded to minority and womenprocurement awarded to businesses owned business enterprises run by ethnic minorities or women (M/WBEs) Continue Turner School of Construc2010: 1,362 attendees at events in 70 tion Management and establish addicities in the USA Promote equal opportunity for tional locations ­women and ethnic minorities Support projects to promote indig­ Leighton is a founder member of the enous Australians Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier Council (AIMSC) Attract women to technical profesThiess funds a special scholarship sions in construction and mining program for women in mining; participation in Girl’s Day 2010 in Germany Sustainability Report 2011 93 Area 6 Compliance Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance We stand by our word— in every possible language. Colleagues like John Lochowiak, Indigenous Affairs Manager at our Australian subsidiary Thiess, foster intercultural understanding: In a hiring and training program for members of Australian minorities, he liaises between Aboriginal and other groups. Partly thanks to his origins, John Lochowiak is able to bring together people with very different values and ensure that they can work well together. By learning about other people’s cultures, we can reach a common understanding of what is right and what is important. At HOCHTIEF, this is enshrined in our high standards of business ethics and the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2011 95 Area 6 Compliance The challenge: HOCHTIEF operates in countries Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. Within the holding with differing political, value, and legal systems. company, the Chief Compliance Officer is supported by Compliance—with all internal and external regulathe Corporate Compliance Counsel and a legal expert tions—therefore plays a major role at HOCHTIEF. All specializing in criminal law. employees are obliged to adhere to the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct and the high standards laid down Compliance in occupational safety, health and environmental in all other internal HOCHTIEF rules. protection matters is the separate responsibility of the competence center for occupational safety, health and Our objective: We aim to set standards with our environmental protection (OSHEP), while compliance relating principles of conduct. to data protection issues comes under the Data Security Officer in charge of the internal data security system. ReOf supreme value to us, HOCHTIEF’s reputation must sponsibility for all other compliance issues in connection be cherished and safeguarded. We take care to ensure that with combating economic crime and corruption lies within employees of all Group companies comply with the law the general HOCHTIEF compliance system. and internal company rules and also adhere to HOCHTIEF’s ethical principles. Guidance on respon­sibility is contained HOCHTIEF Solutions AG and HOCHTIEF Concessions AG in the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct, which is binding for have each designated a compliance officer of their own in all employees. consultation with the Chief Compliance Officer. The individual divisions and segments provide further points of contact The HOCHTIEF compliance system for employees’ questions in the form of compliance officers HOCHTIEF established a dedicated compliance system and general compliance managers. Our American subsidas early as 2008. Its job is to furnish HOCHTIEF employees iaries Turner, Flatiron, and E.E. Cruz likewise each have a with advice on questions of compliance and support in compliance program of their own that is implemented and complying with the law as well as internal company rules. evaluated by designated compliance officers. Since 2008, The compliance system is also there to coordinate action Turner and Flatiron have had internal compliance commitin any instances of non-compliance. tees. Similarly, HOCHTIEF’s subsidiary Leighton in Australia has its own compliance program as well as an Ethics and Top-level responsibility for compliance is held by the ChairCompliance Committee for the exchange of all related man of the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellinformation from the sub-groups. The subsidiaries’ comschaft. The Chief Compliance Officer regularly reports to pliance officers report directly to the HOCHTIEF Chief the Executive Board and annually submits a report to the Compliance Officer. The HOCHTIEF compliance system Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft OSHEP Center Data Protection Officer Chief Compliance Officer Corporate Compliance Counsel/Corporate Crime Prevention  HOCHTIEF  HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF H  OCHTIEF Americas Asia Pacific Concessions Solutions 96 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance principles. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct applies both Code of Conduct for internal dealings with each other and for external relations HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft with business partners, subcontractors, and public authorities. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct was revised in 2010. The Code now more clearly reflects the ten principles of ACTING the UN Global Compact, which HOCHTIEF committed to comply with and promote in 2008. The UN Global Compact F IRLY is an international initiative bringing together representatives of private-sector industry with United Nations agencies, employees, and civil society to advance universal social and environmental principles. The principles relate to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The revised HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct also incorporates the insights and experience acquired by compliance officers in recent years. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct covers five main thematic areas: • Business partners and conflicts of interest: Conflicts of Turning Vision into Value. interest and bribe-taking, bribery and corruption, donations and sponsoring, observance of anti-trust rules • Information: Dealing with internal knowledge, confidentiality Compliance system: Elements and codes and contacts, and data protection Our compliance system embraces various measures and • Health, safety, and the environment codes to make sure prevailing law and company rules are • Corporate assets: Documentation of business transactions, adhered to. Alongside advice for employees, the elements treatment of company property and assets, insider rules of this system include: • Principles of social responsibility: Respecting human digni• The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct and associated guidety, rejecting child labor, rejecting forced labor, equality of lines; these set out the conduct expected of HOCHTIEF opportunity and prohibition of discrimination, right of asemployees. sociation and right of collective bargaining. • The whistleblower system: – An internal and an external HOCHTIEF hotline for employThe HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct is available in German, ees and others (clients, subcontractors, etc.) to report— English, Russian, Polish, and Czech. A Greek edition is in anonymously and confidentially if they wish—possible preparation. crimes, breaches of the law or internal company rules, and any other irregularities within the Group. The Code is supplemented by internal directives on topics – Information and questions can also be submitted to such as customer events, donations and sponsoring, the Corporate Compliance Counsel using the e-mail and conduct when engaging consultants. These provide address compliance@hochtief.de. HOCHTIEF employees with clear guidance on how to ad• HOCHTIEF training programs. dress compliance-related issues of this kind. HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct and guidelines The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct provides guidance on responsibility for our employees, bringing together in binding form the key rules on conduct applicable for HOCHTIEF. The Code of Conduct also reflects our company’s ethical Sustainability Report 2011 97 Stakeholders have their say Partners in industry The HOCHTIEF whistleblower system All employees are encouraged to report irregularities, first and foremost to their direct superiors or compliance system Bernhard Steinrücke, Director General, contacts. Information may also be reported to Corporate Indo-German Chamber of Commerce, Auditing. The identity of the reporting individuals is kept strictMumbai ly confidential. HOCHTIEF has also set up an external and What are the biggest compliance challenges for German companies in an internal hotline for employees to bring attention to comIndia?* pliance issues confidentially. The internal hotline puts One of the greatest challenges for the compliance department of any company callers in contact with Group compliance personnel. Using doing construction work in India is the safety and training of construction workers. the external hotline, callers can speak to an independent Surveys suggest that about one in six construction workers suffers injuries during lawyer specialized in criminal law. Other HOCHTIEF comwork time and that the vast majority of them have not had any formal training. The panies have similar hotlines—for example, the Ethics Hotregulatory framework on these issues has been tightened in recent years but not line at Turner, Flatiron, and E.E. Cruz. Employees can also all Indian construction companies have kept up with these changes. report information to the Corporate Compliance Counsel using an e-mail address. All information can be given How can a company address these challenges on direct investment? anonymously and treated confidentially on request. Be careful who you choose as a partner as well as who is in charge of your staff and HR decisions in India. There are a number of organizations which provide HOCHTIEF training programs training and safety measures for your employees; but it is equally important that A second electronic training program on the topic of antiupper and middle management is able and willing to implement your company’s corruption went on line in 2011 in the form of an anti-corrupsafety culture as an integral part of the organization. tion add-on. This follows on from a program in 2009 whose content it updates and expands. The new training proWhat are the opportunities and risks for a German company in the gram once again presents realistic case studies from the ­Indian construction sector? everyday working context for users to solve. The case The construction sector in India is the second biggest contributor to the nation’s studies link to information on the legal position and employGDP, and it is growing rapidly. Within the next two years, annual investments in ees receive suggestions on how to act in difficult business construction are expected to surge from about USD 280 billion to almost USD situations. The new program is available on the HOCHTIEF 380 billion. The vast majority of construction companies are very small, thus offerintranet for all employees, along with the original anti-coring excellent opportunities for large enterprises with a sustainable infrastructure. ruption training program as well as another on illegal forms On the other hand, it is important to constantly monitor the policy environment as of employment. Managerial employees will be required to well as the competition. Changes happen quickly and should be anticipated early complete the new program in 2011 and 2012. to avoid sudden cost rises or the loss of valuable employees to expanding competitors. Employees in Germany additionally receive classroom-based training, including at induction events, training courses, and In Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, India departmental meetings. came 87th in 2010. What role does corruption play in India? What is your advice for German companies that want to do business in India? Other HOCHTIEF companies likewise offer training programs For a couple of years now, not a week goes by without the Indian media reporting on the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct and anti-corruption. on corruption and frauds. However, the increasing news coverage of this issue acTurner has a comprehensive ethics and compliance program tually does not show a decline in business standards, but rather proves that India with intranet-based e-learning courses and annual training is working on its problems. Corruption certainly is an issue, but it is an issue that is at the company’s offices around the country. These training being addressed. Fewer and fewer cases of fraud go unpunished. In this sensitive programs served as the basis for Flatiron to develop a environment, it is especially important for German companies to stick to regulasimilar scheme of its own. HOCHTIEF’s anti-corruption tions and compliance. program likewise provided a starting point for Flatiron to compile an e-learning tool based on it. E.E. Cruz is also *India is a growth market for HOCHTIEF. currently in the process of establishing its own training program. 98 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Communicating compliance Fair play with business partners and subcontractors To raise awareness of company requirements, the HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF attaches great importance to fair play in busiCode of Conduct, and internal rules as well as to sensitize ness, including with regard to competitors. Honesty in the the workforce to compliance-related issues, these are often competitive arena is our binding policy—both when bidding made the subject of in-house communications activities at for new contracts and in ongoing business relationships. HOCHTIEF, including with articles and interviews in employee Objectivity and transparency guide the contract award newsletters. A compliance section of the intranet gives the process. names of all contact persons in compliance, lists the in-house directives and circulars to be observed by employees, and We have also revised the Code of Conduct for HOCHTIEF provides links to the training programs. Subcontractors and Suppliers in 2011, developing it to become a uniform code for all business partners. The Response to compliance infringements HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct for Business Partners sets We respond with full rigor to any infringement of the Code out the minimum standards we expect business partners of Conduct. We, of course, acknowledge the danger of to comply with. These include acknowledging social responanonymous whistleblowing resulting in individuals being sibility toward their own organizations, clients, suppliers, falsely accused. Each and every case is therefore investiother business partners, the environment, and society. We gated with the utmost sensitivity and attentiveness. In-house also expect those we work with to encourage their own investigations are carried out by Corporate Auditing in cobusiness partners to practice the same standards of comoperation with the crime prevention unit, which deals with pliance. We consequently reserve the right, at any time criminal law aspects. Suggestions for action in connection and without prior warning, to verify or obtain verification of with compliance cases are put forward by the Steering compliance with this Code. Committee, meetings of which are attended by the heads of the Auditing, Communications, Legal, and Human ReThe HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct for Business Partners, sources departments along with the Corporate Complitoo, is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Comance Counsel. Responsibility for taking the action, which pact. Notably, it reflects a longstanding commitment by can go as far as dismissal, lies with the relevant superior HOCHTIEF going back to the year 2000, when we became or management. the first construction company in the world to sign up to the standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) . The ILO is a UN agency devoted to enabling women www.ilo.org and men the world over to work in conditions of freedom, equity, security, and human dignity. The ILO’s activities revolve around four basic principles: freedom of association HOCHTIEF monitored compliance tities for each trade. Bidders had to standards formulated in national Quality assurance at with sustainability and ethical sign to acknowledge these with law and by international organizaNordex Forum principles in accordance with our binding effect. tions such as the International Labor Code of Conduct to ensure high • Contractor and subcontractor qualOrganization and Transparency standards of quality at all project ity: The core and shell work was ­International. phases throughout the Nordex carried out by HOCHTIEF Solutions • Quality assurance in construction: Forum project: AG, which is listed by the AssociaThere followed testing of various • Assurance of sustainability in retion for the Prequalification of Conkinds for construction quality asquesting bids from subcontractors struction Companies (Verein für die surance purposes, including buildand award of subcontracting work: Präqualifikation von Bauunterneh­ ing air leakage tests and building Sustainability aspects were incormen e.V.). All other companies were acoustics (airborne and footfall porated into subcontracting down contracted to comply with, and vali­ sound) tests. All materials used to the level of specific construction dated on the basis of, the Code of were additionally recorded in buildtrades and in selected cases speConduct for HOCHTIEF Subconing documentation. cific deliverables. This was done by tractors and Suppliers. This emadding environment-specific matebraces national and international rial requirements to the bills of quanlegal, social, and environmental Sustainability Report 2011 99 and the right to collective bargaining, abolition of forced addition, HOCHTIEF is a member of the World Economic and child labor, and non-discrimination. We aim to pass Forum’s international Partnering Against Corruption Initiawww.weforum.org on compliance with these principles to our contracting tive . partners. We are involved in ongoing policy developments in Berlin Data protection a key priority through our lobbying and industry associations activities. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct also contains provisions Our interests are also represented by industry bodies such on data protection. Both internally with regard to employees as the Central Federation of the German Construction Inand externally as concerns business partners and clients, dustry (HDB) and the Federation of German Industries (BDI). we have a special commitment to privacy and to protecting It is HOCHTIEF policy not to donate to political parties or data. This safeguards individuals from infringements of politicians. We work openly and above-board with all public their right to decide how their personal data should be used. agencies responsible for our projects. Responsible employer Sustainable risk management HOCHTIEF considers itself a responsible employer toward HOCHTIEF’s global business naturally involves risks. But every individual in the workforce, in some cases going only undetected and hence unmanaged risks pose a real beyond current statutory requirements under equal opporpotential threat. Risks include all developments that can tunities and other legislation. Diversity and openness are negatively impact on the attainment of qualitative and quanan important part of our corporate culture and are actively titative business goals. Our highly developed risk managepromoted. For HOCHTIEF, what matters most is teamment system reduces this potential to a minimum through work—in line with our internal guiding principles. We encourproactive risk control and therefore plays a major part in age employees to emphasize partnership and responsibility. the company’s successful onward development as well as For instance, everyone at HOCHTIEF is called upon to make in enhancing our earning power. Risk management at responsible use of the company’s resources. HOCHTIEF encompasses all organizational processes and instruments designed to detect risks at an early stage and Transparency and anti-corruption to develop and implement suitable countermeasures. Such HOCHTIEF firmly believes in fair competition and transparmeasures include analyzing projects for health, safety, and ency in the construction industry. Our consistent anti-corenvironment risks before signing the contract. Investment ruption policies are reflected, among other things, in memspending is subjected to careful advance scrutiny and only www.transparency.de bership of Transparency International going back to 1999. approved if strict selection criteria are fulfilled. Our GroupHOCHTIEF is the only German provider of construction serv­ wide early warning system is an integral part of our manices to be a member. The company is also a founder-memagement system and of the planning, control, and reporting www.netzwerkber of Netzwerk Compliance , a network of German system. In this way, we ensure that all material risks are compliance.de companies aiming to combat unfair business practices. In regularly surveyed, assessed, and communicated. Risk management stands and falls with the sensitivity and experience of our workforce. We have therefore created a Formal risk management procedure risk culture at all levels of the organization that is supported by organizational processes, systems, and communica4. Holding company Executive Board discusses and adopts tions and is constantly being refined and improved. the Group risk report HOCHTIEF is organizationally well prepared for the contin3. Risk Management Steering Committee gency of a sudden crisis. Our crisis management and inevaluates the risks in the provisional Group risk situation analysis formation system lays down key responsibilities and procedures for the event of a crisis. All employees have been Actions 2. Controlling Corporate Department provided with the internationally available crisis hotline categorizes risks and prepares the provisional number, use of which has already been made on several Group risk situation analysis occasions. The process triggered in this way has helped prevent crises and combat them in their early stages. For 1. Divisions/Corporate Departments identify and explain their respective risks privacy reasons, the information reported by employees is not published. 100 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance HOCHTIEF communicates openly with all stakeholders Employees Clients (see page 68 ff.) decision makers from business and politics (see pages 25, 30, 101) Subcontractors and suppliers Government and public agencies (see pages 90 f., 99 f.) (see pages 41, 100) HOCHTIEF has identified as stakeholders those groups Universities and Investors, shareholders, which significantly influence scientific community and analysts the economic, ecological, (see pages 25, 29 f., 86 ff.) (see pages 13, 29, 102) and social performance of HOCHTIEF or may do so in the future, as well as those groups which are signifiSchool students, Journalists cantly affected by our Group’s undergraduates, and graduates (see page 102) economic, ecological, and (see pages 71 f., 86 ff.) social performance or may be affected in the future. This was based in particular on our experience from longNeighbors and local Associations, NGOs, standing customer relations, residents and other organizations our project business, communications work, and regu­ (see page 89 f.) (see pages 25, 26, 59, 91, 100) larly conducted market surveys. Stakeholder communications and information Through its national and international Group companies, ­culture HOCHTIEF presents its capabilities to clients at major We also attach great importance to transparency in liaison trade shows and conferences around the world. Trade with stakeholders. We seek goal-oriented dialog with repshows attended in Germany during 2010 included Expo resentatives of industry, government, and society, our Real for real estate, the Facility Management Exhibition business partners and investors at local, national, and inand Congress in Frankfurt, and the Consense International ternational level. Our policy of providing open, timely inforTrade Fair and Congress for Sustainable Building, Investmation equips stakeholders to build a picture of the comment, Operations and Maintenance. Our US subsidiary pany and reach decisions. In return, this active dialog with Turner exhibited in 2010 at shows such as Greenbuild, the stakeholders enables HOCHTIEF to take their requirements, American Association of School Administrators, and the wishes, and expectations on board in its business activities International Conference and Exhibition on Health Facility and continue the selective development of our products Planning, Design and Construction. Leighton traditionally and services. has a presence at Coaltrans, the largest meeting of the international coal industry, which will next be staged in The various stakeholder groups naturally differ greatly with Madrid in October 2011. HOCHTIEF experts are also invited regard to issues and perspectives. HOCHTIEF is careful to speak and take part in panel discussions at various events. to address the respective challenges discerningly and in Such events in 2011 include the German real estate induscontext, developing solutions on a case-by-case basis. try’s Quo Vadis congress and the Deutscher BautechnikStakeholder dialog is therefore an important task within Tag construction technology congress; an example from each division and area of responsibility. 2010 was the Future Proofing Property Forum, an international green building conference in Australia. Client focus HOCHTIEF maintains close—at times daily—contact and We provide clients, business partners, and decision makan open exchange with clients in the context of working ers in industry with information on current topics and with them in person on contracts, in the form of customer Group projects of interest in our twice-yearly “concepts by events, trade shows, and other trade events, as well as HOCHTIEF” customer magazine. The publication has althrough the “concepts by HOCHTIEF” customer magaready received several awards. In 2010, “concepts” se*For further information, please see www.hochtief. zine*. cured silver in the craft trades, construction and architeccom/concepts. Sustainability Report 2011 101 to sustainability, HOCHTIEF is attributed good growth prospects in green building, energy management, and wind power. A representative survey of 1,000 members of the public once again confirmed that, with both aided and unaided recall, HOCHTIEF is the most widely known company in the industry. Open exchange with media and analysts Journalists who cover HOCHTIEF in public through the media are also furnished with regular, timely, and open information—partly on request, but also by way of regularly held events such as the business results and other press conferences, as well as background talks. We make information available to the media as needed. Likewise for analysts and investors, who can obtain up-todate information specifically tailored to their needs from our website at any time. Our investor relations team and In dialog: HOCHTIEF presture category of the Best of Corporate Publishing the Executive Board additionally provide information and ents its capabilities to cliawards—the largest corporate communications competianswer questions in one-on-one meetings. Regular roadents at key trade shows such as the 2010 Expo Real tion in Europe. shows, conferences, and conference calls ensure transreal estate fair in Munich. parency. We explained our strategy in 2010 at 32 roadSince October 2010, the HOCHTIEF website has featured shows and 19 conferences for investors and analysts. We an extra service in the shape of the Client Portal, providing also regularly take part in dedicated events for small invesa central overview of the Group’s entire service portfolio tors. Our General Shareholders’ Meeting and business rewith direct contact to the relevant units. sults press conferences have been broadcast live online for many years to keep shareholders fully informed. Our inTo continue refining and improving our products and serv­ vestor relations activities scored well in 2010: In a ranking ices, the HOCHTIEF units carry out customer satisfaction published by the German Investor Relations Association surveys as and when the need arises. In 2010, for exam(DIRK) and Thomson-Reuters-Extel market researchers, ple, HOCHTIEF Facility Management asked clients across HOCHTIEF took seventh place among companies in the Germany about the working relationship to date. Besides MDAX index. Points were assigned for transparency and generating positive feedback for employees on the accuracy in company and Group annual reports, reliability ground, the findings were used to identify action areas, inof guidance, plus industry and sectoral knowledge. Our cluding with ideas for further improving sales and com2009 Annual Report garnered a Platinum award in the anplaints management. nual ranking by the League of American Communications Professionals, a highly regarded American public relations We also conduct regular image surveys to learn more association. This was the third time in succession that about how HOCHTIEF is perceived in the public eye and HOCHTIEF has secured this prize in the Business Services hence also by our clients. This enables us to identify decategory. velopment potential in our various areas of activity. The 2010 survey covering 300 opinion formers in Germany showed that HOCHTIEF continues to be the most universally known German construction company and enjoys a very good reputation. Notable factors cited for our good reputation include the Group’s tradition and durability, products and services, and trustworthiness. With regard 102 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable products and services • Active climate protection • Resource protection • Attractive working environment • Corporate citizenship • Compliance Compliance Our overarching objective: We a i m t o s e t s t a n d a r d s w i t h o u r p r i n c i p l e s o f c o n d u c t . Goal Action to 2013 Status June 2011 Integrate HOCHTIEF Code of ConPlanning phase duct training module into existing further training units and management seminars Expand training programs and add Planning phase potential compliance risks to training curriculum Promote awareness and application of the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct Add UN Global Compact principles to Revised HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct published in March 2011 Integrate material regional CR risks Process initiated to integrate regional into risk-oriented audit planning at CR risks Corporate Auditing Implement internal communications Strategy drawn up strategy on compliance Integrate Code of Conduct for BusiRecognition of HOCHTIEF Code of ness Partners and other CR/compliConduct obligatory for business partance issues into prequalification sysners; questionnaire for CR self-disclotem sure under consultation Increase proportion of prequalified 2010: 68 percent of procurement and validated subcontractors ­value in Europe and Americas diviDemand and encourage sustainability sions prequalified; and ethical responsibility in subcon2,264 suppliers and subcontractors tractors and joint venture partners assessed on performance Compile HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct New Code of Conduct for Business for all business partners Partners published in March 2011 Introduce self-disclosure on compliance In preparation for potential joint venture partners on ­basis of HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct Extend compliance system Unify and refine compliance system New Group compliance directive reporting ­adopted and published in May 2010 Corruption risk 60 Measured on Transparency K 2008 International’s Corruption 50 K 2009 Perception Index (CPI) , www.transparency.de Percent of HOCHTIEF mostly operates construction 40 K 2010 in countries with low or output 30 very low corruption risk. 20 10 0 Very high risk High risk Medium risk Low risk Very low risk CPI <= 2 4 >= CPI > 2 6 >= CPI > 4 8 >= CPI > 6 CPI > 8 Sustainability Report 2011 103 Independent Assurance Report This unofficial English translation of the German-language Practitioner’s Responsibility Independent Assurance Report has been prepared by Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our HOCHTIEF and is provided for information purposes only. work as to whether any matters have come to our attention which cause us to believe that the data in the following To HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft, Essen sections of the Sustainability Report have not been preWe have been commissioned with a limited assurance enpared in accordance with the above-mentioned criteria of gagement in relation to selected data in the Sustainability the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines: “The Report 2011 prepared by HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft, Company—Integrated strategy for sustainability” (pages Essen. In accordance with the terms of our engagement, 8–17), “Area 1: Sustainable products and services” (pages our examination covered the sections “The Company— 24–37), “Area 2: Active climate protection” (pages 39–53), Integrated strategy for sustainability” (pages 8–17), “Area 1: and the gray boxes on Nordex Forum in the sections “Area 3: Sustainable products and services” (pages 24–37), “Area Resource protection” (page 56), “Area 4: Attractive working 2: Active climate protection” (pages 39–53), and the gray environment” (page 77), “Area 5: Corporate citizenship boxes on Nordex Forum in the sections “Area 3: Resource (page 88), and “Area 6: Compliance” (page 99). protection” (page 56), “Area 4: Attractive working environment” (page 77), “Area 5: Corporate citizenship (page 88), We conducted our work in accordance with International and “Area 6: Compliance” (page 99). Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard stipulates that we comply with ethical requireExecutive Board Responsibility ments and plan and perform the assurance engagement HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft’s Executive Board is reso as to express our conclusion with limited assurance. sponsible for preparation of the Sustainability Report 2011, applying the criteria set out in the G3.1 Sustainability ReportIn a limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathering ing Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assur(GRI): ance engagement. Therefore, less assurance is obtained • Materiality than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The proce• Stakeholder inclusiveness dures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. The • Sustainability context procedures we followed in the scope of our work included: • Completeness • Inspection of the documentation of systems and pro• Balance cesses relating to sustainable management. • Clarity • Inspection of the documentation of systems and pro• Accuracy cesses for collecting, analyzing, and aggregating sus• Timeliness tainability data and random testing thereof. • Comparability • Inspection of the IT system used for compilation of sus• Reliability tainability data. • D iscussions with employees of the Corporate Social This responsibility includes selection and use of appropriate Responsibility and Corporate Communications units methods for preparation of the Sustainability Report, the commissioned with preparation of the Report and disuse of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainabilicussions concerning the analysis of data relating in party disclosures that are reasonable in the circumstances, ticular to the thematic areas of building diagnosis, green and the design, implementation, and maintenance of sysbuilding, and HOCHTIEF Energy Management. tems and processes relevant to preparation of the Sustainability Report. 104 Sustainability Report 2011 •A nalysis of submitted documents, discussions with susRecommendations tainability management employees, and random testing Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the folto verify sustainability data at The Turner Corporation, lowing recommendations: Dallas, USA. • Ongoing development and Group-wide implementation •C omparison of the financial key figures listed in the “The of the CR strategy and its integration into the necessary Company—Integrated strategy for sustainability” section systems and processes. with the corresponding information in the Company’s • Deeper integration of CR management at subsidiary level 2010 Annual Report. and more detailed documentation of related information flows. Conclusion • Linking of the CR program with performance indicators Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has and their communication to stakeholders. come to our attention which causes us to believe that the • Ongoing development and standardization of processes data in the sections “The Company—Integrated strategy for for compilation, control, and archiving of sustainability sustainability,” “Area 1: Sustainable products and services,” data in order to improve data quality, including in light of and “Area 2: Active climate protection” or in the gray boxes the new Group structure. on Nordex Forum in the Sustainability Report have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Essen, August 5, 2011 the above-mentioned criteria of the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Signed] Andreas Bröcher [Signed ppa.] Juliane von Clausbruch Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) Sustainability Report 2011 105 Information on this Sustainability Report Reporting period In this Sustainability Report, we have opted to present a Certain companies in HOCHTIEF’s international business relatively brief synopsis of the relevant topics. The report portfolio have management systems of their own. This covers the period between October 2009 and June 2011 precludes compiling standardized data for the entire Group. and follows on from the Sustainability Report published in We indicate any limits of coverage in this report wherever November 2009. The reporting periods for key figures are they apply. stated separately. The next Sustainability Report will ­appear in 2013. After that we will report annually. The goals described in this Sustainability Report are based on the assumption that the HOCHTIEF Group will continue We provide detailed, up-to-date information at all times at to operate in its current form. www.hochtief.com/sustainability. Disclaimer Report content and scope While the data contained in this report has been collected The content of this report has been developed on the basis and processed with the greatest possible care, transcripof internal processes. The relevant information was requesttion errors cannot be fully excluded. ed from the operative companies of the Group or originated from official HOCHTIEF documents. The report content has been checked by the staff in charge of the individual issues. Implementation of international reporting standards Principles of the UN Global Compact Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative HOCHTIEF joined the United Nations Global Compact in The HOCHTIEF Sustainability Report 2011 adheres to the 2008. We are consequently actively committed to supcurrent Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative porting the Global Compact’s ten principles and to ad(GRI) including the 2010/2011 pilot version of the GRI Convancing them within the Group. We are committed to the struction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS). respect of human rights, labor standards, and environConformity of the information provided with the requirement protection standards and participate in the fight ment profiles has been checked by GRI and the report against corruption. classified as Application Level B+. This Sustainability Report 2011 also serves as our report For the summary GRI index, please see the back flap on on progress in implementing the UN Global Compact. pages 108–110. HOCHTIEF publishes the required annual Communication of Progress with an overview of specific action on each principle on the Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.org. 106 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI External Assurance Sustainability Report 2011 107 Index Based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines Profile Page 4.9 Executive Board and Supervisory Board-level 1 Vision and Strategy processes for overseeing the organization’s risks 1.1 Foreword by the CEO................................................. 6–7 and opportunities regarding sustainability........12–15, HT 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities..................... 10–11 4.10 Processes for evaluating Executive Board performance............................................. 68 f., AR 20–25 2 Organizational Profile Commitments to external initiatives 2.1 Name of the organization............................................ 111 4.11 Consideration of the precautionary approach...11, 28 ff., 56 2.2 Primary brands, products, 4.12 Participation in external and services............................................. 3, 4, 10–11, CP initiatives.................................. 12, 30, 40, 45, 57, 76, 100 2.3 Operational structure of the organization......................17 4.13 Memberships............................................. 25 f., 100, 106 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters..................... 111 Stakeholder engagement 2.5 Countries where the organization operates...................17 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form..............................15 organization.................................................................101 2.7 Markets served...................................3, 4, 10, 16, 17, 101 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders.................101 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization................... 11, 16, CP 4.16 Stakeholder engagement.................................12ff., 101 f. 2.9 Significant changes regarding 4.17 Consideration of stakeholders’ interests.................. 101 f. structure or ownership..............................15, 106, AR 26 2.10 Awards in the reporting period....... 14 f., 47 f., 68, 70, 102 Management Approach and Performance Indicators 3 Report Parameters 5 Economic Indicators Report profile Disclosure on management approach........................................10f. 3.1 Reporting period........................................................ 106 Aspect: Economic performance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report........................... 106 EC1 ● Direct economic value generated and 3.3 Reporting cycle.......................................................... 106 distributed.............................................................. 16, 92 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report........ 111 EC2 ● Financial implications of climate change...... 40 ff., AR 47, 99 Report scope and boundary EC3 ● Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations............ 75 3.5 Process for defining report content............................12ff. EC4 ● Financial assistance received from 3.6 Boundary of the report............................................... 106 the government.......................................................AR 58 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report........................ 106 Aspect: Market presence 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, EC5 ● Ratios of standard entry-level wage compared subsidiaries, etc......................................................... 106 to local minimum wage................................................. 75 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases EC6 ● Policy, practices, and spending on local suppliers..... 90 f. of calculations................................47, 51, 64, 81, 92, 103 EC7 Procedures for local hiring 3.10 Explanation of any re-statement of information Aspect: Indirect economic impacts provided in earlier reports............................................ 81 EC8 ● Infrastructure investments and services provided 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, primarily for public benefit.............................. 31, 36, 91 f. or measurement methods............................................ 81 EC9 ● Type and scope of significant indirect 3.12 GRI content index— economic impacts...................................... 24, 40, 86–92 Tabular overview with page numbers....................... 107 f. 3.13 Assurance—External assurance for the report...... 104 f. 6 Environment Disclosure on management approach................................... 40, 56 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Aspect: Materials Corporate governance EN1 ◗ Weight/volume of the materials used.................. 57 ff., 65 4.1 Corporate governance, including EN2 ◗ Percentage of materials used that are responsibility for sustainability....................12, AR 20, CG recycled input materials....................................... 36, 57 ff. 4.2 Independence of Supervisory Board............... AR 25, CG CRESS1 Procured materials certified to sustainability 4.3 Control body or independent members standards............................................................... 56, 65 of the highest governance body.................................. CG Aspect: Energy 4.4 Shareholder and employee recommendations EN3 ◗ Direct energy consumption...........................................51 to the Executive Board..........................................75, 102 EN4 ◗ Indirect energy consumption.........................................51 4.5 Linkage between Executive Board compensation EN5 ● Energy saved...............................................32–36, 47–50 and sustainability performance.........................AR 20–25 EN6 ● Initiatives to provide products/services 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest............ 97 ff., CoC with a higher energy efficiency..............24–28, 42, 44–47 4.7 Executive Board members’ expertise EN7 ● Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption...... 50 f. on sustainability.................................................12, 18–21 CRESS2 Building energy intensity 4.8 Mission statement, codes of conduct, (buildings in use only)....................................... 33, 35, 47 and corporate values.............................12–15, 97 ff., CoC not reported ◗ partially reported ● fully reported CoC: Code of Conduct, AR: Annual Report 2010, NA: not applicable, CP: www.hochtief.com/clientportal, GC: www.hochtief.com/corporate-governance, HT: www.hochtief.com/riskmanagement 108 Sustainability Report 2011 Aspect: Water 7 Labor Practices and Decent Work EN8 ◗ Total water withdrawal.................................................. 64 Disclosure on management approach........................68, 73, 75, 76 EN9 Sources affected by water withdrawal Aspect: Employment EN10 ◗ Percentage of water recycled and reused.................... 36 LA1 ◗ Workforce profile.......................................................... 80 CRESS3 Initiatives to reduce water consumption, LA2 ◗ Employee turnover....................................................... 75 including improvements to water quality in LA3 ◗ Benefits provided to full-time employees...................... 75 water reuse and recycling solutions...........34 ff., 59 ff., 61 LA15 ◗ Return to work and retention rates after CRESS4 Water intensity (buildings in use only)........................... 56 parental leave............................................................... 73 Aspect: Biodiversity Aspect: Labor/management relations EN11 ◗ Land used in protected and high-biodiversity LA4 ● Employees covered by collective bargaining areas.................................................................... 42, 62 f. agreements.................................................................75f. EN12 ● Significant impacts on biodiversity.....................56 f., 62 f. LA5 ● Notice periods regarding operational changes............ 75 EN13 ◗ Habitats protected or restored............................ 57, 62 ff. Aspect: Occupational health and safety EN14 ● ­Management of impacts on biodiversity..................... 56 f. LA6 ● Workforce representation in health and EN15 Number of affected species on the IUCN Red safety committees........................................................ 75 List and other lists LA7 ● Injury, absenteeism, and fatalities................................. 81 Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste LA8 ◗ Training, counseling, and risk-control EN16 ● Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions..............51 programs regarding serious diseases..................73ff., 79 EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions LA9 ● Agreements with trades unions on health CRESS5 CO2 intensity from building energy and safety topics.................................................... 75, 99 (buildings in use only)..............................................47–50 Aspect: Training and education EN18 ● Initiatives to reduce greenhouse LA10 ◗ Hours of training........................................................... 70 gas emissions..................................... 27 f., 32–36, 47–50 LA11 ● Skills management and EN19 Ozone-depleting substances lifelong learning...................................69f., 76, AR 61–63 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions LA12 ◗ Employees receiving regular performance EN21 ◗ Water discharge................................................... 57, 60 f. and career development reviews.................................. 68 EN22 ◗ Weight of waste.......................................................... 57 f. Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity EN23 ◗ Significant spills.......................................................51, 64 LA13 ● Diversity of senior management and EN24 ◗ Weight of transported, imported, exported, staff structure........................................................74, 80f. or treated waste........................................................... 59 LA14 ◗ Salaries......................................................................... 75 EN25 ◗ Water bodies affected by discharges of water CRESS8 Number of women in management and on board.........74 and run-off...............................................................57, 61 Aspect: Products and services 8 Human Rights EN26 ● Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Disclosure on management approach..................................97, 100 of products and services............................ 24–28, 32–36 Aspect: Investment and procurement practices EN27 Percentage of products with reused HR1 ◗ Investment agreements that include packaging human rights clauses................................................. 99f. Aspect: Compliance HR2 ● Percentage of suppliers and contractors EN28 ● Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with that have undergone screening............................. 99f., 103 environmental laws and regulations............................. 64 HR3 ◗ Hours of employee training on human rights Aspect: Transport aspects......................................................................... 98 EN29 ● Environmental impacts of transporting products, Aspect: Non-discrimination goods, and employees..................................... 29, 49, 50 HR4 ● Incidents of discrimination and actions taken..........74, 99 Aspect: Contamination and remediation Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining CRESS6 Land held or projects designated as HR5 ◗ Operations at risk and actions to support contaminated................................................... 46, 63, 90 freedom of association..........................................97, 99f. CRESS7 Contaminated land held that has been Aspect: Child labor remediated....................................................... 46, 63, 90 HR6 ◗ Operations at risk and measures to eliminate Aspect: Overall child labor..............................................................97, 99f. EN30 ◗ Total environmental protection Aspect: Forced and compulsory labor expenditures and investments........ 30, 40–43, AR 56–59 HR7 ◗ Operations at risk and measures to eliminate forced and compulsory labor................................97, 99f. Sustainability Report 2011 109 Aspect: Security practices PR6 ● Programs for adherence to laws and voluntary HR8 ● Security personnel trained in aspects codes related to marketing communications............... 86 of human rights............................................................ 99 PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with marketing CRESS9 Workforce working on projects in insecure areas.........17 communications regulations Aspect: Indigenous rights Aspect: Customer privacy HR9 ● Actions taken to protect the rights of PR8 ● Number of substantiated complaints regarding indigenous people...................................................74, 99 breaches of customer privacy.................................... 100 Aspect: Assessment Aspect: Compliance HR10 ◗ Operations that have been subject to human PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws concerning the rights reviews and/or impact assessments............... 96ff. use of products and services Aspect: Remediation Aspect: Legacy impacts HR11 ● Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, CRESS11 Initiatives to promote positive legacy................. 11, 24–28 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.... 96ff. Aspect: Design and configuration CRESS12 Initiatives beyond minimum statutory requirements 9 Society to ensure consideration of design and configuration Disclosure on management approach................................... 86, 96 issues for building, community, and infrastructure Aspect: Local community design..................................................................... 32–37 SO1 ◗ Management of impacts on local communities...... 89–93 SO9 ◗ Operations with potential or actual negative impacts on local communities................................ 89–93 SO10 ● Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with potential or actual negative impacts on local communities................................ 89–93 CRESS10 Number of people displaced, and compensation, broken down by type of project....................................NA Aspect: Corruption SO2 ● Percentage/number of business units analyzed...........HT SO3 ● Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures.................................................... 98, 100 SO4 ● Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.... 99 Aspect: Public policy SO5 ● Public policy positions, participation in public policy development, and lobbying.............................. 100 SO6 ● Contributions to politicians, political parties, and institutions........................................................... 100 Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior SO7 ● Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior................ 99f. Aspect: Compliance SO8 ● Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations....................................................... 64, 81 10 Product Responsibility Disclosure on management approach....................................24–28 Aspekt: Aspect: Customer health and safety PR1 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products are assessed..............................................11 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations Aspekt: Aspect: Product and service labeling PR3 ● Product labeling/product information.............25f., 27, 37 PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with product labeling regulations PR5 ● Practices related to customer satisfaction......... 30ff., 102 Aspect: Marketing communications Sustainability Report 2011 110 Publication Details Contacts and Credits Published by: HOCHTIEF CR-Committee HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Dr. Ute Bardelmeier, CSR Coordinator Opernplatz 2, 45128 Essen, Germany Tel.: +49 201 824-3957, Fax: +49 201 824-3906 Tel.: +49 201 824-0, Fax: +49 201 824-2777 nachhaltigkeit@hochtief.de info@hochtief.de, www.hochtief.com HOCHTIEF Human Resources Project management/editor-in-chief: Martina Steffen Lisa Zindler-Roggow Tel.: +49 201 824-2624, Fax: +49 201 824-92624 martina.steffen@hochtief.de Editing/text: HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications: HOCHTIEF Investor Relations Verena Blaschke, Julia Schockemöhle Dr. Lars Petzold Protext, Cologne Tel.: +49 201 824-1502, Fax: +49 201 824-2750 investor-relations@hochtief.de CSR coordination: Dr. Ute Bardelmeier HOCHTIEF Corporate Governance/Compliance Hartmut Paulsen Design and layout: Tel.: +49 201 824-1561, Fax: +49 201 824-1571 HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications info@hochtief.de English adaptation: HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications Burton, Münch & Partner, Düsseldorf Dr. Bernd Pütter Tel.: +49 201 824-2610, Fax: +49 201 824-92959 Cover page design: info@hochtief.de Struwe & Partner Agentur für Kommunikation, Düsseldorf Photography: Christoph Schroll, HOCHTIEF For further information on our commitment to Additional photo credits: sustainability, please see www.hochtief.com/ Agentur Bildschön, Berlin sustainability Flatiron Construction Corp., Firestone, Colorado Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, Munich This Sustainability Report is a translation of the HOCHTIEF photo archive, Essen original German version, which remains definitive. Leighton Holdings, Sydney Südwestbank AG, Stuttgart Editorial deadline: June 30, 2011 Thiess Pty Ltd., Brisbane Turner Construction Company, New York The next Sustainability Report will be published in 2013. Imaging work, typesetting and prepress: Creafix GmbH, Solingen Printed by: Druckpartner, Essen This Sustainability Report is printed on eco-friendly Maxi Silk coated paper certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Sustainability Report 2011 111 HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 2, 45128 Essen, Germany
