united nations global compact Communication on Progress Reporting Period: April 2010 – May 2011 VIYELLATEX Table of Contents Page Chairman’s commitment to the UNGC 3 Introduction 4 Ten Principles 5 Meeting our standards 6 Environment, Labor Standards & Anti Corruption Empowering & Engaging the People 7 Human Rights and Labor Standards Our Values 9 Page 2 Statement of continued Support to the UN Global Compact Program A global community of like-minded sustainable businesses where ideas are shared gives private entrepreneurs the opportunity to change the world. Viyellatex Group feels proud to be a part of such an initiative by successfully maintaining and continuously improving on the 10 principles set forth by the UNGC. Within the past year Viyellatex has brought out its first sustainability report and submitted to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Group has put more emphasis on sustainable production processes through lean management, energy, water and waste reduction which therefore reduces carbon emissions. Welfare of the employees has improved through profit sharing schemes and advancements on sustainable project have been made on social and environmental fronts. The management wants to become more transparent in all its business activities and is continuously seeking greener and more cost-effective ways of keeping our commitments to the UNGC. We have also ideas to diversify our business and get into other markets keeping in mind of all the legal compliance issues that needs to be done for green production. We aim to be transparent business trend setters and for that we have improved our business process through SAP ERP. I, as the Chairman and CEO, am committed towards the UNGC and we the Viyellatex team are resolute in continuing our efforts through 2011 and beyond. K M Rezaul Hasanat Chairman & CEO Viyellatex Group Page 3 Introduction Bangladesh is one of the leading exporters of Ready Made Garments to first world countries. Viyellatex Group has been a signatory of the UNGC since April 2009. At Viyellatex, we strive to build not only our image as an exporter of premium quality products, but also enhance our country’s image in the global business world. The RMG sector is an industry where, labor standards, human rights, anti-corruption and environmental compliance are of paramount importance when doing business with top of the line brands. To achieve our vision of being the most regarded company by 2015 in Bangladesh, we have developed values that put our employees and the environment at the forefront, compliance of which will guide us towards our goal. Viyellatex Group, a vertically integrated textiles and apparels manufacturing company since 2001, continuously works towards sustainable social and environmental development. . Its’ setup is completely vertical with a variety of operational and functional units such as spinning, knitting, dyeing, washing, printing, embroidery, stitching etc. Its’ monthly production varies from 1.5 to 2.00 million pieces. The goods produced are mostly of high fashion products which are exported mainly to Europe and around the world. The yearly turnover of the company is close to $200 million. . The company is committed to social and environmental charter. Viyellatex Group provides training to physically challenged people with the support of Center for the Rehabilitation of the Paralysed (CRP) and employs them into the workforce, helping them overcome the social stigmas and challenges they faced on a daily basis. Viyellatex Group has pledged to the UN that the Group shall become carbon neutral by 2016. The company’s carbon footprint shows a reduction of 25% from 2009 to 2010. We are on the process of determining this year’s carbon footprint. Seven million trees are being planted to offset the CO2 produced by the company. Treated Effluent water is used for 8000 workers toilet flush and rainwater harvesting system together saves 141 million liters of precious underground water every year. Heat recovery is another front where Viyellatex excels by using and re-using the generator exhaust to produce air cooling pressure and steam. This saves huge amounts of energy and gas which is especially meaningful in a resource scarce country like Bangladesh. Page 4 Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater responsibility towards the environment. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Page 5 Meeting Our Standards Environment, Labor Standards & Anti Corruption In order to keep a clean factory environment, a company must give its employees a good working environment and make sure that the legal aspects of compliance are being followed. We have made a new sustainability policy that touches on issues such as operational efficiency, carbon neutrality, sustainable procurement and other environment and social related issues. Our company follows a strict code of conduct & ethics. Environmental certificates are regularly updated and any form of corruption is strictly dealt with. We value transparency at all levels and have installed state of the art software (SAP) to avoid corruption. Viyellatex Group has a number of 3 R (reduce, reuse & recycle) initiatives. We convert food waste of the workers into compost fertilizer and use it in our Tea Estate. Our latest innovation for reduction of water consumption is by filtering water used for washing hands. This water will be distributed for irrigation purposes of trees that are planted in patches throughout the compound. All our florescent lights have been converted to energy efficient lights resulting in 70% energy savings. All our induction motors are run by inverter system resulting in 25% energy savings. All CRT computer monitors have been replaced by LCD monitors. We had also assessed the carbon footprint of the company and plan to reduce the carbon emissions and eventually become carbon neutral by planting millions of trees by 2016. We are in process of obtaining ISO 14001, Environmental Management System which will help our company to run in a certified environment friendly manner. Our company has taken this initiative to better our standards regarding waste management procedures, improve documentation processes and set an example for others to follow. Viyellatex Group is also in process of constructing an LEED certified Green factory and wants to engage in carbon trading in the future. We have replaced a significant portion of our business cards with recycled paper, plan to use solar energy for lighting floors in the near future, and use garment wastes for other purposes. Page 6 Empowering & Engaging the People Human Rights and Labor Standards Viyellatex Group strives to uphold internationally and locally proclaimed human rights. In a third world country as ours, it is not an uncommon sight to see under-aged children working. We see this as a breach of our values, and strongly support the policy of employing no child labor. National ID and medical checkup is carried out to ensure that all workers are minimum 18 years of age when they start working. We also ensure that there is no gender discrimination in our recruiting practices. We believe in employing people who fit the job requirements, and have the competency to be able to do the job properly, irrespective of their gender, age, religious beliefs, political affiliations, etc. It is our responsibility to ensure that each and every member of our labor force is satisfied with his/her job, so we take it upon ourselves to provide them a safe and hygienic workplace with basic amenities such as pure drinking water, air cooling system and proper sanitation facilities (males and females segregated) in their immediate reach. Apart from benefits, the labor force is paid above the government-set minimum wage. Viyellatex also provides a number of facilities which we believe will help us achieve our target of becoming the employer of choice: Medical Facilities – Doctors and nurses are available in our medical room to cater to sick/injured workers whenever required. All the doctors are certified practitioners and are trained to provide the best service possible. Welfare Facilities – Viyellatex provides a host of other benefits, some of which include maternity benefits, provident fund and gratuity schemes. We also provide day care facilities and nutritious food free of cost for the children of the workers. Viyellatex also shares five percent of its profits with workers, which acts as a strong motivation for the workers. Safety Equipment – We ensure the best possible training when teaching workers how to operate machinery. In the event that an accident occurs, we are fully prepared to prevent any disaster by keeping safety equipment within reach of all workers. Smoke detectors, fire hydrants and extinguishers are fully functional and are checked on a regular basis to ensure they are fit for use. Furthermore, workers are provide free personal protective equipment for safety – protective gloves, masks, helmet, etc. whenever doing certain types of jobs. Workers also are fully insured as per labor law. Food Facilities – Subsidized lunch is provided by a catering service. This third party provider is also given the responsibility to provide good quality food which is prepared under hygienic conditions of our kitchen. This is continually monitored by the support service department of Viyellatex Group. Page 7 Transportation – For management staff, transport is provided to pick everyone coming from different routes of the capital city. Viyellatex Group believes in empowering its people to achieve its vision. Regular training and development is provided to workers to educate them not only about the nature of their job, and also about their rights & responsibilities. Social issues such as AIDS, family planning, seasonal diseases etc are also organized to raise awareness. These training programs are aimed at helping workers adapt to the culture of Viyellatex and seamlessly contribute to the production process without causing a bottleneck. Participation Committee is formed by the representative of the workers and employer to engage in fair negotiations. There are written policies on upholding no forced or bonded labor in our company. For workers working overtime, Viyellatex provides them double their basic salary as per Government mandate. Apart from the facilities that we must provide the workers by law, we also give them attendance bonus, food allowance, free ultra sonogram and medicine for pregnant females and a host of others. To allow opportunities for career advancement, Viyellatex recognizes and promotes high-performing workers into management levels as well. Apart from ensuring no discrimination of gender, Viyellatex actively seeks out opportunities to employ workers who are physically challenged. We believe that they are as good, if not better, as all others when trained to do a job properly. This initiative of ours has allowed a whole range of disabled people to learn work and become fully independent in our society. Page 8 Our Values Customer satisfaction Commitment Integrity Fairness Innovation Environment Contact person: M.K.Zakeria Address: 297, Khortoil, Gazipura, Tongi, Gazipur-1712, Bangladesh. Email: compliance@viyellatexgroup.com Phone: +88 0171 3241002
