CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 2 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Feedback on this report is encouraged and can be Group wide enquiries: Johnson (Canada) enquiries: directed to us via the following address: james.wallace@gcc.rsagroup.com mwatton@johnson.ca shafna.chowdhury@gcc.rsagroup.com corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com Irish enquiries: UK charitable enquiries: dave.magee@ie.rsagroup.com For further information on Corporate Responsibility olivia.thrasivoulou@uk.rsagroup.com Italian enquiries: (CR) please visit: www.rsagroup.com UK CR enquiries: barbara.larizza@it.rsagroup.com Alternatively, if you would like to discuss our activities or have a paul.pritchard@uk.rsagroup.com country specific question please contact: Asia & Middle East enquiries: Scandinavian enquiries: matthew.lee@hk.rsagroup.com dec@codan.dk Latin American enquiries: RSA Canada enquiries: gisella.erazo@laro.rsagroup.com sarah.kennedy@rsagroup.ca Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 3 INTRODUCTION EMPLOYEES CONTENTS 4 CEO overview 41 Employees 7 About us A guide to the insurance process 44 Employee engagement 8 Business highlights 48 Employees Health, safety and wellbeing 11 Our approach ENVIRONMENT 16 Our value to society 50 WWF Partnership CUSTOMERS 55 Environment 19 Customers 58 Managing our direct environmental impacts 21 Protecting customers against risk 64 Our environmental targets 24 Product innovation SUPPLIERS 27 Major incidents 67 Suppliers 28 Customer satisfaction REPORTING COMMUNITY 72 CR governance and management 31 Community 75 How we report 36 Our community work around the world 76 Environmental data tables 78 Data trends 2006-2010 80 GRI Index 86 Independent assurance statement and commentary 4 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 ANOTHER YEAR OF CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES The Group delivered a robust performance communities. The response was phenomenal, with the global shipping industry. It is an area where we in tough conditions in 2010. Net written employees from over 30 countries volunteering can add value because of our experience as a around 36,000 hours. To ensure a lasting legacy we leading marine insurer; and premiums were up 11% and we grew have created an annual RSA Day to recognise the in all regions. This was despite extreme • Social Inclusion We are dedicated to encouraging exceptional contribution our employees make to weather conditions in the UK and Canada inclusion of disadvantaged groups in society through helping others. our products and community work. Providing and the operational challenges of the Our anniversary also gave us an opportunity to look career development opportunities for teenagers is Chilean earthquake. forward and to consider the material business issues critical to the economy and we have been active We responded well to many challenges in 2010. we address through our CR strategy. These are through Junior Achievement in Ireland and the These included major incidents such as the earthquake three key themes which are discussed with Career Academy in the UK. in Chile in February and the storms in Canada later stakeholders each year: in the year. Our employees performed magnificently • Safety This is a longstanding theme and a key to help customers affected by these crises. focus for our business. In 2010, we sponsored a Despite the challenges, 2010 was also a year of campaign with the Children’s Safety Education celebration for RSA as we reached our 300th year Foundation in the UK to educate children about anniversary. Such a milestone was an opportunity road safety, reaching more than 6,000 primary to reflect on what has been achieved since our school children. In 2011 we will extend it business started in 1710. For me it highlighted the internationally and launch our refreshed road ongoing importance of the insurance industry in safety campaign throughout the Group; raising economic and social conditions and enabling • Environment Our partnership with WWF spans progress. Our core focus on protecting customers five countries, focusing on environmental issues against risk really is embedded in our commitment of importance to RSA including flooding, marine of ‘Doing the Right Thing.’ risk and low carbon energy. As a result of the To mark our anniversary, we challenged employees partnership we joined the Sustainable Shipping across the Group to get involved and support their Initiative which is helping to shape the future of Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 5 “ 2010 was also a year of celebration for RSA as we reached our 300th year anniversary. Such a milestone was an opportunity to reflect on what has been achieved since our business started in 1710.” Our strategy over the next year is to develop As an organisation we endorse the principles of RSA has prospered over the last 300 years because global initiatives on road safety, the environment the UN Global Compact as well as being an active we have maintained the trust and confidence of our and charitable activity. I feel it’s important that all member of the United Nations Environment many stakeholders. This is why we engage on our employees can get involved wherever they are in Programme Finance Initiative. We are committed to CR approach and performance with a range of the Group. ensuring that principles enshrined in the Universal opinion leaders from around the world. Highlights Declaration of Human Rights and the International of this research are included in the report. Over the next few years RSA is also committed to Labour Organisation are integrated into our business. ensuring we comply with legislation driven by social I am confident of maintaining our progress in 2011. and economic trends: Our CR programme is constantly developing and Our International and Emerging Markets businesses we have been active in embedding our CR policy will be an important, growing part of the Group and • The ‘Solvency II’ capital requirements aim to framework into our newly acquired businesses in we will continue to embed the values that underpin make sure insurers have enough reserves to cover Central and Eastern Europe. Over 67% of what we stand for and strengthen our corporate claims. Ensuring a low risk and sustainable business environmental targets were met with good progress responsibility standards. model will be key to thriving in this environment; in most of the remaining areas. This is the result of • More generally regulation arising in Europe continues hard work. For example, in 2010 we had to act to be a priority, including the changing supervisory swiftly to remedy a situation when we found a architecture and a recent ruling on gender. We're supplier not meeting our standards on treatment well prepared for these developments; and of their workers. • The Carbon Reduction Commitment in the UK is a new tax on carbon emissions for 5,000 of the biggest UK companies. The scheme is complex and we need to remain on top of developments to ensure we fulfil our commitments. 6 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 CHILDREN’S SAFETY CAMPAIGN “Every year there are over 50,000 home fires in the UK, accounting for almost half of accidental deaths of children. A further 40,000 children are taken to hospital as a result of an accident relating to road safety.” “At MORE TH>N, we saw a unique opportunity to use our expertise on these issues to capture childrens’ imaginations at an early age and bring home important lessons about safety, hopefully preventing a few accidents in the process.” “By supporting the ‘Out and About’ and ‘Red Alert’ workshops, run through the Children’s Safety Education Foundation (CSEF), we have helped educate over 6,000 six to eleven-year-olds about safety issues, not only making them aware of the dangers and consequences but also teaching them to make the right choices about their own safety.” “Employees were given the chance to nominate their local schools for inclusion in the scheme. For the first phase of the programme, 40 schools were chosen from 100 nominations. We have also encouraged employees to take time away from their desks to help teachers in the classroom as part of MORE TH>N’s ongoing Community Engagement programme.” Keith Maxwell, Head of Motor Insurance, MORE TH>N Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 7 ABOUT US A GUIDE TO THE INSURANCE PROCESS RSA is a leading general insurer, operating in 34 RSA interacts with customers in a number of ways: • Premiums from customers are invested in a countries and providing products and services low risk strategy to ensure capital is available for • Products and services sold directly, through in over 130 countries. claims and financial security for the customer, and brokers and via intermediaries; Our business strategy focuses on being a pure • A comprehensive reinsurance programme is in • Premiums from customers are invested to provide general insurer with products in: place to make sure, in the event of large claims, the capital in the event of claims; risk and financial impact to the company is mitigated. • Commercial insurance services for businesses (e.g. • Claims from customers are served by our supply property, motor, marine and energy generation); chain of partners to resolve situations quickly; and Reinsurance • Personal insurance products (e.g. household, Reinsurance is normally bought on a catastrophe • Loss adjusters help customers assess damage motor and travel insurance) sold directly to basis, providing protection against losses only from that has occurred and work that needs to be consumers; and individual catastrophic events. RSA buys reinsurance carried out. • Personal insurance sold to consumers through on an aggregate basis too, which protects us from intermediaries such as insurance brokers RSA is a focused general insurer. Our business losses arising from the many smaller, more frequent and agents. specialises in the management of risk: events which may result from climate change. • Our underwriting and claims teams demonstrate Investments technical mastery to assess and respond to risks The majority of our UK equity investments on behalf of our customers; are managed by F&C Asset Management. F&C applies a responsible engagement overlay • Pricing is based on evidence based modelling to RSA equity funds. F&C has one of the largest which helps to set the appropriate price reflecting Governance and Socially Responsible Investment the risk faced by the customer; teams in Europe, enabling it to follow a policy • Operations and IT teams ensure we respond to of active engagement across its portfolios on customer needs quickly and effectively; environmental, social and governance issues. Keith Maxwell, In 2010, F&C engaged with 102 companies held Head of Motor Insurance, MORE TH>N in our portfolios on environmental, social and governance issues. 8 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 “ We go into 2011 with confidence. We have built a portfolio of high performing BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS operations with strong positions in attractive markets and exciting potential.” NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS (£m) 2010 NET WRITTEN PREMIUM 7,455 13% 6,462 6,737 5,484 5,837 International 48% £7.5bn UK Emerging Markets 39% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 +11% Growth DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR (p) COMBINED OPERATING RATIO (%) 8.82 96.4 8.25 7.71 94.9 94.5 94.6 7.01 93.3 5.87 96.4% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 +7% Growth 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Includes 3.5pts of worse than normal weather losses Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 9 INTERNATIONAL UK EMERGING MARKETS NWP £3,536m NWP £2,925m NWP £964m 48%* 39%* 13%* Scandinavia £1,724m Personal £1,241m Latin America £575m Canada £1,245m Commercial £1,684m Asia & Middle East £187m Other Europe £567m Central Europe £202m * Of total 2010 Group NWP • 3rd largest general insurer in Denmark and Sweden where • 4th largest Personal lines insurer overall. • Number 1 general insurer in Chile. we operate as Codan and Trygg-Hansa respectively. • 4th in Motor and Home and 3rd in Pet. • A leading insurer in the Middle East. • Growing presence in Norway. • Operate as MORE TH>N® in the Direct market and • Number 1 general insurer across the Baltics and a leading • Number 2 general insurer in Ireland, up from number 5 RSA in the Broker and Affinity channels. Direct writer in Poland, the Czech Republic and Russia. at the end of 2008. • Largest Commercial lines insurer overall. • NWP including Indian associate is £1,080m. • Italian business focussed primarily in the north of the country. • Leading Marine and Commercial Property insurer and number 2 in Motor. Performance highlights Performance highlights • Provide bespoke insurance to multinational companies • Target of £1bn of NWP by the end of 2010 beaten. Scandinavia through our Risk Solutions network. • Growth driven by Latin America and the consolidation • Scandinavia NWP growth of 3% driven by Personal lines, of the Direct businesses in Poland, the Czech Republic Commercial growth impacted by reduced exposures. Performance highlights and Russia. • Outstanding underwriting result, with a COR of 85.4% • NWP growth due to rate and increasing shares on • A leading insurer in Oman following the acquisition of despite severe winter weather. targeted broker panels to market weighting. Al Ahlia. • Acquired Sveland in Sweden and the TryggVesta • Pet continues to perform strongly. Tesco deal expected • Indian associate grew at 35% due to Motor. Marine portfolio. to generate around £100m of premiums in 2011. • COR of 98.7% despite the earthquake in Chile. Canada • Personal COR of 103.9% impacted by severe • Canadian NWP growth of 22% due to rate increases, winter weather. strong retention and favourable exchange. • NWP growth driven by Risk Solutions in the UK and • Underwriting result doubled over the last 5 years. Europe and Motor. • Acquired GCAN, a leading mid-market, large risk and • Commercial COR of 101.1% impacted by weather and specialty Commercial insurer. a £22m reserve strengthening in Motor. Italy and Ireland • NWP growth of 3% in Ireland offset by 1% reduction in Italy. • Acquired 123 Money, a leading Direct platform in Ireland. • COR of 101.5% comprises an excellent 90.9% in Ireland and the reduced Motor losses in Italy. 10 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 DEVELOPING A WWF PARTNERSHIP ON SHIPPING “Shipping affects the lives of billions of people by enabling trade and opening up access to global markets. But the industry faces new challenges and opportunities from issues such as climate change and carbon taxes; oil shortages; changing markets and cargoes; piracy; new ship designs and other technological developments.” “At RSA, we aim to keep our customers' business moving at all times. As a member of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative, we are helping to ensure that the shipping industry successfully navigates these challenges by working with shipping companies and others to develop a sustainable model for the future of the industry.” “The Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI), launched in 2010 by WWF and Forum for the Future, will identify the major sustainability risks and opportunities facing the industry over the next 20-30 years to help participants prepare for, influence and take advantage of these trends.” Richard Turner, Marine Director, RSA Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 11 OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to doing the right thing Performance: we promote a positive, challenging, A major element in our approach is a partnership as individuals and as a company. We seek to high performance culture, encouraging personal with the environmental NGO WWF, launched in accountability and development, measuring, 2009 in the UK, Canada, Sweden, Denmark and manage our business in a responsible and rewarding and recognising success; and China. We are supporting conservation projects ethical manner and to make a positive relevant to our business, developing new products impact on the environment, people and Responsibility: we act responsibly in managing our which respond to the risks of environmental change, business and in interactions with stakeholders. the communities in which we operate. as well as engaging internally and externally. The Our CR strategy aligns with our business strategy of partnership focuses on three key environmental Employees are assessed against the RSA ‘Brand providing innovative general insurance products that issues which relate to our business: flooding, the Beliefs’ which look for positive people using bright help people to manage risks and protect against sustainability of the seas and renewable energy ideas, doing the right thing, getting the job done and loss. We maintain a culture of responsibility and (see pages 50 to 53). providing brilliant service. Three business principles accountability and have strong relationships with underpin these beliefs and guide employees in all Key strategic developments for CR in 2010 were: business partners through which we aim to provide their work: excellent service to our customers. • Development of our three year partnership with WWF; Integrity: we always adhere to applicable laws, Our approach to CR is practical and focuses on regulations and standards, acting with openness, three themes that we consider are important to • Our 300th year anniversary celebrations; integrity, fairness and diligence; our business, provide an opportunity to differentiate • Research and development for our global road ourselves from competitors and where we can make safety programme; and a significant contribution: safety, social inclusion and the environment. • Rollout of CR policies to Central and Eastern Europe businesses with support for risk managers. An annual materiality assessment by Forum for the Future helps us to understand the main impacts of In 2011 we will be looking to launch the global road our business from an external perspective (see page safety campaign, extend our partnership with WWF 73). We use the materiality assessment, together and implement new global charitable schemes which with a stakeholder engagement consultation, will benefit all employees and their communities. employee CR survey and external benchmarking to Richard Turner, prioritise challenges and opportunities and reassess Marine Director, RSA our strategy each year. 12 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 CR policies Risk management The Group CR policy applies to all operations, Environmental, social and governance risks are with legislation and poor relationships with including wholly or majority-owned subsidiaries and included in our enterprise risk management stakeholders. The insurance industry also faces specific associated companies where RSA has management framework that is designed to identify, assess, social and environmental risks related to existing and control. The policy sets out commitments to: measure and manage exposures. This framework emerging issues such as climate change. These risks assesses emerging and operational risks across all present opportunities to develop products • Improve our environmental performance and business functions. that respond to the changing needs of customers. reduce our direct and indirect impacts; The main CR risks identified in 2010 were the We manage exposure to these risks by: • Support employees who want to contribute to new UK Carbon Reduction Commitment, ongoing their communities; • Pricing products according to the level of risk integration of CR into the core business and the involved; • Uphold human rights in our operations and impact of disasters and our response. We are supply chain; responding to these issues by: • Buying reinsurance to protect against claims; • Provide excellent customer service and products • Ensuring early registration and compliance with • Developing and shaping products that encourage that contribute to society; the Carbon Reduction Commitment; more responsible behaviour and appeal to previously underserved areas of the market; • Work with suppliers to improve their social and • Focusing on actions relating to our supply chain, environmental impacts; products and core operations (see environment • Working with customers, civil society and and suppliers sections); and governments to raise awareness of the steps • Engage with relevant stakeholders, including our people can take to reduce their risk; and peers and business partners and contribute to • Reviewing our approach to disaster risk reduction public policy debates to encourage more in 2011. • Regularly reviewing our risk models to identify responsible behaviour; exposures to new and emerging risks and ensure A Non-Executive Director, Noël Harwerth, chairs these are priced correctly. • Regularly review our CR strategy, approach and the Board Risk Committee, which meets at least performance by the Group Executive Committee quarterly. It comprises the Group CEO and other Reinsurance is normally bought on a catastrophe and Board; and members of executive management, including one basis providing protection against losses from other Non-Executive Director. The Board Risk individual catastrophic events. RSA also buys • Provide an annual, independently verified report Committee sets risk limits to be observed by the reinsurance on an aggregate basis where appropriate, of our CR performance. Global Asset Management Committee, which which protects us from losses arising from the many Individual policies cover the environment, oversees our investment strategy. smaller, more frequent events which could result community impacts and human rights. For more from climate change. This approach helps us Insurance risk information see our website. minimise losses to our business in the event Corporate responsibility is fully embedded in the of extreme weather conditions. www.rsagroup.com/rsa/pages/responsibility/ Group’s risk appetite through our recognition of risks ourapproach/corporateresponsibilitypolicy such as damage to our reputation, non-compliance Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 13 “ These risks present opportunities to develop products that respond to the changing needs of customers.” Engaging stakeholders Understanding risks and how best to respond to them benefits from engagement with a wide Stakeholder group Engagement in 2010 Details on page group of organisations and individuals. This also helps us to improve our understanding, improves Customers Broker research 28 other people’s understanding of our approach and knowledge of the insurance industry. Communities Local engagement to understand and The table shows examples of engagement with respond to local needs 30 39 our main stakeholder groups. Employees Annual employee survey 45 Investors Analyst meetings with Jupiter NGOs WWF partnership 50 53 Forum for the Future 73 14 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Engaging stakeholders (cont.) We gather feedback on our approach and • The United Nations Global Compact; In 2010 we commissioned research with 71 performance through a wide range of • The United Nations Environment Programme stakeholders across the UK, Europe, North America, additional channels. These include: Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI) Insurance Working Africa and Asia to gather perceptions on the insurance • Discussions at the CR Steering Committee Group, including participation in the working industry. Participants included our investors, insurance and Group Board; group on the Principles for Sustainable Insurance; brokers, consumer bodies, charities and other opinion and • Employee CR survey and responding to any leaders. We asked participants to prioritise what they change in priorities they identify; and • The Intersure Diversity Forum. considered to be the most important issues facing the industry. The top three were: • Engaging a wide range of specific functional groups including: Supplier workshops, shipping industry • Building transparent relationships with customers players, financial service companies and more. and brokers; We are committed to complying with all • Making meaningful contributions to local national laws and collaborate with a range of communities; and industry organisations and internationally agreed • Building trust and confidence in the insurance standards, including: industry. • The Association of British Insurers (ABI); We also asked participants to identify what they • The ClimateWise Initiative; thought would be the most important issues facing the insurance industry in ten years time. Priorities • The Chartered Institute of Purchasing and shifted towards maintaining good standards of Supply’s Financial Services Purchasing Forum employment, working conditions, health and safety CR working group; and the risks of environmental impacts/climate change. Building trust and confidence in the insurance industry also remained a priority issue. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 15 “ Our partnership with WWF aims to encourage action among international policy makers on climate related risks through joint research and emerging risk briefings.” Public policy Baltic Sea governments and businesses to support Awards an integrated sea use management model to We take part in public policy debates on issues manage conflicting demands on Baltic Sea resources; relevant to our business, including through industry bodies such as the Association of British Insurers • In Brussels, we highlighted the risks in proposals and the Confederation of British Industry. In our to stop insurers using gender as a criteria for Business in the Community FTSE4Good investor index engagement with policymakers we aim to improve assessing risk in motor policies; their understanding of the key issues facing our • RSA hosted a meeting with the UK Government business and make sure the insurance industry can Climate Change Adaptation Minister and business continue to play a valuable role in society and the leaders on the implications of adaptation to climate economy. We always comply with local laws and change. We continue to lobby the UK Government with our Public Affairs Policy. We do not make Corporate Knights Global 100 for adequate spending on flood defences, changes CSR Arabia political contributions and we receive no forms of winner mid-sized category to planning regulations to reduce building on floodfinancial assistance from governments. prone areas and changes in building regulations; and Some of our main contributions to public policy • In partnership with WWF we are working debate in 2010 included: to encourage planners and local and national • Our partnership with WWF aims to encourage government to support sustainable drainage systems Ethibel primesized category action among international policymakers on (SuDS) as part of a cost-effective, integrated Oekom prime investment climate related risks through joint research and approach to flood and waste water management. emerging risk briefings. Our first briefing highlighted We produced a report, launched early in 2011 at the risks facing marine environments from increasing the House of Commons, highlighting the risks and commercial pressures. We discussed sustainable practical solutions. In Copenhagen, we engaged fishing with policymakers in Canada and called on the local Government on protection from floods. Silver ranked in DJSI investor index 16 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY The insurance industry is vital for thriving we are supporting conservation projects, developing Our products are also helping to tackle climate societies and economies, protecting new products and encouraging others to reduce change and other environmental risks in several ways: their environmental footprint. individuals and businesses against a wide • Providing renewable energy insurance to support range of risks. RSA also plays a part in The fundamental benefit of our products and services the growth of this industry globally (see page 56); responding to climate change and other is the security that insurance brings to people and • Using our leading position in marine insurance to organisations. We help them recover when the worst environmental risks, in meeting society’s improve the environmental impacts of shipping, happens, whether that is a relatively small localised changing needs and helping to improve including helping to launch the Sustainable incident such as a car crash, or a major disaster such safety on the roads, in homes and at work. Shipping Initiative (see page 10); as the earthquake in Chile in February 2010. The RSA makes a fundamental contribution, like any confidence that insurance provides is as important as • Encouraging customers to save energy and water business, by employing approximately 22,740 the financial protection confidence for people to (see page 56); and people and through economic impacts including travel, buy a home, ship cargo or construct an office. • Requiring contractors to use products that £233m in tax payments (see the table for details). Beyond this basic purpose of insurance, we also bring are more sustainable, including our green home In conducting our business responsibly we are also about and support change through product and policy in Canada and our UK approach to reusing working to save energy and reduce greenhouse service innovation (see pages 23 to 25). Our work on parts when repairing cars and electrical goods gas emissions, developing our employees and flood mapping and geographic risk helps customers (see page 71 and 74). encouraging them to be active in their communities, understand and reduce the risks they face. Advice and as well as driving higher standards in our supply consultancy also helps customers to minimise risks, for chain and the companies our funds are invested in. example by adopting safer driving techniques and Working with the environmental group WWF, improving the security of empty properties. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 17 RSA insurance products also contribute to social Creation of Value 2010 £’m 2009 £’m inclusion. We serve market segments such as social Net earned premiums 7,179 6,753 housing tenants and the over 50s with targeted Net invested return 629 616 products and have worked with partners to provide low-cost insurance for people on low incomes in Other operating income 116 89 certain markets. Net claims and benefits (4,884) (4,387) Underwriting, policy acquisition and other costs (1.392) (1,394) Additional gains, losses and other movement 149 (604) Total 1,797 1.073 Distribution of Wealth 2010 £’m 2009 £’m Employees 910 880 Corporate responsibility 3 3 Government (taxes and social security) 233 230 Servicing of finance 118 116 Shareholders (dividend and minority interest) 258 192 Retained for investment 275 (348) Total 1,797 1,073 Opening shareholders' funds 3,491 3,839 Retained (above) 275 (348) Closing shareholders' funds 3,766 3,491 18 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 PROVIDING SUPPORT AFTER A NATURAL DISASTER In February 2010, a magnitude 8.8 earthquake the seventh largest ever recorded struck central Chile killing approximately 500 people, injuring over 12,000 and leaving nearly 800,000 homeless. It was followed by more than 260 aftershocks and caused tsunamis that hit coastal towns. After checking that none of our employees were injured we created a local catastrophe team with extra support drafted in from across RSA Chile. We were the first insurance company to appear in the Chilean media giving advice to customers on what to do. Despite the fact that many employees had no power or water in their own homes they returned to work to help deal with the overwhelming quantity of customer claims, which exceeded 32,000. A major shipyard through which relief supplies were to be unloaded was badly damaged so we sent loss adjusters to survey the area first hand and a little over a week later paid out over $8m to enable reconstruction. By the end of 2010 93% of claims had been settled. The earthquake led to a wave of support from across the Group with employees responding to a call for volunteers. More than 20 claims handlers travelled to Chile for short and medium term secondments to support RSA customers and reconstruction efforts. Working in Chile provided me with a great opportunity to assist our Chilean office in dealing with the catastrophic damages caused by the earthquake. While I was able to apply my property skills, I also gained a much better understanding of the challenges faced in responding to such a significant event.” Linda Friesen, Claims Specialist, RSA Canada Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 19 CUSTOMERS Customers We sell protection against risk to Customers depend on insurance for protection individuals and businesses in over against risks such as losing property to floods or fire. It gives them the financial protection they need to 130 countries. People buy our products get back on their feet and provides businesses with directly but we also sell through brokers the security to invest without the risk of financial and other intermediaries. Our main losses from theft, damage or litigation. We seek to responsibility to customers is to provide help customers manage risks with targeted advice products and services which meet their and innovations such as risk mapping. needs at competitive prices and reflect Our products and services encourage customers the risks involved. We continually to adopt behaviours that have environmental innovate to develop new products and and social benefits, such as cutting energy use and services, many of which have additional promoting safer driving. Insurance products for disadvantaged groups protect those who are social and environmental benefits. most vulnerable. 20 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 2010 target Performance in 2010 2011 target Launch new products with Developed Energy Midt in Continue to launch products added CR benefits in Scandinavia a digital water with added CR benefits across Scandinavia. surveillance tool to help home our key markets. owners locate home water leaks and monitor and reduce water consumption. It is particularly important to respond quickly and back on their feet as quickly as possible. In all instances, effectively when customers make a claim, especially treating customers fairly is an absolute priority. when major incidents such as floods or earthquakes We want to deliver excellent levels of customer cause serious disruption. We have well-established and broker service. We strive to ensure we are clear emergency response teams to ensure customers get and transparent in our dealings with customers, using jargon free language in our policy documents and that any reasons for declining cover are understood. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 21 PROTECTING CUSTOMERS AGAINST RISK Customers Many risks can be prevented or mitigated by identifying Water damage is a leading cause of home losses so equipment and analysing business operations them before they escalate. Policy documents provide in 2010 we launched a pilot initiative in Canada to contingency plans. Our Risk Solutions team essential information on managing risks and we provide provide and install water loss prevention devices specialises in bespoke insurance products for additional information for customers through for high risk customers identified in our surveys. large corporate and multinational companies. our network of brokers, websites and the media. Detecting water losses early is key to minimising They work with clients to develop risk management For example, in 2010 our Johnson brand in Canada damage so we created a website and brochure with procedures ranging from managing hazardous launched a safety website for customers with practical information on preventing and detecting materials to simple housekeeping measures such as information on how to protect themselves and their leaks. The website also includes information and controlling contractors and electrical maintenance. belongings. In the build up to the hurricanes that hit videos on seasonal safety, fire and emergency eastern Canada in September 2010, Johnson sent preparedness. In 2011 we plan to launch a climate Risk management in action email messages to key commercial customers with adaptation website for customers in Scandinavia We worked with the Insurance Bureau information on how to protect their property and with information on how to prevent damage from of Canada to develop a Municipal Risk an emergency toll free claims number. The same flooding and heavy rain. Assessment Tool to assess sewer systems in information was available on Johnson’s website For commercial customers, RSA’s Global Consulting 10 cities. The tool collects data on factors such giving all customers tips on how to prepare for the group regularly conducts site visits and carries out risk as pipe width, maintenance history and staffing emergency. In Canada, we also conduct safety assessments. Visits improve our understanding of resources to determine the likelihood of a surveys to advise customers how to protect their clients’ businesses and help protect against losses claim and help direct investment where it is homes from theft, fire and other risks such as damp. by testing and commissioning fire prevention needed thus helping to lower premiums. 22 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 EMERGENCY RESPONSE TOOL “In an emergency or when there’s a catastrophic event, it’s vital that we support affected customers as quickly as possible.” “RSA’s Geographical Risk Assessment Unit developed the Emergency Response Tool, which allows our loss adjusters to do just that. The web-based geographical mapping tool uses existing RSA data and pulls it together in a completely new way, giving loss adjusters an almost immediate insight into the magnitude of the problem.” “They can search by address or zoom in on a specific area to see how many RSA customers are affected. It provides customers’ names and contact details, as well as displaying their exact location. What’s more, the map can be overlaid with risk factors such as floods, so that customers most likely to be affected can easily be identified. We can ring them to ask if they are okay and quickly start processing any claims, allowing us to control the cost of a claim very early on.” “Data quality is paramount to making this work and we are continually looking at ways to improve it. We work closely with organisations such as ESRI and Ordnance Survey to ensure we have access to the latest data and mapping expertise. We are also working with the UK’s Environment Agency Flood Watch website to incorporate automatic alerts so loss adjusters have the most up to date information. With weather forecasting and flood watch alerts in place, we can warn customers beforehand and provide them with the appropriate advice.” “Ultimately, insurance is a promise to the customer so the quicker we can respond to them the quicker we can deliver on that promise.” Rob Osment, Technical Manager, Geographic Risk Assessment Unit Craig Monks, Loss Adjusting Services, RSA Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 23 RISK MAPPING Customers Risks evolve over time and we need to ensure we In emerging markets we use geo-coding based As part of our three-year partnership with WWF, have an accurate picture of changing risk patterns to on satellite global positioning technology to map we are working to highlight the emerging risks facing protect our customers. Measuring risks accurately customers’ locations in areas with under-developed our environment. We produced a hypothetical ensures businesses and individuals are not overpostal systems, or where the pace of development scenario simulating what would happen if a paying for their insurance while allowing us to is so rapid that address systems have not kept up. passenger vessel ran into difficulty off the coast of prioritise advice and claims support. Scotland and how the loss of its fuel would spread Geo-coding is becoming an increasingly important Geographical risk assessment tools help us tool to improve the service we provide to determine insurance premiums which reflect the customers and our response to disasters. In risks to property. They map factors such as flooding, Estonia, for example, we have developed a websubsidence, arson and theft down to an individual based broker interface that synchronises customer postcode. Customers living in high-risk areas can be and geographic information to provide accurate risk targeted with information on how to protect assessments on issues such as flooding and storm themselves from risks specific to their areas. zones. It provides a quick and convenient tool for brokers to generate accurate quotes, issue changes More sophisticated mapping techniques are helping or even cancel existing contracts. us to improve our understanding of risk factors by setting them against socio-economic indicators such In 2010, we also launched a web-based emergency as income levels and demographics which also response tool for loss adjusters. The tool quickens impact risk levels. Understanding wider factors such our response by providing information on the scale within the space of a day. The area includes a range as these is especially important in times of economic of the event and the number and location of of biodiversity hotspots and conservation areas. hardship when the incidents of theft can increase. affected customers. The quicker we can get this There is also a large number of fish farms close by information the quicker we can direct resources to and a high volume of shipping traffic. helping customers. We used similar risk mapping By mapping where commercial activity and technology following the Chilean earthquake environmentally sensitive areas overlap we can work (see page 18). Within 10 days of the disaster together to make commercial activity sustainable. we loaded 82% of claims into our system. See http://www.wwfrsapartners.com/ Rob Osment, oil-spill-map/ Technical Manager, Geographic Risk Assessment Unit 24 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 HIGHLIGHTING THE DANGERS PRODUCT INNOVATION OF DRINK DRIVING “During 2010 we worked with employees and customers Changing consumer trends and extreme Customer team also look for opportunities to extend in Colombia to raise awareness about the dangers of drink weather conditions demand new approaches to products to new markets and customer groups. driving. Every year there are 6,000 traffic accident deaths in protecting customers against risk. They also present Road safety Colombia, half of which involve alcohol.” opportunities to create products with social and As a leading motor insurer we are committed to environmental benefits. “Employees completed an online assessment to calculate improving road safety by offering a range of products their Blood Alcohol Concentration rate which showed Our approach is to develop products that respond and services, including discounted premiums, that how long it would take for alcohol levels to fall to a safe to customers’ changing needs, encourage more encourage safer driving and road safety awareness: level after drinking. They then conducted a series of responsible behaviour and appeal to previously • In Scandinavia, we run a training and certification practical tests and exercises using ‘alcoview’ goggles that under-served areas of the market by offering programme for truck drivers in association with simulate the effects alcohol has on eyesight to raise products at affordable prices. the Danish Transport and Logistics Association. awareness of its impact on coordination.” Product innovation is led through a number of Participating companies can qualify for lower channels including the Technical Academy (our global insurance premiums. Our ‘Stop Damage’ “The awareness programme was extended to commercial knowledge sharing forum for underwriting, claims and safety and road training programme for haulage clients including municipal bus fleets reaching over 800 actuarial experts), customer focus groups, Leadership, companies has cut participating companies’ drivers. In total, we reached over 1,600 drivers and 180 Executive and Graduate Development Programmes accidents by up to 20%; employees. As a result, we’ve seen a rapid reduction in and the Fast Track programme for high potential alcohol related accidents among participating customers.” • In Italy, we work with the Italian Association employees (see page 46). Our Strategy, Marketing and of Insurance Companies’ (ANIA) Road Safety Jason Valdes Sierra, Road Safety Coordinator, RSA Colombia Foundation to encourage safer driving. Information on driver training courses and self-assessment Jason Valdes Sierra, questionnaires are distributed through brokers; Road Safety Coordinator, and RSA Colombia • In the UK, our FleetActive product provides a range of training packages, workshops and ‘behind the wheel’ driver coaching to assess and improve drivers’ skills and capabilities. Technology such as in-vehicle cameras and satellite tracking captures data on driver behaviour and helps to cut costs by ensuring the most efficient routing. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 25 “ We continue to be one of the biggest insurers of social housing in the UK, providing insurance for Customers 170 housing associations covering 250,000 tenants.” Social housing In 2010 our Indian subsidiary, Royal Sundaram, 50+ insurance We continue to be one of the biggest insurers of participated in the Government sponsored Social People in the developed world are living longer. social housing in the UK, providing insurance for Health Insurance Scheme designed to provide Products such as travel insurance often demand 170 housing associations covering 250,000 tenants. health insurance coverage for families living below higher premiums for older people but after the poverty line. The policy covers hospitalisation retirement many are on a lower income. This We aim to make products as accessible as possible costs up to Rs30,000 (£400) for up to five family expanding demographic group presents a number through low-cost weekly insurance premiums from members. By the end of 2010, over one million of opportunities for the insurance industry: as little as £1.50 per week. With-rent insurance families reaching up to four million people schemes include the insurance premium in the • In Canada, Italy and Scandinavia, our 50+ in Bihar and Arunachal Pradesh states had been tenant’s rental payments and group schemes help insurance offers affordable insurance products covered by the scheme. to keep payments as low as possible. Customers targeted at this age group. For example, our 50+ can pay in cash removing the need for a bank account In Colombia, we work with affinity partners to Assist Plan in Canada provides personal nursing, and no excess is payable when making a claim. provide life and accident insurance products for companion and housekeeping services after a people on low incomes. In 2010 we launched a new hospital stay, as well as access to specialised Micro insurance death, disability and serious illness policy for low home repair services; and In developing markets we work closely with income families. The policy provides cover for utility government bodies and micro-finance companies • In Denmark, we work with the Danish Age bills, lasting up to 24 months, to ensure the supply to boost the number of products for disadvantaged Association to develop products targeted at the of basic services including water and electricity. communities. We work with microfinance experts over 50s. Assault insurance provides medical or BASIX in India to provide a range of low-cost Working with a local bank we expanded our lowpsychiatric treatment for members who have policies such as livestock insurance, health insurance income life insurance products to include serious suffered an assault, while accident insurance and micro-enterprise insurance for rural groups illness cover for customers who cannot afford the customers do not need to provide health and those living below the poverty line, for high cost of health care. The product provides 24 information. Around 13% of the Association’s example women and tribal communities. hour tele-medicine support and consultation for all half million members are insured with our family members, dental care and educational Danish business Codan. support in the event of a disability. 26 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 HURRICANE IGOR'S IMPACT In September 2010, Hurricane Igor caused widespread damage to Newfoundland on Canada’s Atlantic coast. Johnson’s Emergency Response team tracked the hurricane’s progress and started planning its response a full week before the storm reached land. A detailed communications plan was developed to keep customers informed. We sent emails to key clients with information and safety tips to help them prepare. Information on Johnson’s website also helped, along with regular updates as the storm progressed. Advertisements in local newspapers immediately before the storm included safety advice and our toll-free claims number. The communications continued after the storm to give customers the information they needed to make claims. At the height of the storm, Johnson’s customer service centre lost power. Employees continued to work by flashlight and despite the chaos they took over 700 storm-related calls. The next day employees, computers, and telephone equipment were relocated so employees could continue to support customers. Two claims response vehicles travelled to affected areas providing on-site claims support. Employees handed out emergency provisions including blankets, flashlights and water. We chartered a helicopter to reach customers stranded by washed-out roads. Johnson also brought in claims adjusters, contractors and restoration equipment from outside Newfoundland to assist with claims adjudication and repairs. Over the course of the week following Hurricane Igor we answered over 4,500 claims-related calls from distressed customers throughout the province. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 27 Customers MAJOR INCIDENTS We aim to get customers back on their feet as died and over 2,500 residents had to be evacuated. soon as possible in the aftermath of an emergency or The estimated clean up costs were around €1billion. natural disaster. Our emergency response teams are Using experience from the L’Aquila earthquake often the first on site offering support and advice to in 2009, our claims team immediately got to work customers. We provide emergency payments for by coordinating efforts between our Claims, customers most seriously affected by large-scale Underwriting and local Sales teams. All claims had incidents such as floods and earthquakes, and been assessed within 40 days and 20% were settled additional helpline support, advertising and media by the end of the year. We agreed to an advance interviews to advise customers on claims. In the case payment to speed up necessary works to repair a of serious incidents like the Chilean earthquake we church allowing the community to celebrate work to help areas that are in need of additional Christmas together. Canada storms support and boost claims inspection teams to Last year was one of extreme weather in Canada. speed up processing times. The hail storm that hit Calgary in August resulted in the largest single claims event in Canadian history. Hailstones up to four centimetres wide battered the city, causing CAD$500m worth of damage to cars, homes and businesses. Italy floods Between October and November 2010, Italy’s Central and Northern regions experienced their worst flooding in recent history. In Veneto, three people 28 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Treating customers fairly Insurance fraud Treating customers fairly (TCF) is a key part of Insurance fraud remains a serious risk to insurers • The average customer approval rating for motor delivering excellent service, as well as being a and impacts all customers through higher premiums. insurance holders in Hong Kong was 4.25 out of 5; regulatory requirement in the UK. It relies on RSA uses an extensive portfolio of fraud detection • In the UK, RSA was ranked highest for customer having the right culture in place and equipping systems to protect our customers and ensure it satisfaction by marketing information firm J.D. people with the skills to deliver brilliant service does not impact the business. Power and Associates’ 2010 Auto Insurance and do the right thing. Customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Study; An excellent service culture is reinforced through Getting clear, actionable customer feedback is • In Canada we experienced 99% customer training, internal communications and recognition of essential to improving performance. We conduct satisfaction levels thanks to fast track claims outstanding performance. All UK employees must surveys to get customer feedback throughout the handling, specialised claims and empathy training complete a TCF training module every year and in claims process, including cancellation procedures. for employees, coupled with ‘Voice of the 2010 90% of employees passed the course. These insights help us to improve customer Customer’ telephone surveys that give customers We also have a network of TCF champions who satisfaction and reduce unnecessary calls. the opportunity to provide immediate feedback; work to ensure continued progress. TCF working We have experienced rising customer satisfaction • In the United Arab Emirates, RSA won an ‘Excellent groups monitor progress and the Executive Team levels across our businesses in 2010: Service Award’ for its claims handling efficiency and Board review performance every month. • In Lithuania, we began measuring customer from the Arabian Automobiles Company; Privacy satisfaction levels using net promoter scores • In Estonia, 97% of customers are satisfied or very We have a responsibility to protect customers’ an external measure recording the percentage satisfied with our claims service. Eighty three information and this is vital to building and maintaining of customers who would recommend us to friends percent of brokers are satisfied with our services trust. We take a rigorous approach to data protection, or family. Sixty one percent of personal customers and products, account managers and claims with strong systems for the collection, use, storage and and 57% of commercial customers would processes; and transfer of information. Our policy-based framework recommend us. We have the second highest seeks to meet customer expectations as well as broker satisfaction levels in the market and in • The RSA Ireland's Broker Academy won the legal and regulatory requirements. We review the 2010 satisfaction with speed of service increased Best Technical Excellence award from the Irish framework regularly to ensure employee awareness by 17% from 2009 to 85%; Broker Association. The academy aims to develop of the issues and to manage emerging privacy risks. employees’ product awareness and technical skills. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 29 “ Cutting the length of time taken to settle claims is a consistent focus area for our Customers businesses as we aim to improve customer satisfaction levels.” Customer and broker satisfaction are important to ensure it is easy to raise a concern. We take all referred to the FOS between January and June 2010. us. A reliable and consistent claims experience is complaints very seriously and have robust processes Of these, 32% of our decisions were overturned, essential to building trusting relationships with our in place to ensure they are handled fairly and in a putting us ahead of the industry average of 44%. brokers. We want brokers to have confidence in timely manner. Half of these were cases where the Ombudsmen our claims process so in 2010 we commissioned agreed with our decision but we were required to We organise mandatory training for UK employees research to identify how our processes can be make additional compensation. so everyone knows how to identify and handle a improved to meet their needs. complaint or refer it to the most appropriate person. We use the lessons learnt from all complaints to Following this research we launched a pilot project Since the beginning of 2010 we have been required amend our processes and improve our customer to improve our claims service and build trust with by the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA) to service. Following recommendations from the brokers through measures such as a dedicated publish complaints data for our UK operations. Ombudsman we amended policy literature to claims manager, guaranteed response times and During 2010 we received just over 8,300 complaints, help draw customers’ attention to key exclusions weekly status report meetings. equivalent to 0.27% of our customers from January at point of sale. to June and 0.24% in the second half of 2010. We Cutting the length of time taken to settle claims is a Full details can be found on our website at: upheld 53% of the complaints between July and consistent focus area for our businesses as we aim http://www.rsagroup.com/rsa/pages/aboutus/ December taking appropriate action to resolve to improve customer satisfaction levels. In Canada, businessprinciples/commitments/customers them quickly and to the customer’s satisfaction. our ‘once and done’ approach enables adjusters to confirm coverage, investigate and quantify first-time On average 92% of all complaints were resolved losses in a single phone call. Claims that would within eight weeks; the maximum permitted time normally take between 21 and 45 days can be by the FSA. We take on average only eight and a fast tracked and resolved within one to five days. half days from opening to closing a complaint. Dealing with complaints In the UK, if a customer is not satisfied with the way Unfortunately, there are times when customers feel we deal with their complaint they can refer it to we have not met their expectations. If customers the independent complaints body, the Financial are disappointed with our products or service we Ombudsman Service (FOS). 452 cases were 30 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 REBUILDING GIGNANO “While our claims team were recognised for their swift and excellent service following the devastating earthquake in Abruzzo, Italy, it was clear that repairing the damage to the community would take far longer.” “In Gignano, a small village close to the epicentre, only 40 houses were left standing so 800 of the 1,200 former residents had to relocate. RSA helped to finance the construction of a brand new community centre where locals could meet and support one another. RSA employees also volunteered to help run sport and educational programmes as part of the ‘Ludobus project’ which brought children from around the region to free summer camps.” “Fifteen months after the earthquake, we went back to Gignano to take part in the new ‘Kamael’ (‘angel’ in Hebrew) centre’s opening ceremony. The centre is now the heart of the village and is used by the whole community as a place to socialise.” “It was fantastic to see some of those children we got to know playing and singing together again in the new centre we played a small but important role helping them to start rebuilding their lives.” Barbara Larizza, Engagement & Communications Manager, RSA Italy Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 31 COMMUNITY Community Our global presence means we operate in diverse Employees are an integral part of our community communities and cultures.Working to support these strategy. We identify the projects to support communities engages and motivates employees, through local RSA charitable committees and the strengthens our reputation and enables us to annual employee CR survey. better understand the markets we serve. Our volunteering programmes help to motivate Our community programmes support our business employees and build valuable skills which can be used strategy by addressing the issues that are most in the workplace. All RSA employees are encouraged important to our customers. In 2010 we continued to to take one day paid leave to focus on volunteering focus on three core issues safety, social inclusion and or fundraising activities. Engaging with local the environment. We engage with local communities communities is increasingly important in attracting on these issues by supporting local projects and and recruiting the best candidates to our company. charities through: • Direct financial contributions; • Practical and skills-based volunteering; • Payroll giving; • Matched funding; and • Gifts in kind. 32 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 2010 Targets and objectives Progress 2011 Targets and objectives Celebrate RSA 300th year RSA offices around the world Launch of new matched funding anniversary with three-month ran a three-month campaign. facility across global operations. volunteering and fundraising Over 6,000 volunteers took Double the amount of money campaign. part, donating around 36,000 available for matched funding. hours and raising £700,000 in funds. Exceed 3,000 active volunteers 13,160 employees took part in Launch new charitable across the business. voluntary activities in 2010. This secondment programme to included a number of employees allow more employees to take volunteering for extended the opportunity to develop secondments to work within their skills while contributing to charities such as WWF. their communities. Integrate Group Community Group Community Policy Policy in Central & Eastern successfully integrated in Latvia, European countries. Lithuania, Estonia, Poland and Russia. Following the success of our 300th year anniversary charitable campaign we have committed to enabling the same charitable benefits for all employees across RSA. The celebrations demonstrated the power of volunteering and charitable giving in enabling employee engagement, supporting the business and contributing to local communities around the world. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 33 “ Employees from over 30 countries spent 36,000 hours volunteering, raising over £700,000 and donating over 200,000 gifts in kind to charity.” Community In 2010, we responded to disasters in Haiti, Chile Through our 300th year anniversary we supported and China, both through business action and with a record level of community volunteering across all charitable donations. We contributed £2.7 million our global offices. In Central and Eastern Europe we (£2.4 million in donations over £1,000) to have worked to integrate the Group community community projects, equivalent to 0.36% of pre policy which provides guidance on managing £2.8 MILLION £2.7 MILLION tax profits. Approximately 58% of our employees community activities and sets criteria for funding. £889,000 participated in voluntary activities, giving more than In April, we marked our 300th year anniversary 58,000 hours and spending on average 4.5 hours £2.2 MILLION £1.2 MILLION by kicking off a three-month global fundraising and per employee. volunteering competition. We encouraged every office across the group to raise money for charity. Employees from over 30 countries spent around 36,000 hours volunteering, raising over £700,000 £1.1 MILLION and donating over 200,000 gifts in kind to charity. The teams that raised the most money by the £480,000 inaugural RSA Day (25th June) in each region won a trip to London to tour the city and meet the Executive Team. £189,000 £192,000 £168,000 £180,000 £400,000 To ensure a lasting legacy, we will celebrate £20,000 £120,000 £120,000 RSA Day every year to recognise exceptional contributions from employees in volunteering and fundraising activities. Total company Employee Volunteering Give as Employee gifts donations raised funds you earn TOTAL DONATIONS 08 09 10 34 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Using our skills to help communities we plan to identify how we can use the knowledge road safety and fire hazards. In partnership with the RSA's community strategy is designed to utilise and expertise of our employees to deliver valuable Children’s Safety Education Foundation (CSEF) we our employees' core skills and experience so that support through volunteering and advice. ran ‘Out and About’ and ‘Red Alert’ workshops in we can have a lasting impact on communities. 40 schools, providing interactive lessons to over Building on our success For example, in Ireland we work with Junior 6,000 six to eleven-year-olds. The success of this While we understand that each of our markets have Achievement to help teach youngsters about initiative has led to plans to roll out similar different cultures, challenges and priorities, we look business and the value of education. Providing schemes across other markets in 2011. to identify local programmes that have been most youngsters with access to people from the world successful and roll them out in new locations. In Central and Eastern Europe we have worked of business gives them real insights into the to integrate the Group Community Policy which opportunities that education can create. In the UK, MORE TH>N sponsored a new provides guidance on managing community activities campaign designed to educate children about A partnership between RSA and the charity and sets criteria for funding. In 2011 we aim to MapAction continues to help speed up humanitarian ensure that employees in all our markets have the response efforts following major disasters. Using the same opportunities to support their communities. same satellite mapping technology we employ for We are developing Group policies and systems our claims responses, the charity creates accurate which give access to centralised funds ensuring maps to get aid to where it is needed most. we can help more people in more places. Currently RSA provides financial assistance and Graduate Charity Challenge team Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 35 GRADUATES IN ACTION “It was fantastic to have an opportunity to contribute to our community through the Graduate Charity Challenge. Community Working with a team of six other graduates from across RSA Ireland, we managed to win the £5,000 prize for Rehab Hospice Networks, a charity providing health and social care, education, rehabilitation and employment for over 7,000 people with disabilities across Ireland. They used the prize money to buy a vehicle for Rehab’s horticultural skills programme which was in desperate need of transport to ferry people and equipment to and from the various worksites.” “The project gave us the chance to develop leadership, teamworking and other business-related skills. We were able to build on our individual strengths and experience to work together to meet new challenges. The final presentation coincided with heavy snowfalls, making it very difficult to coordinate meetings with other team members, so winning was a real boost.” “It was great to see how RSA puts its brand beliefs into practice and the support we received from our colleagues showed us that ‘doing the right thing’ is something that is important to people throughout the company.” Rhona Leddin, Claims Handler, RSA Ireland 36 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 OUR COMMUNITY WORK AROUND 1. UK 1 1 2 In November 2010, RSA UK supported ‘A Capital Experience’, a day-long event organised by business education charity Career Academies UK. The event, which helps to boost the employability skills of teenagers, gives youngsters a ‘behind-the-scenes’ insight into the real world of work and senior executives were on hand to answer questions from the students. 2. Denmark In early 2010, employees began an internal fundraising effort to support Red Cross activities following the devastating earthquake in Haiti. In less than a week, staff in the Nordic region had donated more than 4 4 5 DKK100,000 which RSA matched. In total, DKK250,000 went to the relief effort. 3. Sweden More than 600 employees supported RSA Sweden’s first volunteer week. Employees worked with the Swedish Red Cross, WWF and Swedish NGO, Myrorna, to make a difference in their communities. 4. Latvia This year 53 RSA employees spent time with disadvantaged children to teach them cookery skills. Working with Chefs’ Club, employees visited 6 6 7 a number of children’s homes across the country. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 37 THE WORLD 5. Chile 3 Staff in Chile worked tirelessly to raise funds and build a replacement kindergarten in the town of Dichato following the earthquake. They also donated money to buy food and clothes. Community 6. Canada In December 2010, Johnson once again lined the halls of its offices across Canada with mountains of food items for its second annual food drive. In total, Johnson donated over 35,000 items to Canadian food banks last year. topping its 2009 record of 30,000 items. RSA 5 5 6 Canada employees turned out in force to volunteer for United Way’s Day of Caring. Employees took part in a number of activities from gardening and putting together picnic benches to painting community facilities. 7. Hong Kong Employees arranged a series of events to raise funds for the Hong Kong Down Syndrome Association. A number of staff also took time to volunteer with the organisation. 8. Colombia Employees raised over £1,000 and 7 8 8 volunteered 100 hours to provide food and shelter to vulnerable elderly members of their local community. 38 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 OUR COMMUNITY WORK AROUND 9. Russia 10 9 9 In partnership with WWF Russia, the company adopted five endangered tigers, helping to raise awareness of the plight of these animals. 10. Poland Staff in Poland helped save lives in their community by donating blood at their local hospital. 11. Singapore Our team swapped their buckets and spades for refuse bags and gloves to clean a local beach. Family members also pitched in to help make the beach safe. 12. Argentina 12 12 12 Employees took part in a hugely successful clothes campaign in Buenos Aires. They donated more than 500 items of clothing which were distributed to several organisations and schools across Argentina. 14 15 15 Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 39 THE WORLD 13. Mexico 10 11 11 An impressive 724 toys were donated by RSA team members in Mexico and taken to local children’s homes where some employees spent the day playing with the children. Community 14. China Just days after the tragic Yushu earthquake, employees in China raised over CNY100,000 to support the Chinese Red Cross relief efforts. 15. Estonia RSA Estonia was recognised for its outstanding 13 13 14 volunteering and charitable efforts during our 300th year anniversary. The team took part in events across Estonia to help protect and improve the country’s natural environment and heritage including tree planting, beach clearing and taking to the waterways to ensure that habitats were clean and safe for local wildlife. 15 15 15 40 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 ENSURING A TALENT PIPELINE IN SCANDINAVIA Recruiting the best graduates is critical to the long term success of RSA, yet we face increasing competition for a relatively small pool of people. We conduct regular ‘People Reviews’ across our business units to identify areas facing skills and human resourcing challenges. We can then tailor our talent pipeline programmes to help meet these business needs. For example, we developed an actuarial student programme to meet growing competition for Actuaries across Scandinavia. Every year, promising students join our actuarial team to build experience and learn about the industry. The initiative supports wider attempts to promote RSA among top graduates, such as academic support and participation in recruitment events at the universities of Copenhagen and Stockholm. “Developing our people is an essential part of ensuring we retain the skills to meet future challenges. Our Talent Review Board meets regularly to discuss emerging talent, succession planning and development needs. The Board also works with the Group level Talent Review Board to ensure that the best individuals from across the Group are filling the most important roles in Scandinavia and elsewhere.” Sheila Dinsen, Nordic Talent & Performance Manager, RSA Scandinavia Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 41 EMPLOYEES Our business depends on the knowledge, 2010 Targets and objectives Progress 2011 Targets and objectives experience and creativity of our employees. They are a vital source of innovation, helping us create new products and Provide every employee with a Pilot guide rolled out to Roll out guide to all markets. guide to conduct and RSA employees in Canada and services.We expect the highest standards policies which underpin our Ireland. from them. In return, we encourage their Brand Beliefs. professional development, provide attractive Employees benefits and support their wellbeing. Achieve an upper quartile score We saw a significant Achieve an upper quartile score Engaged employees are motivated employees in our global employee survey improvement in our engagement in our global employee survey so we regularly seek their opinions by 2011. score (from 3.99 to 4.21), putting by 2011. RSA in the 70th percentile in and feedback to ensure they continue to the Gallup database. provide an excellent customer experience. Carry out second CR Survey Our second CR survey was Carry out 3rd annual CR Survey and exceed 3,000 responses. completed by around 2,000 and exceed 3,000 responses. employees from across the Group. Maintain 90% of personal Maintained. Ongoing. performance linked to rewards. Sheila Dinsen, Nordic Talent & Performance Manager, The Bribery Act is a major new piece of legislation which ensures UK organisations are held accountable RSA Scandinavia to high standards of business conduct in all their operations. RSA’s ongoing Code of Conduct training programme has increased in importance with the legislation and will continue to be a key feature of employee training each year. Following the 300th year anniversary celebrations engagement saw a dramatic increase with our global volunteering and fundraising campaign. We are developing a new employee campaign to celebrate RSA Day in 2011. The response rate to our internal employee survey fell slightly lower as attention focused on major events in the market. We expect an increase in take up next year. 42 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 In 2010, we employed 22,600 people in 34 countries. The Beliefs are supported by our Business Principles Human rights Over 7,400 are based in the UK, 8,200 in our and specific policies covering fraud, confidentiality, As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact International business (Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland market abuse, competition and money laundering. we are committed to eliminating discrimination and and Italy) and 7,000 in our Emerging Markets They are translated into all local languages where protecting human rights internally and in our immediate business (Latin America, the Baltics, Central and we operate. sphere of influence. We regularly review all countries Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East). to ensure they comply with our human rights policy Our whistle-blowing policy encourages employees and identify those which may pose a major risk to our Ethics to report any breaches of our policy and illegal employees or reputation. We have identified no risk of RSA’s Group Employment Policy outlines our activity. We operate a 24 hour, anonymous and child or forced labour in any of our operations due to commitment to promoting ethical conduct confidential hotline for employees to raise concerns. the nature of our business. For more information on throughout the workforce. This goes beyond We are making progress to ensure that appropriate how we work with our business partners and adherence to all applicable laws, regulations and policies and procedures are in place to comply with suppliers to ensure this, see Suppliers (page 67). standards wherever we do business. We expect the UK’s Bribery Act 2010 (due to come into force employees to act ethically and with integrity and in 2011). The Group has conducted a global take responsibility for their behaviour and actions. assessment of the nature and extent of the risks TOTAL WORKFORCE All new employees are trained on our Brand Beliefs relating to bribery that it faces and is designing and (see page 11) which set out what we stand for, how implementing proportionate systems and controls we should behave towards each other and the actions in response. we must take to meet our customers’ needs. In 2010 The Group’s Anti-Corruption policy has been updated we produced a booklet explaining our policies and to reflect the Bribery Act and additional guidance is 33% UK Brand Beliefs outlining our expectations for employees being produced for staff on gifts and hospitality, which 36% INTERNATIONAL to reinforce awareness of them. will supplement existing materials. A detailed training 31% EMERGING MARKETS programme for all staff is also being rolled out. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 43 MANAGEMENT GENDER SPLIT AS A PERCENTAGE MALE FEMALE Diversity As a global business, we want a diverse workforce 100 which reflects the range of customers we serve. We are committed to encouraging diversity and equal opportunities by fostering an inclusive 90 culture which values different ways of thinking and backgrounds, helping us to better understand and 80 Employees anticipate customers’ needs. Employees are recruited and rewarded based on their professional merit 70 regardless of race, gender, age, sexual orientation, religion or disability. 60 In 2010 women made up 48.57% of our global workforce and 29% of managers. Improving female 50 representation in management positions across the Group remains a focus for us. 40 We offer a wide range of programmes to encourage and support female employees, including flexible 30 working, equal pay reviews and childcare support. During 2010 we continued to work with Opportunity 20 Now, a UK based diversity charity, to benchmark diversity performance and support female employees. We continue to seek out partners around the world 10 to help promote equality. In Scandinavia, we are 86 14 94 78 22 87 13 63 37 72 28 100 72 28 53 47 55 45 66 34 55 45 57 43 65 35 62 38 53 47 74 26 51 49 planning to partner with a future female leaders' forum. 0 6 0 77 23 The forum will provide support for female employees % UK IRELAND HONG KONG COLOMBIA RSA CANADA POLAND SCANDINAVIA JOHNSON SINGAPORE BAHRAIN & KSA BRAZIL RUSSIA ARGENTINA TOTAL UAE CHILE LITHUANIA INDIA MEXICO through mentoring, workshops and peer groups designed to help them get the most from their career. WORKFORCE 44 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Involved and motivated employees who enjoy their behalf of non-management employees. Managerial Across the Group we made meaningful (0.2) work, share our culture and support our business by employees are represented under a separate progress against a number of key questions, including: contributing ideas and opinions are essential to our consultative agreement. • “The mission and purpose of my company makes continuing success. We support a culture of open In the UK, our Liverpool operations were awarded me feel that my job is important.”; and and honest dialogue in all our markets and actively an Investors in People Bronze award for our encourage employees to provide feedback through • “There is someone at work who encourages my commitment to training and development. The award formal and informal channels. In 2010, RSA Canada development.” recognises our impressive performance in areas received the I Love Rewards’ 50 Most Engaged such as employee motivation, working practices The questions in which we performed best included: Workplaces Award in recognition of our and leaders’ communication skills. commitment to improving employee engagement. • “In the last six months, someone at work has Employee engagement surveys talked to me about my progress.”; and Our annual European Consultative Forum brings Employee surveys are our most important tool for together employee representatives and management measuring employee engagement levels. They provide to discuss issues of concern and business important feedback and we use information gathered developments. In 2010, delegates discussed a range to help guide our corporate strategy. Every year we of issues including approving the new external undertake three Group wide surveys: secondment policy for employees. Our World Cafes are a less formal opportunity to bring employees The Global Employee Survey together to discuss matters that impact our business The annual Global Employee Survey, developed such as at our Liverpool Green Day (see 62). in partnership with Gallup, is an opportunity for employees across the business to provide We recognise the right of employees to freedom anonymous feedback. The survey enables us to track of association and collective bargaining. We seek and benchmark our performance against the global constructive dialogue with recognised independent Gallup database of over five million responses. trade unions, ensuring a regular and open dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes Building on our success in 2009, engagement levels affecting the workforce. In the UK, Unite is formally increased by 0.22 points from 3.99 to 4.21. Our recognised through a partnership agreement which result puts us in the 70th percentile of the Gallup covers collective consultation and bargaining on database and we will continue to work to meet our goal of being in the top quartile in 2011. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 45 “ This year, over 15,000 people completed the survey, giving us a strong insight into employee perceptions. The results highlight some key strengths on how we manage performance at RSA.” • “In the last seven days, I have received recognition • 93% of respondents have had a formal review in CR Employee Survey or praise for doing good work.” the last twelve months; and Our CR Employee Survey provides an opportunity for employees to give feedback on how they think we are Despite our overall improvement our focus areas for • 92% have had 1:1 meetings to discuss performance performing as a responsible business and what they further improvement are the following questions: with their leader. consider to be the most important CR issues for RSA. • “I know what is expected of me at work.”; and We also made progress addressing some of the As one of our key stakeholders, employees are an priority areas identified in the 2009 survey, including: important part of our corporate responsibility strategy Employees • “At work, I have the opportunity to do what I do and their feedback helps to shape our future goals. best every day.” • 78% of respondents say they have SMART For example, our new partnership with MapAction (specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and have While we are proud of the progress made we aim (see page 34) was developed in response to clear timescales) targets, up from 73% in 2009; and to build on this success. Every manager and team employee feedback to our 2009 survey. In 2010, leader with five or more employees responding to • 67% of respondents agreed with the statement: over 2,000 employees in more than 26 countries the questionnaire received a report on their team’s “My leader helps me improve my performance completed the survey. Key findings include: performance and was encouraged to create a plan by coaching me through the year”, up from 59% • Over 90% of respondents recognise that RSA for tackling low scoring areas. in 2009. is active in helping charities and community Performance Management Survey Areas in which we would like to improve our organisations; The Performance Management Survey provides an performance include: • Employees identified disaster relief as the most opportunity for employees to express their views on • 73% of respondents understood how the Brand important charitable area for an insurance management performance. Our overall score was Beliefs applied to their work, this is up slightly company; and 78% favourable, marginally down from 79% in 2009. from 2009; • Training was identified as the most important This year, over 15,000 people completed the • 57% of respondents agreed with the statement: issue to people at work, this was followed by survey, giving us a strong insight into employee “My training/development plan helps me to ‘reward’ and ‘health and wellbeing’. perceptions. The results highlight some key develop for future roles.”; and strengths on how we manage performance at RSA: • 60% of respondents agreed with the statement: • 94% of respondents say they have documented “My training/developmental plan helps me personal goals/objectives related to their work; develop in my current role.” 46 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Reward and recognition Training and development Remuneration plays a critical role in employee We want employees to realise their full potential. to the business covering topics from global strategy to engagement. In order to attract, retain and motivate Continuous learning and development opportunities engagement, finance and corporate responsibility. This the best employees our benefit packages are designed ensure they have the skills and qualifications needed year participants took part in RSA’s charity challenge to be fair and competitive, based on recognising to provide technical know-how and excellent with the winning team from Ireland supporting the professional merit. The pay of approximately 90% customer service. Rehab Hospice Network (see page 35). of employees is linked to their performance. Launched in 2009, our intranet-based learning Fast track We also offer non-financial incentives that recognise portal is available in 28 countries. The site provides Fast Track is a two-year leadership development employees who have performed particularly well. In employees with information about the company’s programme for high performing employees. the UK, managers can use an online ‘recognition shop’ development programmes and full details on all The programme provides training, coaching and where they select a variety of rewards for successful training available to them. It includes a section to help networking opportunities across the company. It is employees and teams. Rewards include gift vouchers, employees improve their core skills, such as effective open to both internal and external candidates and away days and wellbeing trips. Our annual Platinum planning and communication, as well as a project there are currently 38 Fast Trackers globally. Awards recognise individual employees at all levels management toolkit and external links to some of Technical Academy who have performed exceptionally well. the leading personal development websites. The Technical Academy aims to continually enhance We also have a flexible benefits website where Global graduate development the technical capability of our Underwriting, Claims employees can pick from a number of benefits, Our Global Technical Graduate programme aims to and Actuarial employees. Online and offline training including critical illness cover, discounted shopping create a strong talent pipeline in our core disciplines develops knowledge sharing platforms on global best vouchers and the option to buy or sell holiday time. of Underwriting, Claims and Actuarial. Twenty four practice and improves technical skills. The Academy graduates joined the programme in 2010. The also helps us to identify talent and develop structured programme provides a comprehensive introduction career paths for technical staff, enabling them to build the skills and qualifications they need to succeed. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 47 “ The Technical Academy aims to continually enhance the technical capability of our Underwriting, Claims and Actuarial employees.” Global Marketing Academy Leadership Development Programme Executive Development Programme Over 200 marketers from 12 countries attended RSA’s Leadership Development Programme (LDP) The Executive Development Programme is a RSA’s second Global Marketing Academy in 2010. seeks to identify, develop and equip the Group’s seven-month course for senior leaders that aims to The Academy focuses on the latest marketing future leaders with the skills and mindset to drive develop their leadership, team working and project techniques, tools and industry know-how and business growth. In 2011 we plan to expand the management skills. Participants work on projects that covers a number of marketing topics, including programme to include senior insight sessions look at key business challenges facing the company. In Employees customer insight, brand management, proposition designed to generate ideas and solutions that 2011 we are sharpening our focus on our 'graduate development and marketing communications. address environmental and social challenges. EDPers' and what we can do to use their skills more effectively to improve business performance. In 2010 we launched the Global Capability Framework which identifies the skills and capabilities required for individual marketing positions. Employees can self-assess their current capabilities against the framework and target development plans for other positions that they may be interested in. 48 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING Health and safety is managed as part of our Health and safety programmes are tailored by We measure progress through the number Operational Risk Management framework. The region to ensure they address issues most relevant of injuries and fatalities. In 2010, the number of Human Resources team is responsible for developing to local employees. We form partnerships that help accidents per 1,000 employees decreased from our health, safety and wellbeing policies and ensuring us identify and address the most pressing health and 18.99 in 2009 to 16.5. There were 34 serious injuries that workplace safety is managed effectively. safety issues. For example, in Hong Kong, we have and no fatalities. The majority of injuries were minor Responsibility for day-to-day health and safety worked with the Department of Health to develop non-reportable incidents e.g. minor cuts and strains. management varies according to individual sites. Each the Health@Work project. The programme The reduction in reportable injuries was due to site has at least one health and safety coordinator. enhances employees’ health awareness through a countries aligning the categorisation of injuries. series of health assessments, talks and workshops. We believe safety is a shared responsibility and employees are expected to behave responsibly and be accountable for maintaining a healthy and safe Group 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 environment. To ensure that all new employees understand our policies and procedures we provide Reportable injuries 34 88 85 84 81 health and safety information as part of our induction. An intranet site contains everything employees Minor non-reportable injuries 348 352 340 352 340 might need to know about safety, health and 16.5 18.99 11.14 14.30 Accidents per 1,000 employees 9.05 wellbeing in the workplace. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 49 JOHNSON WELLBEING PROGRAMME “I have always been a health conscious person, so I jumped Wellbeing at the chance to lead the implementation of the Johnson The health and wellbeing of employees can have a In the UK we also offer access to a free and Wellness Programme. Launched in 2010, the programme significant impact on performance. By protecting and confidential 24-hour counselling service to help provides Johnson employees with the tools and resources promoting wellbeing we reduce absenteeism rates with personal and work-related problems. necessary to live healthy lifestyles at work and at home. and improve productivity. Employees are eligible for up to CAD$500 towards a In 2010, Johnson launched an employee wellness Our online health portal, FirstAssist, provides access programme to give all employees the tools and range of activities and equipment to improve their health to a wide range of programmes to enable employees resources to live a healthy lifestyle at work and and well-being. It includes gym membership, home gym to make simple changes to develop a healthier, home. Johnson also held its first wellness week equipment and extended health and dental cover.” Employees more balanced and productive lifestyle. For example, when employees received information about “Communicating the benefits of healthy living is an employees can: healthier lifestyles and diets. important part of the programme. In December, we ran • Sign up for weekly motivational emails, daily Similar health weeks are held in Scandinavia, our first week to raise awareness of the issues. Employees activity guides, recipes and diet tips; Latin America and the UK. in our main site were given the opportunity to meet oneon-one with a healthcare professional to discuss options • Have their health scored and progress for improving their health. The programme also enables monitored; and people to share their stories and motivate each other to • Create customised workout plans to suit keep wellness a priority.” their goals. “I believe that wellness should be an important part of everyone’s everyday life. Unfortunately, most of us just get too busy to think about it. Through this programme we can make a positive impact on the lives of Johnson employees.” Colleen Laite, Human Resources Analyst, Johnson Colleen Laite, Human Resources Analyst, Johnson 50 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 PARTNERING WITH WWF TO PREPARE THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY FOR CLIMATE CHANGE Understanding emerging risks Flood and water management A series of regular reports published by RSA and Flooding remains a key issue for RSA. Changing WWF aim to improve opinion formers, organisations weather patterns mean flooding and drought are more and the global insurance industry’s understanding frequent events than ever. With increased pressure of risks to water supplies, energy and biodiversity. on flood defence budgets, insurers need to find environmentally-sensitive and cost-effective solutions. Published in 2010, our first emerging risks briefing Insurance and the Marine Environment highlights Research by RSA and WWF is exploring ways to the risks from ever growing commercial pressures cut water use in the home and identify how natural on these fragile ecosystems. By indentifying these solutions can reduce the risk of flooding in towns and risks and how they interact, organisations can cities. Published in 2011, our joint report Dealing with mitigate them and capitalise on new business the deluge: Urban water management in a changing opportunities while contributing to sustainability. Protecting marine ecosystems climate argues that sustainable drainage systems As one of the largest global marine insurers, we (SuDS) can form part of a cost-effective, integrated are acutely aware of increasing pressures on fishing, approach to flood and waste water management while shipping and resource extraction and we are working improving urban spaces and benefitting wildlife. to develop sustainable shipping operations. In Canada, we are establishing marine protection areas to help safeguard the long-term future of the fishing industry and in Scandinavia we are collaborating with governments to better manage commercial use of the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is one of the world’s most threatened ecosystems facing increasingly fierce competition for space and resources from industry, fishing, tourism, cargo and energy generation. Our joint WWF report Future Trends in the Baltic Sea calls for an integrated and coordinated approach to managing these conflicting demands. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 51 climate risk into our own investment and pension portfolios to encourage responsible behaviour. Raising awareness Our employees can be ambassadors for change both among their colleagues and with our customers. We have launched a secondment programme for RSA employees to spend time working at WWF. Our Seeing is Believing competition takes winning employees to the Arctic to see first-hand the impact of climate change (see page 54). Sustainable insurance Visit our partnership website to find our The insurance industry can play an important role in more: http://www.wwfrsapartners.com/ Environment promoting more sustainable behaviour in society and the economy. RSA and WWF are investigating how the industry can help remove the barriers facing renewable energy generation and are assessing the business case for integrating environmental risks into our investments and employee pensions. As a leading insurer of this risk, our Global Renewables business is uniquely placed to help with the transition to a low carbon economy. In China, we have been working with WWF and a range of stakeholders to develop renewable energy usage and energy efficiency. In the long-term, the partnership will be looking at developing and promoting products that The partnership will also look at RSA's indirect provide incentives to customers for reducing their impacts, reviewing carbon emissions in the claims environmental footprint for example, making their supply chain and investigating how to incorporate homes more energy and water efficient. 52 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 CANADA Mapping threats to ecosystems to minimise risk and engage local stakeholders in workshops Developing Marine Protection Areas for a sustainable PARTNERING WITH WWF fishing industry Seeing is Believing Green Employee Idea Competition We launched our three-year partnership with WWF in the UK, Denmark, Sweden, Canada and China in 2009. The partnership focuses on investigating emerging environmental risks facing the insurance industry. UK Over the next two years, we will work together to help Developing a roadmap on sustainable urban drainage systems the industry adapt to climate change and strengthen its understanding of the link between environmental and insurance risk. We will encourage action through joint Environmental Education road shows across UK sites research, emerging risks briefings and product development in five areas: Analysing the impact of water escapes in the home and how to minimise risk and water scarcity CONSERVATION RESEARCH PRODUCTS Lead sponsors of WWF's Earth Hour and commitment to reduce carbon in homes policies 15% by 2013 ENGAGEMENT WEB Restoring an urban river to investigate ecologically sensitive flood defences with the Thames River Restoration Trust GROUP Researching emerging risks for insurance through technical briefings twice a year marine risks launched Assessing the business case for integrating environmental risk into bonds, fixed income and pensions Assessing environmental risks in the Arctic through mapping human activity and biodiversity hotspots Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 53 SWEDEN National competition in schools raising the importance of climate issues with children Establishing a regional forum in the Baltic Sea to use resources sustainably WWF's Earth Hour employee volunteering week, raising the profile of climate change in schools Sponsorship of national environmental website to show support of Trygg-Hansa Climate risk research programme for businesses CHINA Research of barriers to renewable energy and energy efficient buildings in China RUSSIA Sponsorship of Siberian Tiger conservation programme Environment DENMARK Lead sponsors of WWF's Earth Hour with 450 volunteers encouraging businesses to sign up Climate challenge schools programme with winning school researching climate risk in Greenland Launch of Energi Midt energy and leak reduction device for homes in 2010 54 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 SEEING IS BELIEVING FOR SYLVIE PARADIS Three days of beautiful weather in the middle of November would be welcome news for most visitors to Churchill in Canada’s far north. For RSA Canada employee, Sylvie Paradis, it was a warning sign that life is getting tougher for Churchill’s most famous residents the polar bears. “Everyone was amazed with how lucky we were. Even those who had been many times before had never seen such warm conditions. While the weather was great for us, it wasn’t so great for polar bears,” explains Sylvie. For bears, no ice means no food. Every year the ice forms later in the year and thaws earlier, making the polar bears’ feeding period increasingly shorter. This has led to physical changes with the bears. Cubs are becoming smaller and have a reduced survival rate in the first year. They can die from malnutrition, the cold, or even be killed by a male bear. Sylvie spent five days in Churchill learning first hand the impact of climate change on this iconic species as the lucky winner of a competition organised with WWF to get employees thinking about the steps they can take to reduce the environmental impact of our business. Sylvie and her team developed a paper reduction strategy that has the potential to save the equivalent of hundreds of trees while making it easier for brokers to do business with us. The competition was one of a number of events we organise to raise environmental awareness among employees, encouraging them to cut their footprint at home as well as work. For Sylvie, the lessons from her trip are clear: “The good news is we can all, as individuals, communities, families and businesses start to make ecologically sound decisions that together will make a difference.” Sylvie Paradis, Solutions PME, RSA Canada Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 55 ENVIRONMENT We take climate change and other Worldwide energy demands are expected to increase environmental issues seriously, believing by 50% over the next 20 years and the renewable energy industry is set to play an increasing role in they present risks and opportunities for meeting this demand. Without adequate insurance, the our business and society. We minimise planning, construction and operation of mid-to-largethe impact of our operations, develop scale renewable energy projects would not be viable. products and services that support lowClimate change is also an opportunity to create emission technologies and work with products that support and encourage consumers high profile partners such as WWF to tackle their environmental footprint. to encourage customers to adopt climate-friendly behaviour. For our 2010 targets and performance, plus our Environment 2011 targets please see pages 64 and 65. Climate change, environmental products and services We believe that climate change poses a serious risk to our business. As an insurer, any change in the intensity or frequency of extreme weather conditions is a significant risk, greatly increasing claims from, for example, flooding or wind damage. 56 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Renewable energy Encouraging green behaviour We are a leading insurer of the renewable energy for the world’s largest offshore wind farm, the We offer a range of services that encourage industry with a significant share of the global market. London Array, with over 340 turbines generating up customers to adopt more environmentally friendly Our main propositions include wind, bioenergy, solar to 1,000 megawatts of electricity enough to power behaviour. For example, in the UK and Ireland, we and small hydro insurance and we are expanding a quarter of London’s homes. provide discounted car insurance for fuel efficient into emerging technologies such as tidal, wave and vehicles. In Scandinavia our subsidiary Trygg-Hansa Nearly one third of renewable energy projects are in geo-thermal energy. provides online training for personal and commercial developing countries. We have grown our presence customers on fuel efficient driving techniques. TryggThree Centres of Excellence support 15 renewable in emerging markets to cover wind power insurance Hansa also offers discounted premiums for energy teams around the world. They provide in China, India and Chile to meet this demand. In companies that hold environmental certificates, underwriting, claims and risk management support, China, our Clear Sky Solutions proposition provides demonstrating improved environmental management based in London (bioenergy and solar), Toronto wind power insurance and we have relationships practices. In Denmark, Codan offers customers (small hydro) and Copenhagen (wind). In 2010 with leading manufacturers, as well as key power free environmental health checks for their cars. we re-launched our renewable energy business providers, specialist intermediaries and insurers. in Italy Europe’s third largest renewable energy As part of our three-year partnership with WWF Securing access to finance is a significant barrier to market insuring wind, solar and hydro generators we are working to develop and promote products renewable energy projects in developing countries. and manufacturers. that support customers who want to reduce their We are working with WWF to explore how the environmental footprint, for example by making their Wind accounts for 80% of our renewables business insurance industry can help remove this barrier and homes more energy and water efficient. and has grown by over 50% per year since we we are a partner in insurance4renewables, along with launched our Global Renewable Energy business in German reinsurer Munich Re, specialist carbon insurer We launched a Greener Home Endorsement policy 2007. We insure the manufacturers of 50% of the Carbon Re and the United National Environment in Canada that gives customers the option to replace world’s wind turbines, enough to power 40 million Programme (UNEP). It offers standard and customised damaged property with more environmentally friendly homes. Our clients include Vestas, Siemens, Suzlon, insurance products and services to streamline financing. alternatives. For CAD$10 customers can have Gamese and Alstom. Codan, our Danish subsidiary, is In 2010 we hosted a seminar with UNEP, WWF damaged property replaced with materials of similar involved in 80% of all offshore wind projects in the and Munich Re to discuss how governments and quality that have been certified as environmentally world. In 2010, Codan was appointed lead insurer the insurance industry can help to mitigate political friendly or energy efficient. See page 74 for more and economic risks to encourage investment. information on tackling the environmental impact of our supply chain. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 57 MAPPING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF HOME INSURANCE “Perhaps it’s rather abstract to think of the environmental impact of an insurance policy, but that’s exactly what we are doing.” Also in Canada, we launched a new insurance policy protect special sites, known as Natura 2000 sites, “A number of products already carry a carbon label and for homeowners and small businesses that generate from environmental damage. Operating on the this is something we’re keen to develop further. Ultimately, their own renewable energy. The policy covers ‘polluter pays’ principle, it makes operators financially we want to help our customers understand the carbon renewable energy equipment against physical damage liable for damage to habitats and species, land and impact of our services to help them make informed and loss of income up to CAD$5,000. It is designed water resources. decisions about their carbon footprint. But the immediate for participants in the Ontario government's potential is much more practical. By understanding where The service, available in Denmark, Sweden, Italy and the biggest impacts are we can target our reduction efforts microFIT programme which allows home and small the UK provides cover for cleaning up damage and and see the benefit through lower energy bills and more business owners to sell renewable energy generated restoring ecosystems to their original condition. It efficient processes.” from their properties back to the electricity grid at goes beyond traditional ‘clean-up’ policies, extending stable prices under long-term contracts. to the management of the restoration projects. “In 2010 we were proud to be the only insurer invited to Environmental clean up Environmental professionals help our claims teams participate in a global pilot of the GHG Protocol Product We provide products that help protect against the to develop remediation plans. This expert advice Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard. That Environment risk of accidental pollution damage at sites protected means we can better manage incidents and our risk sounds complicated but it’s about assessing the overall under European Union or local conservation laws. is covered by a dedicated reinsurance programme, impact of a product. We mapped out the whole process The EU Environmental Liability Directive seeks to eliminating any exposure to unknown long-term of a MORE TH>N home insurance policy from end to environmental risks. end, including our own operations and our suppliers’.” “The analysis showed the average carbon footprint of a HOME POLICY CARBON FOOTPRINT MORE TH>N home insurance policy is equivalent to 8.4kg of CO2. The greatest contributions are the energy and equipment used in our call centres and external claims 47% Call centres providers, followed by the materials used in our policy packs.” 15% Claims supplier travel “We are working closely with WWF to see how we can 23% Policy packs use the findings to develop a green insurance policy and 15% Other have set a target to reduce the carbon impact of the Based on data from 1,000 claims average home insurance policy by 15% by 2013.” Andy Horne, RSA Global SRM Andy Horne, RSA Global SRM Excellence Manager Excellence Manager 58 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 MANAGING OUR DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from We have set a long-term Group target for a 40% Almost half of Group emissions are in the UK and our buildings and travel is a high priority. reduction in gross tonnes CO2 per £m NWP by these fell by around 1% compared to 2009. This is 2020 against 2006 levels. Individual countries set primarily due to reduced electricity use in our We are also targeting other environmental additional targets covering key environmental offices. In addition, combined heat and power and impacts that are significant to our impacts relevant to their circumstances. other lower-carbon sources of energy provide half business, such as paper use. the electricity we use nationwide. Our Group head Energy and emissions Our environmental strategy is to: office uses 100% renewable energy and in 2010 Our biggest direct environmental impact is the Codan began purchasing renewable energy to • Measure and report our CO2 emissions and other carbon dioxide emissions from energy we use in power its headquarters in Denmark. impacts; our offices and from travel, especially emissions from electricity. Emissions from travel are significant Despite this overall decrease, we did record an • Set targets for reducing them; increase in gas consumption at our UK motor repair and come mostly from cars but air travel has • Improve energy efficiency, waste disposal, travel increased because of the Group’s growing centres due to a higher volume of vehicles being impacts and resource use in our buildings and international presence. processed. There were also two separate incidents daily operations; in 2010 involving significant leaks from refrigerant Absolute CO2 emissions are not comparable over systems. Both have been investigated and inspection • Offset remaining CO2 emissions in countries time because we have been extending the data to regimes introduced to give early warning of any achieving the previous steps; and cover newly acquired businesses. Total gross future problems. emissions per £m net written premiums (NWP) • Work with suppliers to improve the We offset carbon emissions in the UK and Ireland, reflect underlying performance and this measure environmental footprint of our supply chain which have been carbon neutral since 2006 and fell by 0.6 tonnes per £million NWP in 2010, (see page 67). 2008 respectively, by investing in renewable energy demonstrating the progress made in efficiency programmes across the Group. projects in India that comply with the robust, internationally recognised Voluntary Carbon Standard (www.v-c-s.org). Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 59 “ Our Group head office uses 100% renewable energy and in 2010 Codan began purchasing renewable energy to power its headquarters in Denmark.” GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR RSA INSURANCE GROUP (TONNES OF CO2E*) In 2010, total offsets remained stable and a marginal * Group carbon dioxide equivalent decease of 0.2 in net emissions of CO2 per £million 2010 2009 2006 emissions (tonnes). (baseline) of net written premium was achieved. 1. Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions. Scope 11 16,544 15,153 – Many individual countries have introduced steps 2. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from to cut their energy use by installing energy efficient consumption of purchased electricity, heat Scope 2 2 32,441 33,616 – measures such as automatic sleep modes for or steam. computer monitors and switching off lights. Scope 33 19,250 15,890 – 3. Scope 3: Other indirect emissions. Johnson’s new head office features a number of 4. CO2 baselines 2006-08 restated in energy saving technologies including programmable Total gross 68,236 64,659 77,247 accordance with revised emission factors from heating and cooling, motion-activated and energy DEFRA and GHG Protocol. Gross tonnes CO2 per £m NWP 9.0 9.6 14.1 efficient lighting and extra windows to increase 5. 2009 data includes Czech Republic, Poland natural light. Ceiling tiles, carpet and floor surfaces Carbon offsets 34,000 32,887 – and Russia for first time. Environment are made from recycled materials and all of the waste generated during its construction was Total net emissions 34,236 31,772 77,247 segregated and recycled. Net tonnes CO2 per £m NWP 4.5 4.7 14.1 A key change in the business is the growing percentage of emissions that Emerging Markets account for. As data systems with suppliers continue to improve, more accurate assessment is possible, which is part of the reasons for increases in this GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN OF CO2E EMISSIONS FOR 2010 (TONNES CO2) part of the business. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 UK (including GCC) 7,904 16,093 7,317 International 3,097 7,518 6,144 Emerging Markets 5,543 8,830 5,789 60 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 CO2 EMISSIONS PER CAPITA ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN OUR OFFICES (MWh) (tonnes per employee) Electricity use Gas use 100,000 83,838 83,224 3.5 2.93 3.00 MWh 29,486 36,100 28,241 21,989 74,457 28,764 4 3.1 2.92 71,234 70,270 Waste recycled Tonnes % of total waste 2006 914 18% 2007 776 17% 2008 943 26% 2009 775 23.4% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 1,380 35% 0 0 Note: Includes additional sources of energy for 2010 (Steam and heating fuel). CO2 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE 2010 CO2 EMISSIONS BY REGION 17 BUSINESS TRAVEL 13 COMPANY OWNED VEHICLES 57 PREMISES 46% UK 10 ESTIMATED SITES 24% INTERNATIONAL 3 PAPER 30% EMERGING MARKETS Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 61 Travel Resource use In 2010, business travel (including company vehicles, Cutting water consumption and other resources below). Despite these falls, Group waste increased road, air and rail) accounted for approximately 30% and cutting waste helps reduce demand on the from 2,709 tonnes in 2009 to 3,944 tonnes in 2010 of our total carbon footprint, up from 23% in 2009. environment as well as saving money. It also helps due to improved data capture in Emerging Markets. reduce emissions because of the energy involved in We seek to reduce the environmental impact Performance in our largest market the UK producing materials such as paper, providing clean of travel by encouraging the use of video and continues to improve where we achieved a 22% water and managing waste. teleconferencing, monitoring employee travel and reduction in paper use and a 5% reduction in waste setting reduction targets for air and car use. For Paper is the main resource we consume as an to landfill, meaning we met our targets of 4% and example, Johnson reduced air travel equivalent office-based organisation. In 2010, Group paper 3% respectively. These were achieved due to the to 579,536km by installing video conferencing consumption fell from 2,552 tonnes in 2009 to 2,249 installation of new print management hardware technology in its head and regional offices in 2010. tonnes. We also achieved significant savings in water (see page 66), increasing employee awareness about The move has cut travel costs by CAD $290,000 use, cutting our consumption from 260,950m3 in cutting paper use and an improvement in overall and improved engagement levels as employees 2009 to 198,739m3 in 2010. These reductions are office recycling rates. The rollout of a new waste are able to spend more time with their families. due to the introduction of a range of water and paper recycling programme in our motor repair centres saving initiatives across the Group such as electronic has also contributed to the reduction in waste to communications and more efficient printing (see landfill and we expect this to continue in 2011. PAPER USE (tonnes) TOTAL WASTE GENERATED (tonnes) WATER USE (cubic metres) Environment 808 1,049 1,772 2,674 2,576 8,093 6,334 5,014 3,559 3,944 270,954 239,252 261,884 192,933 198,739 557 995 2,156 2,249 5,787 4,698 4,440 3,306 207,506 247,941 253,159 263,386 3000 10,000 300,000 2004 2005 2009 2010 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2002 2003 2007 2008 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 0 0 Note: Leak in Mexico caused a major increase in water consumption in 2009. 62 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Embedding a green culture Across the Group, individual countries are taking • In Colombia, more concise policy documents We promote an environmentally responsible culture steps to cut resource use and increase recycling: have cut paper use by 67%. We saved 120,000 among employees, encouraging them to cut their disposable cups by replacing them with glass mugs footprint at home as well as work. • We introduced paperless billing in Estonia. and recyclable waste is now sent to a recycling All policies, invoices and contracts are sent to Green Teams and local champions around the company that is run by and provides work for customers electronically and most claims are Group drive activity by organising Green Days and low income families; handled by email; supporting international events such as WWF’s • In Chile, all office paper is recycled and double sided Earth Hour. Raising employee awareness is a key • In Mexico, we installed water saving features in printing is the default setting for printers. Computer goal of our partnership with WWF: office bathrooms. We also introduced recycling monitors are programmed to automatically switch facilities for paper, card, plastic and batteries with to sleep mode after inactive periods and office all electronic waste sold to a recycling company; lights are turned off at lunch times; • Recycling facilities for paper and printer cartridges • In Lithuania, all electronic waste is sent to an are available in our Hong Kong office. Employees electronic waste processing company for safe are reminded to turn off computers, lights and disposal; and other equipment before leaving the office. We have been awarded the Wastewi$e logo by the • In the UK, we are supporting a Royal Mail initiative Environmental Protection Department since to reduce the environmental impact of direct mail 2000 for meeting waste reduction targets; marketing. Sustainable Mail sets standards covering the use of recycled material and aims to encourage consumers to recycle more by including recycling messages on the documents. Companies that meet • RSA’s Liverpool office played host to our first this standard benefit from lower postage costs. UK Green Day. Organised with WWF, the event showcased the work RSA and WWF are doing to tackle environmental issues such as climate change, marine conservation and flooding. Employees were Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 63 “ RSA Canada’s Green Team have already made impressive progress helping to cut our environmental footprint, including saving more than 10 million sheets of paper.” encouraged to get involved through environmentally their environmental footprint at work and home. 40 employees and a driving simulator at our head themed activities, competitions and games. A Green Employees were encouraged to submit feedback offices. A competition to generate ideas on how World Café generated a number of interesting and ideas to support Johnson’s environmental the company can cut its emissions received around ideas for reducing the environmental impact of strategy. In recognition of WWF's Earth Day, 130 suggestions. The Team has also helped to RSA’s operations and services, including new Johnson employees were given a checklist with develop climate friendly insurance products for products and ways of working. over 50 activities that they could do to make their customers such as a free energy report day environmentally-friendly; highlighting how much customers can save if The event included a number of our key they replace broken windows with newer suppliers and partners as well as showing how • Scandinavia’s Green Team organised a range of and more efficient ones. they're working with us to manage our energy activities during Climate Week to raise employees’ consumption, reduce our waste and increase awareness about how they can adopt more our levels of recycling; climate friendly behaviour at home and work. One of the activities was an eco-driving course for • In 2010, we organised a Green Day for RSA Environment Canada employees. The Green Team in Canada have already made impressive progress, helping to cut our environmental footprint, including saving more than 10 million sheets of paper, diverting more than a tonne of food waste through composting initiatives and saving almost 9,000 water bottles by replacing them with pitchers of water and glasses during meetings; • Also in Canada, Johnson’s Green Committee organised a Green Week to help embed awareness of green issues among our employees. The week, which coincided with WWF's Earth Day, showcased some of the steps employees can take to reduce 64 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Targets and progress 2010 target Performance in 2010 2011 target Develop green proposition initiatives in Canada Launched Greener Home Endorsement policy in Continue to develop and roll out products with and Scandinavia to launch products during 2011. Canada that gives customers the option to environmental benefits in our main markets replace damaged property with more including the UK, Canada and Scandinavia. environmentally friendly alternatives. Launch construction of urban flood water Project partners confirmed and planning Construct urban river restoration. management scheme in partnership with the permission secured during 2010. Official project Thames River Restoration Trust. launch in March 2011. Review Group CO2 aggregation and calculations New Group CO2 reporting system Carry out due diligence for global energy of system with full audit. implemented. procurement contract. Reduce by 40% gross tonnes CO2 per £m net In 2010 we reduced gross CO2 per £m net Reduce by 40% gross tonnes CO2 per £m net written premiums (NWP) by 2020 against written premiums by 3% against 2006 baseline (a written premiums (NWP) by 2020 against 2006 baseline. total reduction of 35% since 2006). 2006 baseline. UK (against 2009 data) All targets were met. Reduce electricity 3% Reduce electricity 2% Reduce water 3% Reduce water 2% Reduce gas 3% Increase office recycling to 50% Reduce office paper 4% Reduce office paper 10% Reduce office waste 3% Increase QRC recycling to 60% by 2011. Increase QRC recycling to 65%. Progress continues to be made on delivering products which contribute to environmental impact reduction. • A range of new propositions are scheduled for launch in 2011 as well as continuing to tackle the underlying impacts of core products in the claims supply chain. • RSA continues to invest in tangible strategic research into climate change which supports employee volunteer participation. • The urban river restoration project at Mayesbrook Park in London will help assess whether environmentally sensitive flood defences will help reduce flood risk and support adaptation to a changing climate. • Substantial progress has been made towards our 2020 CO2 reduction target with a 35% reduction to date. • We are on track to achieve our target ahead of schedule through operational improvements to our facilities, travel and internal behaviour change. • Commentary on national targets is included in this section. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 65 2010 target Performance in 2010 2011 target Group Corporate Centre (against 2009 data) Paper and video conference targets were met. Reduce electricity 3% Reduce electricity 4% An increase in number of employees due to Reduce paper 2% Reduce gas 4% Solvency II work contributed to an increase in Reduce waste 4% Reduce paper 6% environmental impacts. Increase video conferences 5%. Reduce waste 3% Increase recycling 4% Increase video conference use 10%. Ireland (against 2009 data) Rail, gas and waste targets met. Good reductions Incorporate newly acquired 123 business into Reduce rail 10% on electricity and paper with recycling remaining environmental reporting system. Reduce electricity 5% at the same level. Ensure rail, electricity, gas, paper, waste and Reduce gas 5% recycling remain at same levels. Reduce paper 10% Reduce waste 3% Increase recycling 5%. Scandinavia All targets were achieved except air travel for All targets for completion by 2013. Targets apply Reduce Denmark paper 5% both countries which increased. to Denmark, Sweden and Norway individually. Environment Reduce Denmark paper waste 5% Reduce CO2 5% Reduce Denmark air travel 1% Reduce electricity 5% Reduce Denmark car travel 2% Reduce paper 5% Reduce Sweden paper 5% Reduce waste disposed 3% Reduce Sweden air travel 1% Reduce air travel 3% Reduce Sweden car travel 5%. Reduce road travel 7% Maintain gas and water at present levels. N/a N/a All targets for completion by end of 2011 (RSA Canada unless stated). Increase Johnson recycling 1% Reduce paper 2% Increase recycling 1% Reduce waste 2% No increase in water, electricity and travel Use 100 video conferences. Note: Full environmental data on pages 76 onwards. 66 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 A SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP Working with key supplier, Kyocera Mita, RSA managed to reduce its office paper consumption by over 20% in 2010. Project SPEC (Simplifying Print through Enhancement and Consolidation) is a major initiative to rationalise, modernise and improve the eco-efficiency of our document management services in the UK. Over five years, the project aims to reduce RSA’s fleet of over 3,000 printers, managed by a number of vendors, to just 282 high performance and efficient machines operated through a centralised system. Environmental considerations were an influential component in the drafting of the tender and supplier selection, and have played a key part in the roll-out, reporting and management of the project. The project has already delivered quantifiable benefits in terms of resource efficiencies, carbon reductions and cost savings. Over five years we expect to reduce energy use by 25% and cut costs by over £4million. At our September supplier workshop, Kyocera gave a presentation on their experience in collaborating with RSA. The talk outlined how suppliers can help support RSA’s corporate responsibility goals, reduce costs and increase efficiency. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 67 SUPPLIERS 2010 Targets and objectives Progress 2011 Targets and objectives We work to promote sustainable business practices beyond our immediate business Launch first supplier workshop We ran two supplier workshops Run four supplier workshops operations. A significant proportion of the in the UK. in the UK and one in Canada. and two virtual workshops in environmental and social risks we face the UK. Review opportunities come from the way our suppliers operate. for workshops in Scandinavia. Selecting the right suppliers and developing Continue to extend our Globally, over 250 of our key Ensure 85% of supply chain relationships that deliver long-term approach, creating a responsible suppliers were monitored for assessed with CR module. sustainable benefits is an integral part supply chain across the countries their CR performance. of our corporate responsibility strategy. in which we operate. Commentary: Approximately 85% of our supply We rolled out the RSA Reduce the amount of CO2 in chain spend is covered by our corporate responsibility Collaboration Charter for MORE TH>N home policy by assessments. We target the largest and highest risk UK suppliers. 15% by 2013. categories of procurement to ensure we minimise risk and maximise opportunity for additional benefits in the supply chain. During 2010 one supplier in Scandinavia In Scandinavia we relaunched was found to be employing labour below minimum our supplier Codes of Conduct wages. Upon detection immediate action was taken for our subsidiaries Codan and to ensure the appropriate salaries and compensation Trygg-Hansa. We also extended were paid by the supplier. In the UK we established a our supplier assessment and new supplier workshop and collaboration charter engagement programme to Suppliers programme. The approach will enable a shared these countries. commitment to reducing risks in the supply chain and enable us to reduce CO2 by 15% in our MORE TH>N In Canada, questionnaires were Extend the number of suppliers home policy by 2013. sent out to 11 suppliers to in Canada being assessed on We will continue to extend our responsible assess ethical, social and CR to 30. procurement programme through our business to environmental performance. ensure ongoing reductions in supply chain impacts. 68 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 In 2010, total spend with our suppliers was £5.5 billion. The majority of this is handled by Key performance indicators our claims teams who, through a global network of over approximately 80,000 suppliers, provide Number of CR related questionnaires sent to suppliers globally 184 motor, household and other services on behalf of our customers. The rest of our supplier spend Number of markets with supplier assessment and engagement programmes c.80% relates to our direct operations including IT, consulting, travel, maintenance and security. Number of companies attending supplier workshops 21 The scale and diversity of our supply chain presents a variety of challenges, some common across the Supplier standards • Work with existing suppliers and partners to Group, and some unique to specific markets. To establish and then reduce environmental and manage these risks we are developing systems and We demand high standards from the companies we social impacts; procedures which promote responsible business work with and believe that they should expect the practices throughout our supply chain. In cases same from us. We work to develop transparent • Work where possible with companies, where we identify a supplier as high risk we make partnerships built on fairness and integrity which charities, social enterprises or not-for-profit our concerns known and work with them to support our commitment to responsible business organisations which will enhance the community address any issues. practices. Our Responsible Procurement Principles and environment; govern our interactions with our suppliers and set The nature of our industry means suppliers are • Reduce the life-cycle impact and cost of products out the social and environmental standards we extremely unlikely to be complicit in serious and services (in particular waste disposal) where expect them to meet. They commit us to: environmental and social abuses such as child labour. possible; and • Treat suppliers in a fair and reasonable manner; • Engage with suppliers to work towards joint • Reduce the environmental and social impact of solutions where suppliers or products used by RSA and influence business partners through the RSA have a high risk of environmental impact. choice of procurement; Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 69 “ We demand high standards from the companies we work with and believe that they should expect the same from us.” This year in the UK we developed the RSA • Measuring and centrally reporting their impact on Collaboration Charter. The Charter sets out what the environment; potential business partners should expect from their • Sourcing goods and services from responsible relationship with RSA. By signing it, suppliers commit suppliers; and to supporting RSA’s corporate responsibility strategy. They also commit to developing their own policies • Improving or developing new products and for managing their impacts and responsibilities services which reduce these impacts. towards the environment, people and the In Scandinavia, we relaunched our supplier code of communities in which they operate. The Charter is conduct for our Trygg-Hansa and Codan subsidiaries designed to develop stronger working relationships which ensure strong action on environmental and which build mutual understanding of each party’s social issues. business priorities without compromising quality, cost or service. The Charter builds on our Procurement Principles and commits suppliers to: • Continue improving environmental performance and reducing direct and indirect impacts of climate change in accordance with individual environmental policies; Suppliers • Agreeing targets and working together to achieve them; 70 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Engaging and assessing suppliers Industry collaboration By engaging with our suppliers we can help In 2010, we conducted our first corporate As a signatory to the United Nations Global overcome risks within our supply chain, communicate responsibility supplier forums. Representatives Compact we are committed to eliminating our goals and work together to improve our service. from a number of key suppliers discussed how discrimination and protecting human rights internally our businesses can work together to strengthen and in our immediate sphere of influence, including Through our engagement programme, suppliers our corporate responsibility strategy and goals. our suppliers. We also work with partners and are assessed from an early stage in the procurement Participants were able to highlight and share best industry organisations to improve supply chain process. Our assessments not only identify whether practices from their own experiences and outline standards and practices surrounding environmental they represent significant environmental or social potential improvements and the benefits that can and social impacts: risks but also how they can help us improve be realised from improved CR performance. our performance. We encourage suppliers to • As a member of the UNEP Finance Initiative communicate their position and capabilities on For the second year running our UK procurement we are working to identify and promote best CR issues in detail. team conducted an assessment of suppliers’ CR environmental and corporate responsibility credentials. A CR questionnaire was sent to 184 practice within the finance industry; Our procurement teams receive regular training and suppliers representing around 85% of our supply guidance on CR issues in their assessment of supply • Through our membership of the Association of chain based on spend. Produced in partnership with chain risks. CR specialists also work with regional British Insurers’ (ABI) ClimateWise initiative, we the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply’s procurement managers to ensure that environmental are working with the insurance industry to help Financial Services Procurement Forum, the and social standards are incorporated into buying respond to and raise awareness of the challenges questionnaire covered a range of CR issues including decisions and existing supplier relationships. presented by climate change; and labour standards, environmental management, and human rights. This year assessment surveys were • We are members of the Chartered Institute also sent to suppliers in Scandinavia and Canada. of Purchasing and Supply’s Financial Services It came to our notice that a contractor supplying Purchasing Forum CR working group which temporary workers for a Danish office was paying works in managing social, ethical and employees below the minimum wage. Rather environmental issues in our supply chain. than terminate the contract we have worked In September, RSA joined the Sustainable Shipping with the supplier to ensure workers received Initiative (SSI). Developed by WWF and Forum for their lawful remuneration. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 71 the Future, the initiative seeks to identify the major Through our motor claims teams we repair risks and opportunities facing the shipping industry. thousands of vehicles every year. While our goal is to Working in collaboration with some of the world’s get our customers back on the road as quickly and as largest shipping companies RSA is helping the safely as possible we are also working with suppliers industry develop a sustainable model which reduces to reduce the environmental impacts of our services. the risks from issues such as climate change, carbon In the UK we are working with service provider, AVS, taxes and oil shortages. to increase the amount of recycled parts we use in vehicle repairs. Not only do recycled parts reduce Sustainable claims waste but they are cheaper which could mean fewer One of the key ways that we can help to promote vehicles being written off. Using AVS’s extensive positive behaviours beyond our immediate operations network of dismantlers in the UK and overseas, parts is through our claims procedures. Through our can be found readily and inexpensively and the results network of service providers, such as motor vehicle have been impressive. In 2010, 43% of our vehicle repairers and construction companies, we support repairs used recycled parts. and encourage sustainable practices. We are also developing new products and services which Our partnership with WWF is helping to identify encourage our customers to make responsible ways to promote environmental protection through choices following their claims. our products and services. In Canada, we have developed a new policy, covering electrical In the UK we are working with service provider, EVS, appliances, lighting, water fitting, insulation and heating to move away from automatically replacing damaged systems, which enables claimants to get additional Suppliers electrical goods towards a system of repairing what funds towards energy efficient alternatives for stolen can be saved. EVS’s new repair capabilities for or damaged goods. The policy costs just CAD$10 electrical goods means our household content claims and pays up to an additional CAD$9,000 towards service is able to reduce purchases of new goods, environmentally friendly replacements. Products are lowering the environmental impact and saving money. selected according to their performance in third party accreditation schemes such as Energy Star. 72 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 CR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Material issues Overall responsibility for CR lies with Material issues for our strategy and reporting are the Group CEO Andy Haste. The Board assessed through a variety of channels. These include SIGNIFICANCE routinely discusses CR issues affecting our stakeholder engagement process, a materiality TO RSA ISSUES WITH GREATER ALIGNMENT TO RSA CORE BUSINESS review by Forum for the Future, external Climate the Group and conducts an annual review Sectorial engagement Safety benchmarking and a detailed employee survey. Priority Disaster Environment of performance and future strategy. Customers Inclusion Issues being flagged in any of the processes are Complaints The Group Executive Committee acts as the CR assessed against: Explain insurance Steering Committee, supported by a Group CR Group OH&S Wellbeing team. The Steering Committee meets twice a year to • Significance to RSA (including importance to forward looking More non-financial Potential opportunity targets oversee development, implementation and progress stakeholders); KPI Investments of the CR strategy and monitor compliance with • Alignment to our core business; and our global CR, Environmental, Human Rights and Social auditing Responsible selling Children Community policies. It provides a common reference • Ability to influence. point for regional businesses, where CR managers or Potential risk Issues are highlighted on our materiality risk matrix coordinators are in place in all operating countries. which help determine where the priorities for CR Country and site-based community and environment should lie. During 2010, the Group strategy has committees determine and respond to local priorities. been endorsed by stakeholders but several priority Limited influence or no ability Able to influence or Direct control or mitigate encourage mitigation CR targets and objectives are included in the CEO’s areas have been highlighted for discussion at the goals, which are then cascaded to other executives CR Steering Committee including: ABILITY TO INFLUENCE and relevant business functions. They include • Greater focus on disaster response and compliance with Group CR, Human Resources, prevention; Core strategy Environment and Community policies. Individual country operations set social and environmental • More external coverage on customers and Raised by employees targets in line with local market conditions with complaints; and Raised by external stakeholders challenges from the central function (see Targets • Providing information so stakeholders understand Benchmarking gap and objectives on pages 76 to 85). the insurance process better. Forum for the future review See our annual report for coverage of corporate governance. Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 73 “ The Steering Committee meets twice a year to oversee development, implementation and progress of the CR strategy.” CR forms part of the wider Group Risk Appetite. This core part of the risk management framework RSA’S 2010 MATERIALITY RADAR of the Group regularly assesses emerging risks across the entire business which forms our emerging risk register. Risks are prioritised on the likely Direct impacts Public safety Flood defence Inclusive 2010 Climate legislation provision financial and operational impact on the Group. crime RSA’S MANAGEMENT APPROACH Alongside the insurance risk process an operational Procurement CLIMATE CHANGE Public trust Poverty risk process is also carried out which together form Strategic Opportunity zone demand for transparency our overall risk management framework. CR issues INVESTMENTS FINANCIAL Obesity Water scarcity INCLUSION are monitored on a risk profile assessment and Ecosystem degradation incorporated into this wider business assessment. Managerial Invasive species Employee wellbeing transfer in ships Ageing populations See Our Approach for further information. Energy security New technologies RSA is a Corporate Partner of the sustainability Compliance Public spending cuts organisation Forum for the Future, which conducts Risk zone an annual materiality assessment, considering broad societal changes as well as significant changes in the Defensive insurance and wider financial services industry. The 2010 assessment confirmed the Forum’s view Low Medium High that the three key issues for RSA continue to be: FORUM FOR THE FUTURE’S VIEW ON IMPORTANCE TO RSA • Climate change (page 55) • Financial inclusion (page 25) Recommended priorities for 2011 • Our investments (page 8) Reporting 74 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 GREENER HOME ENDORSEMENT POLICY We recognise that we all have a responsibility to think outside the box to combat climate change. Our Greener Home Endorsement policy gives customers the opportunity to do the right thing to protect our environment at a marginal cost. It means that in the event of a claim, a homeowner has the option of upgrading to sustainable building materials and appliances. “We’ve brought a unique product to the market that differentiates us from our competition. It highlights to our employees, customers and our partner WWF Canada that we are serious about being an environmentally-friendly insurer, while providing our customers with the opportunity to make responsible decisions.” Ann Lomax, PI Property Leader, RSA Canada Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 75 REPORTING How we report The 2010 RSA Insurance Group plc Corporate Where smaller countries have fewer than fifty Ongoing dialogue is carried out through collaborative Responsibility Report covers the calendar year employees, data is collected where possible utilising forums (eg ABI, UNEP-FI, etc), supplier workshops, of 2010. The Report continues where the 2009 audited assumptions. Assumptions are based on the consumer focus groups, broker road shows, investor Corporate Responsibility Report left off as part of our majority of reported RSA data and cross checked engagements and a variety of external ratings. Where annual reporting cycle. Reports are published in May against national averages. Any assumptions used relevant to the CR strategy, findings are flagged to for the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. within data are audited by an external third party. the Group CR Steering Committee for discussion. The report is published in conjunction with an All environmental data is calculated in accordance We actively encourage feedback on our approach online pdf followed by a refreshed Group internet with coefficients and standards including IPCC, and this report through the contact list at the front. site and aligned with the Group Annual Report & WBCSD/WRI, IEA, UNFCC, Carbon Trust For more information on the mechanisms we use to Accounts. Multi-lingual summaries are produced in and DEFRA. gather stakeholder opinions, feedback received during June. The report is intended for the expert CR Further information on our reporting, indicators and 2010 and our process for prioritising findings, see the community, responsible investors, commercial boundaries can be found at www.rsagroup.com Our approach and CR Governance and Management tenders and senior internal stakeholders. sections of this report. Inclusivity & responsiveness This report covers all our UK, International and We actively seek out stakeholder views in our Assurance Emerging Markets businesses, including wholly owned subsidiaries, leased premises, relationships approach to responsible business. RSA actively engages external assurers to ensure with suppliers and our joint ventures. the data and claims within this report are fair and CR stakeholder engagement is only carried out in accurate. A summary of the assurance process During the second half of 2010 two acquisitions the regions where dedicated full-time CR personnel provided by PWC and their assurance report is were made in Ireland and Canada. The size of exist at least once per year, i.e. UK and Scandinavia. available on page 86. acquisitions are not material to the wider Group The wider Group CR stakeholder engagement impacts and will be incorporated with a full year process incorporates and provides an opportunity for In addition to the external assurance by PWC, our reporting as data management systems are set other countries to participate. Priority stakeholders environmental data is quality assured by Ecometrica, up during 2011. No significant restatement of include insurance brokers, trade bodies, charities, a Carbon Disclosure Project accredited specialist information relating to previous reports has investors, regulators and more. environmental consultancy. For further information occurred during 2010. see the environmental data section. Reporting 76 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TABLES Reported data covers our operations in our UK, Ecometrica Comment on Data In general, data relating to electricity, flights and uncertainty into the emissions calculations. Cost International and Emerging Markets businesses. Quality for RSA’s 2010 Greenhouse company owned vehicles was of good quality, data for electricity was also provided for India, The carbon footprint below covers 100% of the Gas Assessment with the majority of sites providing consumption Singapore, RSA Canada Calgary, Brazil and Chile. organisation with 10% estimated. This proportion and distance data. Data (complete or otherwise) The data provided for the 2010 RSA global Charlotte Wylie has reduced by 2% since last year due to the was submitted for sites employing 20,448 FTE (90% assessment has increased in accuracy from that Senior Analyst implementation of data collection systems in of employees). For the remaining sites, covering provided for the 2009 assessment. newly acquired businesses. 2,291 FTE, total emissions were estimated based Over 84% of the total emissions associated with the upon employee number. All CO2 baselines are calculated with up to date 2010 global operations of RSA have been calculated coefficients including IPCC, WBCSD/WRI, IEA, The main limit to data quality and calculation from actual or robust data where minor or no UNFCC, Carbon Trust and DEFRA. These accuracy was travel data supplied in cost format assumptions were required. In particular the data calculations and data have been verified by or number of journeys format rather than distance provided by the Hong Kong, Latvia, Lithuania, Ecometrica, a specialist environmental consultancy. format, as this required estimates on the average Czech Republic, Denmark, Norway, Ireland, GCC, cost or distance of journeys which introduced high UK and QRC sites were complete. Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes) Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes per full time equivalent) CO2e Emissions Country/Region 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 CO2e Emissions Country/Region 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Total tonnes UK 31,314 31,588 34,381 39,862 43,208 Total tonnes per UK 4.2 3.9 4.0 4.6 4.8 Scandinavia 7,893 7,243 7,414 6,950 8,027 full time equivalent Scandinavia 2.5 2.3 2.5 2.2 2.3 Canada 6,666 7,473 8,214 8,037 5,036 Canada 2.7 2.8 3.1 3.4 2.0 Ireland 1,305 1,402 1,341 1,404 1,753 Ireland 2.4 2.6 2.7 2.7 3.3 Italy 896 1,116 1,080 954 Italy 2.3 2.9 2.9 2.8 Central & Eastern Europe 2,075 2,705 3,928 2,758 2,976 Central & Eastern Europe 2.3 2.0 1.8 1.2 1.2 Baltics 3,311 Baltics 1.7 Latin America 5,593 3,971 2,920 1,413 1,234 Latin America 2.9 2.2 1.6 3.2 2.0 Asia & Middle East 2,126 1,710 1,910 Asia & Middle East 1.3 1.1 1.1 Estimated 7,056 7,796 3,594 10,468 15,013 Estimated 2.9 3.0 3.1 4.7 Total 68,236 65,003 64,782 71,846 77,247 Total 3.0 2.9 2.9 3.1 3.5 (1) Improved data collection systems in Latin America have increased coverage in 2009 (2) Estimated data has increased due to new acquisitions Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 77 Carbon dioxide emissions equivalent by source (tonnes) Impact Country/Region 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Impact Country/Region 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Site energy UK 21,133 21,926 22,942 28901 31172 Company UK 3,708 3,781 5,915 4,830 5531 consumption owned vehicles Scandinavia 4,025 2,937 2,560 2667 3222 Scandinavia 1,783 2,258 2,419 2,486 2697 Canada 3,063 3,296 3,552 3,398 2532 Canada 85 1,016 2,490 2,761 1292 Ireland 978 1,017 881 923 1268 Ireland 86 274 294 340 364 Italy 592 762 607 719 Italy 5 2 255 57 Central & Eastern Europe 1,746 1,582 1,155 1,335 1272 Central & Eastern Europe 177 936 1,605 1,163 Baltics 1,202 Baltics 1,760 Latin America 2,507 2,036 1,499 752 692 Latin America 886 695 247 161 1515 Asia & Middle East 748 700 660 Asia & Middle East 59 121 196 224 Total 35,988 (1) 34,256 33,856 38,695 40,158 Total 8,549 9,083 13,421 11,798 11,623 Non-energy UK 1,287 697 870 1,729 1871 Business travel UK 4,294 5,184 4,654 4,401 4635 site emissions Scandinavia 212 267 194 133 290 Scandinavia 1,700 1,782 2,240 1,663 1819 Canada 524 343 73 79 87 Canada 2,676 2,818 2,098 1,799 1126 Ireland 13 20 41 34 57 Ireland 146 91 124 107 64 Italy 36 51 30 27 Italy 233 301 189 151 Central & Eastern Europe 113 107 91 100 110 Central & Eastern Europe 35 80 1,077 160 79 Baltics 149 Baltics 124 Latin America 509 346 195 129 118 Latin America 1,650 894 978 371 200 Asia & Middle East 51 192 142 Asia & Middle East 1,060 697 912 Total 2,894 2,023 1,636 2,231 2,533 Total 11,918 11,847 12,272 8,652 7,923 Reporting (1) Regional figures when calculated to full decimal places totals 35,988 tonnes 78 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TRENDS 2006-2010 Environmental data is reported by regions due to the number of individual countries reporting. Performance indicator Country 2010 2009 2008 2007 Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Electricity UK 31,929 4,306 34,724 4,270 35,054 4,073 43,757 5,085 (Abs: MWh) Scandinavia 13,463 4,223 10,794 3,386 10,635 3,587 17,113 5,432 (Norm: kWh/fte) Canada 10,938 4,377 11,556 4,342 12,860 4,899 10,209 6,483 Ireland 1,618 2,952 1,641 2,994 1,369 2,738 1,563 3,567 Italy 1,327 3,465 1,731 4,520 890 2,386 642 1,906 Central & Eastern Europe 2,772 3,039 4,349 3,265 4,522 2,069 5,607 2,454 Baltics 4,637 2,440 Latin America 7,880 4,125 5,501 3,005 4,087 2,236 4,333 5,009 Asia & Middle East 894 528 938 631 853 481 Gas UK 20,070 2,707 16,462 2,024 21,737 2,526 28,721 3,337 (Abs: MWh) Scandinavia 14 4 10 7 11 7 9 12 (Norm: kWh/fte) Canada 5,007 2,004 2,971 2,023 3,878 2,587 6,072 9,863 Ireland 778 1,419 908 1,657 720 1,440 416 949 Italy 185 483 495 1,326 100 296 Central & Eastern Europe 1,468 1,609 1,056 793 1,151 527 782 342 Baltics 1,215 639 Latin America 213 112 213 248 249 291 0 0 Asia & Middle East Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 79 Performance indicator Country 2010 2009 2008 2007 Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Water UK 67,265 9 89,492 11,005 90,539 10,519 120,708 14,027 (Abs: m3) Scandinavia 37,219 12 27,421 9,173 19,600 6,980 25,157 7,985 (Norm: ltr/fte) Canada 25,354 10 24,619 9,250 26,068 9,930 29,439 18,694 Ireland 2,564 5 2,436 4,445 2,346 4,692 34,000 77,608 Italy 2,365 6 3,592 9,378 10,627 28,490 12,020 35,667 Central & Eastern Europe 1,664 2 9,158 7,854 11,789 5,395 10,172 4,452 Baltics 13,390 7 Latin America 44,642 23 106,223 167,544 31,511 20,854 21,663 39,532 Asia & Middle East 4,276 3 446 317 454 311 Total Waste UK 2,320 313 1,813 223 2,315 269 3,178 369 (Abs: t) Scandinavia 435 136 347 109 319 114 400 127 (Norm: kg/fte) Canada 476 190 327 123 233 89 310 84 Ireland 61 111 92 169 235 469 163 373 Italy 108 282 49 127 50 133 Central & Eastern Europe 103 113 117 88 153 70 166 73 Baltics 104 55 Latin America 292 153 369 201 236 182 223 257 Asia & Middle East 45 27 193 129 18 145 Paper UK 1,216 164 1,111 137 1,344 156 1,123 130 (Abs: t) Scandinavia 236 74 453 142 367 124 350 111 (Norm: kg/fte) Canada 431 172 496 186 307 117 282 120 Ireland 112 204 113 207 29 58 31 61 Italy 46 120 94 244 149 399 206 614 Central & Eastern Europe 6 7 37 31 82 38 82 36 Baltics 103 54 Reporting Latin America 55 29 82 81 243 133 83 121 Asia & Middle East 44 26 191 139 152 86 80 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 GRI INDEX The Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) G3 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide a comprehensive set of indicators covering the Strategy & analysis CEO Intro Fully 1.1 economic, environmental and social impacts of Annual Report Fully 1.2 6 a company's performance. The table below sets out all the company profile Organisational profile How we report Fully 2.1 disclosures, core and additional performance Annual Report Fully 2.2 indicators and financial services sector supplementary Annual Report Fully 2.3 indicators contained in the GRI G3 Guidelines. Annual Report Fully 2.4 Annual Report/ About us Fully 2.5 We indicate whether our reporting covers their Annual Report Fully 2.6 requirements fully or partially. Where an indicator is not considered material to our business we have Annual Report Fully 2.7 marked this ‘Not material’. Annual Report/ About us Fully 2.8 Annual Report/ About us Fully 2.9 The page numbers provide signposts so you can find About us Fully 2.10 more information in this report on our disclosure. AR refers to our Annual Report and Accounts 2010. Report parameters How we report Fully 3.1 This year, PWC have assessed our disclosure against How we report Fully 3.2 the GRI G3 Guidelines and have declared that we How we report Fully 3.3 meet application level B+. How we report Fully 3.4 How we report Fully 3.5 Where applicable, we have also included the How we report Fully 3.6 corresponding United Nations Global Compact How we report Fully 3.7 (UNGC) and ClimateWise Principles for reference. How we report Fully 3.8 How we report Fully 3.9 Included in target sections Fully 3.10 How we report Fully 3.11 GRI Fully 3.12 How we report Fully 3.13 Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 81 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Governance, commitments Annual report Fully 4.1 and engagement Annual report Fully 4.2 Annual report Fully 4.4 Annual report / Our Fully 4.5 approach / CR governance Annual report Fully 4.6 CR governance Fully 4.7 (all execs on committee) Our approach Fully 4.8 1,10 CR governance Fully 4.9 6 Annual report / Fully 4.10 CR governance Precautionary Principle Not Reported 4.11 Our approach Fully 4.12 1 Our approach Fully 4.13 2 Our approach / Fully 4.14 CR governance Our approach / Fully 4.15 CR governance Our approach / Fully 4.16 CR governance Our approach / Fully 4.17 CR governance Economic performance Disclosure on Management Fully Approach • Economic Fully performance • Market presence Annual report Fully EC1 Core www.cdproject.net (RSA) Partially EC2 Core None Partially EC4 Core Reporting 82 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Environmental performance Environment Disclosure on 7 Management Fully Approach Fully • Materials Fully • Energy • Water Fully • Emissions, effluent and waste Fully • Transport Environment Fully EN1 Core 1569 Gj Partially EN3 Core Elec 271,642 Gj Partially EN4 Core Gas 103,549 Gj District Heat 64,674 Gj Environment Fully EN5 Additional 5 Customers / Environment Fully EN6 Additional 8,9 1,3 Environment Fully EN7 Additional 5 Environment Fully EN8 Core Environment Fully EN16 Core Environment Fully EN17 Core Environment Fully EN18 Additional 8 1,3,5 Environment (all landfill) Partially EN22 Core Environment Fully EN23 Core Customer / Environment Fully EN26 Core 8,9 3,5 None Fully EN28 Core Environment Fully EN29 Additional Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 83 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Labour practices and Employees Disclosure on decent work Management 6 Fully Approach Fully • Employment • Labour/management Fully relations Partially • Occupational health Partially and safety • Training and education • Diversity and equal opportunity Employees Partially LA1 Core 30 days Fully LA5 Core Employees Partially LA7 Core 93% Fully LA12 Additional Human rights Customer / Suppliers Disclosure on 1 Management Fully Approach • Investment and Partially procurement Partially practices Fully • Non-discrimination Fully • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Child labour • Forced and compulsory labour About us Partially HR1 Core 1,2 Suppliers (part of CR module) Fully HR2 Core 2 Human rights policy / Suppliers Fully HR5 Core 2,3 Human rights policy / Suppliers Fully HR6 Core 2,5 Human rights policy / Suppliers Fully HR7 Core 2,4 Reporting 84 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Society Disclosure on Management Fully Approach Annual Report / Fully • Corruption Employees / Customer Partially • Public policy Bribery section Fully SO2 Core 10 Guide sent to all Fully SO3 Core 10 employees / Online training for all (Codan spring 2011) Our approach Fully SO5 Core 2 None Fully SO6 Additional Product responsibility Customer Partially Disclosure on Management Approach • Customer health and safety • Marketing communications • Customer privacy National regulatory Fully PR3 Core compliance Customer Partially PR5 Additional Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 85 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Financial services sector Customer / Environment Partially FS1 Core 2 5 supplementary indicators High Risk Country Partially FS2 Core 2 1 Screening Process About us / Suppliers Fully FS5 Core 2 3,4 Annual Report Fully FS6 Core CR governance FS9 Core 2 About us Fully FS10 Core 2 4 About us Fully FS12 Core 2 4 Customer Partially FS13 Core Customer Fully FS14 Core Customer Partially FS15 Core Reporting 86 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2010 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ON RSA’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 To the stakeholders of RSA Scope, standards and criteria used We have been engaged by RSA’s Management registration and internal control systems with a view We have planned and performed our work on the Our methodology has also included procedures to to obtain moderate assurance (review) that RSA to ensuring reliable reporting by specifying acceptable basis of AA1000AS (2008), using the criteria in the obtain evidence of the non-financial data for 2010 adheres to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles reporting criteria and choosing the GRI G3 indicators standard to perform a Type 2 engagement, and in presented in the Report. The procedures chosen and to obtain limited assurance (review) that to be included and data to be collected for intended accordance with the International Standard on are dependent on our judgment, including the selected quantitative non-financial data for 2010 users of the Report. Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance assessment of the risks of material data on pages 33, 43, 48, 59-61 and 76-79 in the engagements other than audits or reviews of misstatements. In conducting those risk assessments, Assurance provider’s responsibility Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 (the Report) historical financial information”. The assurance we have considered internal controls relevant to the are documented. Furthermore, we have been As assurance provider, it is our responsibility, on obtained is limited as our work has been limited preparation and presentation of environmental and engaged to review that RSA reports in accordance the basis of our work, to make observations and compared to that of a financial audit engagement. social data in order to design assurance procedures with GRI G3 at level B. recommendations with respect to the nature and Principally this assurance includes inquiries, which are appropriate under the circumstances. extent of RSA’s adherence to the AA1000 interviews and analytical procedures. Criteria for the preparation Based on an assessment of materiality and risk, AccountAbility Principles, to review the reliability of of reporting We have worked to obtain: our work has included: the non-financial data presented in the Report and The criteria for the preparation of the non-financial to express an opinion as to whether RSA’s is • A moderate assurance (review) that RSA (i) Enquiries and interviews with members of data and information are evident from the RSA reporting in accordance with a GRI G3 level B. adherences to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Executive Management, staff from the Corporate Reporting Guidelines which can be found at • A limited assurance (review) that the quantitative Responsibility department as well as management We have in 2010 not performed any tasks or http://corporateresponsibility.rsagroup.com/rsacr/en/ non-financial data for 2010 in the Report are of selected corporate functions at group and services for RSA or other clients which would have corporateresponsibility/approach and from the documented regional level regarding RSA’s adherence and conflicted with our independence, nor have we indicators listed in the GRI G3 index of the Report. commitment to the AA1000 AccountAbility been responsible for the preparation of any part of • A limited assurance (review) that RSA is reporting The RSA Reporting Guidelines contain information Principles as well as the existence of systems and the Report. Thus, we are independent as defined in in accordance with GRI G3 reporting concerning which of RSA’s activities and functions procedures to support adherence to the principles the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS requirements at level B are included in the reporting, types of data and and embedment of the principles at corporate level (2008), and we consider our team qualified to have registration and collection methods applied. carried out this independent assurance engagement. Methodology, approach, limitation (ii) Sample testing of group key processes and Our team of experts holds competencies within and scope of work controls which form part of management reporting Management’s responsibility performing assurance of non-financial data, GRI G3 Our methodology has included procedures to systems, processes and internal guidelines, and the Adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles obtaining of evidence supporting the non-financial reporting requirements, AA1000 adherence and obtain evidence of Management’s commitment to of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness is the data for 2010 disclosed in the Report. Our review within assessing such data and information. the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and of the responsibility of Management. Furthermore, of non-financial data has been undertaken at RSA In addition, our team has competencies with regard implementation of systems and procedures in Management is responsible for preparing the nonScandinavia and combined with analytical to assessing sustainability management systems. support of the principles at corporate level. financial data as well as for establishing data collection, assurance procedures at group level Corporate Responsibility 2010 | RSA | 87 Observations and recommendations (iii) Review of the presentation and disclosure of According to the AA1000AS (2008), we are required engagement implies for the regions and markets to PricewaterhouseCoopers each GRI G3 Indicator reported against the to include observations and recommendations for ensure a common, but differentiated, approach Copenhagen, May 20, 2011 requirements in the relevant GRI G3 Indicator improvements in relation to RSA’s adherence to the across the organisation. Protocols, and assessment of whether the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. Regarding Materiality: reporting is in accordance with the requirements Regarding Inclusivity: RSA uses a wide range of sources from CR for application level B The business principles, brand beliefs and corporate employee surveys over third-party led external Conclusion responsibility (CR) policy suite constitute RSA’s stakeholder feedback and materiality assessment Birgitte Mogensen strong commitment to accountability and to benchmarking in the materiality determination State Authorized Public Accountant Regarding AA1000APS (2008) engagement with stakeholders which are anchored process which defines the group’s annual CR Based on our review, nothing has come to our at the executive level and supported by the group’s strategy and the report content. The CR team and attention causing us not to believe that RSA does solid CR governance structure. RSA embraces CR committee assess what constitutes material issues, adhere to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. issues ranging from environment over communities and we recommend that RSA formalises the Regarding data to business ethics, but as the scope of CR in some process and develops the criteria applied to Based on our review, nothing has come to our instances can appear narrower in the way it is uphold transparency and consistency. Jens Pultz Pedersen attention causing us not to believe that 2010 data communicated we recommend that RSA in the MSc in Engineering Regarding Responsiveness: stated on the pages 33, 43, 48, 59-61 and 76-79 of eyes of the stakeholders ensures clarity concerning AAs a group, RSA responds to material stakeholder the Report have been compiled and consolidated the overall CR scope. Another recommendation is issues through its commitments to accountability in accordance with the methodology and criteria for RSA to ensure a harmonised understanding and engagement in the core and crosscutting CR described in the RSA Reporting Guidelines. across the organisation of the CR policy suite’s basic themes environment, social inclusion and safety by Regarding GRI G3, level B level of compliance. considering the markets’ different levels of maturity Based on our review, nothing has come to our To develop the group’s strategic approach to and resources. attention causing us not to believe that the Report CR, RSA actively uses on-going processes for Responsiveness is also evident from on-going CR is in compliance with the guidelines included in the engagement of stakeholders. The partnership with communication, including the annual CR report, as GRI G3 Financial Services Sector Supplement at WWF and engagement in the Sustainable Shipping well as through the business processes, products and application level B. Initiatives provide concrete business value and may services in which CR is being integrated. To further involve stakeholders in decisions which improve the integration of CR and support the notion of RSA CR performance. Where formal CR stakeholder as the leading sustainable insurer, we recommend engagement is embedded at group level, we that RSA develops group-led processes which will recommend RSA to outline what CR stakeholder help facilitate learning and integration. Reporting
