Communication on Progress Report 2011 for the UN Global Compact Contents 03 Statement of continued support 04 About Giesecke & Devrient 05 Our CSR-Strategy: Creating value 06 – 07 The G&D value framework 08 – 10 Human rights 11 – 14 Labor 15 – 18 Environment 19 – 22 Anti-corruption 23 Taking responsibility – providing active support 24 Overall outlook 25 – 26 G&D‘s CSR program at a glance Statement of continued support As a family-owned company and international technology group, our products and services create security and confidence in an increasingly mobile and globally interconnected world. Being acutely aware of our corporate social responsibility, we are committed and inspired to integrate sustainability and responsibility as core corporate values into the business activities of Giesecke & Devrient. The adoption of our Group-wide CSR strategy was a significant milestone towards embedding responsible corporate management. Signing on to the UN Global Compact in September 2010 highlights our worldwide commitment and also requires us to publicly disclose our progress in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. Our first progress report documents the key measures and success of our commitment to upholding the ten principles and underlines the importance of corporate social responsibility to our activities. At the same time, we are renewing this commitment for another year as a member of the UN Global Compact. Dr. Karsten Ottenberg Chairman of the Management Board Giesecke & Devrient GmbH Communication on Progress Report 2011 3 About Giesecke & Devrient Giesecke & Devrient (G&D) is a Giesecke & Devrient is a global group ecological sustainability, employee worldwide market and innovation with 49 subsidiaries and joint vendevelopment, and compliance worldleader in the production and protures in more than 30 countries and wide. For more detailed figures and cessing of banknotes and banknote over 10,000 employees. information about the company, see paper, in security documents and ID the downloadable current annual card systems, and in smartcard-based G&D posted revenues of 1.69 billion report on the G&D website. solutions. As a one-stop provider of euros in 2010, of which 1.46 billion mobile security applications, G&D related to operations outside Gerdevelops and markets hardware, many. Worldwide investment over software, and services for corporate the past year totaled approximately customers such as banks, mobile net100.4 million euros. Some 116.7 milwork providers, public transportation lion euros were invested in research operators, and original equipment and development (R&D), with manufacturers (OEMs). additional investment in managing Communication on Progress Report 2011 4 Our CSR strategy: Creating value For Giesecke & Devrient, corporate binding objectives for all areas of our sues facing society. Our Group vision social responsibility (CSR) has long business activities, from products and and mission statement also reflect been a core aspect of our business. services to green production processthis aim. We began to develop an integrated es and global management of our CSR strategy in 2009 by consolidatsupply chain. The Global Compact Responsibility as a management ing our existing activities in this area principles are firmly embedded in function and focusing them on our core busithese processes. ness. The objective is to implement The Chairman of the Management CSR on a consolidated, transparent As an international technology group, Board is directly responsible for basis, thus creating value for society we employ over 10,000 people supervising the development and and our company. worldwide, who are a key factor in implementation of our CSR strategy. the company’s success. We therefore In January 2010, the Management Key aspects of our CSR strategy aim to be a responsible and reliable Board approved a binding CSR employer throughout the Group. The commitment that defines our underThe environment, employees, and health and safety of all employees standing of social responsibility. security and society are central pillars and their professional and personal This commitment applies across the of our CSR strategy. Responsible development are of paramount entire Group. It sets forth our desire management of natural resources importance to us. The Global Compact to reconcile the business, social, and and forward-looking HR policies are rules on respecting human rights environmental impact of our activiat the heart of our social endeavors, and labor standards form the basis ties – both in our day-to-day business along with addressing security issues of our commitment as a responsible operations and when developing at the technological and societal employer. and marketing new products and level. services. At G&D, security is the foundation We established the Green Sustainof our business. However, security is ability system in 2010 to align our not only important to us in terms of worldwide activities and programs technology. In our increasingly interaimed at protecting the environment connected world, people’s security and climate. We are also continuousneeds are changing. Accordingly, we ly expanding our environmental also intend to provide comprehensive management system and developing answers to the pressing security isCommunication on Progress Report 2011 5 The G&D value framework Overarching systems partners and with each other. Internal compliance The Code of Conduct is a cornerFor G&D, acting in a sustainable and stone for Group-wide policies in the To ensure compliance with the values responsible way is part of our corfollowing areas: and principles enshrined in the Code porate philosophy and the basis of of Conduct, we have embedded a our value framework. Our corporate worldwide compliance management culture is founded on five values that • Respecting human rights system into our business processes. underpin everything we do: trust, This supports our objective of sysquality, sustainability, responsibility, • Obeying the law tematically integrating responsible, and integrity. compliant behavior into our daily • Non-use of child or forced labor activity. The bigger the organization and the more global its operations, the more •D ata protection and the right to We achieved a significant milestone important a shared ethos and bindprotect personal information in this respect in 2010, when we set ing standards become. Each of our up an overarching global framework values thus finds expression in beha• Environmental protection to coordinate our compliance activvioral guidelines that form the basis ities. New structures, combined with for our actions. Our values are also • Responsibility towards society clear responsibilities, are enabling us reflected in our Code of Conduct. As to develop compliance management an overarching set of rules, it defines •D ealing with customers and on an ongoing basis so that we can boundaries that apply to G&D suppliers instantly respond to changes in globaround the world – at every location, al requirements. in every business unit, and in our day-to-day dealings with business Communication on Progress Report 2011 6 The G&D value framework Our compliance management systerms of complying with our value External implementation Our Supplier Conduct Principles tem commits us to maintaining the framework and embedding it in all require suppliers worldwide to meet highest security standards and strict business processes. The EHS program We have established a range of the same CSR standards as we apply confidentiality. Compliance with the ensures integrative, sustained supmonitoring and implementation systo ourselves. On-site compliance law is vital to G&D, particularly antiport for environmental, health, and tems to ensure that sustainable and audits were conducted at the premicorruption, antitrust, and subsidy safety protection through certified responsible behavior is embedded ses of 65 existing suppliers (around legislation, accounting and consolimanagement systems (ISO 14001, throughout the entire value chain. six percent of the total) during the dation regulations, along with data OHSAS 18001). This commitment reporting period. protection requirements and tax, enhances our competitive edge and G&D sets high standards for its supThe Statement on Business Controls export, import, and customs laws. helps drive our success. G&D is dedipliers and external partners. Potential is another instrument we are curFor us, integrity also includes respeccated to protecting the environment partners must undergo a multi-stage rently introducing to monitor sustainting competition, resisting political and to protecting the occupational selection process covering criteria able conduct in our value chain. It influence, and rejecting both active health and safety of its employees by such as quality management, produccontains declarations on corruption, and passive corruption. Action taken applying consistent standards across tion sites, and CSR-related aspects, data protection, the environment, here includes laying down globally the Group. as well as their financial situation labor standards, and human rights. binding rules for our staff in a corpoand product quality. This process is From now on, the statement must be rate policy on “Gifts and Invitations.” complemented by a Business Partner signed by the managing director of These rules are communicated via the Questionnaire that addresses specific each subsidiary and by division manGroup intranet based on real-world themes, e.g. compliance. The process agers, along with their regional chief examples. and questionnaire are also applied to financial officer or division controller. agents, distributors, and customers. Our environment, health, and safety (EHS) program, which brings together all our standards in these areas, is also very important in Communication on Progress Report 2011 7 Human rights: Observing and respecting human rights 1 2 “We respect the personal dignity, P rin ciple Princip le privacy, and rights of every individual, regardless of their origin, nationality, culture, religion, or gender.” This sentence from the G&D Code of Conduct commits the company to Businesses should support and Businesses should make sure worldwide respect for human rights respect the protection of interthat they are not complicit in and compliance with the relevant nationally proclaimed human human rights abuses. laws. rights. Our standards for responsible behavior are laid down in the Code of Conduct, which applies to employees of all organizational units and associated companies in which G&D directly or indirectly holds more than 50 percent of the shares. G&D also expects its business partners and suppliers to respect human rights and uphold other ethical principles. Recognition of international human rights standards is enshrined in our Supplier Conduct Principles and is thus a precondition for approval as a new strategic supplier. Furthermore, all new suppliers must complete a Compliance Questionnaire for G&D Business Partners as part of the qualification process. By Communication on Progress Report 2011 8 1 2 Human rights completing the questionnaire, suptent of the Code of Conduct. So far, Binding standards for business G&D identified a total of 1,163 key pliers agree to familiarize their mansome 5,500 employees – more than partners suppliers in the value chain in the agement team and all employees half the workforce – have taken part course of this process, of which some with the G&D Code of Conduct. in the program, with the remaining G&D is intent on creating greater 20 percent have accepted the Supstaff to follow by the end of 2011. awareness of the need for responsiplier Conduct Principles or completed Prevention through training ble, sustainable corporate governance. the Business Partner Questionnaire Responsibility of global In addition to applying the Supplier since 2010. The aim is to gain the Human rights also form part of a managers Conduct Principles to new suppliers, commitment of 75 percent of our key comprehensive e-learning program the company therefore plans to exsuppliers to these principles by the for all G&D employees that includes G&D’s senior managers have a special tend them to key existing suppliers end of 2012. compliance standards and the conresponsibility to ensure compliance (“A” and “B” suppliers). By adopting with company policies and guidelines. G&D’s ethical principles, these supAccordingly, in August 2011, they pliers will be committing themselves were supplied with a comprehento uphold human rights. If the corresive Checklist for the Statement on sponding standards are not met, or Business Controls. Human rights are met only in part, an agreement will among the specific issues covered by be made to put in place a process the checklist. The checklist is sent out that drives forward implementation by the Compliance Office in Munich and compliance within the relevant and must be completed and formally company. This will also have the efsigned by the managing director of fect of boosting the shared undereach subsidiary and by division manstanding of social responsibility in agers, along with their regional chief day-to-day business operations. financial officer or division controller. This process reinforces worldwide compliance with legal requirements, as well as with G&D’s high standards, by requiring personal acceptance of responsibility. Communication on Progress Report 2011 9 1 2 Human rights Additional measures Outlook As part of its compliance management G&D will maintain its commitment to activities, G&D began setting up a upholding human rights in its sphere worldwide helpline in early 2011 that of influence in the coming reporting will provide a central point of contact period. The G&D Code of Conduct for any employee, customer, or supwill be revised and updated during plier with a question concerning legal the course of 2011 to include direct or company requirements. Queries conreference to the core ILO standards cerning human rights will likewise be and the UN’s Universal Declaration of covered. The helpline will also provide Human Rights. a simple means of reporting potential violations in the strictest confidence. 90 percent of G&D’s locations are already covered, with the remaining locations due to follow by the beginning of 2012. Specific HR rules, Group-wide audits, and regular reporting to the company’s Supervisory Board complement and enhance the processes for respecting and supporting human rights at G&D. The Management Board monitors the entire process via regular reports that distinguish three aspects (current compliance violations / action taken / statistics). Communication on Progress Report 2011 10 Labor: Showing appreciation – working together 3 4 Formal company P rin ciple Pri ncip le commitment and systems G&D’s worldwide Code of Conduct contains fundamental, internationally recognized labor standards, including Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association, non-use of freedom of association and the elimination of all forms of forced or child labor, and a discrimieffective recognition of the forced and compulsory labor. nation-free workplace. right to collective bargaining. All employees are assured the same career opportunities. The Code of 5 6 Conduct also stipulates that unlawful P rin ciple Princip le discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated. At G&D, every employee “has the right to be treated fairly, politely, and with respect by his or her superiors, subordinates, and coworkers.” Working Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold conditions or ways of treating people the effective abolition of the elimination of discriminathat contravene international agreechild labor. tion in respect of employment ments will not be tolerated. Two and occupation. cases of discrimination were reported to the Equal Opportunities Officer in Germany during the reporting period, for example, and were dealt with immediately. Communication on Progress Report 2011 11 3 4 5 6 Labor G&D actively communicates the Code requested to comply with these prinand strategies and leverages synerPrevention is key of Conduct worldwide and ensures ciples as part of the qualification and gies. An important milestone was it is implemented and complied with selection process. This process is dethe introduction of the occupational G&D is determined to achieve even on an ongoing basis. The Corporate scribed in detail above in the section health and safety management syshigher levels of health protection for Auditing function monitors complientitled “Observing and respecting tem standard OHSAS 18001, which its employees. To do this, it has esance with the Code in the course of human rights.” forms the basis of management systablished numerous prevention proits audits. tems for OHS protection in corporate grams, such as the “health calendar.” Integrated management system environments and thus strengthens This covers ergonomics in the workLabor standards in established G&D’s overarching EHS management place, diet, exercise, and inner balthe supply chain system. ance. A pilot project in Munich, which The integrated environment, health, involved 120 employees, focused on G&D also aims to promote the core and safety (EHS) management system Our Munich, Leipzig, Königstein (Saergonomics in the workplace. principles of the Global Compact in was significantly expanded during the xony), and Louisenthal (Bavaria) proits wider sphere of influence. All new reporting period through the additiduction sites have all been certified in Our objective is to develop the best business partners and key suppliers on of health and safety standards. It accordance with OHSAS 18001 since possible health policies for our staff. to G&D’s value chain are therefore brings together all our EHS policies December 2009. The standard will be These policies will ultimately be emextended to all other sites; the relebodied in a corporate health managevant strategy to achieve this by 2014 ment (CHM) concept to be defined has already been approved. by September 2011. The resulting CHM system will form part of the The EHS system also documents the EHS strategy. type and number of work accidents at G&D, with the number being used to improve OHS protection. The internationally available data at G&D’s locations is currently being compiled at the central level and analyzed. Communication on Progress Report 2011 12 3 4 5 6 Labor Strong employee involvement are being revised and aligned more childcare or other care responsibilities Practical example: closely with staff needs. involving family members. In Germany, Health services at our Mexican subsidiary Management is committed to estabthe company has received an award lishing how G&D staff view their Work/life balance for the third time in succession for employer, which is why G&D conits “berufundfamilie” audit. G&D Under Mexican law, any company with more than 100 employees ducted a second worldwide emploG&D promotes a healthy work/life balwas also ranked among Germany’s must provide its staff with medical services. Giesecke & Devrient yee satisfaction survey in October ance to actively prevent those with top employers in 2010 and has been Mexico SA, a wholly-owned G&D subsidiary, has met this require2010. A key finding was that 71 family commitments being disadvanawarded “Fair Company” status by ment in exemplary fashion. Full-time company physician Dr. Luz percent of those surveyed are haptaged in day-to-day work life. We Karriere magazine. Ojeda can be consulted by staff on all medical matters and is also py to wholeheartedly recommend want to create a working environable to provide treatment in suitably equipped rooms. G&D as an employer. The survey ment in which an employee’s familial also prompted a range of initiatives situation and private needs are not a In the first half of 2011, around 550 employees of G&D’s Mexican aimed at continuous improvement, hindrance. Our program includes subsidiary were treated in just over 1,000 individual cases, which including adjustments to overtime innovative working time models and ranged from first aid and treatment for illness to homeopathic payments in Belgium and revision of advice and support for staff with remedies and stress management advice. Dr. Ojeda is also involved the remuneration model in the US. in epidemiological surveillance, e.g. for illnesses associated with In the UK, there is now also greater the H1N1 virus (“swine flu”) or measles, and offers preventive recognition of the performance and health measures for staff. creativity of employees, with the focus on employee of the month awards and a new suggestion system. Spanish staff expressed a wish for more contact with management, so breakfast with the managing director has become a regular event. G&D China organizes an open door day for employees’ families. G&D Mexico developed a coaching and mentoring program for trainees and new employees, while in Dubai the professional development programs Communication on Progress Report 2011 13 3 4 5 6 Labor Outlook We aim to systematically expand our occupational health and safety system and offer our employees the best possible working conditions and health concepts. Consequently, all of G&D’s worldwide production locations will successively be certified to OHSAS 18001. We will also be adding a corporate health management program to our integrated environment, health, and safety (EHS) management system. In response to demographic change, G&D is increasingly focusing on (extended) family issues, e.g. via seminars on the subject of “When Your Parents Get Old.” Opportunities for part-time work at different stages of life will also be expanded, to allow staff to care for a family member, for example. Another area to be further The results of the worldwide employimprovement of working conditions developed in future is diversity. G&D ee satisfaction survey conducted in and support for equal opportunities is also seeking to enable a balance October 2010 gave rise to around are currently in process. between work commitments and 1,000 individual measures across the voluntary or charitable activities; a Group, of which 228 have already corresponding corporate volunteerbeen successfully completed. Various ing program is being developed. other measures aimed at continuous Communication on Progress Report 2011 14 Environment: Considering generations to come 7 8 Responsible use of resources and proP rin ciple Pri ncip le tecting our climate and the environment are core CSR elements and thus a key aspect of G&D’s CSR policy. “Considering generations to come” is the guiding principle that embodies Businesses should support Businesses should undertake our commitment to putting ecologia precautionary approach to initiatives to promote greater cal awareness into practice. In addienvironmental challenges. environmental responsibility. tion to complying with existing legal requirements, G&D sets itself ambitious objectives with regard to a sustainable corporate and product policy. 9 P rin ciple Strong commitment to climate and environmental protection The G&D Code of Conduct includes a binding commitment to environmental protection. The Group-wide Green Businesses should encourage Sustainability system was established the development and diffusion in 2010 to strategically align G&D’s of environmentally friendly various worldwide activities and protechnologies. grams aimed at protecting the environment and combating climate change. It defines binding principles to move the company closer towards our objective of a sustainable value chain, from introducing environmental standards across the Group and implementing a climate protection strategy through to efficient use of Communication on Progress Report 2011 15 7 8 9 Environment raw materials and the development system. EHS guarantees a sustained Global Compact principles as a Sustainability in the value chain of green products. focus on these areas through certisupplier requirement fied ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 To systematically improve our carbon Our integrated environment, health, management systems. We expect all G&D also expects its business partfootprint across all areas of our corand safety (EHS) management sysour production sites to comply with ners and suppliers to manage natural porate activity, we have implemented tem brings together all our standards the requirements of these standards resources responsibly, which is why an efficient climate protection stratein these areas, and we are currentby 2014. Ten sites and subsidiaries the three environmental principles of gy. The focus here is on reducing CO2 ly establishing a comprehensive, inare already certified to ISO 14001 and the Global Compact are an integral emissions. Establishing the corporate ternational environmental reporting five to OHSAS 18001. part of the compulsory Supplier Concarbon footprint, which calculates the duct Principles, along with adherence CO2 emissions at our locations arising As a binding standard, the EHS Corto relevant regional and international from business activity and producporate Guideline ensures the continenvironmental standards. All relevant tion operations, is an important mileuous improvement of environmental suppliers are thus obliged to comply stone in this regard. This allows us and climate protection across the with these principles as part of the to define activities and objectives to company. qualification and selection process. reduce emissions. In 2010, we calculated the entire carbon footprint for It is buttressed by a Statement on the ISO 14001-certified pilot locations Business Controls that requires manaMunich, Leipzig, Louisenthal, and gers worldwide to report on the enKönigstein in Germany and Nitra in vironmental impact of their activities Slovakia, thus providing the basis for and any pollution caused. The data reporting our reduction goals from contained in this statement is collec2012 onwards as required by our ted and evaluated by the Compliance membership of the Carbon Disclosure Office in Munich. This process reinProject. forces worldwide compliance with legal requirements and G&D’s high standards by requiring acceptance of personal responsibility. Communication on Progress Report 2011 16 7 8 9 Environment We have already taken additional action to reduce emissions and conserve resources. Our Munich site uses its own combined heat and power unit to meet part of the site’s energy requirements, saving some 1,995 tons of CO2 a year. At our plants in Louisenthal, Bavaria, and Königstein, Saxony, modern biomembrane reactors treat production wastewater. Over 60 percent of the resulting high-quality, purified water can be channeled back into banknote paper production, where it provides a drinking-grade substitute for fresh from flights and train and car jourpolicy, which also forms part of the ample is the development of green water. The water saved is equivalent neys with a view to offsetting them G&D Code of Conduct. In product SIM cards. We are continually testing to the annual consumption of a small in the future. Having started with the development and design, we aim to eco-friendly materials that are duratown of 8,800 inhabitants. German locations, over the coming combine outstanding technical qualible and easy to recycle. If required years we will consolidate all business ty with efficient use of raw materials and feasible, we use PET, ABS, or PC To reduce our CO2 emissions as eftravel-related CO2 emissions as part and climate-friendly alternatives. To instead of PVC for card production. In fectively as possible, we endeavor to of a global strategic program. A range cut emissions during the lifecycle of an increasing number of markets, we ensure responsible use of natural reof measures are planned to offset the selected products, we record emisare agreeing to take card bodies and sources throughout all the company’s associated environmental impact. sions via the product carbon footprint chip modules back at the end of their processes. In 2010, we systematically and are working on developing cliuseful life. documented electricity and water Green products and carbon mate-neutral products. consumption at many of our locafootprint In addition to complying with legal tions and set up programs for more To conserve resources and reduce guidelines on restricting chemicals efficient use of resources. Alongside reduction of CO2 emissions environmental impact, we endeavor and hazardous materials, our Mobile We also established a corporate travel at the production sites and throughto save on materials and use alterSecurity business unit has set admanagement system at the end of out all corporate processes, G&D native ones in the manufacture and ditional internal standards as part 2009 to record the CO2 emissions is also working on a green product packaging of our products. One exof a pilot project and has expanded Communication on Progress Report 2011 17 7 8 9 Environment the list of hazardous materials. We see calculation of the product carbon also expect our suppliers to comply footprint for G&D’s Mobile Security with the list. By regularly updating business unit, a process that will be the hazardous materials catalog, extended across the entire Group. we ensure that our standards are in Compiling this data is an important line with market developments and milestone towards our stated objecmove closer towards our objective of tive of a sustainable value chain. In a sustainable value chain. A Group2012, we will define specific emission wide standard is under consideration, reduction targets as required by our based on the pilot project. membership in the Carbon Disclosure Project. Outlook We also plan to engage more intenNow that the first carbon footprints sively with the issue of the water have been established for selected sites, footprint. our aim is to extend the program to all worldwide production locations by the end of 2011. The year 2011 will Communication on Progress Report 2011 18 Anti-corruption: Applying values – observing rules 10 Giesecke & Devrient is committed to Pri ncip le fighting corruption, blackmail, and bribery, and to acting in accordance with all relevant laws. We pursue a policy of zero tolerance. Rule infringements are not tolerated and Businesses should work against compliance violations are penalized corruption in all its forms, inaccordingly. This policy is based on cluding extortion and bribery. our defined guidelines and policies, which have been signed by all managing directors and apply to our activities around the globe: our Code of Conduct, the corporate “Gifts and Invitations” policy, and the Business Partner Questionnaire that our suppliers and business partners must complete before they can work with G&D. These binding rules apply at every location, in every business unit, and in our day-to-day dealings with business partners and with each other. The Code of Conduct states that the rules “also expressly apply to instances in which obeying the law may even lead to a loss of business or influence.” The fact that a contract may go to a competitor is “no excuse.” The Code of Conduct is available in German and English and can be viewed by all visitors to our website. The “Compliance Management” secCommunication on Progress Report 2011 19 10 Anti-corruption tion of our annual report also cites the Group. Global rollout of an overBased on a “checks and balances“ the Code, as well as highlighting the arching compliance management sysapproach, we apply the dual-control need to comply with the law and tem in the year under review enabled principle to all relevant matters. company policy. us to incorporate binding policies and guidelines for compliant behavior into We also introduced a new internal Binding anti-corruption all our business processes. In addition guideline on gifts and invitations in guidelines to establishing a comprehensive the year under review. A checklist is reporting system that delivers regular available on the intranet that proIn 2009, we took key steps to enhanreports to the Management Board and vides employees with practical advice ce compliance management, which Supervisory Board, we set up a global relating to gifts and invitations. Staff manifested themselves in 2010 in the helpline to provide a central point of can consult this checklist at any time form of organizational changes within contact for any employee or external to establish whether they are acting partner with a question or information in accordance with G&D guidelines concerning compliance. Two notificain their dealings with customers and tions have been made since the helpbusiness partners. line was established, one of which was classified as relevant. G&D continues to develop internal corporate guidelines to embed binding, uniform procedures into its business processes. For example, our Global HR Standards and Guiding Principles define behavior that complies with the relevant laws and G&D policies. Communication on Progress Report 2011 20 10 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption guidelines for Prevention is key Employee communication and In October 2010, we launched our our business partners anti-corruption training worldwide e-learning program at our G&D’s compliance management syssubsidiaries in India, Mexico, Brazil, We also expect our business partners tem follows a simple principle: preCommunication and training are cenDubai, Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea, to comply with G&D guidelines. Acvent, investigate, act. Prevention is tral planks of G&D’s anti-corruption Australia, and Russia. Rollout of the cordingly, acceptance of our Supplier essential in order to avoid potential policy. Every employee worldwide program to all other G&D units comConduct Principles is a precondition compliance violations. is supported with regard to acting menced in February 2010 and 5,500 for becoming a key supplier. In in accordance with laws and interemployees have already taken part. addition to requiring compliance with Managers of all G&D companies and nal corporate guidelines. We have The global training program is ongothe relevant legislation, the principles of companies that are at least 50 perdeveloped a worldwide e-learning ing, with attendance of three basic contain a section on unacceptable cent G&D-owned must implement, program that helps our employees courses expected by the end of 2011. business practices that provides exmonitor, and, where necessary, imto enhance their knowledge and explicit instructions on avoiding corrupprove internal anti-corruption rules. perience in this area. Available in 11 Internal reporting tion and other illegitimate business Each managing director of a subsidilanguages, the program offers three practices and on dealing with gifts, ary and the division managers, along basic courses covering compliance Compliance management monitors hospitality, and expenses (business with their regional chief financial ofstandards and the G&D Code of Conadherence to rules relating to corrupcourtesies). With the integrated ficer or division controller, must conduct, anti-corruption, and antitrust tion and blackmail and observance Compliance Questionnaire for G&D firm this commitment in writing every law. The “Code of Conduct” training of the relevant laws. The CompliBusiness Partners, G&D has also deyear by signing the Statement on block familiarizes all G&D employees ance Office submits a quarterly report veloped a tool for assessing suppliers Business Controls (which has a strong with ethical business behavior, incluto the Group Management Board, in connection with corruption and focus on corruption issues) and subding compliance with the law, partiwhich in turn reports annually to the their relationships with government mitting it to headquarters in Munich cularly anti-corruption legislation. The Supervisory Board (in the presence of officials. starting in August 2011. anti-corruption training block was the auditor) on the compliance manspecially developed for employees agement system within the Group with external responsibilities. The courses are compulsory for all staff, and attendance is monitored by their supervisors. Communication on Progress Report 2011 21 10 Anti-corruption Individual events are reported sepaWe will assess the effectiveness of We will also commence updating our Practical example: rately and directly to the Chairman of our compliance management system risk map in 2012 with regard to poE-learning in our Australian subsidiary the Management Board, who adopts in 2012 – corresponding preparations tential compliance risk areas, take suitable measures in conjunction with and a process for selecting an exterappropriate action following the relethe other Board members. Complinal auditing company commenced in vant analysis, and present the results For Sue Hughes from GDAA in Melbourne, it was the first official ance matters are examined and adthe year under review. in the annual management report. training on compliance issues: “I was really amazed at how comvised upon on a case-by-case basis; plex the whole issue is and how many aspects have to be taken external organizations may also be The UK Bribery Act came into force into consideration. I was therefore very glad that I could particicalled in for this purpose. on July 1, 2011. Given the Act’s globpate in the training. With this guidance it is certainly easier to beal impact and its effect on both indihave in compliance with the corresponding rules and regulations.” Outlook viduals and companies, G&D needs to ensure that its requirements are met Uli Klink, managing director of GDAA, took part in a training Our aim is to embed a robust comworldwide. Accordingly, G&D has course on antitrust laws: “It was definitely worth the time. Right pliance culture at G&D by 2013. To launched a process to create an internow, there are so many things going on at G&D requiring attenenable this, we are integrating our national anti-bribery and corruption tion in the context of antitrust law that it was really helpful to get compliance values and standards into (ABC) policy in order to embed cominformation on where G&D stands and what needs to be considmany business processes. pliance with the UK Bribery Act in the ered internationally and from a corporate point of view.” company. Communication on Progress Report 2011 22 Taking responsibility – providing active support We are very much aware of our refoundation” is to drive forward interSupport for individual employee sponsibility to the environment and disciplinary research into innovative commitment society in which we operate. We besolutions to the social challenges of lieve that all business activity involves our time. Alongside the activities supported by accepting and exercising this responour Foundation, we also intend to sibility. Corporate citizenship is thereAs well as supporting the education expand our corporate citizenship in fore an ongoing, open-ended process of young people, an important obthe future. We aim to encourage inat G&D. jective of the G&D Foundation is prodividual employee commitment, for moting relations between different which a corporate volunteering proCoordinated approach to corponations and cultures. It is developing gram is being developed. rate citizenship its own program to help achieve this. For example, in 2011 the foundation A significant milestone was achieved enabled 20 young Indians to take in 2010 when we brought together part in a three-week language and our corporate citizenship activities incultural exchange in Munich and Bervolving education, culture, and interlin. This will be repeated in 2012 with cultural exchange in the independent, Indian students and the following not-for-profit Giesecke & Devrient year will see Brazilian students take Foundation. In particular, this gives part for the first time. The G&D Founour extensive donations a long-term dation also incorporates funding for focus. the Museum of the Printing Arts in The foundation is endowed with 20 Leipzig, thus fulfilling an objective million euros and a key aspect of its close to our hearts: to preserve the work lies in training and educating historical heritage of the printing arts. young people through our own projThe museum displays machinery and ects and by supporting the Berlinpresses for producing printed works based “new responsibility foundation” and provides information about the (“stiftung neue verantwortung”). cultural history of typesetting, printThe aim of the “new responsibility ing, and bookbinding. Communication on Progress Report 2011 23 Overall outlook G&D will continue to develop the into engage more intensively with waits facets, will remain a key focus. This itiatives it has launched and to introter and water consumption issues in area is highly important in relation to duce new measures in the coming the future and develop a G&D water our core business and also of partireporting period. footprint comprising the total quancular social relevance. Our aim is to tity of water required throughout the establish a stakeholder dialog on this We will also drive forward impleentire value chain to create our prodsubject over the next few years. mentation of our CSR strategy and ucts and services. embedding of the principles of the Through activities such as developGlobal Compact throughout the comWith regard to working conditions ment of a materiality matrix, we will pany. With its core action areas of the and employment, demographic further systematize, assess, and drive environment, employees, and security change – at least in Europe – will beforward our CSR commitment across and society, CSR is a central pillar of come a key area alongside occupathe three defined action areas. In our activities. tional health and safety. In the field of this respect, we also plan to align our human rights, our primary objective is measures more closely with the We are undertaking further activities to drive forward our anti-discriminatiexpectations of our external stakeas we continue to advance towards on policies. holders. our objective of a sustainable value As key components of our business, chain. With regard to the environFinally, we intend to further develop sustainability and social responsibiliment, significant progress has been our activities around security and soty will continue to shape everything made in terms of optimizing processciety. Security and the associated fuwe do. es across the Group. We also intend ture development of identity, with all Communication on Progress Report 2011 24 G&D’s CSR program at a glance Connection to principles System and measures Status and outlook of Global Compact Formal CSR commitment and strategy approved by management Completed Signed on to the Global Compact in 2010 Annual communication on progress CSR strategy Identification of specific CSR action areas Completed Definition of flagship project in “security and society” action area Completed; implementation due in 2012/13 Creation of a materiality matrix In process; completion in 2012 following stakeholder consultation Raising awareness among employees and customers via provision of inforFurther development of information provision (brochures, Internet) for employees plus e-learning mation in printed form and online programs and seminars until 2013 Group-wide Code of Conduct Corporate audit for monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct Principles 1–10 Updating of Code of Conduct and integration of ILO and UN‘s Universal Declaration of Human Rights scheduled for 2011 Worldwide implementation/rollout of compliance management system with Compliance culture to be embedded at G&D by 2013 with zero tolerance policy Principles 1–10, Compliance Office in Munich Efficiency review of compliance management system initiated for 2012 especially principle 10 Process to create an international ABC policy has been launched Updating of risk map planned International e-learning program covering compliance standards and Code 5,500 employees worldwide have undertaken e-learning training, with the remainder to follow by the Principles 1–10 of Conduct end of 2011 Statement on Business Controls (declaration concerning corruption, data Annual statement by managing directors of the subsidiaries and division managers along with their Principles 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 protection, the environment, labor standards, and human rights) regional chief financial officer or division controller (Implementation started in August 2011) Action area Corporate Guideline on gifts and invitations Implementation completed; content communicated via intranet Principle 10 Establishment of helpline for employees, customers, and service providers The helpline already covers 90 percent of locations, with the remaining locations to follow by the end Principles 1–10 Compliance of 2011 Regular reports to Management Board and Supervisory Board Reporting covers three areas: compliance violations, action taken, and statistical data for compliance Principles 1–10 Regular worldwide employee satisfaction survey 2010 survey in 21 countries resulted in more than 1,000 measures, of which 228 have already been Principle 6 implemented 360° feedback for managers worldwide Ongoing Principle 6 Introduction of Group-wide HR Standards and Guiding Principles Completed; ongoing implementation within the company Principle 6 Review, modification, and expansion of continuing professional developImplemented in 2011 training program; average training hours in Germany were 25.61 per employee in Principle 6 ment program with particular focus on employee’s phase of life 2010. Stronger engagement with demographic change and diversity in future; advice service established for those with care responsibilities – also covers social aspects in Germany Establishment of a global health management program Launched in 2010; certification of all production locations in accordance with OHSAS 18001 planned Principle 6 Expansion of regional health management initiatives (e.g. health calendar in Germany and health week in Munich) Group-wide collection of data on type and number of work accidents and on Recording of data has commenced; analysis will take place following centralized collection of data Principle 6 Action area health promotion measures Extensive work/life balance program Recertification of berufundfamilie gGmbH tool for Munich site Principle 6 Employees Awarded “Fair Company” status Consistent, transparent remuneration structure for interns, student trainees, etc. Principles 1, 3 Recruitment and development of young people Expanding national and international partnerships with universities Communication on Progress Report 2011 25 G&D‘s CSR program at a glance Connection to principles System and measures Status and outlook of Global Compact Establishment of Group-wide Green Sustainability system Design completed, implementation started; definition of environmental indicators Principles 7, 8 Group-wide EHS standards Completed; establishment of international EHS reporting systems Principles 7, 8 Group-wide rollout of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Locations certified to ISO 14001: Munich*, Louisenthal*, Königstein*, Leipzig*, Barcelona, Nitra*, Principles 7, 8 Nanchang, Huangshi, Itaquaquecetuba, Tokyo (*= also certified to OHSAS 18001) All production sites to be certified to OHSAS 18001 by 2014 Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project Continuous improvement of transparency and definition of reduction targets Principles 7, 8 Corporate Carbon Footprint Calculation of carbon footprint for Munich, Leipzig, Louisenthal, Königstein, and Nitra sites in 2010; Principles 7, 8 Group-wide calculation planned by end of 2011 Calculation of emissions for selected products (product carbon footprint) Concept development completed, implementation commenced in 2011 Principles 7, 8 Increasing use of alternative materials and continued development of green Introduction of divisional/departmental workgroups for continued development of green products Principles 7–9 products, e.g. green SIM cards Company Vehicle Policy for green travel and fleet management with upper Implemented Principles 7, 8 CO2 limit of 160 g/km Introduction of efficiency programs First programs introduced, e.g. green production Principles 7, 8 Reduction of hazardous materials in banknote printing Centralization of galvanoplasty completed Principles 7–9 Measures for conserving resources in production and processing Expansion of programs for conserving resources, e.g. alkali treatment unit at all print sites (97 percent of Principles 7–9 Action area Action area the alkaline waste is treated) Systematic recording of electricity and water consumption Intensive focus on water footprint planned Principles Biomembrane reactor at production facilities in Königstein and Louisenthal Water saved is equivalent to the annual consumption of a small town of 8,800 inhabitants Principles 7–9 (water treatment during banknote production process) Use of combined heat and power unit in Munich Annual savings of 1,995 tons of CO2 Principles 7-9 Procurement Environment Supplier Conduct Principles Written acceptance of principles required before supplier can work with G&D: 1,163 key suppliers Principles 1–10 identified. Around 20 percent have accepted the Supplier Conduct Principles in writing since 2010. The aim is to gain the commitment of 75 percent of our key suppliers to these principles in 2012 Expansion of business partner selection process via the Business Partner Binding standard in qualification process Principles 1–10, Questionnaire especially principle 10 (anti-corruption) G&D Foundation established in 2010 Establishment and implementation of first foundation programs; in 2011, 20 young Indians took part in a language and cultural exchange in Germany; program to be repeated with Indians in 2012 and Brazilian Action area students in 2013 Corporate citizenship Communication on Progress Report 2011 26 Giesecke & Devrient GmbH Corporate Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Prinzregentenstrasse 159 P. O. Box 80 07 29 81607 Munich GERMANY Phone: +49 (0) 89 41 19-24 21 Fax: +49 (0) 89 41 19-26 30 csr@gi-de.com www.gi-de.com
