Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) YES BANK Ltd 2009-10 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 Materiality As a financial institution, we are aware of the magnitude of our economic, social and environmental impact and we have included all the information reasonably considered necessary for capturing our work in the sustainability sphere, and have not omitted anything of significant consequence. We have included information in this report after thorough discussions with top management, business unit heads and sustainability champions in YES BANK. We have admitted our lack of information on specific initiatives at relevant places in this report, and we will work hard to prepare more comprehensive and informative reports year on year. Through this Communication on Progress (COP), we seek to express our commitment to creating an environment conducive to positive growth of the people, the planet and our profits, ensuring that each aspect of the Triple Bottom Line is augmented by our operations. 2 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 From the CEO’s DESK As the global economy steadily works its way out of the turmoil and turbulences of the past year, it becomes critical to ensure that the road to recovery is underpinned by sustainability; a path that ensures the sustainability of our businesses, our society, our social structures and environment i.e. the sustainability of our future and that of generations to come. I believe that a business focused on short-term gains without regard for the health of its immediate ecosystem, operates in a self-destruct mode, undermining the raisond’être of enterprise – creating sustained value for its stakeholders. The long-term viability of business, therefore, does not hinge on a motivation for profit alone but rather a consciousness to deliver long-run sustainable returns to society as a whole. At YES BANK we are committed to creating wealth while preserving and enhancing the social and environmental fabric into which we are so intrinsically woven. It is therefore my honour and privilege to present to you our first Sustainability Report that details our efforts at building a successful financial institution which stands on the foundation of strong societal and environmental frameworks. This COP is a testament to our commitment to conducting our business with transparency and accountability, using a multi-stakeholder approach to address pertinent issues of ‘people’ and ‘planet’. It captures the broad spectrum of our work from using mainstream financial tools to cater to new and hitherto untapped ‘alternative’ markets to introducing financial innovations in existing markets. The ensuing pages with take you through the pioneering efforts at the Bank including our Financial Inclusion strategy of broadening the access of the Indian microfinance industry to mainstream capital while simultaneously offering a gamut of financial products and services to the Bottom of the Pyramid (BOP). The report highlights our unique Sustainable Investment Bank (SIB) that works towards filling the gap of investment banking services in the sustainability market as well as our work with rural farmer communities. Given our multi-stakeholder approach to mainstreaming sustainability, the report also elucidates the Bank’s various engagement initiatives, internal and external be it our comprehensive employee engagement programmes or our specialised community engagement platform – YES COMMUNITY – focused on interfacing with communities around our retail branches on issues related to sustainability. I sincerely believe that this COP, in presenting a holistic picture of our sustainability initiatives, captures our continued commitment to building an institution that becomes a benchmark for the Indian financial industry and going forward we will continue to concentrate on fructification of this vision. In the coming year, we hope to deepen our commitment to sustainability whether it is expanding our work with the farmer communities, rolling out the rural operations of our direct microfinance 3 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 intervention, deepening the reach of SIB or bolstering our employee engagement initiatives. As a Public Trust Institution we have a responsibility to continue on the path of sustainability, using our inherent entrepreneurial genes to create collaborative frameworks to design sustainable business solutions to address social and environmental problems. In doing so, we truly believe that we are creating a better bank, a better organisation and, ultimately, a better future. RANA KAPOOR Managing Director & CEO 4 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 5 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESPONSIBLE BANKING @ YESBANK.................................................................. 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ................................................................................... 9 FOSTERING SUSTAINABLE BUSINESSES.......................................................... 12 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT BANK................................................................................. 13 PRIVATE EQUITY ..................................................................................................................... 14 MICROFINANCE ...................................................................................................................... 16 AGRIBUSINESS, RURAL & SOCIAL BANKING .............................................................. 17 SUSTAINABLE FINANCING ................................................................................................. 18 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP....................................................................................................... 20 YES MENTOR PROGRAMME ............................................................................................... 21 YES ENTREPRENEUR IN ACTION (YEA)........................................................................... 21 YES SCHOOL OF BANKING (YSB) ...................................................................................... 22 YES PROFESSIONAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAM (Y-PEP) .............................. 22 TRANFORMING SOCIAL PARADIGMS.............................................................. 23 YES COMMUNITY.................................................................................................................... 24 R3 – REDUCE, RESUSE & RECYCLE ..................................................................................... 25 AKANKSHA MENTORSHIP PROGRAMME..................................................................... 28 GIVEINDIA PAYROLL DEDUCTION PROGRAMME .................................................... 28 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ..................................................................... 28 VITAGOAT PROGRAMME.................................................................................................... 30 SHRIRAM TRANSPORT – HIV/AIDS AWARENESS PROGRAMME ......................... 30 JAIN IRRIGATION’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT .......................................................... 31 CLINTON FOUNDATION HIV/AIDS INITIATIVE ......................................................... 31 BANK for BUSINESSES of the FUTURE................................................................. 32 6 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 RESPONSIBLE BANKING @ YESBANK YES BANK is cognizant of the fact that economic growth, without paying heed to environmental and social development, in itself does not lend to sustainable development. To this end, even at this early stage in our evolution, we have adopted sustainability as one of the cornerstones of our business strategy, not because we want to be a Don Quixote tilting at imaginary wind-mills, but because we believe that this focus gives us a truly winning competitive edge. Indeed, YES BANK was established with a vision to create commercially viable financial institution that incorporates sustainability within its core business focus. We have, therefore, evolved an innovative business model entailing a conscious move away from philanthropy and a single-minded focus on financial gains to operate in an area between pure profit and pure charity which we call the ‘Sustainability Zone’ where wider economic, environmental and social objectives are met using a business approach. Embodied in the organisation’s ‘Responsible Banking’ strategy, and driven by the Bank’s top management, our sustainability approach is a well-defined, comprehensive strategy that is embedded across all businesses/departments and mainstreamed within the broader Indian context through multi-stakeholder engagement with peers, governmental and nongovernmental bodies, industry and academia. Multistakehoder Engagement The Bank follows a two—pronged approach in implementing its multi-stakeholder RB strategy i.e. ‘Responsible Banking in Thought’ – working as a think tank that incubates new ideas and identifies new sustainability markets which then guide the Bank’s overall approach – and ‘Responsible Banking in Action’ – dedicated business units that focus 7 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 specifically on sustainability sectors including clean energy, energy efficiency, sustainable livelihoods and agricultural and rural enterprises. These Responsible Banking units – both Thought and Action, continually work in close association with other parts of the Bank creating an effective network of sustainable business solutions to address environmental and social concerns. In effect, the Responsible Banking strategy is driven by a CORE team of 8 members and DELIVERED by a team of 110 people across India. YES BANK Responsible Banking Framework Responsible Banking in Thought Responsible Banking in Action RESPONSIBLE BANKING AGRI, RURAL & SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT BANK PRIVATE (CSR & Sustainability) SOCIAL MICROFINANCE (SIB) EQUITY Thought Leadership, Advisory, BANKING (ARSB) Credit + Services Business Planning/Structuring, M&A Growth Capital Institutionalization Credit + Services Advisory, Private Placement Responsible YES Microf inance Alternative Clean & South Asia Internal YES Social Corporate SAMPANN Institutions Energy & Sustainable Clean Energy Engagement COMMUNITY Enterprises Citizenship (RCC) Direct Lending Group (MIG) Environment Technologies Fund (SACEF) Deal Generation Deal Generation Other Bank Divisions: – Corp orate Finance – Corp . & Inst. Banking – Emerging Corporates – Business Banking – Retail Branches A comprehensive picture of our Responsible Banking initiatives for the year 2008-09 are presented in this report and we hope that it helps you, our stakeholders, to gain further insight into our efforts of embedding the triple bottom line ethos across our operations and those of our clients. As we continue on the path to building a ‘sustainability focused financial institution’, we welcome your feedback and suggestions on this report to help us offer you an even more thorough account of our work in sustainable development. TAPPING GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORKS/FRAMEWORKS In2006, YES BANK was the first Indian bank to be a signatory with aim to mainstream sustainability principles across the Indian financial community. The Bank facilitated a UNEPFI conference in 2006 on Mainstreaming Sustainability within the Financial Sector in India. YES BANK was the first Indian Bank to be a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 200807 YES BANK was the First Indian Bank to be a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2006 YES BANK has made 6 commitments at the Clinton Global Initiatives since 2007 under three categories – Poverty Alleviation, Global Health and Education. 8 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Since inception, YES BANK has set the highest standards of Corporate Governance by benchmarking its governance practices against the accepted best practices across the globe. We believe that transparency and accountability are the fundamental principles of sound Corporate Governance, and these principles form the foundation of all our businesses. We believe that there is a need to view Corporate Governance as more than just a regulatory requirement since there is a fundamental link between governance, corporate responsibility and shareholder wealth maximization. To realize transparency and accountability at all management levels, the Board of Directors of our Bank has approved and implemented a Code of Conduct and Ethics for the Board of Directors and Senior Management. Further, in line with the best global governance practices, we have formulated a Whistle Blower Policy, through which employees of the Bank are free to raise concerns regarding any unethical or improper practice noticed, including but not limited to: • Conduct which is an offence or a breach of law • Disclosures related to miscarriage of justice • Unauthorised use of funds • Financial or non-financial maladministration or malpractice or impropriety or fraud or corruption The policy also affords protection to employees raising a genuine concern to prevent harassment and danger. This is in line with the United Nations Global Compact Principle 10, since it works against corruption in all forms. YES BANK has a broad based Board of Directors, constituted in compliance with the Banking Regulation Act, Companies Act, Listing Agreement with the stock exchange(s) and in accordance with the best practices in Corporate Governance. The Board functions either as a full Board or through various Committees constituted to oversee specific areas. Formulating policy, setting goals and evaluating performance is the responsibility of the Board, while the Committees have oversight of operational issues assigned to them by the Board. As on Dec 08, we have 6 independent board members, 1 whole time director and 1 non executive, non independent director and 1 alternate director. Note: The terms independent and non executive are defined as per clause 49 of the listing agreement of The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Even though we are only 5 years old, we have complied with the recommendations of the Ganguly committee, the Banking Regulation Act and the clause 49 requirements of the stock exchanges in the formation of our board of directors and for other governance requirements. There are a number of committees under the Board to ensure strict implementation of the governance norms including: Audit and Compliance Committee, Risk Monitoring Committee, Board Remuneration Committee, Nominations and Governance Committee, Investor Relations Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Service Excellence Committee and certain other Special Purpose Committees. Further, YES BANK’s Lender Fair Practice Code prohibits any kind of predatory lending across all the business verticals: The Code: 9 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 o Promotes good and fair practices o Creates increased transparency o Encourages market forces, through competition, to achieve higher operating standards It aims to promote a fair and cordial relationship between clients and the Bank to foster confidence in our banking system. Risk Monitoring The terms of reference of the Risk Monitoring Committee include identification, monitoring and measurement of the risk profile of the Bank (including market risk, operational risk, transactional risk and credit risk), overseeing its integrated risk measurement system and review of the risk models, approval of the risk management policies and structure of risk management systems, oversee the credit approval process and to develop policies and procedures for setting of quantitative prudential limits on various products and segments of the Bank’s operations and monitor compliance of various risk parameters by operating departments, oversee the credit approval process develop an integrated framework for charting/categorizing various types of loans, to determine implications on quality and review of returns and reports to the Reserve Bank of India pertaining to the Risk Monitoring function. Environment and Social Policy (ESP) YES BANK maintains an Environment and Social Policy to strategically mainstream environmental and social issues and make them an integral dimension of business. The Environment and Social Policy creates a checklist of prohibited activities that are environmentally and socially exploitative. Besides discouraging businesses that indulge in these activities, YES BANK seeks to motivate companies to implement environmentally and socially practices, thereby serving as a change facilitator in the business world. Broadly speaking, the activities prohibited by the Environment and Social Policy include practices involving child labour and forced labour (as defined by the International Labour Organisation), production of or trade in tobacco and use of unbounded asbestos. Companies that produce any item or trade in any product deemed illegal under host country laws or regulations are refused business with YES BANK. Similarly, organizations producing or trading in weapons or wildlife products regulated under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) of Wild Fauna and Flora are not encouraged by YES BANK. Under the Environment and Social Policy, production of or trade in radioactive materials, products containing polychlorinated biphenyls and hazardous chemicals and commercial logging or the purchase of logging equipment for use in a primary tropical moist forest is prohibited. Further, organizations must refrain from activities that impinge on the lands owned, or claimed under adjudication, by indigenous people, without full documented consent of such people. The Environment and Social Policy requires all deals to be assessed for potential water pollution, thus addressing the issues that arise due to discharge of noxious substances into a water body (river, canal, drain, etc.) from an industrial operation and ground water pollution. 100% of the Banks deals go through the Environment and Social Policy, ascertaining that the Responsible Banking Strategy is deliberately executed. The Environment and Social Policy 10 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 seeks to empower YES BANK to adequately meet, respond to and enhance the current benchmarks in environmental and social risk management. It complements the Bank’s already robust Credit Risk Policy. A diagram showing a project finance transaction, including the Environment and Social Policy is depicted below: A typical project finance transaction involves Greenfield / Brownfield expansions, thereby having larger implications on the economy, environment and society. YES BANK's appraisal of deals ensures due adherence to the YES BANK Credit Risk Policy, which incorporates the Environmental and Social Policy (ESP) that examines environmental and social aspects of all deals. The major processes in the transaction are: • Ensuring that the client is not contravening any of the prohibited activities as per the Environmental and Social Policy and has all requisite . • Ensuring no contravention of any procedures/rules laid down by Environmental and Social Policy during plant/site visits occurs • For all the project finance transactions in potentially sensitive or high risk areas, an exhaustive check-list covering environmental and social due diligence is provided. Other policies referred to as guiding principles while executing any project finance transaction at the Bank include YES BANK’s Code of Commitment to Customers, YES BANK’s Quality Policy and YES BANK's Lender Fair Practice Code, all transparently available on the YES BANK website. 11 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 FOSTERING SUSTAINABLE BUSINESSES The Bank is aware that not only does it need to make direct investments in sustainable development; it also needs to use is its position of indirect influence over investment decisions to help steer the Indian business community along the sustainability path. Therefore, while building strong relations with civil society and non-governmental organisations is a key component of our approach, equally important is the conscious decision to support several sectors within the sustainable development space that can be profitable on a stand-alone basis. Sustainability therefore works as a pertinent tool for identifying new business opportunities, markets and customer segments. Given our strong commitment to be the “Bank for Businesses of the Future”, we have set up specialised, sustainability focused business units that focus on a range of markets from clean energy, food and agribusiness to social infrastructure i.e. health and education. This section offers an overview of the Bank’s efforts in fostering future winners across the sustainability space. RESPONSIBLE BANKING in ACTION 12 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT BANK The Bank has successfully established a ‘Sustainability Platform’ comprising of Investment Banking and Financial Sponsors Advisory services to address the needs of new markets and sunrise sectors. Sustainable Investment Banking (SIB) is a specialised dedicated division that tries to fill the financial advisory gap that exists in the high potential environmental and social impact businesses by providing the entire gamut of investment banking products & services such as Capital Raising, M&A, Restructuring & JV Advisory and Technology Transfer/International Collaboration in the following sectors: • Clean Technologies & Clean Enterprises including Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Clean Transportation, Water & Environment and Distributed Energy • Social & Sustainable space including Livelihood Creation, Education, Healthcare, Food & Agriculture, Housing & Utilities Sectoral and Product Framework: SIB is currently running mandates for joint venture & acquisition advisory and raising private equity funds for enterprises operating in sectors as diverse as wind energy mapping, solar technology, green building material, hydro-power equipment manufacture, technology provision in the financial inclusion space, financial services to affordable private schools and microfinance among others. In the current year, SIB facilitated funding of INR 50 crore for Asmitha Microfin Ltd., one of top five MFIs in India. 13 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 SIB also has the following strategic alliances: • SIB is the exclusive India partner to Global Environment Fund (GEF) – USD 1.5bn fund dedicated to sustainable sectors • SIB is the exclusive India partner to Clean Technology Australasia to provide Investment Banking services to Australian clean technology companies for Indian markets • SIB is the exclusive India partner to NES to provide Investment Banking services to Israeli sustainability companies for Indian markets • SIB is the exclusive India partner to Finnish Clean Technology Cluster to provide Investment Banking services to Finnish companies PRIVATE EQUITY In 2008, we founded our Private Equity group, focused on making equity investments in the sustainability space. Under this initiative, we are currently sponsoring a USD 200 million South Asia Clean Energy Fund (SACEF) in collaboration with Global Environment Fund, USA (GEF). SACEF is a dedicated fund targeting investments in clean energy, clean technology and energy efficiency across India, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh. In future, we plan to introduce funds with a focus on Social Ventures – i.e., those organizations which offer commercially sustainable solutions and serve poor communities either as consumers or producers with staged investments ranging from USD 100,000 to 3 million. 14 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 FINANCING FARMERS TOWARDS PURCHASE OF ENERGY EFFICICIENT DRIP IRRIRGATION SYSTEMS  YES BANK recently developed a structured transaction to provide small loans to farmers by leveraging outreach of Jain Irrigation Systems Limited (JISL), the largest drip irrigation company of India (the second largest worldwide) with a network of over 1000 dealers.  The aggregate transaction value of Rs. 1 billion is to support about 25,000 farmers’ purchase of energy-efficient drip irrigation systems across states including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan.  Currently farmers use flood irrigation systems which waste huge amount of water and consequently consume relatively more electricity for pumping.  JISL provides energy-efficient drip irrigation systems that deliver water to crops using a network of pipes with outlet points spaced along the length of the pipe. This greatly reduces energy usage and saves up to 70% of the water used compared to flood irrigation techniques. The Company’s systems also lead to an increase in yield of up to 230% and enhance fertilizer efficiency by close to 30%.  While the drip irrigation systems are energy-efficient and reduce water usage substantially, the high initial cost of these systems, Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 100,000 per acre, has been a barrier for farmers to purchase drip systems.  Individual loan sizes are too small to carry the costs of evaluating, disbursing, monitoring, and collecting each loan therefore banks have been reluctant to provide farmers with loans for these energy-efficient, water saving systems.  The ARSB & SIB teams of YES BANK worked together with JISL to provide farmers financing to purchase the energy-efficient drip irrigation systems in a financially efficient and effective manner. The Bank appointed JISL as its ‘Managing & Collection Agent’ to undertake functions such as aggregation and supply of farmers’ details to the Bank for credit assessment, facilitating disbursements and collection of repayments, etc. The Bank extensively trained field staff and dealers of JISL to undertake these functions and developed necessary reporting and monitoring formats and processes.  Through this mechanism, YES BANK has financed about 25,000 farmers and covered about 80,000 acres of farm land. While the overall bundled loan was for about Rs. 1 billion (Euro 15 million), the actual individual loan size was only about Rs. 40,000 (Euro 594). By bundling demand for these systems, the Bank’s teams were able to reach out to these farmers and provide these relatively small loans to about 25,000 households.  Each drip irrigation system saves about 10kWh of power per day per acre irrigated, over the previously used flood irrigation systems and as such, these drip systems save about 1,500 kWh of electricity per acre annually. The financing structured by Yes Bank will cover about 25,000 farmers cultivating 80,000 acres, thus saving about 120 million kWh of energy each year. Given the life of the energy efficient drip system is about 4 to 5 years, it is expected that this loan from the Bank will save about 480 million to 600 million kWh of energy. 15 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 MICROFINANCE According to a recent Boston Consulting Group study, barely 34% of India’s population is engaged in formal banking with the country having the second highest number of financially excluded households in the world i.e. 13 million households. In keeping with our focus on sustainability financing, we have undertaken to address the issue of financial exclusion in India with an aim to increase the scale and reach of microfinance in the country through two strategic initiatives:  Microfinance Institutions Group (MIG) – a relationship management group that works with commercially sustainable microfinance (MFIs) offering loans, loan syndications and advocacy on policy and regulatory issues, to create an enabling macro environment for stakeholders including investors, rating agencies, policymakers, government agencies and regulators. MIG’s approach is based on instituting specific transactions to position microfinance as a new asset class appealing to a broad base of investors and lenders, thus expanding its potential sources of capital. It aims to catalyze the growth of Indian microfinance and reduce the costs of funds to enable scale up, thereby ensuring provision of affordable, fairly priced and customized financial solutions to BOP. In 2008, YES BANK successfully introduced 12 banks who have lent to MFIs for the FIRST time under our Syndicated Loan Facility. As the number of banks participating in MFI financing increases, potentially these become a source for funding of approximately USD 3 billion to microfinance i.e., a fivefold increase in annual funding. Our work with standardized ratings for MFI paper enables sophisticated public capital market investors such as Fixed Income Mutual Funds/ General Insurance Companies to invest in microfinance paper and opens up a further funding source of approximately USD 1.5 billion (assuming a 10% share of the USD 14-15 billion mutual fund market).  YES SAMPANN – a specialised division of our Bank, setup in technical collaboration with ACCION International, provides easy access to fairly priced, transparent and suitable financial products and services accompanied with appropriate financial education to un-banked, low income communities across urban and rural India. With the start of commercial operations in July 2007, we are now amongst the pioneers in India to provide direct microcredit to micro-entrepreneurs. YES SAMPANN, being the first institutionally sponsored direct intervention model for microfinance in India, provides the last mile connect with the BOP offering affordable, customized financial services including credit, savings and insurance. In addition to simple Group Borrowing Products YES SAMPANN has added more complex credit products like individual loans without group guarantees, working capital for micro entrepreneurs and salary-linked loans for the unorganised sector, e.g. 16 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 house-maids and drivers. We have recently instituted event-linked and non–credit linked micro savings programmes, which NO other MFI offers in India and we plan to offer microinsurance products soon. YES SAMPANN has reached 2000+ micro entrepreneurs in urban slums and instituted the first non-credit linked savings program for micro clients. Leveraging expertise in Community Development, Livelihoods Promotion and Product Development, our microfinance initiatives have reached over 1,400,000 Bottom-of-thePyramid clients in 1000+ villages directly and through our partners. AGRIBUSINESS, RURAL & SOCIAL BANKING Agriculture is the principal occupation in India accounting for about 60% of national employment and 17% of GDP(for output). Yet, the percentage of farmers who have access to formal financial institutions is less than 30% resulting in the farmers falling prey to predatory moneylenders and getting caught in a vicious debt cycle. To address the issue of financial exclusion in rural India, especially amongst the farmer communities, we instituted the Agribusiness, Rural & Social Banking (ARSB) practice. The ARSB team develops and executes innovative financial models, which leverage the outreach of various stakeholders in the agri value chain to overcome the ‘last mile problems’ in agribusiness and rural sectors. It implements our lending program and has grown to a portfolio size of ~ USD 400 million, reaching over 1,000,000 individual farmers with small/marginal land-holding (less than 5 acres) and rural artisans with limited or no access to formal financial institutions. In fact, our structured lending to these groups has been recognised as a path breaking innovation by Euromoney’s Trade Finance as Deal of the Year (one of 12 winners from around the world). ARSB is also working closely with Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd and Swiss Re to develop and market location and crop specific weather insurance products to mitigate weather risks faced by farmers. “By mobilising and empowering farmers through an organisation owned by them, Zameen enables farmers to improve their livelihoods, communities, health and environment. YES BANK has helped Zameen boost its operations manifolds by facilitating timely availability of funds.” Gijs Spoor, CEO, Zameen Organic 17 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 INR 2039.2 Million INR 1846.8 Million INR 900 Million Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Shriram Transport Jain Irrigation Services Ltd. Finance Ltd.. Systems Ltd. Buyout of Tractor Buyout of Agri Financing to farmers Loan Receivables Equipment Receivables associated with JISL 2006 2007 2007 ARSB develops & executes innovative INR 120 Million INR 100 Million financial models, Nandan Biomatrix Little Bee Impex which leverage the Ltd. Funding to outreach of various Honey Bee farmers stakeholders in the Funding to farmers agri value chain to Euromoney: Trade associated with overcome the ‘last Finance Deal of the NBL mile problems’ in Year agribusiness and 2006 2006 rural sectors SUSTAINABLE FINANCING In 2008 alone, we financed ~ USD 100 million in Renewable and Clean Energy and raised ~ USD 1.5 billion through project financing, balance sheet financing, and syndications in the clean energy sector: 1) Exclusive Strategic and Financial Advisor to Suzlon Energy Ltd (SEL) to acquire a stake in RE Power Systems AG from Martifer SGPS SA. 2) Provided various term and structured facility to SEL and its subsidiaries. 3) Advisor to a major non-food oil based Bio Diesel Feedstock Developer for developing a sustainable Bio-Diesel Model based on development of feedstock. 4) Sole Lead Arranger for syndicating the debt requirement of Advanced Medicare and Research Institute Limited (AMRI). Presently AMRI is the largest private sector hospital in eastern India with total bed strength of 550 beds. The Company directs its resources into providing services and applying technologies that improve, simplify, make affordable and promote quality of health care. In line with their vision to provide quality treatment in an affordable way to the largest number, AMRI has commissioned to undertake brownfield expansion in order to increase its bed capacity by 640 beds for a total project cost of USD 50.5 mn. In doing so, it expects to prevent the 'migration' of patients from West Bengal to other states for treatment and emerge as a preferred medical institution in eastern India. 18 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 5) Sole financer of Zameen Organic Pvt Ltd, a farmer owned company which produces Fair Trade and Organic Cotton. The company has today grown 700 times with YBL's support. 6) Sole financer of Kurmanchal Organic Ventures Private Limited which produces organic apple juice in collaboration with apple farmers in Kumaon region of Uttarakhand. 7) Works with Buldana Urban Cooperative Credit Society, the largest multi-state credit cooperative in India, to facilitate provision of credit facilities to its member farmers against pledge of produce. YES BANK is also advising the Cooperative on several social initiatives such as social marketing network and low-income housing for its members. 8) Provided project financing to Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd (STFCL) to build biomass based power generation plant in Tamil Nadu. The plant has a capacity of 7.5 MW and the project utilizes a wide variety of organic waste products that will require developing brand new collection, distribution and purchase markets for various crop residues. Electricity generated will be supplied to supplement the power requirements in the state. 9) Provided loan to Shri Maheshwar Hydel Power Corp. to build a 400 MW hydro power plant in Madhya Pradesh. The total outlay of the clean energy hydro power project is USD 615 million. 10) Provided loan to Enercon India and its subsidiaries as structured project guarantee available as credit enhancement to senior lenders. Enercon India is operational in the wind energy sector and provides end-to-end solution for wind energy production in India 19 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP YES BANK seeks to leverage India’s competitive position internationally in the knowledge sector and is at the forefront of global thought leadership forums and knowledge exchange platforms engaging with various stakeholders: Industry Civil Society Conferences Academia Associations Triple Bottom Clinton Global Cleantech Line Investing Harvard University Initiative (CGI) Network, USA (TBLI) Group, Netherlands International Center for Clinton HIV/AIDS Clean Technology, Corporate Tufts University Initiatives (CHAI) Australia Accountability (ICCA), USA Tällberg Forum Federation of Clinton Climate on Global Indian Chambers World Resource Change Initiative Leadership and of Commerce and Institute (WRI), USA (CCI Sustainability, Industries (FICCI) Sweden Bellagio Forum Bill and Melinda Bombay Chambers for Sustainable The Energy Research Gates Foundation, of Commerce and Development Institute (TERI) USA Industries (BCCI) (BFSD), Italy SIOM (Symbiosis PHD Chamber of NITIE (National Institute of Blue Moon Commerce and Institute of Industrial Operations Foundation, USA Industry (PHD Engineering) – EnVision Conference Management) CCI) TATTV LexisNexis Global Institute for Institute of Cost & Confederation of Corporate Tomorrow (GIFT), Work Accountants of Indian Industry Compliance Forum Singapore India (ICWAI) India TiE Delhi Social ACCION Initiatives Special AIMA-BIMTECH International Interest Group Akanksha iCONGO’s Human Foundation Capitalism Conclave Chintan UNIDO Business for Social Responsibility, USA 20 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 INVESTING IN EMPLOYEES We believe that high quality Human Capital is the biggest asset in an organization and have been focused on attracting and retaining the best talent from India and abroad. We believe that best performance can only be achieved through empowered employees and therefore, we offer all YES BANKers an opportunity to work in a growth environment with a young work force. Rana Kapoor, CEO and Managing Director, YES BANK, YES BANK pursues a strong Employee Value Proposition of ‘Creating & Sharing Value’, with a vision to build an organisation, driven by Professional Entrepreneurship, where all YES BANKers truly partner to direct, manage and accelerate the development of YES BANK as a new generation bank of “Emerging India”. YES BANK recognises that employees are the bedrock of an organisation and its only real source of sustainable competitive advantage. We therefore, believe in making significant long term strategic investment in our Human Capital to attain a leadership position in India, and foster a leadership mindset that embraces meritocracy as a vital force to reward performance and exceptional competency. YES BANK's sustainability approach ties in with its Human Capital Management. At the CORE of the Bank's Sustainability approach is the Responsible Banking Team who works with other relevant teams in instituting internal practices, external initiatives, new business lines and training / capacity building. The Bank has designed a comprehensive training and orientation program designed by the Responsible Banking team which offers new employees an opportunity to understand various aspects of the Responsible Banking approach at YES BANK. The Responsible Banking and Sustainability approach is further strengthened through close mentorship of employees by the Responsible Banking team and Business Heads of respective business verticals. To further promote the Responsible Banking ethos across all business verticals, the Bank's Human Resources department has initiated several employee-focused capacity building programs including: YES Mentor Programme The focus of this program is to engage the Bank's high potential human capital, to inculcate values of the Responsible Banking ethos in close mentorship of senior management. YES Entrepreneur in Action (YEA) – In 2006 the Bank initiated the YEA programme to encourage YES BANK employees to pursue her/his goals in the social entrepreneurship sector outside the Bank. As needed, an employee is chosen for this programme and is allowed to take a time off from the Bank to pursue a sustainable entrepreneurial activity. The YEA programme also allows the employee to use the Bank's facilities and resources apart from being given an allowance for up to a year. Thus, the Bank has built its entire Human Capital (~ 2500 strong) as champions of Responsible Banking and sensitive to issues of Sustainable Development and Financing. 21 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 SELECT SUCCESS STORIES: KWENCH An online library solution is the brain child of a YES BANKer who wanted to become an entrepreneur but had no formal support. YBL supported his dream by encouraging not only his thought but also supporting him in the implementation process. The Bank also signed up as his first corporate customer. Today Kwench is a favoured online library service 'Kwenching' the thirst of many a book lovers. SAHAJ AGROFARM INDIA Pvt. Ltd. is the outcome of an entrepreneurial commitment of another YES BANKer to establish a highly quality conscious, technology driven, and internationally focused Indian business house, empowering Emerging Rural India. Sahaj places at its core business decision making process the philosophy of Creating Green Businesses out of Rural India and enabling Rural India to be a Net Exporter of products and services to urban / international market. Sahaj endeavours to capture the potential of rural India by creating successful, scalable business models optimally utilizing the rural skilled / un-skilled human resources. Sahaj shall simultaneously train and guide more enterprising human resources to create a cluster of Local Entrepreneurs to take on some of these business initiatives as partners and in turn encourage Mass Rural Employment through a multiplier effect. We further undertake regular initiatives to aid the overall professional development of our employees, investing regular training and skills development programmes: YES SCHOOL of Banking (YSB) – institutionalised with a vision to create and deliver benchmark learning and development initiatives for all employees of the Bank and to become a Banking Industry Talent Creator by building a pool of qualified executives with practical skill sets required for the Banking Industry. Various Learning and Talent Development initiatives are currently run through the aegis of YSB like YESSENTIALS, the Bank’s branded induction program for all new joinees. The Bank has recently launched a YES School of Banking Trainers Forum to ensure effective and customized knowledge transfer within YES BANKers by utilizing our in-house subject matter experts (on Products/Process/Banking domain) as Specialist Knowledge Trainers. Through this school, we empower our employees with the latest national and international techniques in banking, thereby helping them acquire knowledge and expertise in their specific functional areas. YES Professional Entrepreneurship Program (Y-PEP) – The Y-PEP program is designed around the concept of talent development, which aims to ensure the presence of an experienced, dynamic, energetic and driven team of professionals in junior, middle and upper management to implement various strategic and growth responsibilities of the Bank. In 2007, 2008 and 2009 we recruited students for junior and middle level management from the Top 10 business schools across the country, and have approximately 200 employees through this program. The Y-PEP provides students fresh from college with good role profiles, excellent career growth opportunities and exposure across India. 22 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 TRANFORMING SOCIAL PARADIGMS Though India has witnessed unprecedented economic growth in recent times; this growth has not been equitable or inclusive with the country lagging behind on social and environmental parameters. The United Nations Human Development Index (HDI)1, which looks beyond GDP to a broader definition of well-being including longevity, literacy and standard of living, ranking for India for the year 2007-08 stood at 128 among 177 countries. India’s Human Poverty Index for developing countries (HPI-1) – which focuses on the proportion of people below a threshold level in the same dimensions of human development as the HDI (living a long and healthy life, having access to education, and a decent standard of living) – ranking for the same year was 62 among 108 developing countries for which the index has been calculated. Malnutrition and disease are therefore commonplace in the country. In fact, as a consequence of destitution, malnutrition is almost an epidemic in India; 40 percent of the world’s malnourished children and 35 percent of the developing world’s low-birth-weight infants can be found in India. Each year 2.5 million children die due to disease and lack of nourishment, accounting for one in five deaths in the world. HIV/AIDS, too, has become a pandemic with prevailing ignorance egging on the spread of the virus to each corner of our country. A World Health Organization and UNAIDS2 survey estimated that there are 2.5 million Indians living with HIV and that that number is expected to increase exponentially unless quick, specific, effective steps are taken as soon as possible. The fragile social fabric is further strained by disregard a damaged environment. As the world suffers consequences of dramatic climate change, India is not left untouched. Indeed the poor are particularly susceptible, especially those in coastal areas and river flood plains, and in areas prone to extreme weather events and rapid urbanization. Apart from global warming, ecological destruction poses a great danger to our planet since it results in an enormous imbalance in the natural ecological cycles. The Prince’s Rainforests Project affirms that approximately twelve hundred thousand m3 of rainforest is lost every minute, resulting in irreplaceable loss of natural ecosystems. Over and above the threat of global warming and species extinction, the threat of pollution, specifically urban pollution, looms large bringing with it skin and eye ailments, respiratory disorders, premature deaths and cancers. While we recognise that these social and environmental issues pose challenges to the progress of our country, we are also aware that within these challenges lie hidden opportunities that can be leveraged to further augment a sustainable development for India. The Bank is aware that not only does it need to make direct investments in sustainable development; it also needs to use is its position of indirect influence over investment decisions to help steer the Indian business community along the sustainability path. Therefore, while focusing on percolating the triple-bottom-line ethos within the organisation, we also work extensively 1 http://hdrstats.undp.org/2008/countries/country_fact_sheets/cty_fs_IND.html 2 http://data.unaids.org/pub/FactSheet/2008/sa08_ind_en.pdf 23 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 with civil society and industry alike to mainstream sustainability within the broader Indian context. The ensuing section, therefore, offers insights in to both the banks internal and external sustainability engagements. YES COMMUNITY Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has. Margaret Mead YES BANK has a vision to evolve as a community champion helping to address issues that are critical to the well-being of the immediate community within which it operates. To this end, the Bank uses its pan India network of 117 fully operational retail branches as community hubs helping to facilitate social and environmental change by influencing societal behaviour under the YES COMMUNITY platform. YES COMMUNITY had adopted the theme of 'Planet Earth' for the fiscal year 20008-9, in line with the United Nations' declaration of 2008-09 as the International Year of Planet Earth. Micro-events organized at YES BANK branches around the theme of 'Planet Earth' found both children and adults participating in activities aimed at reinforcing the sub-themes of: a. Pollution Prevention b. Recycling and Minimizing Waste c. Conserving Energy d. Conserving Water e. Improving Sanitation and Cleanliness Further, we incorporated community development initiatives such as clean and green drives, energy efficiency practices, workplace health and safety and the development of local disaster management plans, opening young minds to new ideas. With 290 events completed in 43 branches attended by 6200 participants since its inception, the program has effectively contributed to addressing various social and environmental issues relevant to the neighbourhood communities. With every growing year, we aim to increase the reach of our YES COMMUNITY initiatives, forging trust with the YES BANK brand. YES COMMUNITY Event Poster 24 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 R3 – REDUCE, RESUSE & RECYCLE At YES BANK, the ‘reduce, reuse and recycle’ principles are implemented through the R3 programme which is an employee engagement initiative aimed at reinforcing our commitment to the environment by incorporating resource saving activities. With the overall objective of reducing the Bank’s waste, R3 focuses on:  Reducing consumption of energy, electricity and other natural resources through technology and 'conscious' internal campaigns,  Re-using paper originally destined for landfills,  Recycling waste by engaging local NGOs that work in this area, thereby generating livelihood opportunities for marginalised communities while preserving the environment YES BANK has appointed Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group (Chintan), an NGO that works with waste collectors providing them safer, non hazardous work conditions, to help recycle waste generated in three of our Delhi branches. Chintan ensures that the wet and dry garbage is picked up from YES BANK, that all the papers collected are recycled through its associates in the recycling sector and that the income generated from the garbage is used for the benefit of the waste collectors and their families. Chintan will furnish a quarterly report giving status of the project, including a report on the educational advancement of the waste picker’s children to the Bank. Further, we hold an open house meeting where our employees are invited to meet the beneficiaries of the partnership between YES BANK and Chintan. This business model helps the Bank in garbage management; the waste-pickers, waste collectors and waste recyclers in having a sustained source of income, and their children in going to school. YES BANK ensures minimum wages for the waste collectors in case the garbage collected is too low to fetch him the minimum wage for the day. Through our collective efforts and direction, a sense of financial security has been provided to the most deprived section of society ensuring a brighter, educated future for their children. We are looking to expand our work with Chintan in our Mumbai offices. 25 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 1) Minimising our Carbon Footprint As signatories to the Carbon Disclosure Project, we have taken steps voluntarily to reduce our carbon footprint instituting specific steps to aid the process including:  Regulating amount of time that signage lightings at branches and off-site ATM’s remain on  Enabling branches to view their electricity, water, stationary and conveyance expenses month over month and target reduction in the same  Introducing bulk surface transport couriers and changes in other purchases to reduce travel  Encouraging carpooling amongst employees through an intranet-based carpool platform. Almost a hundred of our employees have benefited from this platform, and now use carpool as a standard mode of travel.  Reviewing our information technology vendors with a particular focus on energy efficiency and other sustainability indicators. Using TFT monitors for personal computers instead of the inefficient CRT monitors has helped us minimize our carbon footprint.  E-mailing advisory messages regularly to our employees to switch off lights, computers and air-conditioners when not required; to print double sided and use stationary judiciously. Following measures are on the anvil:  Our procurement procedures and policies will establish guidelines, to procure goods/services in an environmentally responsible manner and from environmentally responsible suppliers.  A project to recycle the paper used in all the branches and offices will be initiated. A local NGO will be involved to partner in the initiative.  Energy efficient lighting systems will be installed in all the branches across the country.  It will be made mandatory for all the employees to shut down their computers and put off their monitors when not in use in order to reduce the energy consumption in the offices and branches. Besides initiatives to internalize carbon calculations and reduce the Bank's footprint, we are reaching out to other corporates to become sign-up to the CDP and are advising clients on processes to measure and reduce their carbon footprint. In future, we plan to put together a greenhouse gas emission reduction plan to keep a check on our carbon footprint using 2008 as the baseline year for the plan. As soon as the greenhouse gas emission reduction plan is in place, we aim to reduce our overall energy consumption by approximately 10% from the baseline. 26 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 2) YES FORCE In 2008, we ran a programme called YES FORCE aiming to receive staff suggestions for performance enhancement, to make our bank leaner, fitter and faster. YES FORCE addressed improvement in the following four areas:  Process Simplification,  De-Risking of the Process,  Cost Saving, and  Automation. Through YES FORCE, we received approximately 200 suggestions to increase efficiency in our operations, and indirectly impact our planet positively. After reviewing the suggestions and short listing the superior ones, we are in the process of implementing 39 of the best ones. 3) YES SAVE With the objective of implementing effective waste management, serving the dual purpose of lowering cost, YES SAVE was launched in early 2009. Hundreds of employees participated in YES SAVE and 400 suggestions were received for various aspects of our operations – including minimizing energy wastage, food and water wastage and reducing our carbon footprint. 46 suggestions are in the process of being implemented. 27 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 AKANKSHA MENTORSHIP PROGRAMME YES BANK has partnered the Akanksha Foundation to provide mentorship for less privileged children. A not-for-profit organisation, Akanksha, works to equip all children with the education, skills and character they need to lead empowered lives. Akanksha works primarily in the field of education of under privileged children, addressing non formal education through Akanksha centres and formal education through Akanksha Schools. Running at YES BANK since 2006, the programme enables children to achieve a wellrounded development that only focuses on academics but also offers critical social support structures that are often missing in their lives. Our employees interact with these children on a weekly basis through intensive one-on-one sessions offering career guidance, solving problems related to studies or inter-personal issues, enhancing their language capabilities and nnnn personality development. In 2007-08, six YES BANK employees mentored six Akanksha children and this year the number has gone up to 8-12 children with 12-18 mentors. GIVEINDIA PAYROLL DEDUCTION PROGRAMME At YES BANK, we believe that strategic philanthropy can go a long way in effecting social transformations. Hence our engagement with GiveIndia, an NGO that raises funds for over 200 charities using an effective online giving platform. Our collaboration with GiveIndia takes the form of Payroll Giving programme, which allows corporate employees eager to give back to society to do so in a convenient and informed manner. It enables employees to contribute a part of their salary to GiveIndia in support of a cause of their choice. In the year 2008-09 donors have contributed over Rs 50 lakh to select NGOs throughout India. GiveIndia screens all the NGOs it associates with for credibility and transparency in operations, and ensures precise feedback to donors about utilization of their contribution. It partners with organizations working for development in a range of areas, including child education, dignity for the elderly, help for the disabled, empowerment of women, disease prevention and treatment, human rights and the environment. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP At YES BANK, we realised the need of an advisory service, which provides inputs for mainstreaming sustainability to businesses, governments and NGOs in the environment, education, health and livelihoods sectors. Hence, in 2008, we established the Responsible Corporate Citizenship (RCC) advisory services which use a think-tank approach to pilot ideas for mainstreaming innovative solutions. 28 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 Through RCC, we provide a basket of consulting services such as business model planning, development, support, market analysis and networking. We create financially sustainable solutions which can be scaled and replicated, thus promoting social upliftment and inclusive growth. Further, this enables us to deepen existing business relationships and forge new ones, especially in the Education, Health, Livelihoods, Microfinance, Sustainability Reporting and Environment sectors, among others. RCC advisory is offered in the following areas:  Social Auditing  Carbon Emissions Analysis  Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy  Networking Among Corporates And Development NGOs in the Sustainability Space  Socio-Environmental Engagement  Social Business and Entrepreneurship  Business Processes Waste Reduction Development  Human Resources and Employee Support  Syndication of Funds Analysis  Social Enterprise Planning and Scalability Successful RCC assignments identify and promote emerging, scalable models of social entrepreneurship, a key driver to inclusive development in India. Our Clients include, among others, Buldana Urban Credit Cooperative Society, Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd., Shriram Transport Finance Corporation Ltd., Clinton HIV/AIDS Initiative (CHAI), and Malnutrition Matters, Canada. The areas of work include:  Sustainability Reporting  Carbon footprint Calculation  Social Marketing  Social Business Development In India, approximately 70% of rural areas are deprived of electricity and greater than 60% of rural households use kerosene lamps for lighting purposes. These lamps produce noxious fumes that are dangerous and odorous, creating health hazards for their users. Further, they are expensive, inefficient and a major source of greenhouse gases, contributing largely to global warming. However, the fact that kerosene is subsidized, and an extensive network has been put in place for its distribution means that households in rural areas continue to utilize it as a source of light. This in a country thathas an enormous untapped potential for solar energy. In India the average number of sunny days range from 250 to 300 days a year, resulting in a solar energy equivalent greater than our total energy consumption. Solar lanterns, therefore, represent a practical renewable energy substitute to kerosene lamps in villages. D.light Design is a lighting and power company with a mission to enable households without reliable electricity to attain the same quality of life as those with electricity. Founded in 2006, D.light Design’s operations are spread across USA, China, India and East Africa. It seeks to realize its mission by replacing every kerosene lantern with clean, safe and bright light. It aims to provide light for 10 million customers by 2010. Since October 2008, YES BANK is strategically advising D.light Design on scale up of its market network linkages in India, to increase its sales and outreach. We have enabled them to gain a market linkage with Buldana Urban Cooperative Credit Society in rural Maharashtra. Buldana Urban Cooperative Credit Society sells D.light solar lamps through their branches. In just a few months, more than 2600 29 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 VITAGOAT Programme The VitaGoat Programme was founded with the aim of tackling malnutrition and livelihood deaths in rural India. Through this program, low-cost soya machines are utilized to provide employment to Self Help Groups, with the dual benefit of supplying high quality soya milk nutrition to the people, especially children. In conjunction with VitaGoat Suppliers, Malnutrition Matters, Self Help Groups and NGO’s, YES BANK provides inputs to create a sustainable business model for the benefit of the consumers and sellers of the high-protein soya milk. We facilitate a market study of potential entrepreneurs and BOP customers, and scale-up the solution to reach the most marginalized. Further, we help build a strong network to facilitate program execution, involving the government, suppliers and development experts, with the aim of impacting the largest VitaGoat Machine possible number of people. Under this programme, VitaGoat machine was deployed at a Buldana Co-operative run school and ensures that 700 school children (600 students twice a week) are fed daily with soy milk or soy paneer. Further, we have engaged the Maharashtra Women and Child Development Ministry for implementing the VitaGoat machine in their state-wide programs, along with other major stakeholders like Vigyan Ashram and the World Bank.. SHRIRAM TRANSPORT – HIV/AIDS Awareness Programme In keeping with our strategy to mainstream sustainability within the operations of our clients, we have leveraged our existing relation with Shriram Transport finance Company Ltd (STFCL) to design HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns for its primary client base i.e. truckers who are also a high risk group vis-à-vis the disease. With support from YES BANK, STFCL launched an awareness programme through its regularly organised client contact events – ‘Truck Utsavs’ – held across the country. The programme established contact with STFCL’s client base with the aim of raising awareness on AIDS prevention, protection and treatment amongst the truck driver community and their families. The programme has also provided counselling services, general diagnostic services and referrals to truck driver communities across the country. So far, 14 events have been organised reaching out to > 10,000 direct and > 100,000 indirect beneficiaries at twelve locations in ten states, since September 2007. This programme benefitted from our association the Clinton HIV/AIDS Initiative (CHAI) in India for knowledge support and networking with local NGOs and government authorities at the state level. We have also worked with PSI (Population Services International), SACS (State 30 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 AIDS Control Society), NACO (National AIDS Control Organisation) and local NGOs for support and expertise. HIV/AIDS AWARENESS PROGRAMME AT STFCL’S TRUCK UTSAVS JAIN IRRIGATION’s SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In addition to the Annual Report that JISL publishes every year, the socio-environmental perspective of the company was documented in the Sustainability Report for the year 200708. JISL undertakes significant sustainability initiatives working on innovative technologies and efficient systems to reduce negative environmental impact. YES BANK carried out an independent assessment of these initiatives, assessing JISL’s carbon and water footprint across its Indian operations and recommended additional improvements that help the company to further align its sustainability approach with core business for long-terms sustainability. CLINTON FOUNDATION HIV/AIDS INITIATIVE In our endeavour to combat HIV/AIDS in India, we have partnered the Clinton Foundation’s Clinton HIV/AIDS Initiative (CHAI) in India. CHAI is setting up a post-graduate Nursing Institute focused on HIV/AIDS to address the dearth of highly trained medical nurses across the globe. Its goal is to produce a cadre of highly trained nurses with expertise in HIV/AIDS to take on substantially greater clinical care roles in hospitals and primary healthcare settings. This Institute aims to serve as a global center of excellence for prevention, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS. Government of India has contributed land for this project and YES BANK is an active participant in the development process, helping in by accessing likeminded corporate clients. YES BANK has networked the Clinton Foundation with its corporate partners and is also providing other pro-bono services. 31 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 BANK for BUSINESSES of the FUTURE YES BANK has incorporated Sustainability in its DNA as part of its core business philosophy. We are holistic in our approach – recognising that sustainability itself has to be sustainable. This implies that as a financial institution and emerging corporate, we need to be involved (and are involved) in the sustainable space along its entire value chain – in green and renewable technologies, in BOP markets, in our dealings with our diverse client base, investors, regulators and employees. This also implies that we work to move Sustainable Financing from esoteric realms followed by a few forward thinking institutions, to mainstream financial institutions. We thus approach sustainability neither from a special interest perspective, nor from a principle of charity or philanthropy, but as a clear recognition that the best way to achieve long-term sustainability for our sustainability approach is to demonstrate the Business Case for Sustainability – proving that sustainable solutions work, are profitable and open up new markets hitherto untapped by mainstream financial institutions. As we strive to be the ‘Bank for Businesses of the Future’, laying significant focus on sunrise sectors i.e. IT, life sciences, biotech, infrastructure and more importantly agribusiness, health, education and livelihoods, sustainability will continue to remain the cornerstone of our strategy, ensuring the longevity of our business and that of our clients, helping us to mitigate risk as well as to identify new markets. 32 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 DISCLAIMER In the preparation of the material contained in this document, YES BANK Limited has used information that is publicly available, including information developed in-house. Information gathered & material used in this document is believed to be from reliable sources. YES BANK Limited however does not warrant the accuracy, reasonableness and/or completeness of any information. For data reference to any third party in this material no such party will assume any liability for the same. YES BANK Limited does not in any way through this material solicit any offer for purchase, sale or any financial transaction/commodities/products of any financial instrument dealt in this material. All recipients of this material should before dealing and or transacting in any of the products referred to in this material make their own investigation, seek appropriate professional advice. We have included statements/opinions/recommendations in this document which contain words or phrases such as will , expect should and similar expressions or variations of such expressions, that are forward looking statements . Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by the forward looking statements due to risks or uncertainties associated with our expectations with respect to, but not limited to, exposure to market risks, general economic and political conditions in India and other countries globally, which have an impact on our services and / or investments, the monetary and interest policies of India, inflation, deflation, unanticipated turbulence in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices or other rates or prices, the performance of the financial markets in India and globally, changes in domestic and foreign laws, regulations and taxes and changes in competition in the industry. By their nature, certain market risk disclosures are only estimates and could be materially different from what actually occurs in the future. As a result, actual future gains or losses could materially differ from those that have been estimated. YES BANK Limited and any of its officers directors, personnel and employees, shall not liable for any loss, damage of any nature, including but not limited to direct, indirect, punitive, special, exemplary, consequential, as also any loss of profit in any way arising from the use of this material in any manner. The recipient alone shall be fully responsible/ are liable for any decision taken on the basis of this material. All recipients of this material should before dealing and/or transacting in any of the products referred to in this material make their own investigation, seek appropriate professional advice. The investments discussed in this material may not be suitable for all investors. Any person subscribing to or investigating in any product/financial instruments should do so on the basis of and after verifying the terms attached to such product/financial instrument. Financial products and instruments are subject to market risks and yields may fluctuate depending on various factors affecting capital/debt markets. Please note that past performance of the financial products and instruments does not necessarily indicate the future prospects and performance thereof. Such past performance may or may not be sustained in future. No part of this material may be duplicated in whole or in part in any form and or redistributed without the prior written consent of YES BANK Limited. This material is strictly confidential to the recipient and should not be reproduced or disseminated to anyone else. 33 Transforming Mindsets, Enabling Action 2009-10 ABOUT US FOR BACK COVER YES BANK is an outcome of the professional entrepreneurship of its Founder, Rana Kapoor and his highly competent top management team, to establish a high quality, customer centric, service driven, private Indian Bank catering to the “Future Industries of India”. YES BANK is the only Greenfield license awarded by the RBI in the last 15 years, associated with the finest pedigree investors. YES BANK has fructified into a “full service” commercial Bank that has steadily built Corporate and Institutional Banking, Financial Markets, Investment Banking, Corporate Finance, Business and Transaction Banking, and Retail Banking business lines across the country, and is well equipped to offer a range of products and services to corporate and retail customers. The Bank has adopted international best practices, the highest standards of service quality and operational excellence, with innovative state-of-the-art technology, and offers comprehensive banking and financial solutions to all its valued customers. A key strength and differentiating feature of YES BANK is its knowledge driven approach, which goes beyond the traditional realm of banking, and helps adoption of a diagnostic and prescriptive approach towards superior product structuring. In a short span of 6 years, YES BANK has 185 operational branches in 92 locations across India, with over 200 ATMs across the country along with two National Operating Centers in Mumbai and Gurgaon. YES BANK believes in significant long term strategic investment in its Human Capital to attain a leadership position in India, and today has an employee strength of approximately 3200 employees. 34
