Spirit for Life Corporate Responsibility Report Fiscal Year 2009/10 Contents 01 Our Vision Who We Are Our Chairman 02 Highlights and CEO 04 Who We Are 05 Our Chairman and CEO 06 Being Responsible 07 Building Dialogue 08 Marketplace 14 Environment, Health and Safety 20 Responsible Sourcing 26 People 30 Philanthropy and Community Involvement 34 Program Overview 04 05 36 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 37 Further Information Marketplace Environment, Health and Safety 08 Responsible Sourcing 14 People Philanthropy and Community Involvement 20 26 30 01 Our Vision Our Purpose at Bacardi is to have Spirit for Life in everything we do. By embracing this theme we remind ourselves of our duty of care to the natural world around us: from the many agricultural environments where we source our raw materials, to the communities in which they are made, and the consumers who choose our brands. By living every day our four Values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence we also commit ourselves to building a more sustainable future for all our stakeholders. Our Values Trust Caring Passion Excellence True to In all we do Inspired by our Beyond what each other heritage and is expected our vision Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 02 Highlights Marketplace What we’re doing We have an obligation to market our products “Champions Drink Responsibly” in a responsible way and to encourage our campaign consumers to enjoy our drinks in moderation. We ran a program in 38 markets to engage We believe a self-regulatory approach allows our consumers globally in the message consumers to make informed choices. that “Champions Drink Responsibly”. Thirty lucky consumers spent the day with Find out more on page 08 our ambassador, seven-time Formula 1™ World Champion Michael Schumacher. Environment, Health and Safety What we’re doing With Caring as one of our Values, we aim to ensure New wind turbines at Cataño our people are safe and well at work and that we The Bacardi distillery at Cataño, nurture the natural environment. This is the right Puerto Rico is now partly powered thing to do, as well as being good for our business. by two wind turbines. They represent the largest wind turbine installation Find out more on page 14 in Puerto Rico with a total generating capacity of 1MW. Responsible Sourcing What we’re doing We spend hundreds of millions of dollars sourcing New standard for sugar ingredients and raw materials to create our finished coming soon products. We need to source responsibly in keeping As a member of the Better Sugarcane with our Company Values and in a way that protects Initiative (BSI) Management Committee, the integrity of our brands. Bacardi has contributed to the forthcoming BSI Certification Standard, which will help Find out more on page 20 raise production standards and improve conditions in the sugarcane industry. People What we’re doing It is a fundamental principle of Bacardi that our “ONE Bacardi” launched success is due to great brands and outstanding across the Company people. We have launched a “ONE Bacardi” This painting was created by staff at initiative to better connect and align all of our our Global Operations office in Geneva employees across the globe behind one set of as part of the “ONE Bacardi” rollout. Values, strategies and common ways of working. Staff worked together to create this impressive visual representation of Find out more on page 26 the Bacardi Values. Philanthropy and Community Involvement What we’re doing Wherever we operate around the world, we play an From Banners to Bags active role in contributing to the local community. Bacardi Puerto Rico employed a small Taking part in philanthropy and community programs sewing cooperative to recycle used generates a strong sense of pride in our employees promotional banners into reusable and this is part of our heritage. shopping bags. Other companies followed and the cooperative rehired Find out more on page 30 10 women who had been laid off. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 03 Measuring the results Educating consumers about alcohol content Bacardi Martini France introduced pictograms for use on all spirits and wine-based products in the portfolio, clearly displaying on the back label the 37m Combined circulation of the 700+ pieces of print and online coverage size of the beverage in centiliters that contains one alcohol unit, irrespective of alcohol type. for “Champions Drink Responsibly” Measuring the results We have reduced the energy used per unit of product by 5.9% this year, and by 16.6% over the past four years. 100.0 100.0 97.0 97.0 95.5 95.5 88.6 88.6 83.4 18.9% 8.6% Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2010 Water use efficiency improvement in fiscal 2010 83.4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Measuring the results Embedding responsible sourcing In the past year there has been a good development of the knowledge of our Responsible Sourcing Program and the related standards and issues within our 175 Number of suppliers’ sites linked to Bacardi on Sedex, the database business, especially within the global and regional procurement teams. for sharing ethical audit data Measuring the results “Being “ONE Bacardi” is fundamental to our future success and sustainability as a company.” 230 Senior managers attended the “ONE Bacardi” launch 6,000 Employees had learnt about “ONE Bacardi” and Spirit + event in Barcelona for Life, three months after Séamus E. McBride, launching in Barcelona President and CEO Measuring the results $4 m 2,021 Bacardi giving is focused in five key areas → Education → Environment → Health and Social Services Reported giving by Bacardi Reported hours of time → Arts and Culture companies and brands in volunteered by Bacardi → Disaster Relief Assistance fiscal 2010 employees in the year Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 04 Who We Are The world’s largest privately owned Key numbers spirits group with some of the world’s most recognized brands. 100+ Markets where our products are sold Where we operate Our 5 largest markets Our 5 largest production facilities Top 5 sourcing countries by volume 6,000+ Employees across the world U.S.A. Cataño, Puerto Rico Italy Mexico Pessione, Italy Mexico France Spain U.K. John Dewar and Sons Limited, Scotland Jacksonville, U.S.A. Scotland Brazil Dominican Republic 59m 9-liter cases of our Group Tultitlan, Mexico brands sold in 2010 Leading brands We have six core global brands and a strong portfolio of local brands. Our global brands are: BACARDI rum, GREY GOOSE vodka, DEWAR’S Scotch whisky, MARTINI vermouth, BOMBAY SAPPHIRE gin and ERISTOFF vodka. Our value chain Raw materials and production Packaging and distribution Importance of consumers Natural ingredients such as sugar, grain Our products are then bottled and Our consumers purchase our brands or grapes, herbs and spices are distilled shipped through complex distribution from a variety of retail outlets, mainly or fermented to long-established recipes. channels to our customers. supermarkets, restaurants and bars. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 05 Our Chairman and Chief Executive Our third Corporate Responsibility Report Our focus on improving our Operations processes was recognized in the Company obtaining the “Triple Crown” brings a significant step change in our of certification – ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 history at Bacardi. The transformation of the certification for all our production sites worldwide. This is a tremendous achievement by our Global Operations team. business we signaled last year accelerated with the launch of “ONE Bacardi”, a global Increasingly, our suppliers are registering with the Sedex database to share their ethical performance data, and we program which pulls together all the key are actively participating in the Better Sugarcane Initiative functions of the business, unifying our to develop a certification scheme for sugar. We still have a long way to go in building sustainability into our supply business processes, and providing a chain, so that it underpins our future growth and protects clear business strategy for the future. the environment. We are excited by our transformational leadership program. In defining our purpose as Spirit for Life, and providing the “ONE Bacardi” will help us achieve globally consistent, high training, support and encouragement to all our people to live levels of performance. It supports our ambitions for significant the Bacardi Values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence, future growth and will create opportunities for the great people we aim to embed our initiatives in Corporate Responsibility we have working at Bacardi to fulfill their potential. across the business to benefit all our stakeholders. This is an ongoing process and this report highlights key activities This year, our people everywhere have once again responded which demonstrate our achievements to date. magnificently to their communities’ needs. For example, employees in the U.S.A., Puerto Rico and the Dominican We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact Republic donated pallets of emergency supplies for victims (UNGC) and are committed to meeting its obligations. of the Haiti earthquake. We also made donations for disaster One of those is to publish a statement of our progress relief in several countries including Chile, China and Cuba. which is here in this report (see page 36). In other communities, our people have responded to local needs with energy and enthusiasm, volunteering their time In the area of responsible marketing we have updated and altogether donating $4 million. our Global Marketing Principles and continued to promote responsible drinking. Our “Champions Drink Responsibly” We continue to seek feedback from all our stakeholders campaign has developed in an exciting fashion including both formally and informally, and wish to thank those who coverage on the BBC Top Gear™ program, which is seen by contributed last year. a global audience of 350 million people. We hold a leading role in the industry liaison body which was consulted by the World We are on an exciting journey in transforming our company Health Organization (WHO) as it prepared a Resolution on a to meet future growth opportunities in a sustainable way Global Framework for Alcohol Policy. Bacardi chaired a group and we would welcome your comments on our progress. of CEOs from beverage alcohol companies and created three major initiatives, recognized by the WHO Director-General as a welcome contribution to reducing alcohol-related harm. The launch of our first wind turbines at our Puerto Rico distillery Facundo L. Bacardi Séamus E. McBride signaled our commitment to harness renewable sources of Chairman President and CEO energy. We intend to expand this initiative to other plants where it makes sense to do so. Making changes to our packaging materials will also help us to reduce our carbon footprint. We have already made a good start “right-weighting” our glass bottles in the ERISTOFF global pack redesign. In fact, our efforts to become more energy efficient – and to reduce our water use – have been so successful that we have exceeded our five-year targets a year early. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 06 Being Responsible Caring and Excellence are two of our How does your leadership ensure overall accountability? four Values. They run through everything Overall responsibility for the Corporate Responsibility (CR) we do. We care for the environment strategy rests with the VP Corporate Planning, who around us and the communities in is a member of the Bacardi senior leadership team. The VP Corporate Planning coordinates all CEO initiatives. which we operate and this is reflected Reporting to him is a Corporate Responsibility leadership in our Corporate Responsibility Program. team (CRLT) which comprises senior managers from various global functions and operating companies from We constantly aim for excellence by around the world. The CRLT has responsibility for the striving to be the best at what we do. five core pillars of our Corporate Responsibility Program. Individual CRLT members communicate with people We encourage leadership at all levels in their functional pillar about the CR Program. of our business. As we transform our business into “ONE Bacardi”, our Values Policies and Corporate Responsibility targets We have developed policies for each of the five pillars bind us together and help us create of our Corporate Responsibility Program and targets are robust systems of good governance. now being integrated into our corporate planning system. This provides for greater visibility of progress against the agreed targets, which will support our business transformation process and will ensure alignment of our objectives globally. Our Governance Structure Adhering to international standards Our Environmental Policy adheres to the Precautionary Board and Principle established by the 1992 Rio Declaration on Chairman Environment and Development. This states that complete scientific certainty is not necessary before measures are taken to prevent environmental damage. President and CEO Our employee Code of Conduct is based on widely recognized principles of sound governance and articulates our high standards on issues such as legal compliance, Bacardi senior conflicts of interest, financial reporting, competition, leadership team anti-corruption practices and social responsibility. Each year our key managers have to certify their compliance with the Code of Conduct and expressly note any exceptions. The certifications are reviewed by our CR leadership team Compliance Committee and the results are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Five areas Marketplace Environment, Responsible Sourcing People Philanthropy and of focus Health and Safety Community Involvement Global functions Operating companies Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 07 Building Dialogue We recognize that we need to connect We actively engage with all of our stakeholders so that we know their concerns and can respond accordingly. with those groups who affect or By listening to them and through our own internal business are affected by our business – our processes, we are able to prioritize the most important issues for us to address. This process of establishing stakeholders. They are all important our most material impacts as a business has determined to us. We need to consider their interests the content of this report. as we seek to develop our business. Our ultimate stakeholder is the consumer who buys our products. At the end of fiscal 2010 we initiated a consumer We do not operate in isolation. For 148 years we have research program to explore attitudes to Corporate recognized we are part of the society around us. So we Responsibility generally and more specifically in relation understand the need to engage our stakeholders in dialogue. to the responsibilities of companies like Bacardi. We asked For example, we work with our consumers to communicate consumers about the issues which they consider to be responsible drinking messages and with our suppliers to make important and what environmental and social initiatives sure that they meet our Responsible Sourcing Standards. were relevant for Bacardi to undertake. NGOs We exchange views on Local communities alcohol issues with NGOs Bacardi has always seen in various ways including itself as part of the community. at the EU Alcohol and Health All over the world our businesses Shareholders Forum and through the contribute to their local communities As Corporate Responsibility International Center for Customers through employee volunteering, becomes more mainstream, the Alcohol Policies (ICAP). We continue to respond to donating money and in-kind support, and partnering with family members and shareholders requests for information from who own Bacardi have a growing organizations that can help our customers who increasingly interest in this area of our work. leverage further support. expect us to have a Corporate They are aware that we need to Responsibility Program in place. manage risks to the future They expect their suppliers – success of the business. including us – to be acting responsibly, just as we expect Consumers the same of our suppliers. We have run extensive research in multiple countries to understand Regulators our consumers’ attitudes and ambitions We engage with regulators in general and specifically as they through our trade bodies, in one-to-one meetings and relate to alcohol. We are using the through written responses outputs of this research to ensure to policy consultation that all our programs and messages documents. are as relevant as they can be to consumers’ needs. Employees Suppliers We launched a new leadership We tell our suppliers how approach to manage, develop and grow Industry associations they need to meet the our people in fiscal year 2010. It is By working with our requirements of our Responsible focused around creating “ONE Bacardi” colleagues in other beverage Sourcing Standards both through and training everyone in how to operate companies, we can learn from our ethical auditing program as part of a high-performing team. their experiences and together and also as part of our core We will be drawing on our Value of we are able to make more of a procurement activities. Caring to create a Sustainability difference on industry-wide Framework that encourages everyone Corporate Responsibility to engage with our Corporate issues, such as responsible Responsibility Program. marketing, drinking and sourcing. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 08 Marketplace Key achievements Michael Schumacher was my Designated Driver! Stéphanie was impressed by Michael Just before Schumacher’s driving but also by his commitment to the message that drinking and driving our drive I don’t mix. Since her return to Bacardi France, asked Michael: Stéphanie has been enthusiastically spreading the message that, if you are out drinking, you “Are you going should get a Designated Driver like she did! to impress me?” Visit www.championsdrinkresponsibly.com He did! Stéphanie Touchet, Junior Brand Manager, Bacardi France Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Marketplace continued 09 Have we met this year’s targets? Most consumers who choose to drink We successfully developed the “Champions Drink alcohol do so in moderation. However, Responsibly” campaign and increased media alcohol can cause harm if it is misused. coverage of the campaign by more than our 10% target in fiscal 2010 compared with 2009. We therefore feel we have an obligation We reported to the EU Commission on progress to both market our products responsibly made on our commitments to the EU Alcohol and and encourage consumers to drink in a Health Forum. These are long-term projects which responsible manner. We believe that our we continue to monitor. self-regulatory approach is one of the We took a leadership role in global alcohol initiatives through GAPG, a forum for engaging with the WHO most important ways in which we can and contributing towards reducing alcohol-related contribute to combating the harmful use harm. Our CEO was the GAPG Chairman during the of alcohol, so that consumers can make year under review, and, with other industry CEOs, made a formal commitment to the WHO by launching informed choices. three key initiatives, through the International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP). How does this challenge our business? We enhanced our work with the International We respond positively to multiple challenges in our industry, Bartenders Association (IBA) to train bartenders in including pressures to restrict the availability of alcohol, responsible selling, mainly in the EU and Asia, and limitations on advertising content and placement and calls exceeded our target of reaching 20,000. for higher taxes. We partially achieved our ambition to strengthen trade associations in developing markets. Progress One of the ways in which we meet these demands is by was made with TABBA (Thailand) and FSPA (China) in adhering to marketing codes in our businesses across the developing their agendas and increasing investment world and by having an integrated communications approach and focus. Bacardi Chile took the Chair of APROCOR, to educating consumers about drinking responsibly. its local social aspects organization. We continue to work with other companies in Central America to see It is very difficult to estimate how many people have changed if we can form an effective trade association which their behavior as a result of a particular campaign. We do track should also focus on social aspects. how many “opportunities to see” are generated by our media work and we conduct research to test how our campaigns We have achieved our aim to have responsibility have been received. When we asked consumers about our messages on all packaging materials. “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign, we received 600 responses. Of these, 79% demonstrated they understood We have achieved compliance with the European the core message that drinking and driving don’t mix. We Spirits Organisation (CEPS) European Compliance understand that changing behaviors is a multi-year project Charter and implemented the Bacardi Global and results will only show up in general statistics on alcoholMarketing Principles in those EU countries where related harm. But we appreciate that some of our stakeholders our brands are distributed. would like to hear more from us about the effects of our consumer campaigns, and we will continue to monitor progress. 30 winners of our Designated Driver competition Kids and alcohol don’t mix! Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen joined The Century Council to bring “Ask, Listen, Learn: Kids and Alcohol Don’t Mix” to the were driven by Michael Schumacher at the Hank Kline Boys and Girls Club in Miami, Ascari Race Track in Spain Florida in February 2010. The program encourages kids to “say ‘YES’ to a healthy 37m combined circulation of the 700+ lifestyle and ‘NO’ to underage drinking”. Visit www.asklistenlearn.com pieces of print and online coverage for “Champions Drink Responsibly” Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 10 Marketplace continued How do we reach consumers? “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign Our flagship consumer campaign uses seven-time Formula 1™ World Champion Michael Schumacher to promote the idea that drinking and driving don’t mix. This year’s focus was about going beyond raising awareness: ultimately we want to engage consumers and influence their behavior. This is a challenging and ambitious agenda. In the future the message that drinking and driving don’t mix will sit under a broader theme about responsible drinking in general. We plan to appoint another ambassador next year to lead this expansion. Driver’s Corner Michael Schumacher – Designated Driver competition Over 36,000 consumers have visited Bacardi Germany’s Driver’s This competition encouraged consumers and employees to Corner at 68 events over the past five years. Driver’s Corner engage with the “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign, encourages designated drivers by offering them free soft and to complete their entry they had to answer a few questions beverages for the evening. about drinking and driving. Visit www.driverscorner.de Thirty consumers and four employees each won an all-inclusive trip covering flights, accommodation and food to the Ascari Race Resort in southern Spain and a drive with Michael Schumacher as their “Designated Driver”. The winners also learnt more about their options when going out as a designated driver, with our BACARDI brand mixologist making a selection of non-alcoholic cocktails for them. Day two of the event was opened up to selected media from As a company based in Bermuda, what do you around the world (excluding the U.S.A.) to enjoy a drive with do there to discourage people from drink driving? Michael and talk to him about the campaign. The invited media – including Hello!, OK! and Maxim – had an audience that S ince 2007, Bacardi Limited has sponsored matched the campaign’s target demographic of Legal Drinking the free “Let US Drive” taxi service run by Age (LDA) – 34-year-olds. The combined global reach of all local responsible drinking organization CADA media outlets at the event (which consequently reported on in Hamilton, Bermuda. The service is available the campaign) was 37 million people. on Friday nights and has so far taken 4,000 people home safely. The Designated Driver competition took place in 38 participating markets and one in three employees also entered for their chance to be an employee winner. The competition resulted in more than 250,000 visits to the “Champions Drink Responsibly” Web site. Spreading the “Champions Drink Responsibly” message In June 2009, Michael Schumacher was “revealed” as The Stig™, the mystery driver on the hugely popular BBC TV show Key achievements “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign in Italy The Italian business set up a “Champions Drink Responsibly” page on Facebook™ to communicate the responsible drinking message. The page includes campaign information, the virals and discussion and comments. Responsible driving At a BACARDI B-Live event in Thailand, we served 750 alcohol-free cocktails and booked cabs for over 350 people at our “Champions Drink Responsibly” stand. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Marketplace continued 11 Top Gear™. During the show, Michael Schumacher explained cocktails with our products. As part of this, they promoted his role with Bacardi Limited and promoted the “Drinking and responsible drinking. This was prompted by actions the Driving Don’t Mix” message. The show was seen by 7.3 million Russian authorities had taken to tighten drinking regulations viewers in the U.K., with an estimated global audience of and a recognition that we need to play our part in tackling 350 million people. problem drinking in Russia. The drink driving simulation viral was also launched on BBC Top Reaching consumers through the trade Gear™. The viral featured Michael Schumacher and simulated Working with bartenders the effects of drinking alcohol while driving. The viral was Since 2006 we have enjoyed a growing relationship with the seeded on YouTube™ and also other digital sites. To date, this International Bartenders Association (IBA). Working with the first viral has received over 171,000 hits. It can be viewed at IBA’s educational committee, we produced a new video to www.youtube.com/bacardiltdchampions. improve the delivery of the IBA’s Social Responsibility training module for bartenders. Internally, our new Global Sales A second viral featuring mixology premiered in front of 70,000 Effectiveness team is looking at a number of issues to promote people in November 2009 at the Race of Champions event in and share best practice, including the perfect serve of our Beijing, China. The event had a worldwide audience of 16.9 products. In the U.K., a module called “Pour fection” will be million people. This viral challenges one of the world’s best developed into a manual of best practice during fiscal 2011. mixologists, Salvatore Calabrese, to make a cocktail in the passenger seat of a car while being driven by Michael Some cocktails are lower alcohol than other beverages Schumacher. Calabrese fails to make the beverage, thus Our premium products are designed to be savored; we are proving that drinking and driving don’t mix. To date, more than not in the business of promoting volume consumption. Our 400,000 people have seen the viral. ambition is to increase our market share from other alcoholic beverages by emphasizing the quality and experience of The campaign was the winner of the 2009 Public Relations enjoying our products. Consultants Association (PRCA) award for Best CSR Campaign. Many of our products make the perfect base for cocktails. Campaign for Smarter Drinking In the U.K., we introduced a Summer Drinks Menu for our In the U.K., Drinkaware, a charity funded by the drinks industry on-trade market, showing that a measure of spirits and a mixer and trade, created the national “Why Let Good Times Go Bad?” makes a refreshing summer beverage that is also lower in campaign, which is the five-year, $150 million commitment alcohol content than the beer and wine alternatives: a spirit by the industry to produce a responsible drinking campaign. measure plus a fruit juice or mixer is 1.4 units; a pint of 4% In particular, the campaign targets binge drinking by LDA – beer is 2.4 units; while a 250ml glass of wine is 3 units. 24-year-olds. Without talking down to LDA adults, the campaign, which was launched in September 2009, uses What role does the business engaging imagery and helpful suggestions to challenge transformation process play? young people’s behaviors. The business transformation process, which started with the launch of “ONE Bacardi” in September 2009, redefined the Five million Bacardi products carried neck collars to roles and responsibilities of key executives at a local, regional communicate the campaign’s messages, which also appeared and global level. For example, local country managers are on shelves, fridges, mirrors and beer mats. now responsible for external affairs activities in their markets, including both responsible marketing issues and philanthropy Advising Russian consumers and community involvement. Their performance in these new In Russia, we successfully implemented a consumer areas of responsibility is now assessed as part of their regular awareness campaign in liquor stores. Between August and management review. December 2009, Bacardi representatives appeared regularly in 11 Moscow stores to educate customers about how to make Using new channels “Why Let Good to engage consumers Times Go Bad?” As the sponsor of the Gold This Drinkaware campaign Coast Titans rugby league club, in the U.K. tackled binge Bacardi Australia used TV adverts drinking by LDA adults. at the games as well as the This image of a pint glass team’s Web site to promote with “H2O” written on it as the chance to win a drive with if it were a beer brand Michael Schumacher. name was supported by the line “Free pints all night – ask your bar staff for a drink of water”. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 12 Marketplace continued How do we encourage our people to practice change the regulatory landscape in our markets around responsible marketing? the world, we have been increasing our focus and training to engage senior management in those countries with We work hard to create awareness among our global marketing our responsible marketing agenda. colleagues about the issues facing the industry as we are committed to complying with the marketing codes to which we have agreed. How do we work with other organizations? Global Alcohol Producers Group Our Global Marketing Principles, first launched in 2004, Bacardi plays a significant role in the Global Alcohol Producers are our marketing code and underpin our global marketing Group (GAPG), which is a forum for engaging with the WHO and compliance. Together with the implementation Guidelines contributing towards reducing alcohol-related harm. Our CEO which we published in 2007, this now represents the was the Chair of the GAPG CEO group in the year under review. platform for our responsible marketing strategy. For more There are three key areas of work: self-regulation; drink driving; information see www.bacardilimited.com. and non-commercial alcohol. These projects are overseen by ICAP, of which we are a member. Training We launched the second edition of our Global Marketing We promote the benefits of establishing a self-regulatory Principles and Guidelines in September 2009. The most framework for alcohol companies as the most efficient and significant changes were in the areas of digital marketing effective way to tackle responsible consumption issues. and energy beverages. We used the launch and rollout of our WHO studies in low-income countries have shown alcohol “ONE Bacardi” initiative to ensure that 1,450 senior managers to be present in between 33% and 69% of fatally injured received their own personal copy, in addition to all our drivers. We work closely with local trade bodies and senior marketing agencies. All new joiners also receive a copy. government officials in these countries to establish how best to increase awareness of alcohol harm and to discourage The Bacardi Marketing Way training course now includes drink driving. We also work with policymakers to learn more an enhanced section highlighting the value of building about the impacts from the non-commercial alcohol sector, sustainability considerations into brand development where traditional local beverages and counterfeit products and innovation decisions. are unregulated. With that course limited to those people who have been with EU Alcohol and Health Forum the business for a minimum of two years, we have begun to We take part in the meetings of the EU Alcohol and Health develop an e-learning module for everyone in the business, Forum and, in April 2009, we exhibited at the Open Forum. and especially those in marketing functions. The course aims As well as showcasing our commitments to the Forum, we to build a globally consistent marketing approach by using brought examples of our Global Marketing Principles and the day-to-day situations where marketers are planning and IBA bartender training guide, which participants were free to executing communications which need to conform to our take. In April 2010, we reported to the Commission on progress marketing codes. made on the three commitments in calendar year 2009. Increasing internal awareness of the policy environment EU Road Safety Charter commitments In fiscal 2010, the Executive Board of the World Health We have signed the EU Road Safety Charter which commits Organization (WHO) endorsed a draft resolution on alcohol us to sharing good practice on road safety. The EU target (subsequently adopted in May 2010) that will encourage set in 2006 to halve road accidents by 2010 will not be member governments to create national alcohol policies based met but policymakers have welcomed the development of on a global policy framework. As this has the potential to our successful “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign. Key achievements Advertising the right way to drink Knowing your limit Our Spanish and Dutch businesses played a leading Bacardi Martini France introduced pictograms for role in their respective trade associations and social use on all spirits and wine-based products in the aspects organizations producing TV and Internet portfolio, clearly displaying on the back label the campaigns to promote responsible drinking. size of the beverage in centiliters that contains one alcohol unit, irrespective of alcohol type. The supporting Web site is named after the recommended maximum unit intake for men and women. It also communicates on the alcohol equivalency between standard glasses of wine, beer and spirits. Visit www.2340.fr Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Marketplace continued 13 EFRD and CEPS This is the case in China. Nonetheless, the Foreign Spirits We are members of the European Forum for Responsible Producers Association, of which Bacardi is a member, Drinking, the spirits industry’s social aspects organization, extended its work there this year by running a drink driving and also the European Spirits Organisation (CEPS), which campaign which included statements on brand advertising is the industry’s trade association. CEPS has long had as well as partnership projects. The association also produced a commitment to responsible marketing and promoting a social responsibility brochure to highlight the various different responsible consumption and we are on track to meet our initiatives being undertaken by importers. 2010 commitments to the CEPS European Compliance Charter. One element of this is the commitment to include Active Mexican trade association responsible drinking messages on 75% of all advertising, Fundación de Investigaciones Sociales, A.C. (FISAC) where laws permit. was formed in 1981 by Mexico’s leading wine and liquor companies, traders and mass media outlets. It actively Promoting responsible drinking in the U.S.A. promotes responsible marketing and drinking. One major Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. continues to be a proud member of The program is TIPPS – interactive workshops to promote Century Council (TCC), a national not-for-profit organization healthy living. The workshops are designed to give teachers, dedicated to eliminating underage drinking and drink driving, parents and health professionals the tools they need as well as promoting responsible decision-making about to educate young people about the potential harm from beverage alcohol. The Company provided additional support misusing alcohol and the benefits of a healthy lifestyle. to several TCC activities this past year. In order to evaluate TIPPS and make improvements, FISAC In October 2009, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz questionnaires were filled in before and after the course partnered with TCC to bring a life-saving lesson about the by a sample of 221 students from public and private high dangers of drink driving and underage drinking to Fort schools. The results showed a change in their knowledge Lauderdale High School students. During National Teen Driver and attitude towards drinking alcohol in moderation. Safety Week, Brandon Silveria, a young man who was involved in an alcohol-related crash at age 17 just before his high Presenting our point of view school prom, and his father Tony spoke to students about We lobby national and international legislators and promote the importance of “making the right choice” about alcohol. our view that we feel we can meet our responsibilities to And if students are under the age of 21, the only responsible society largely through a self-regulatory approach. This does decision is not to drink. not, however, mean we are against all forms of legislation Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. helped the Oregon Liquor Control in this area. Commission to create and distribute a televised public service announcement for its Safe Holidays campaign. For example, as a member of The Century Council, Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. continually monitors and supports state legislative Developing countries efforts to fight hardcore drink driving and selling to minors. Working in developing countries presents different challenges. In 2010, The Century Council submitted letters or testimony in It is often the case that governance systems there are support of 17 anti-drink driving bills in 11 states: Alabama, weaker than they are in the developed world and we have a California, Indiana, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, responsibility to strengthen industry and trade representation. South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and Wyoming. These However, imported products often form a small share of legislative solutions range from rehabilitative and educational the local market which limits our influence in developing programs to penalties. self-regulatory initiatives. What next? → A ctively engage in the Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG) in specified markets where Bacardi has a significant presence. →C  onsider our current commitments to the EU Alcohol and Health Forum and broaden these through additional projects. BACARDI BREEZER →D  evelop additional tools to support the Global – the lower alcohol option Marketing Principles training in order to drive marketing compliance. In the U.K. we produced shelf barkers to inform shoppers that our BACARDI BREEZER coolers →D  evelop the “Champions Drink Responsibly” were lower in alcohol than many of the other campaign so as to reach a wider audience. beverages they could buy. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 14 Environment, Health and Safety Key achievements New wind turbines at Cataño The Bacardi distillery at Cataño, Puerto Rico is now partly powered by two wind turbines. They represent This sort of the largest wind turbine installation in Puerto Rico with a total generating capacity of 1MW. forward thinking Visit www.youtube.com/user/BacardiLimited is exactly what we must encourage in Puerto Rico. Luis G. Fortuño, Puerto Rico Governor Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Environment, Health and Safety continued 15 Have we met this year’s targets? Our success is built on the best efforts We have continued to improve the Bacardi EHS of our people and we strive to ensure they Global Standards and Codes of Practice. Two new are safe and well at work. With Caring as Codes were implemented covering EHS Assessment of Capital Projects and Workplace Transport Safety; one of our Values, we also aim to sustain and all Codes have achieved more than 95% the environment so both the Company and compliance among our worldwide operating plants. people everywhere can enjoy the planet’s We successfully achieved certification of all our natural resources now and in the future. facilities under ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 by our deadline of December 2009. We have improved our EHS reporting, with all sites Why are Environment, Health and Safety now routinely reporting minor injuries and so important? environmental incidents. The reporting (and We have a responsibility to steward the planet’s finite investigation) of serious near misses has also resources as we run our business. Similarly we recognize significantly increased. our obligation to limit our carbon footprint: man-made climate change threatens the future of our planet, and people and We successfully reduced our lost time accident rate (LTAR) to 5.6 per million worked hours, businesses everywhere must take action. As well as being bettering our target of 6.1 and achieving a the right thing to do, managing Environment, Health and Safety 16% improvement compared with fiscal 2009. (EHS) risks is also good for our business. Reducing our CO2 emissions through energy efficiency measures will save us We achieved a water efficiency improvement of money; looking after our people and producing less waste 8.6% and improved our energy efficiency by 5.9%, will help us meet the expectations of our consumers and significantly exceeding our internal goal for each. customers and maintain our license to operate; and being frugal with natural resources means we will continue to Excellent progress was made in fiscal 2010 have access to the raw materials we need to manufacture as the commercial side of the business was our products. constructively engaged on the topic of developing sustainability criteria into innovation activities. What are the challenges we face? Several right-weighting projects were implemented and the drafting of a Sustainable Packaging There is a generally reduced acceptance of risk in society Manual was initiated. today and a growing understanding that the environment needs greater protection. So the key challenge we face is one of increasing expectations from customers and consumers and, on their behalf, regulators, who are concerned about a broader range of areas. This impacts our products, our packaging and point-of-sale (POS) items. Greater stringency on EHS performance also affects our suppliers because we need them to meet higher standards. 1MW total generating capacity Changing tomorrow’s supply chain today Bacardi is a member of the Future Supply Chain (a collaboration between senior of the new wind turbines business managers and the Capgemini consultancy), which has conducted a study 900 tonnes of CO2 saved by having into how to improve the sustainability of supply chains in Europe. Following the launch of the 2016 Future Supply Chain document in 2008, Bacardi is now also wind turbines instead of using part of the working group that is organizing energy from fossil fuels the pilot of a new logistics model alongside companies such as Mars and Nestlé. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 16 Environment, Health and Safety continued How do we manage these challenges? Through training and awareness, we are increasingly making We take a management systems approach to quality, EHS considerations routine for commercial decision-making. environment and health and safety. In fiscal 2010, Bacardi EHS is now formally considered for all new capital projects became the first major spirits company to achieve certification and when our new Sustainable Packaging Manual is completed under the International Organization for Standardization’s in 2011, environmental issues will be routinely part of our ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and the Occupational Health and Safety packaging decisions. Assessment Specification OHSAS 18001 for all our production facilities worldwide. Are we improving our performance? Yes we are. We have made significant progress against all our This “Triple Crown” of certification goes to the heart of our KPIs: water use, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and commitment to our consumers, employees and trade partners lost time accident rate. to deliver the finest quality brands available and the safest working conditions, as well as to reduce our impact on the How we measure our performance environment. It demonstrates that our longstanding pursuit of Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute totals excellence in everything we do is consistent with the concept and efficiency metrics. Absolute measures are straightforward of continuous improvement embodied in the management – for example, total number of accidents, total quantity of water systems approach. consumed. Efficiency metrics are normalized against an appropriate output or other parameter – for example accidents Is EHS really embedded in how we do business? per one million hours worked or water used per unit of product The Company is working on achieving success through manufactured. Efficiency metrics are calculated by taking a becoming “ONE Bacardi” and our efforts to build a consistent weighted average of the individual efficiencies of the different safety culture throughout Bacardi are entirely consistent with products and processes used throughout the business. In this this initiative. Our commitment to EHS also reinforces the way, we prevent arbitrary distortions of the overall efficiency company’s four Values, and, in particular, Caring. factor by changes in our product mix or sourcing location. Under the “ONE Bacardi” program, EHS issues have become Water use increasingly central to how we do business. We had already In fiscal 2010, total water consumption reduced by 27.3% made EHS integral to site operations through the use of Key over the previous year and by 41.4% over the past four years. Performance Indicators (KPIs). We have now developed the Twenty per cent of the drop in 2010 is due to improved Bacardi Operating System (BOS) to define best practice for our water use efficiency and the remainder is due to increased manufacturing sites. This includes best practice in the areas of outsourcing. The water saved over the past four years is Lean Manufacturing and Quality, as well as EHS. And we have more than 1.35 billion liters, a quantity that if shipped by begun to evaluate our sites’ status (“bronze”, “silver”, “gold”) rail would require a train more than 217km long. against a comprehensive set of EHS criteria, including safety and resource efficiency. We will use the results of these Water use efficiency, that is the amount of water we use evaluations internally to drive improvements. per unit of output, improved by 8.6% over the previous year, and by 17.4% over the past four years. This means we have already exceeded our five-year target of a 15% reduction. Key achievements 27.3% reduction in water 8.6% improvement in water use 11.3% reduction in total energy consumption this year efficiency this year used this year Total water use cubic meters (000s) Water use efficiency – combined index Total energy used gigajoules (000s) 3,270 3,140 100.0 98.7 2,460 2,420 2,370 92.8 90.4 2,220 2,750 2,640 82.6 1,970 1,920 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Environment, Health and Safety continued 17 Our energy efficiency improved by 5.9% over the previous year, and by 16.6% over the past four years. We have now surpassed our five-year target of 12% improvement. Similarly to our water use efficiency, this has been achieved through better operating discipline, conservation measures and installing new, more efficient equipment and energy recovery systems. Energy sources The push to increase our use of renewable energy continues to show good progress. The overall use of renewable fuel (biogas) as a percentage of total fuel dropped slightly in fiscal 2010 but our use of renewable electricity increased Renewable energy in Italy significantly thanks to a new contract for hydroelectric power Our Italian operations, including manufacturing sites at Pessione for our operations in Italy. As a result, the portion of total and Santo Stefano Belbo and offices in Turin and Milan, have renewable energy (electricity and fuels) currently being used contracted for renewable hydro-electric power supply totaling by our manufacturing facilities is 30% more than in fiscal close to 10,000 megawatt-hours per year, leading to zero CO2 2009 and 70% higher than in fiscal 2006. emissions instead of 4,000 tonnes per year. Greenhouse gases Bacardi continues to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through improved energy efficiency, shifting to fuels with lower carbon emissions and an increased reliance on renewable We have achieved this by encouraging a sharper focus in energy. In fiscal 2010, we reduced our total GHG emissions by this area. Sites have responded by a combination of better 18.9% from the previous year. Over the past four years we have operating discipline and conservation measures, as well as reduced our GHG emissions by 30.6%. by installing new water-efficient equipment. Our GHG intensity – that is the quantity of GHG emissions per Energy use unit of production – did almost as well. Our GHG intensity Our total energy use reduced by 11.3% over the previous reduced by 9.2% over the previous year. Over the past four year and by 19.9% over the past four years. years, we have reduced our GHG intensity by 25.1%. To evaluate our progress on total energy use, we must While we did not set a five-year target for GHG emissions, we calculate the total fuel we have used. Our working assumption anticipated that we could achieve a reduction in GHG intensity is that our electric power is generated from burning fuel with a commensurate with our energy efficiency target, i.e., a five-year conversion efficiency of 33.3% (the approximate international improvement of about 12%. We have exceeded that target, average). In the future, we plan to focus more on carbon achieving more than twice that percentage in only four years. emissions since the data are more readily available. 5.9% improvement in energy 18.9% reduction in greenhouse 9.2% improvement in greenhouse efficiency this year gas emissions this year gas intensity this year Energy efficiency – combined index Total CO2e tonnes GHGs per unit production 100.0 97.0 142,250 137,160 100.0 95.5 133,900 95.2 92.8 88.6 121,660 83.4 82.5 74.9 98,690 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 18 Environment, Health and Safety continued Lost time accident rate We continue to improve our safety record, lowering our lost time accident rate (LTAR) to 5.6 accidents per million worked hours, a 16% improvement over the previous year (6.7). We are therefore ahead of our 2011 target of a rate of 6.0. We have achieved this by establishing safer working methods through strict adherence to our Codes of Practice, by including safety in the performance evaluations of all Operations employees and through the increased operational discipline required by our management systems under OHSAS 18001. However, the LTAR is dynamic, so we will continue to focus on this key area for the business. Absence rate Heat recovery system at La Galarza, Mexico We continue to focus on improving the reporting accuracy of Our distillery in La Galarza, Mexico installed a heat recovery absence rate. We now believe that operating sites are doing a system, transferring heat from the “vinaza” – the stillage from good job of reporting absence as we define this metric. Recent the distillation process – to the water entering the boiler. The results show an increase in the reported rate, which likely system has increased the distillery’s energy efficiency by 16%. reflects more complete reporting of absence rather than an actual increase in absences. No five-year target was established for this metric. Spills and releases Bacardi sites reported a number of minor releases under How do the smaller production sites reduce our rigorous environmental reporting system such as a energy and water consumption? small spillage of product or raw material while filling tanks or containers, or breakage of product bottles resulting in Upgrading equipment and providing training to clean-up of spilled product and waste. However, no significant staff works everywhere! By fitting a new bottle environmental spills or releases were reported in fiscal 2010. rinser rather than a bottle washer and by training employees about water consumption, our small Fines and prosecutions facility in Uruguay has reduced its water In fiscal 2010, we received no material fines relating to consumption by nearly 40% over the last two environmental compliance. We have defined “material” years. Over the same period, upgrading the as any fine greater than $5,000. electrical system, removing obsolete equipment and replacing the plant lighting system have reduced energy consumption by a quarter. Key achievements 16% reduction in lost time 9% increase in reported employee accident rate this year absence rate this year Number of lost time accidents per million worked hours Employee absence rate (%) Naturally lighter and brighter 13.1 2.4 2.4 2.2 At our Bacardi Brazil facility, installing 11.2 2.0 clear roof panels has allowed more natural 9.3 light in and reduced the amount of energy 6.7 used to illuminate the site. 5.6 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Environment, Health and Safety continued 19 Sustainable packaging We recognize that around half of our broad carbon footprint (i.e., including suppliers and distribution) comes from packaging and this is therefore a key area of focus for us. We have taken steps to reduce the weight of some products in our markets. In the US we have moved our 1.75-liter CASTILLO rum and BACARDI Party Drinks ranges from glass containers to PET, reducing the weight per bottle by 834g. We anticipate this will save more than 3,226 tonnes of GHG emissions per year. In Europe we have harmonized the BACARDI BREEZER portfolio to one 275ml version and reduced the bottle glass weight by 19g. This will save 9.3% in weight and an estimated 1,400 tonnes of GHG emissions. Biodiversity at Poniel, Scotland We are also taking the concept of “right-weighting” into each At our new warehouse facility in Poniel, Scotland we have redesign. For example, the newly redesigned ERISTOFF vodka planted a total of 82,000 trees and shrubs as well as areas bottles are lighter than the previous version. To ensure this of grassland and wildflower zones. The site also contains water habitats in the form of a Sustainable Urban Drainage System concept of “right-weighting” is embedded into our ways of (SUDS) retention pond and two natural watercourses. Protected working, we are developing the Bacardi Sustainable Packaging species such as water vole, otter and birds including nesting Manual which will be rolled out to Marketing and Innovation oystercatchers have already been seen at the retention pond. teams, plus all the Packaging Development teams around the world. Working with industry colleagues Bacardi has actively participated in working with other major beverage companies through the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) to advance sustainable practices in our industry. In the first quarter of 2010, BIER completed Beverage Industry Sector Guidance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting. This groundbreaking document builds on internationally recognized reporting protocols to establish standardized methods for establishing a GHG inventory for operations and practices unique to the beverage industry. Bacardi is currently working with a team of industry peers through the Beverage Industry Environment Roundtable to develop a similar protocol for establishing a water footprint for beverage operations. What next? Having a better party →D  eliver continual improvement in environmental In the U.S.A., our BACARDI performance. Party Drinks range is now packaged in PET instead of → Improve lost time accident rate by 10% on fiscal 2010. glass. The change means we →M  aintain 100% certification in ISO 14001 and use less energy transporting OHSAS 18001. the lighter weight bottles. → E xpand Safety Performance Tracking to all Company activities. →C  omplete Bacardi Sustainable Packaging Manual. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 20 Responsible Sourcing Key achievements Tate & Lyle encouraged by progress towards better sugarcane standards We are working with Bacardi Tate & Lyle is an important supplier of molasses on the Better Sugarcane to Bacardi and is also a fellow member of the Better Sugarcane Initiative, which is on Initiative Certification Standard. the threshold of an exciting breakthrough. We understand the importance The forthcoming Better Sugarcane Initiative Certification Standard is expected to help raise of delivering a robust and production standards and improve conditions in credible standards process. the sugarcane industry. Hari Morar, Technical Director – International, Tate & Lyle Sugars Visit www.bettersugarcane.org Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible Sourcing continued 21 Have we met this year’s targets? We spend hundreds of millions of dollars We partially achieved our aim to establish KPIs for sourcing ingredients and raw materials to responsible sourcing. The number of suppliers we create our finished products and to build successfully encouraged to join Sedex is one KPI. We are still establishing what the others should be. our brands. As we expand our business, it is more important than ever that we We have only partially achieved our target to have all our very high risk suppliers complying with our policy can source responsibly – in keeping with or to have an action plan in place for compliance. our Company Values and in a way that We have implemented our “Responsible Sourcing protects the integrity of our brands. Compliance and Audit Guidelines Policy” in the key markets of Mexico, Brazil, India and China. Why is responsible sourcing important to us? Our audit schedule addresses the supplier audit We need to ensure our key suppliers are operating in fatigue issue by being both in line with industry a sustainable manner so that we are in a good position benchmarks on frequency and following the to continue to build the excellent relationships we enjoy common Sedex framework. with them. We had 175 suppliers join Sedex or, if they were Bacardi sources from, operates in and creates finished already members, become fully linked to Bacardi. products in many countries, including developing countries This exceeds our target of 100. where achieving good workplace standards, environmental protection and governance has historically been difficult. We We are still working on a supplier audit strategy with operate our business to high ethical standards and to ensure our Global Quality Department, which will ensure this we needed to increase our focus in the sourcing area. all suppliers are screened on responsible sourcing So, in October 2007 we established our Responsible Sourcing issues. Initial pilots have been conducted in Portugal. Standards which set minimum levels of performance that our suppliers have to meet. The next step was to undertake an initial risk assessment on our packaging and ingredients suppliers so we could focus our resources on priority areas. One of these areas is agriculture, and especially the sourcing of products derived from sugarcane, such as molasses and cane alcohol. Historically, the sugarcane industry has been challenged by environmental, human and labor rights issues. We mainly source molasses and cane alcohol from Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Fiji. Each of these regions has its own unique culture, situation and environment which means that we have adapted our approach to promoting our Responsible Sourcing Standards accordingly. With the benefit of its own extensive marketing experience, The Better Sugarcane Initiative (BSI) Bacardi played a pivotal role now has 9 large producer members, in helping to define the BSI’s from 5 different regions. approach to claims and labeling. David Willers, General Manager, Better Sugarcane Initiative Ltd Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 22 Responsible Sourcing continued How are we responding to these risks? Working with suppliers We respond to these risks through a process of engagement: We have worked very hard to develop the effective with our suppliers, our Procurement colleagues and the wider communication of our Responsible Sourcing Standards industry. First of all, we explain our Responsible Sourcing to our suppliers. Our teams in India and China have been Standards and Suppliers’ Code of Practice to all of our systematically engaging their packaging and ingredients suppliers. We are making compliance with our Responsible suppliers, introducing them to our Responsible Sourcing Sourcing Standards a key part of our new commercial contracts Standards and Suppliers’ Code of Practice. This is challenging with molasses and alcohol suppliers. work that takes a lot of time as many suppliers in these areas have a lower awareness of responsible sourcing requirements. We encourage our suppliers to review their own performance We do commit to helping suppliers who may in the first and post the results on the Sedex database. Sedex allows instance struggle with meeting our standards. member businesses to share ethical performance data about suppliers, so a company does not need to run its own audit Encouraging shared audit information of every supplier and suppliers can avoid several customers Bacardi is encouraging more suppliers to join Sedex through conducting largely similar ethical audits. its membership of the Progress-Sedex Work Group (PSWG). The PSWG is a mini-task force involving 11 members of A supplier registers with Sedex, then links to its customers. AIM-Progress who co-fund a Sedex Project Manager to assist Next it fills in the Sedex self-assessment questionnaire and them in recruiting suppliers to the Sedex database. This if required completes an audit. Both the questionnaires and approach has worked well because suppliers hear a consistent audit results are accessible to the suppliers’ customers. message about what is required and how to join, and for PSWG companies there is a reduced administrative burden By the end of March 2010 there were 175 supplier sites and an increased rate of recruitment. linked to us on Sedex, 95 self-assessment questionnaires had been completed (54%) and 10 audits accessible. Bacardi In the year to the end of March 2010, the number of suppliers had conducted two of its own audits. More will be completed recruited to Sedex on behalf of the 11 PSWG members grew in the coming year as auditing becomes a focus for our Global from 2,909 to 6,505. Of these, the number who registered Operations team. and linked to their suppliers grew from 1,773 to 4,647. Since joining the AIM-Progress taskforce – an initiative of Although these are impressive numbers, the ongoing challenge AIM (the European Brands Association) – we have become is to ensure that this outreach is followed up properly and that more aware of the constraints suppliers face. We are also any indications of commitment are followed through efficiently. more adept at interpreting the answers suppliers give in the Improvements to the Sedex system may help in this respect. self-assessment questionnaires and so clearer about when The second version of the Sedex database is much more we need to ask for a third party ethical audit. user-friendly for all members. There is now a function which provides instant analysis of self-assessment questionnaire We are also taking a leading role in the Better Sugarcane (SAQ) responses to establish the risks those suppliers’ Initiative (BSI), a group of producers, consumers and NGOs practices may pose. working towards a more responsible sugarcane industry. We see a major opportunity both to improve working conditions in the communities where sugarcane is grown and harvested, and to ensure Bacardi is well placed to source sustainable supplies of the raw materials that are vital for the production and growth of our BACARDI brand. Key achievements Producing better sugarcane Bacardi is helping to develop Bacardi is very proud of the support a new standard for sugarcane we have given and continue to give production that will help to drive to the development of the Better up working conditions and improve environmental performance. Sugarcane Initiative. We truly believe that it will form the basis of long-lasting improvements in the lives of the sugarcane growers. Dave Howson, Bacardi Global Procurement Development Director, Geneva, Switzerland Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible Sourcing continued 23 Improving sugarcane production The Better Sugarcane Initiative is creating a framework to enable businesses in the sugar industry to reduce their We first introduced Sedex to our environmental and social impacts. two main glass bottle suppliers Bacardi is actively involved in the Better Sugarcane Initiative a year ago. We shared our other Management Committee and in 2010 became Chair of the BSI suppliers’ positive experiences Marketing Sub-committee. Its brief is to develop the Better of membership in order to interest Sugarcane Initiative brand and its brand positioning as well as them. When our major label produce a robust communications strategy. Workshops were supplier joined, that was the final held to examine the feasibility of a brand concept, which is part of the BSI business plan. Bacardi will host the 2010 Better push needed and our two bottle Sugarcane Initiative Annual General Meeting (AGM) at the suppliers have now agreed to Bacardi Distillery, the world’s biggest rum distillery, at Cataño, join later this year. Puerto Rico in November 2010. As a result of the Marketing Sub-Committee engaging with the membership through these Vivian Pu, Procurement department, workshops, at this AGM, the BSI will be rebranded as Bacardi China BONSUCRO. We will report on this rebranding in our next report. Developing standards for the sugarcane industry The BSI is creating an ethical standard for sugarcane producers and growers. The target is to see the first Better Sugarcane certified sugar on the market by the end of 2010. In the year up to March 2010 significant steps were taken towards this goal. As members of the Management Committee, Bacardi helped to discuss, agree and sign off the content of the first draft of the BSI Standard at the Annual General Meeting, which was held in India in November 2009. A regular annual review of the BSI Standard will in future provide a clear set of updated principles, criteria, indicators and verifiers to enable sugarcane producers, processors and suppliers to improve their social and environmental operations and check their progress on an ongoing basis. What are some of the challenges in this area? One of the outcomes of implementing the BSI Standard in the sugarcane industry is product standard certification. This could result in a price premium on certain BSI-certified sugar or ethanol products. While we welcome the assurance that certification brings, like any business we are concerned about increases in the prices we pay for our raw materials. We are aiming to produce premium and super-premium products while also delivering sustainable shareholder value. This means we need to correctly balance the prices we pay for our raw materials with our standards on quality and sustainability. 38 agriculture-based suppliers 394 point-of-sale suppliers included in our engaged in our Responsible Responsible Sourcing risk assessment Sourcing Program globally in Europe, the Middle East and Africa 175 suppliers’ sites linked 20 producer and consumer members to Bacardi on Sedex by of the Better Sugarcane Initiative the end of March 2010 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 24 Responsible Sourcing continued We want our suppliers to demonstrate compliance with a set of ethical standards, covering human and labor rights, health and safety, environment and business integrity. Many It has been a challenge to suppliers do this already, but many others in less developed coordinate implementing the areas either have not yet considered standards or are still Responsible Sourcing Policy in the early stages of establishing how this might affect their with our point-of-sale (POS) businesses. We are tackling this situation by discussing standards with our suppliers on a one-to-one basis and suppliers in our key European communicating the long-term benefits of adopting this Markets, but the development way of working. of Category Management in this sector will ensure How do we assess our progress overall? greater focus in the future. We were pleased to have reached a total of 175 suppliers either joining Sedex or linking to Bacardi if they were existing Veronica Bell, members in 2010. Category Manager Europe – Permanent Visibility and Travel Retail, Geneva, Switzerland In our new role as Chair of the BSI Marketing Sub-committee, we have a significant part to play in ensuring that the BSI markets itself in a successful way. While the full impacts of this activity are yet to be seen, we engage as part of industry efforts to improve working conditions in the sugarcane industry, as this is a significant raw material for us. The Responsible Sourcing Coordinator for the Europe, MiddleEast and Africa (EMEA) Point-of-Sale (POS) team implemented the first phase risk assessment of POS suppliers in this region to establish the initial focus for resources in this complex area. Progress has been made in the key local markets of Brazil and Mexico with suppliers buying into the concept of Sedex and engaging in an Ethical Audit schedule, but we have seen slower progress in India and China. Working to overcome this issue is the main benefit of the collaboration with AIM-Progress but there is no guarantee of shared suppliers, so direct influence is not always successful. In these cases, it can be a slower process to build relationships and trust with suppliers with whom we want to do further business, but who need to develop greater awareness about responsible sourcing issues. Key achievements Packaging suppliers sign up We have been very encouraged by the enthusiastic response we have Most of the suppliers I am responsible for are had from our packaging suppliers in agricultural and have different ways of working so completing our Responsible Sourcing I have had to adopt different approaches with them, self-assessment questionnaire. In fact our main glass and closures suppliers while maintaining the consistency of our Responsible have both joined Sedex and have Sourcing message. Establishing Responsible Sourcing shared their information with us. Standards is a big challenge and a long journey but I Leandro Sanguin, have built our Standards into my supplier agenda and Purchasing Manager, Brazil am pleased with the enthusiasm it has received so far. Luis Trejo, Procurement Director – Raw Materials, Jacksonville, Florida Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible Sourcing continued 25 How well is responsible sourcing practice embedded in the business? Although there is one central Responsible Sourcing Coordinator, the program only gains real traction through the activities of the regions. It is the procurement teams in the key markets of Mexico, Brazil, India and China that are engaging their suppliers on a direct face-to-face basis and building the trust needed to make progress in this area. In the past year, knowledge of our Responsible Sourcing Program and the related standards and issues has grown significantly within our business, especially within the global and regional procurement teams. This has resulted in more independent activity between regional procurement management and suppliers, with oversight being maintained “I really appreciated the effort Bacardi made...” by the central procurement function. “I really appreciated the effort Bacardi made to visit me and explain their Corporate Responsibility Program. It helped me Although we have made progress this year, we still have a to understand the importance of their Responsible Sourcing lot to do. We are confident that our Category Management initiative and why they are so keen for me to join Sedex. approach will accelerate our Responsible Sourcing Program And I can see that my life is simpler if information gathered in the right areas. For example we now have a Category once is shared with all my Sedex customers through the database. I will now be putting in place all the steps I can Director responsible for Raw Materials and Flavors, based to comply with the Bacardi Responsible Sourcing Standards.” in the Americas. Responsible sourcing will be a key part of this role as we build the emerging BSI Standard into our Michel Van Bavel, Owner, Van Bavel Business Gifts, Belgium requirements for molasses and alcohol. (POS supplier to Bacardi) How many companies are now members of the Sedex program? S edex has two types of members. By the end of March 2010 there were 27,617 suppliers on the system – an increase of 40%. These companies share ethical data with their nominated customers. And there were 373 customer companies on the system – up from 242 a year earlier. What next? →C  omplete Responsible Sourcing KPIs. → A ll suppliers of agave, molasses and light cane distillate either to achieve compliance or have an action plan in place by March 2011. → F inalize the supplier audit strategy so all suppliers are screened on responsible sourcing issues by March 2011. → Increase supplier numbers in Sedex who are registered and linked to Bacardi to 250 by March 2011. → 7 5% of our key molasses and alcohol suppliers to join the BSI by March 2011. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 26 People Key achievements “ONE Bacardi” launched across the Company The Barcelona Conference This painting was created by staff at our offices in Geneva as part of the “ONE Bacardi” rollout. gave us a great opportunity Staff worked together to create this impressive to launch “ONE Bacardi” and visual representation of the Bacardi Values. align senior managers behind it. This was then rapidly rolled out across the Company. Rich Andrews, Global Vice-President – Organizing for Growth and also leader of the cross-functional team that focused on Transformational Leadership. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 People continued 27 Have we met this year’s targets? It is a fundamental principle of Bacardi We met our target to develop and cascade the that our success is due to great brands Bacardi Values across the business. Following the launch of the four Bacardi Values (Trust, and outstanding people. Bacardi people Caring, Passion and Excellence) at the Barcelona are the best ambassadors for our brands, Conference, where the top management were demonstrating their passion and their present, a rollout program ensured that all 6,000+ employees across the globe participated commitment to excellence. We have in roadshows by December 2009. developed a new “ONE Bacardi” strategy We successfully designed a leadership development to unleash the potential of our people. approach which recognizes that the most effective development comes from “on-the-job experiences”. Our Development Approach will focus on the 70-20-10 Why is “ONE Bacardi” important? principle (70% development = on-the-job, 20% = Building the “ONE Bacardi” transformational program was coaching and mentoring, 10% = formal training). an inclusive process, which involved 80 leaders across a We ran 15 High-Performing Team workshops number of work streams dedicating a significant amount of with 260 participants in fiscal 2010 which their time and expertise over many months. This demonstrates covered almost all our senior managers. the importance attached to this process in the Company. We launched our new Global Intranet in fiscal 2010. We have a history of excellent employee relations and have We have developed an intranet proposition that is developed examples of best practices in many of our markets. very dynamic in giving everyone the opportunity to As we strive to operate as a more globally coordinated share information, participate in blogs and develop organization, our challenge is to harmonize these local a community that reflects our Spirit for Life. practices into a set of people policies, practices and tools that unleash the potential of our people globally. We identified a core set of competencies for our people and have incorporated these into our talent We are clear that the Company’s future business success development tools. depends on how we work together in “high-performing teams” and our ability to improve our “transformational leadership” practices. Our strategy is clear: we will become “ONE Bacardi”, where outstanding people achieve excellent results. 230 senior managers were joined by Board The Bat Wall On the Company Intranet, senior managers who attended the Barcelona launch conference have described what members to attend the “ONE Bacardi” Spirit for Life means for them behind launch event in Barcelona their photograph on a virtual wall that we call the “Bat Wall”. 3 months after launching in Barcelona, all 6,000+ employees had learnt about “ONE Bacardi” and Spirit for Life Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 28 People continued Spirit for Life and our Values What does Spirit for Life mean to you? Launched alongside and underpinning “ONE Bacardi” is our new Purpose: Spirit for Life. As a guiding principle for our “To me, Spirit for Life means being the best employees, it is a positive and aspirational statement, you can be, really making a difference and expressing energy and optimism. It links to the idea that having a great time doing it!” each individual has an inner spirit or drive to live their Colin Rochester, Managing Director, Bacardi Lion, Australia dreams and to be all they can be. Beyond this, Spirit for Life is quite deliberately a broad This year we have concentrated on setting out a strategy statement, allowing each and every employee to interpret it for the future – one that will support our vision for 2015. in a way that makes sense to them. In fact we are actively The aim of our strategy is to: encouraging people to do this as it helps to make the concept • Unleash the potential of our people real for individuals and it contributes to defining who we are • Build a high-performance team culture as a Company. • Lead organizational capability and effectiveness • Inspire and engage each person to live our Values to achieve Our purpose as a company, Spirit for Life, is our organization’s sustained results fundamental reason for being, and reflects our strong heritage • Be globally recognized as a “Great Place to Work”. and future. Our core Values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence have been distilled from the many countries and This is not a Human Resources Strategy that sits to one regions where we operate and provide a foundation for all of side of the Company’s core business drivers: it is a our people. Our Values will act as our moral compass as we “People Strategy” that has been built on the cross-functional go about our daily lives. insights of our senior leaders. Having launched “ONE Bacardi”, our Purpose and Values in It is an ambitious program. We will need to work hard to Barcelona, we then set about cascading these around the achieve our objectives. To recognize success, we have world through a series of global roadshows in Sitges, Orlando identified what “Excellence” will look like. For example, our goal and Shanghai, among many other locations. Within three is to build core leadership programs that are acknowledged for months, all of our 6,000-plus employees had attended an their quality and effectiveness in developing Bacardi leaders. event where they learned about “ONE Bacardi”, our Purpose We want to see “ready-now” successors, who mirror the and Values. diverse societies in which we operate, for all key roles. In addition, we want the Bacardi Purpose and Values to be an How will our People Strategy contribute integral part of our employees’ lives, informing our individual to “ONE Bacardi”? and corporate behavior. Our People Strategy and plans for the coming years are built on the premise that outstanding people will deliver excellent We want to be recognized for our leadership: we will be looking results. “Outstanding people” means talented and engaged to benchmark ourselves against other companies in the Great employees who are valued for the unique contributions they Place to Work Award and similar surveys. We see our leaders bring to Bacardi. gaining a reputation as being the best in the industry. We want to be recognized as a leader in Corporate Responsibility too. We will develop our organizational capability through an operating model that accelerates growth and we will leverage a “best-in-class” Global Performance Management System to give us a competitive advantage. Key achievements Our Values Being “ONE Bacardi” is fundamental to our future success Trust Caring and sustainability as a company. Séamus E. McBride, President and CEO Passion Excellence Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 People continued 29 How will you develop tomorrow’s The GPS will create Individual Goal Plans by following a cycle of: business leaders? • Translating strategy into an operating plan for the year • Clarifying individual roles and responsibilities that support For Bacardi to succeed, we need to unleash the potential the operating plan of Bacardi People. • Connecting performance with Bacardi Competencies • Reviewing success against agreed goals and the role Everyone in Bacardi has talent! played by the Values in overall performance What makes Bacardi unique is our outstanding people with • Understanding career aspirations including the ability and drive to achieve excellent results. To achieve geographic mobility our goal of being a leader in our industry, we need all Bacardi • Providing learning experiences that challenge and talent to deliver to their best ability and full potential. build capability. Our development plans are tailored to the individual Historically “development” has been equated to “formal We provide targeted solutions to identify, attract, build and training”. It is now well accepted that the most significant retain talent at all levels of Bacardi. Our competitive advantage development comes from well structured “on-the-job” lies in how we accelerate the development of key individuals development opportunities. So our development model and teams. is based on a 70-20-10 split: • 70% on-the-job experiences, including the undertaking Priority is focused on business needs and opportunities of stretch assignments To maximize both business and individual potential and • 20% coaching and mentoring, for example, where aspirations, talent management and development solutions high-potential individuals may be paired with an are targeted to specific business needs (now and future). internal mentor and in turn “buddy” a new employee The largest investment will be made where the overall need is • 10% formal training such as the leadership development greatest and where there will be a good return in the long term. programs led by senior executives or by external, best-inclass trainers. Global Performance Management System A cornerstone of our People Strategy is the implementation In fiscal 2011 we will be launching some of the development of our Global Performance Management System (GPS), products we need to support these exciting learning an end-to-end business system, which will be a platform for opportunities. managing current performance and identifying future leaders. Are people engaged with the The GPS will help the Company manage both business planning and personal accountability and development. It will provide the sustainability agenda? solution to the continuous challenge of aligning corporate and We already have a clear focus to our Corporate Responsibility individual activities, enabling a seamless flow of information work. In fiscal 2011, we will be leveraging one of our core between them. In this way strategic intent is turned into Values – Caring – to create a Sustainability Framework that will actionable steps at all levels down to individuals. This engage our people and position our Corporate Responsibility increases pace, sharpens focus and introduces flexibility as Program to support our Vision. we lead and manage the business in a constantly changing environment. It will be based on evidence and outcomes as This will include some fundamental steps such as embedding opposed to purely subjective measures and will help to identify the Code of Conduct principles and Values into daily working talent within our organization. life. Other initiatives include launching a global Employee Assistance Program to support any employees who have personal problems that might affect their work or wellbeing. What next? Development triangle → Embed Purpose and Values into our culture, Formal training (10%) for example by integrating Values into the Performance Management Tool. Coaching and mentoring (20%) → Improve organizational capability by developing an operating model that accelerates our growth. → Implement a Global Performance Management On-the-job experiences (70%) System. → Complete Transformational Workstream initiatives, for example by launching an immersion program for new employees. → Create a Sustainability Framework that links our Corporate Responsibility Program with our people’s daily working lives. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 30 Philanthropy and Community Involvement Key achievements From Banners to Bags The marketing team at Bacardi Puerto Rico was looking for an environmentally friendly way Thank you, Bacardi, to dispose of promotional banners. Realizing the banners could be cut and sewn into hip, for the opportunity reusable shopping bags, they discovered a small sewing cooperative in the mountains of to work with you. central Puerto Rico which was hard hit by the Jeronimo Ortiz Ildefonso, economic downturn. Other companies followed Administrator, Comerío Cooperative our lead and the cooperative was able to rehire ten women who had been laid off. Visit www.youtube.com/user/BacardiLimited Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Philanthropy and Community Involvement continued 31 Have we met this year’s targets? Wherever we operate around the world, We successfully launched phase two of the we play an active role in contributing Philanthropy and Community Involvement database to the local community. Taking part in – an internal repository capturing our philanthropic activities. Enhancements include: the ability to add philanthropy and community programs pictures and graphics; the ability to total dollars generates a strong sense of pride in donated globally, regionally, and/or by brand; and the ability to produce more detailed reports. our employees, which makes Bacardi a better place to work. We also met our target to further explore how we can better quantify and benchmark the effectiveness of our social investments. Bacardi Limited will phase in the London Benchmarking Group model How does Bacardi make a difference? for reporting accurate and comparable data on In fiscal 2010, the total monetary amount of our support corporate community involvement. was $4 million. We continued to help communities through employee volunteering initiatives, in-kind support and partnering with organizations to leverage charitable activities. As the largest privately held spirits company in the world, we know our business impacts lives including customers, suppliers, employees and those who live in the communities where we operate. Bacardi Limited has a 148-year history of quality, excellence, colleagues. This year, employees donated $3,870 of their ethics and social involvement. Those values were important own money during the events to “Viva Con Agua,” a charity to our founder Don Facundo Bacardí Massó and are still based in Hamburg, Germany, that campaigns for clean important today. We are proud of our long and rich heritage drinking water worldwide. of providing support focused on Environment, Education, Health and Social Services, Arts and Culture and Disaster Bacardi Portugal organized “B-Responsible Day” to offset CO2 Relief Assistance. emissions. On a site designated by the municipal authority, 88 employees planted 1,000 trees. We have a long-term interest in fostering healthy and vibrant communities, so when communities succeed, we can also Education succeed as a trusted partner. Continuing its long-term support, Bacardi in Spain donated more than $20,000 to two international business schools – What has been achieved in each area this year? IESE and ESADE – to foster development of managers and Environment senior executives. Under the banner of “300 people, 10 countries, One Bacardi!” employees from 10 European countries come together annually Bacardi U.S.A. supported the Careers through Culinary Arts for the Copa Don Facundo, a sports and cultural event. Program, an organization that works with schools to prepare Employees compete in football, tenpin bowling and beach underserved students for college and careers in the restaurant volleyball and get to know the host city and meet new and hospitality industry. 20 years the sewing cooperative It’s great that the whole company gets behind has been in business in Festivités Animations Comerío, Puerto Rico Culture, a charity I founded 10,000+ shopping bags made from promotional that supports orphans in Madagascar. Jean-Marie Tordoit, Sales manager, Bacardi France banners for Bacardi and other companies as a result of the Bacardi recycling initiative Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 32 Philanthropy and Community Involvement continued Health and Social Services Within days of the Haiti earthquake in January 2010, The Bermuda Heart Foundation has the ambitious goal to employees with Bacardi U.S.A., Bacardi Corporation in Puerto reduce the number of heart disease-related deaths on the Rico and Bacardi in the Dominican Republic teamed with island by 25% within the next three years. The Company local relief organizations to donate numerous pallets of committed to give $50,000 for three years to help raise much-needed medical supplies, non-perishable food and drinks $3 million to secure a site, purchase equipment, hire staff and baby products. Bacardi Limited contributed $50,000 to the and maintain working capital. Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) which was also used to send basic relief supplies to Haiti. Bacardi Brazil supported the International Children’s Heart Foundation, funding a team of surgeons to perform life-saving In Travel Retail, the Americas team sponsored a program where operations on 30 children at no cost to the families. In the consumers could have a personalized message engraved on Dominican Republic, Bacardi supported the same charity their DEWAR’S bottle with the proceeds going to relief work by paying for Christmas presents for children recovering in Haiti. from operations. How do you choose what to support? Bacardi in Hong Kong donated used IT equipment to the Historically, Bacardi has had a decentralized approach Caritas Computer Refurbishment Project. Instead of disposing to philanthropy and community involvement initiatives. of old PCs, laptops and printers, they are now being used by Our operations have had a local focus as we have taken families who could not afford to buy their own. the view that those people working in communities are best placed to understand and make decisions on the Arts and Culture most pressing local needs. In Italy, Martini & Rossi continues to provide financial support to preserve the historical heritage and restoration of Turin. Employees play a significant role in identifying issues of importance. We also look to partner with organizations Bacardi sponsored a new exhibit at the Bermuda National that will help us make the most difference. Gallery celebrating the island’s 400 years of history and showcasing the evolution of art across those four centuries. We are conscious of sharing the best ways of working around the world so we can have the biggest possible impact. Singer/songwriter will.i.am of The Black Eyed Peas and his This approach – which could be characterized as “strategic charity Dipdive, which supports fashion, music and the arts, philanthropy” – requires a degree of global organization teamed up with BACARDI to host a Pre-Grammy Concert at and structure. A challenge we face is how we introduce this the Hollywood Palladium to raise money and awareness structure in a way that encourages rather than suppresses for the arts. the best local initiatives. Determining the best way forward for our strategic philanthropy is a priority for the coming year. Disaster Relief Assistance Bacardi Chile made a donation which paid for 30 emergency housing units to be dispatched to Pescadores, a fishing How will a clearer focus make a difference? community that was leveled by a tsunami after the February We believe a strategic focus has the greatest potential to 2010 earthquake. The Company also hosted 10 BACARDImake a difference on issues that matter while also deepening branded parties where people gained admission by bringing at employees’ bonds with the Company. least two kilos of non-perishable items to donate to the Red Cross. At the parties, Bacardi also donated $2 per beverage to Bacardi Russia, for example, focused philanthropic activities Hogar de Cristo, a Chilean non-profit organization that runs on children at the Pechora Orphanage, and on one particular shelters, hospices and homes for children and the elderly. family of 13 children, ages 7–17. The Company donated money $4m reported giving by Bacardi Support for Haiti Bacardi staff in the U.S.A., Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic all helped raise money to provide emergency relief for Haiti. companies and brands in fiscal 2010 Investing in Orlando’s future Bacardi U.S.A. employees, with a funding match from the Company, raised money for the Tangelo 2,021 reported hours of time Park Program Inc., which helps parents with volunteered by Bacardi childcare support and training opportunities employees in the year in this Orlando, Florida neighborhood. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Philanthropy and Community Involvement continued 33 Bacardi U.S.A. supported – and continues to support – Hands How do you contribute to the community in India? on Miami, to make Miami a better place to live and work. Forty-five employees volunteered to help renovate a community In India, GREY GOOSE supports the Genesis center, a town hall and a medical clinic in the Overtown Foundation which provides medical care to neighborhood. The Company also made a financial donation. underprivileged children. We took part in a fundraising lunch, with our General Manager Another way we engage employees in Company philanthropy and celebrity chef Parvati Umnakuttam mixing and community work is by choosing charities that employees beverages for the guests. The event generated already support. In France, for example, every year employees positive media coverage for the brand and raised fill out a form explaining the work of a charity, how they are funds to pay for the medical treatment of 10 involved and how the money given by Bacardi would be used critically ill children. if their charity were chosen. This process elicits between eight and ten applications each year and allows for a targeted use of Company funds to support causes employees really care about. to buy a washing machine and clothes. Employees also donated their own money for electric kettles, toys, games, How do we record and measure our impact? school supplies, books and DVDs. Enhancing our database We have made significant enhancements to the database Every December, the children’s wish lists to Santa Claus are we use to record philanthropy and community involvement posted on the Company Intranet. It is easy for employees to activities by both corporate and brand entities. Those people choose presents for the children. Staff members then visit responsible for reporting can now add photos and images, as the school and present the gifts. well as reference Web sites for more information. We are able to aggregate the donations by brand, by country, by region What challenges exist? and focus area. In addition, we are now able to run more In a difficult economy, it is challenging to secure funding detailed reports. for all these needy and good causes. Ensuring all staff access the database in a systematic and We are also conscious that our database recording timely way remains a challenge which we continue to address. philanthropic and community involvement activity around the business is not being used regularly by all our companies London Benchmarking Group and brands because reporting charitable activities is an We have done a thorough review of the London Benchmarking additional task. Group (LBG) model – its benefits and shortcomings – spoken with LBG representatives and received feedback from member We are currently discussing whether Bacardi core brands companies. We are now planning to phase in the use of the could benefit from partnering with particular causes. tool so that we can understand how Bacardi and the communities we support benefit from our investment across How do we engage our employees? the business. The LBG approach is flexible and reporting could Our Company culture embraces the idea of giving back to be extended gradually. Our own database is already mostly communities where we live and work. We encourage staff to get aligned with the LBG model. We will need to assign internal involved and promote employee volunteering. We recognize this resources to develop this project further, conduct training with is a powerful way to make a difference – by lending our time employees and establish the best ways to use the model. and resources to programs an employee feels strongly about. What next? “Drink Pink” campaign →D  evelop our approach to strategic philanthropy. BACARDI and MARTINI partnered with Ember Inns across the U.K. to support → E xamine the benefits of setting a focus for the “Drink Pink” campaign to fight philanthropy and community involvement work breast cancer. Part of every sale of the around education and learning. “Pink Splash” cocktail, which contained → E ngage more employees in using the database MARTINI Bianco, BACARDI Superior and to report local charitable activities. apple, strawberry and cranberry juices, went to the charity Against Breast Cancer. →U  se the London Benchmarking Group to quantify the value of charitable activities including in-kind gifts, employee volunteering and donations. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 34 Program Overview Marketplace Environment, Health and Safety Mission To achieve industry leadership by taking a socially To protect the environment, optimizing the use of raw responsible approach to brand building and by providing materials, minimizing CO2 emissions throughout our information to encourage all those who choose to drink supply chain, reducing water use and improving to do so responsibly. wastewater effluent. Long-term Achieve zero non-compliance with self-regulatory Targets for end 2011 (from base year 2006): objectives marketing codes. • Improve energy efficiency at our operating Train a defined percentage of bartenders in major sites by 12%. markets on Social Responsibility issues. • Increase proportion of renewable energy Facilitate best practice in implementation and to 12%. communication of effective alcohol policies, education • Improve water efficiency at our sites by 15%. programs and initiatives. • Establish and publish data on greenhouse gas emissions. • Reduce lost time accident rate to less than 6 days of work lost per million worked hours. • New best practice approach to wastewater treatment. Strategy to Communicate our responsible brand building approach Systematic approach to environmental and deliver through the Global Marketing Principles. health and safety aspects through ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems at all facilities objectives Deliver the Bacardi Marketing Way training program globally. by end of 2009. Contribute to the work of industry organizations and Continually improve treatment of distillery wastewaters. experts to present the industry case for more effective Increase energy efficiency and use of renewable policies to tackle alcohol harm and misuse, and to energy sources. develop better alcohol education programs. More efficient use of water in production facilities. Continue to actively participate in discussions at the global level with WHO and WTO. Progress against Develop “Champions Drink Responsibly” Continue to implement Global Standards and targets campaign and increase media coverage. Codes of Practice. Report progress on commitments to the EU Achieve certification of all facilities under ISO Alcohol and Health Forum. 14001 and OHSAS 18001 by December 2009. Partially achieved Take a leadership role in global alcohol initiatives Improve our Environment, Health and Safety Achieved through GAPG. reporting. Enhance work with IBA. Reduce lost time accident rate. Strengthen trade associations in Deliver continual improvement in environmental developing markets. performance. Include responsibility messages on all packaging Continue to develop sustainability criteria into and marketing materials. innovation activities. Comply with the CEPS Charter and implement the Bacardi Global Marketing Principles in EU countries. Key activities and Actively engage in the Global Alcohol Producers Group Deliver continual improvement in environmental targets for 2011 (GAPG). performance. Broaden our current commitments to the EU Alcohol and Improve lost time accident rate by 10%. Health Forum. Maintain 100% certification in ISO 14001 and Develop additional tools to support the Global Marketing OHSAS 18001. Principles training. Expand Safety Performance Tracking to all Develop the “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign. Company activities. Complete Bacardi Sustainable Packaging Manual. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 35 Responsible People Philanthropy and Sourcing Community Involvement To achieve the highest standards of To develop and empower our people to To support philanthropic and local responsible sourcing throughout our continue the heritage of building strong community efforts aligned with brand supply chain by engaging and working brands responsibly. building and Bacardi values. with our suppliers. Ensure our suppliers understand our Maintain Code of Conduct training for Ensure our corporate programs are responsible sourcing requirements. everyone in Bacardi including new employees. focused on our five principal areas: Evaluate all our suppliers to understand Ensure Corporate Responsibility Program • Education potential risks in our supply chain. is communicated to all staff. • Environment Implement a methodology to manage Build capability among senior managers • Health and Social Services suppliers who do not initially meet to drive global teamwork initiatives and our standards. the Corporate Responsibility agenda • Arts and Culture throughout Bacardi. • Disaster Relief Assistance. Ensure alignment of local giving with Bacardi values. Maximize the effectiveness of philanthropy and community investment. Communicate our Responsible Promote a culture of continual improvement Implement a strategy for goodwill Sourcing Policy. and development. and philanthropy. Use a risk-based approach to Provide our people with tools and resources Careful selection of business and community prioritize suppliers. to encourage personal responsibility and partners to support our key focus areas. Work with those suppliers that have corporate citizenship. difficulty complying with our Responsible Encourage a diverse and inclusive workplace Sourcing Standards. and evaluate progress. Embed responsible sourcing within all procurement processes. Put in place Responsible Reinforce and cascade the four Launch phase two of the database Sourcing KPIs. Bacardi Values. enhancing the technical elements All high-risk suppliers to comply Develop a leadership development to ensure greater data collection. or have a compliance action plan approach. Further explore how we can in place. Roll out a high-performing teams better quantify and benchmark Implement our “Responsible workshop to management. the effectiveness of our social Sourcing Compliance and Audit investments. Pilot company-wide Intranet. Guidelines Policy” in Mexico, Brazil, India and China. Develop key competencies for our people and cascade these Implement a Responsible Sourcing throughout the business. audit schedule. Continue to encourage suppliers to join Sedex. Add a responsible sourcing screen to the supplier quality assessment audit schedule. Complete Responsible Sourcing KPIs. Embed Purpose and Values in our culture. Develop our approach to strategic All high-risk suppliers to comply or have Improve organizational capability philanthropy. a compliance action plan in place. and develop an operating model that Examine the benefits of setting a focus for Finalize the supplier audit strategy. accelerates growth. our work around education and learning. Increase supplier numbers in Sedex who Implement a Global Performance Engage more employees in using the are registered and linked to Bacardi. Management System. database to report charitable activities. 75% of our key molasses and alcohol Complete Transformational Workstream Use the London Benchmarking Group to suppliers to join the BSI. initiatives. quantify the value of charitable activities. Create a Sustainability Framework. Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 36 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress As a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) we are committed to meeting the 10 internationally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption in all our global business operations. UNGC principles Bacardi approach Where to find out more Human Rights Businesses should: Maintaining the health and safety of all our employees is a Environment, Health and Safety, 1. support and respect the protection high priority for us. All our manufacturing sites are now pages 14–19 of internationally proclaimed human certified to the international Health and Safety Standard Responsible Sourcing, rights; and OHSAS 18001. pages 20–25 2. make sure that they are not complicit Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing in human rights abuses. Standards, which commit them to complying with human rights principles. We have a structured process for engaging suppliers with our standards. This includes supplier self-assessments and on-site inspections. Labor standards Businesses should uphold: We respect the right to freedom of association among Being Responsible, page 06 3. the freedom of association and the all our employees. Responsible Sourcing, effective recognition of the right to Our Responsible Sourcing Standards require our suppliers pages 20–25 collective bargaining to respect freedom of association and the right to People, pages 26–29 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and collective bargaining. compulsory labor We do not use forced or child labor in any of our operations. 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and Our Code of Conduct includes a commitment to equal opportunities and non-discrimination. 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We aim to achieve the elimination of all forms of forced labor, child labor and discrimination through our Responsible Sourcing Standards. We are also members of industry-wide partnerships such as the Better Sugarcane Initiative, which aims to ensure minimum labor and environmental standards are achieved within the sector. Environment Businesses should: Our group-wide Environmental Policy adheres to the Being Responsible, page 06 7. support a precautionary approach Precautionary Principle. Environment, Health and Safety, to environmental challenges We aim to drive continuous improvement in our facilities’ pages 14–19 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater performance through a management systems approach. Responsible Sourcing, environmental responsibility; and All our facilities are now certified to the ISO 14001 pages 20–25 international environmental management system standard. 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly We are actively promoting the wider use of renewable technologies. energy sources in our facilities. We work with partners such as the Beverage Industry Environment Roundtable to drive industry-wide performance improvements. Our Responsible Sourcing Standards require our suppliers to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-corruption Businesses should: Our Code of Conduct details the behaviors we expect of Bacardilimited.com > Corporate 10. work against corruption in all its forms, our people and it addresses issues of conflicts of interest Responsibility > Governance including extortion and bribery. and bribery and corruption. Being Responsible, page 06 Our Responsible Sourcing Standards state that bribery Responsible Sourcing, and corruption are not tolerated. pages 20–25 People, pages 26–29 Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 37 Further Information About this report Request for feedback This is the third annual Corporate Responsibility Report Bacardi would like to hear from our stakeholders on our 2010 produced by Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held Corporate Responsibility Report. We are particularly interested spirits company in the world. It focuses on what Bacardi has in your views on: done to manage the social and environmental impacts of its businesses in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010 • The information which we included (fiscal 2010) and builds upon our first two annual Corporate • Any information which we did not include Responsibility Reports. The report is not externally assured. • The case studies • The data reported There were no acquisitions or divestments in the year. • The design of the report. The data presented in the report covers our own directly-owned You can send your comments by going to and managed production facilities. It does not include www.bacardilimited.com and using the “Contact Us” form. performance data from our offices, suppliers, outsourced bottlers or co-packers. There have been no significant changes Thank you. in the scope or boundaries of the data we are reporting this year. A summary table of our Corporate Responsibility Program may be found in the Program Overview on pages 34 and 35. Further information about Corporate Responsibility, including policy statements, is available on our Web site www.bacardilimited.com. Any reference to “Bacardi” as a company in this report refers to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries, or a group of Bacardi companies. Bacardi Limited portfolio includes: RUM: TEQUILA: COGNAC: BACARDI, CASTILLO, SEVEN TIKI CAZADORES, CORZO, CAMINO REAL OTARD, GASTON DE LAGRANGE VODKA: VERMOUTH: LIQUEUR: GREY GOOSE, ERISTOFF, 42 BELOW MARTINI, NOILLY PRAT BÉNÉDICTINE, B&B, GET 27/31, CHINA MARTINI, NASSAU ROYALE SCOTCH WHISKY: SPARKLING WINES: READY-TO-DRINK PRODUCTS: DEWAR’S, WILLIAM LAWSON’S, ABERFELDY MARTINI Asti, MARTINI Prosecco, BACARDI & Cola, BACARDI BREEZER, MARTINI Brut, MARTINI Rosé ERISTOFF Ice GIN: BOMBAY SAPPHIRE, BOMBAY Original, BOSFORD, OXLEY BACARDI, the Bat Device and all names, logos, trade dresses and other marks related to products appearing or quoted in this Corporate Responsibility Report are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Bacardi & Company Limited or of other subsidiaries of Bacardi Limited. www.bacardilimited.com
