Clean World through the use of clean Energy 186 Bundang-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 463-832 Tel : 1688-2488 Fax : 031-701-4049 http://www.kdhc.co.kr Clean World through the use of Clean Energy Smart Energy of KDHC 2010 Sustainability Report Clean World through the use of Clean Energy Smart Energy of KDHC 2010 Sustainability Report About this Report Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 G3.1 Guidelines application level According to the third-party assurance provider, the sustainability report Clean world through the use of of Korea District Heating Corporation (KDHC) was drawn up in the direction of meeting all requirements of the A+ level in the GRI G3.1 report Clean Energy application criteria index. The third-party assurance provider has confirmed that this report is rated A+ in terms of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines Smart Energy of KDHC application level. Contents Report features 04 CEO Message The fourth sustainability report of KDHC reports the corporation’s sus06 KDHC Sustainable Highlights tainable efforts and achievements concerning economy, society, ethics, 08 KDHC Sustainability Story and environment. To ensure the credibility of this report, this report was assured by a third party, and the assurance results are attached in the Smart KDHC appendix. Readers can download the sustainability report-which is pub11 Overview of KDHC lished in Korean and English -from our homepage. 12 Management Philosophy and Vision 14 Status of Business Criteria for drawing up this report 16 Corporate Governance This report has been drawn up based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines and has been certified to meet the A+ level among Smart Sustainability the GRI 3.1 Guidelines application levels. 20 Sustainability Management System and Organizations 22 Risk Management Boundary and period of the report 24 Ethical Management 29 Transparent Management KDHC has described its performance from January to December 2010 30 Stakeholder Communication in time series. This report also includes in part the performance in the 32 Materiality Evaluation and Core Issues first half of 2011. The currency unit used in report is KRW. and the measured data units are Ton, TOE, ㎡, ㎥, ㎠, g, Inch, nm, MWh, etc. Other Smart Dream units have been described together with numerical values. The sustain36 The World KDCH Dreams of ability management performance included in this report was based on 38 Building a Happy Energy World that of the head office, branches of KDHC, and relevant agencies. Some 40 Happiness Sharing Corps of Hope business activities abroad have been included as well. 42 A World Where All Become One KDHC pledges to reach out to readers through the annual publication of Smart Environment the sustainability report. For further information or queries, feel free to 46 We report contact us at the following: 48 Low Carbon, Green Growth 51 R&D : Eco-Energy R&D URL http://www.kdhc.co.kr 52 Activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to cope Tel 82-31-8018-6413 Fax 82-31-702-7238 with climate change Management Strategy Dept. 54 New and Renewable Energy Smart Energy Smart 58 We report KDHC’s combined heat and power (CHP) is a smart energy supply 60 Community Energy Supply System system that realizes outstanding effects of energy saving and environ62 District Heating System mental pollution improvement by providing many users with cooling 63 District Cooling System 64 Power Business & heating service and electric power in a blanket manner. 65 Overseas Business Smart life 68 Customer 74 Employees 78 Labor-Management Communication 82 Mutual Growth with Partner Firms Appendix 88 Third-Party Assurance Report KDHC’s 2010 Sustainability Report 90 ISO26000 Compliance Assessment Report 92 GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Index 98 Participation in Associations and Institutions 99 Introduction to Sustainability Management TFT 101 Readers’ Opinions Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Message from the CEO KDHC is developing performance in the ethical, environmental, and social sectors in a balanced system as well as financial performance to enhance sustainable corporate values. Responsible, ethical, and transparent organization KDHC vowed to practice ethical management internally and externally by holding an “Ethical Management Declaration and Action & Resolution Convention” in June 2003; it became a member of the UN Global Compact in May 2007. Through all this, we have been consolidating the ethical management system. We also make efforts to eliminate corruption and prevent unfair transactions through Cyber Shinmoongo, an internal and external reporting channel on our homepage. We also strive continuously for ethical and transparent business transactions including electronic contract system, integrity contract system, internal accounting management system, and clean card system to enhance transparency in the contract and accounting sectors. Putting low carbon, green growth and eco-management into practice KDHC has been implementing the environmental objectives it established for systematic management by developing the enterprise environmental management system after acquiring environmental management certification in 1996. Furthermore, we endeavor to put eco-management into practice including the adoption of environment-friendly, highly efficient facilities and clean energy use expansion to comply actively with the government’s low carbon, green growth policy. We make all-out efforts for optimal atmospheric environment, water quality, and waste to minimize the environmental impacts. Toward this end, KDHC proactively complies with UNFCCC through measures to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and establishment of the environmental impact minimization system. We have also set the new renewable energy industry as a future growth engine, investing aggressively in energy diversification using various types of new renewable energy including waste incineration heat, land fill gas (LFG), solar light, wood chip, heat pump, RDF, IGCC, and treated sewer. 4 5 Social contribution and sharing management system and offer equal and fair opportunities to all employees in “Happy energy world” signifies our commitment to build a better terms of education/training and promotion. KDHC has reestablished world where we can lead a happy life together with communities reward criteria according to merit and contribution, promoting perthrough social contribution activities including energy welfare. Reformance improvement through competition to enable employees to alizing the importance of social responsibility and role as a public be on equal footing using a system of open post. corporation, KDHC has formed desirable mutual relationships with We operate a life cycle management welfare program to meet the communities by sharing with neighbors based on affection for and needs for social and economic status improvement along with the interest in the communities. protection of employees’ interests. We also endeavor to balance work KDHC minimizes the heating rate increasing factors with efforts to and life through the selective worker welfare system and health encut down the overall cost to ease ordinary people’s burden, actively hancement program. Thanks to constant efforts between labor and putting energy welfare into practice though heating service bill reducmanagement, KDHC was certified excellent company in labor-mantion and exemption for social welfare facilities and low income brackagement culture in 2010. ets. We also practice continuous and stable sharing management actively through various forms of social support and environmental Spearheading the undertaking of a win-win growth policy protection activities to narrow the gap in living standard in terms of KDHC reaps the actual fruits of support for small and medium busieducation, culture, and employment rate between the underprivinesses (SMBs) including sales channel expansion and reasonable leged and normal classes and between cities and rural villages. profit assurance by intensively implementing the expansion of SMBs’ participation in bids, direct payment of subcontracted work, and acCustomer-oriented organizational culture tivation of separate order placing. We will make all-out efforts to be KDHC supports professional education/training to develop employa public corporation that puts win-win growth into practice through ees’ customer-oriented mindset for the improvement of service the strategic establishment of various, more effective SMB support quality and enhancement of customer satisfaction by institutionalpolicies. izing customer-oriented management as its organizational culture. KDHC wants to improve its profitability index through cost savings In addition, we operate various customer-participating organizations and enhanced management efficiency and develop new technolosuch as Open Public Corporation Committee and Open CS Implegies based on low carbon, green growth. Through the enhancement mentation Committee. and diversification of the relevant business sectors such as district Through these, we collect customers’ opinions on the improvement cooling and heating business, new renewable energy business, and and policies for heating service rate and services and actively reflect electric power expansion business, we are committed to taking off the voice of customer (VOC) in our management. We also conduct a as a global top-tier eco-energy company providing district heating customer satisfaction survey regularly, and identify customer needs service to 2 million households nationwide, posting KRW 3.3 trillion and design the direction of customer-oriented organizational culsales by 2019, and establishing a reputation as a people’s company. ture. KDHC will constantly do its best for the protection of interests We will strive to be a warmhearted, clean company that is trusted of communities and customers, fully cognizant of the fact that only and respected by the people and deliver happiness to our customers companies that earn trust and respect through customer impresby establishing a social responsibility management system. sion can develop sustainably. We are also committed to becoming a general energy company that develops customer impression service Jung Seung-il with unlimited energy for sustainability management. President & CEO Korea District Heating Corporation Open management, win-win management KDHC carries out strategic tasks such as the nurturing of worldclass talented personnel, HR management focusing on ability and performance, and various welfare systems support, aiming at maximizing corporate values through HR optimization. To strengthen the HR management system, we operate a multi-source feedback Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 KDHC Sustainable Highlights KRW 470 million in Sales Profit of CER with the active implementation of CDM KDHC sold the primary CER (certified emission reduction) of the Land fill gas capture and processing CDM (clean development mechanism) in Bangcheon-ri, Daegu. The CDM project is carried out jointly with KDHC, Daegu City, and Daegu Energy Environment, and we have about 10.33% stake. As a result of the first-phase monitoring, we realized sales of KRW 470 million with emissions of 22,000 tons for 8 months. We expect to create about KRW 5.6 billion for the next 7 years. Listing with the stock exchange KDHC tried to get listed with the stock market in 2001 and 2007 but failed due to citizens’ filing of lawsuit and presentation of petitions. As such, we made great efforts to resolve the misunderstanding by holding road tour (10 sessions) by branch to remove concerns about heating service fee hike and by letting the citizens understand the purpose of listing with the stock exchange. As a result, we succeeded in initial public offering (25% new stocks of total stocks issued) within the scope of maintaining 51% of public sector stake. Finally, KDHC was listed with the stock exchange on Jan. 29, 2010. Energy Welfare Policy for the People of Korea KDHC identified 84 tasks of cost savings by department and realized about KRW 40 billion of cost savings. Consequently, we have curbed heating prices and eased consumer’s heating expense burden. In addition, we have executed basic heating rate exemption and reduction for the underprivileged such as the disabled, patriots, and large families as well as basic rate exemption and reduction for the existing social welfare facilities and rental homes. We have Highest grade in the anticorrupbeen strengthening continuously the policy for energy welfare tion policy assessment realization including expansion of support for heating facilities In the anticorruption policy assessment carried out by the maintaining/repairing policy, not to mention the heating expense Anticorruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea (ACRC) supporting policy for the underprivileged in winter. in 2010, KDHC was rated “very excellent agency,” which is the top grade. We searched system-improving tasks to enhance integrity in 2010 and executed various reform actions for anticorruption including consolidating integrity learning, signing integrity agreements with partner firms, organizing district heating service integrity friends, and raising the reward amount to KRW 2 billion for internal reporting on public benefits. 6 7 Engagement in government’s job sharing KDHC employed 80 young interns in active support of the government’s job sharing policy. Consequently, 63 of them completed the internship period and received document screening exemption benefit in the regular employee recruitment. Establishment of labor-management culture, 3 Advanced and 3 Forward ing strategies KDHC seeks cooperative industrial relations through zero disputes for 16 years. By signing a non-negotiation wage agreement for 3 years in a row, we provide heating service stability without any business snag that may arise from labor dispute activities. Through our concerted efforts, we have received certification as a company with excellent labor-management culture, which is awarded to companies with model labor-management cooperative culture. Acquisition of community energy system business permission for Hwaseong/Dongtan 2 District In 2008, the government implemented the “new business participation restrictions” of public corporations for private businesses’ competitiveness enhancement, along with KDHC’s market share easing; thus, we faced difficult situations in propelling new business. Amid such disadvantageous condition, we acquired Hwaseong/Dongtan community energy system business permission by devising detailed standard Selected as outstanding agency for to convince the relevant agencies reasonably after deciding 2010 Autonomous Management that our new business can reduce the amount of national Contract with President energy used and maximize consumer convenience. The 2010 Autonomous Agreement with the agency head is a system through which autonomous management rights in HR, organization, budget, etc., are awarded to the agency head, who in turn is responsible for the agency’s performance. KDHC was selected as outstanding agency in this area. In 3 tasks and 5 measurement indices such as profitability improvement, establishment of low carbon, green growth business structure through cost savings of KRW 40 billion, and improvement in heating service unit price that translated into about KRW 14.7 billion of saving effect, we achieved the best performance among four agencies by garnering a general score of 96.4 points. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 KDHC Sustainability Story KDHC has published the fourth sustainability report guided by the philosophy that a company putting social responsibility into practice can become a sustainable company in the future. At the end of 2009, the companies invested in by KDHC numbered 5 including Korea Direct Heating Engineering, which was established to develop expertise in heat supply facilities in 1991. We pursue the harmonious growth of environment, economy, and society for sustainability management; in keeping with this trend, we are looking for new sustainable opportunities. This sustainability report emphasizes our sustainable environmental policy and our social responsibility based on ISO 26000 standard in relation to social responsibility. New Renewable Energy KDHC(Co-generation plant) Resource recovery / Landfill gas boiler Heat and Electricity production facility 8 9 We launch various activities including eco-business, eco-energy supply chain, social contribution activities, and energy saving to cope with climate change after announcing our midand long-term strategies. In addition, our employees operate the “Happiness-Sharing Corps” they voluntarily organized for volunteering and continual social contribution as well as an energy welfare policy for underprivileged and ordinary people. KDHC will do its very best to create a future filled with hopes by making eco-energy together with sustainable management, through which everyone can live together harmoniously. Through this report, KDHC will pursue the building of a “Happy World” by reporting its social responsibility based on ISO 26000, the international standard for social responsibility and sustainability management, which we need to continue in the future. Supply Return District Heating System Hot water(95°C~98°C) Return(80°C) Absorption chiller Cold water(3°C~5°C) District Cooling System Return(13°C~15°C) Cooling heat exchanger Heat and Electricity transportation facility Consumer Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Smart KDHC We need warm hearts to build a happy world. KDHC is committed to becoing an energy company that constantly endeavors to make all the citizens happy through energy vested with our 1985 Year of establishment warm hearts. 3 10 12 3 Organization Headquarters Divisions Branch Business Stations 1,262 Prescribed number of employees person (5 officers / 1,257 employees as of 2011) Main business areas District cooling and heating, community energy supply system (CES), electricity business, new renewable energy business 579 Status of finance Capital KRW billion 3 .34 1.47 Created value-added Assets trillion trillion (capital : 2.5 trillion, 1.89 trillion) 10 11 Overview of KDHC We were established as Korea District Heating Corporation on November 1, 1985. When we operated business with some 20 people by acquiring heating supply business permission in the southern part of Seoul (Yeoido, Icheon, Banpo), it served as the beginning of KDHC business going full swing. Our district heating supply business began to develop remarkably, as the government announced a plan to build 2 million homes in 5 new towns. As of June 2011, KDHC has grown into a general energy supply corporation with 1,262 employees in 3 headquarters, 10 divisions, 12 branches, and 3 business stations. ● Organizational composition KDHC has established an organization system centered on a horizontal process that conOrganization solidates field-centered responsible management system, embodying “a working organization centered on field.” Board of Audit We have adjusted the former 5 headquarters, 13 divisions, 14 branches, and 1,116 preDirectors Committee scribed employees into the current 3 headquarters, 10 divisions, 12 branches, 3 business stations, and 1,262 prescribed employees. We also removed the classification of posiStanding audit committee tion, rank, and job group, and we currently implement an HR system (open post system) President members wherein team leader-level officers are appointed according to aptitude and capability. We partially assigned people, centered on electric power and new renewable energy sectors Project as our flagship businesses. We flexibly operate these according to our growth trend. Vice President Headquarters Planning Project Auditing Division Development Office Status of KDHC (2010) Division President Jung Seung-il (took office on Aug. 27, 2008) Management Support Establishment date November 1, 1985 Sales Division Division Legal ground Article 29 of the Community Energy Supply Business Act Production, transport, and distribution of community energy Finance Division Installation and operation of community energy supply facilities Purpose New renewable energy business Technology Headquarters R&D, investment, contribution and overseas business related to the foregoing No. of employees 1,262 people Technology Assets KRW 3.3393 trillion Operation Division Capital KRW 57.9 billion Sales KRW 1.4375 trillion (total revenue: KRW 1.4770 trillion) Construction Division Sales volume Heat : 12,126 thousand Gcal /Electricity : 3,942 thousand㎿h Date of listing with January 2010, KRX Network stock exchange Division Address of head office 186 Bundang-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea District Heating Technology Institute Gyeongnam Mapo Branch Gangnam Branch Daegu Branch Cheongju Branch Branch Hwaseong Samsong Branch Yongin Branch Paju Branch Pangyo Branch Branch Suwon Office Gwanggyo Sejong Branch Bundang Office Goyang Office Branch Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Management Philosophy and Vision Midand long-term management strategies Strategy direction Value growth Business philosophy and vision Project development Consolidation of core Differentiation of services centered on qualitative growth competencies We build a happy energy world. The Best Environment Friendly Energy Company 1. Expansion of the existing 4. Consolidation of user 6. Consolidation of new region’s demand facility management business R&D CEO’s Management Philosophy 1.1 Establishment and 4.1 Improvement of secondary 6.1 Substantiation of new operation of propelling system party’s worn-out facilities thru business R&D and performance Efficiency, talented people development, for reasonable demand ESCO project capability consolidation and social contributioan development 4.2 Development and 6.2 R&D infrastructure expansion 1.2 Expansion of district cooling commercialization of integrated 6.3 Securing new, highly efficient service demand opening management system business implementation base thru R&D Core values Challenging Energetic Ownership 2. Establishment of new 5. Enhancement of customer 7. Future human resources business risk management satisfaction service development measuresa 2.1 Risk management according 5.1 Establishment of actual 7.1 Human resources Management targets to the RPS system customer-oriented service development for new business Sales: KRW 3.3 trillion/Reduction of greenhouse 2.2 Establishment of new system creation gas emissions: 30%, ROIC: 5% business implementation 5.2 Search a means to penetrate 7.2 Adoption of new HR system system into secondary-party direct 7.3 Building infrastructure 2.3 Overseas business management service for future human resources penetration and risk 5.3 Building strategic customer development (training center management management system (E-CRM) a building, etc.) 3. Consolidation of investment 8. Work process management system improvement 3.1 Strengthening the forecast 8.1 Establishment of PI-based management system for midenterprise system and long-term financial risk 8.2 Development and operation responses of management strategy linkage 3.2 Operation of target system investment cost by project 8.3 Building ubiquitous-based 3.3 Shift into business operation management environment (Use system by project mobile and smart phones.) 8.4 Review of adoption of officer system (vice president system) to secure management continuity 12 13 KDHC has established midand long-term management strategies considering the environmental changes including domestic and international economic conditions, energy industry trends, and government’s public corporation advancement policy. The midand long-term management strategies consist of the top 9 strategies, 25 strategy tasks, and 70 detailed tasks. Specifically, to secure implementation capability for the midand long-term strategy tasks, we simultaneously reflected the midand long-term management strategy objectives and pending tasks and consequently laid the foundation to realize KDHC’s vision. Cost Leadership Society-friendliness Procuring economic Optimizing construction Developing efficient Establishment of Shaping friendly policy energy sources investment operation system Clean & Green up social responsibility environment management system 9. Diversification of fuel 12. Driving investment 14. Improvement of heating purchasing sources upper limit system system facilities 17. Establishing measures 20. Leading public 23. Establishing policy to reduce greenhouse corporation advancement network 9.1 Diversification of fuels to 12.1 Optimization of 14.1 Establishment of gas emissions be used investment cost estimation measures to manage optimal 17.1 Organizing and operating 20.1 Establishment of 23.1 Establishment and 9.2 Improvement in fuel 12.2 Saving investment cost efficiency by facility TFT to reduce GHG emissions governance for sustainable activation of community energy demand and supply contract thru improvement in the 14.2 Building drainage pipe 17.2 Setting voluntary reduction growth system expert network conditions including LNG method of order placing network linking the southern target and coping with relevant 20.2 Establishment of invested 23.2 Shaping favorable policy 9.3 Improvement of part of Metropolitan Seoul Area policy companies and development of environment utilizing major 17.3 Establishment of roadmap management/operation system research institutions restrictions on fuels used 14.3 Execution of five-year plan to improve heat pipe network to reduce GHG emissions 20.3 Operation of shareholder23.3 Bolstering district cooling oriented management system association’s role 15. Preparing measures to 10. Stably securing new 13. Improving construction 18. Preparation of system cope with worn-out heat 21. Expansion of social 24. Devising cooperation renewable energy sources management system to minimize environmental supply facilities contribution system to improve systems impacts 10.1 Expansion of new 13.1 Enhancement of 15.1 Establishment of master 18.1 Development of logic 21.1 Additional search and 24.1 Bolstering technology renewable energy business construction management plan for midand long-term proving energy efficiency and implementation of social cooperation with relevant 10.2 Searching new renewable efficiency maintenance plan of heat consolidation of policy PR contribution business institutions to expand and energy sources considering 13.2 Construction system pipes 18.2 Implementation of contributing to low carbon, diffuse district cooling service measures to mitigate pollutants green growth 24.2 Development of economic efficiency and enhancement 15.2 Improvement of synergy effect technology to extend heat pipe related to total waste volume 21.2 Development of social cooperation system for electric system in Seoul Metropolitan responsibility execution system power business 10.3 Securing stable resources life Area Implementation of 21.3 Establishment of social 24.3 Strategic response to including signing MOU with fuel measures to reduce pollutants contribution welfare foundation district cooling system’s procurement sources and long18.3 Pursuing water quality efficiency and argument 21.4 Expand energy welfare term supply contract management optimization and sewer recycling 11. Enhancement of 16. Establishment of negotiation power with integrated operation 22. Strengthening existing main heating system of heating/ 19. Effectively coping with cooperation with small 25. Bolstering proactive sources electricity UNFCCC system and medium businesses policy PR (SMBs) 11.1 Establishment and 16.1 Building and efficient implementation of strategies operation of integrated 19.1 Establishment of strategy 22.1 Consolidation of 25.1 Brand value enhancement to cope with heating demand operation center of heating/ for carbon asset management supportive cooperation with thru strategic policy PR and supply contract electricity measures SMBs (one-way) 25.2 Establishment and 19.2 Continuous 22.2 Consolidation of execution of mid-and long11.2 Devising measures to 16.2 Development and implementation of CDM project supportive cooperation with term PR master plan secure alternative heating operation of integrated SMBs (two-way) 19.3 Execution of CER 25.3 Implementation of sources including searching economic operation system of (certified emission restriction) 22.3 Technology support and CI utilizing measures on reasonable means for heating/electricity transaction system within the sales channel development for enterprise dimension Metropolitan Seoul Area CHP company SMBs Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Status of Business KDHC supplied district heating service to about 1.15 million homes nationwide as of 2010. By establishing a heat supply pipe network linking the Seoul Metropolitan Area connecting from Paju to Hwaseong, we have secured stability of heating service along with facility use efficiency enhancement by region. Our electric power business is continuously growing, thanks to the new power plant construction. The operation of power plants located in the Seoul Metropolitan Area including Hwaseong, Pangyo, Suwon, and Gangnam greatly contributes to stable power system operation. ● Status of KDHC’s facilities ● Electric power business KDHC built a heat supply pipe network nationwide spanning 1,589km KDHC is currently operating CHP plants in Daegu, Suwon, Cheongju, x two pipelines (supply and recovery pipes). Our market share reachHwaseong, and Pangyo; our electric power business ratio is predictes 60%, and we expect the power industry ratio to increase. In exed to rise gradually, according to the construction of CHP plants in amining the sales ratio in each business sector, that of the heating Paju, Gwanggyo, Hwaseong/Dongtan 2, and Samsong. service sector is highest at 64%, followed by the power service sector The electric power produced in the CHP plants in Daegu, Suwon, with 35%, and the cooling service sector with 1%. Cheongju, Hwaseong, and Pangyo and that produced through new KDHC currently provides district heating energy to 1.15 million APTs renewable energy such as incineration heat in Gangnam, wood chips and 1,857 buildings from branches and business stations located in in Daegu, and solar energy in Jeungdo Shinan are sold through KoGangnam, Bundang, Goyang, Yongin, Daegu, Cheongju, Gyeongnam rea Power Exchange. The power produced in the Daegu solar energy (Gimhae and Yangsan), etc. power plant is directly sold to Korea Electric Power Corporation. We also operate the district electricity business, which sells electricity to ● Status of the heating service market end users directly from small-scale community energy supply sysConcerning KDHC’s heating service sales ratio, Bundang constituted tem business areas including the Dongang Region distribution com24%, and Goyang, 20%. For the power production ratio, Hwaseong plex, Garak Remian, and Sangnam District 2. took up 83%, and Cheongju, 6%. In terms of fuel expense ratio, LNG accounted for 46%, hydro energy, 28%, LSWR (Low-Sulfur Waxy ResSupply Regions by District Heating Service Branch and No. of Households Supplied (total of 1,148,232 households) idue), 18%, bunker C fuel oil, 7%, and driving power, 1%; LNG took up Category Branch Supplied No. of households Rataio about half of the total fuel expenses. According to the government’s region supplied community energy supply plan, the supply rate in 2017 is forecast to Paju Branch Paju Gyyoha, etc. 23,498 be more than twice that of 2007. Goyang Branch Ilsan, Haengshin, etc. 183,919 North of Samsong Branch Samsong, Eunpyeong, etc. 14,138 Han River Mapo Branch (Sangam, Jungang) Yeoido, Sangam, etc. Status of KDHC’s Facilities 69,654 Category Capacity Subtotal 291,209 25.4% Gangnam Branch 3 power plants (owned Heat : 1,708Gcal/h Suseo, Ilwon, etc. 176,231 (Suseo, Ilwon) Combined heat by other companies) Electricity: 2,188㎿ Pangyo Branch Pangyo, Dochon, etc. 24,810 and power 10 power plants Heat : 882Gcal/h South of Bundang Bundang Housing 106,624 (CHP) plant (owned by KDHC) Electricity : 863㎿ Heat Han River Business Station Site Zone production Yongin Branch Yongin, Dongbaek, etc. 164,129 Peak load boiler 54 units (owned by KDHC) 3,590Gcal/h facilities Suwon Branch Jangan, Gwonseon, etc. 114,557 Land fill gas boiler 4 units (owned by KDHC) 118Gcal/h Hwaseong Branch Dongtan, Beopajeong, etc. 54,954 Facilities to 12 locations(owned 243Gcal/h Subtotal 641,305 55.8% recover resources by local governments) Cheongju Branch Bunpyeong, Gagyeong, etc. 69,164 Heat storage Heat 22 units 391 thousand㎥ Daegu Branch Daegu Seongseo, etc. 101,712 facilities accumulator (owned by KDHC) (1,342Gcal/h) Provincial Gyeongnam Gimhae Jangyu, etc. 27,836 Branch Heat transport Heat supply pipe (owned by KDHC) 1,589㎞×2 pipelines Branch Yangsan Mulgeum, etc. 17,006 facilities Subtotal 215,718 18.8% 14 15 Status of district heating supply nationwide * LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) : LNG is the liquefied gas produced by cooling the methanol acquired by refining natural gas. Specifically, LNG is liquefied through about 600 times more compression of natural gas at -162°C. Thanks to the GREEN refining process, LNG has very high pure methanol content and zero moisture. * LSWR (Low-Sulfur Waxy Residue) : KDHC LSWR is low-sulfur waxy residue fuel oil (Bunker C). Sulfur content is generally 0.3wt% or less. As the name suggests, LSWR contains a large amount of low sulfur or waxy ingredient. At room temperature, LSWR hardens and turns into solid; thus, a separate warming facility is required to store LSWR. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 1 Corporate Governance KDHC has improved governance in a more transparent, rational way. Through the board of directors’ aggressive activities, we have been evaluated highly in terms of governance improvement effort, and the preand post-management systematization of the internal audit system has been reinforced. ● Shareholders and general shareholders’ meeting KDHC’s Invested Companies (Unit: KRW million, %) KDHC has been practicing shareholder-centered governance since its stock was listed with the stock exchange in January 2010 accord4,000,000 shares 2,316,063 shares ing to the government’s public corporations advancement policy. With KDHC listed with KRX (Korea Exchange) through new stocks issue, ent 11,5 Othe nm 4.6%) 86 rs (20 the scope of shareholders was extended to general shareholders G (3 . 20, over ) 000 0% and employee stock ownership association in addition to four shareholder institutions -government, KEPCO, Korea Energy Management Total Corporation, and Seoul City. KDHC increased its capital to KRW 130.2 KE 11,32 PCO 57,894 (100%) O billion through stock market listing and ensured public attributes by KAMC 5%) . 0 (19.5%) limiting stock ownership to 3% per person through the revision of the 6,099 (10 Community Energy System Business Act and change of articles of 1,219,676 shares 6,0 Seoul P 2,264,068 shares incorporation. Shareholders exercise their voting rights based on the 00 ( ESO .0%) 10.4%) 89 (5 2,8 articles of incorporation, officer appointment decision, and closing account approval through the general shareholders’ meeting. 1,200,000 shares 578,937shares ● Governance of the board of directors (“the board”) As the top decision-making organization of KDHC, the board consists of 11 members including 5 standing directors and 6 non-standing directors. The senior non-standing director assumes the board chairmanship. The individual director’s main career and board meeting minutes are disclosed on our homepage (www.kdhc.co.kr). Those with extensive experience and expertise in the energy sector are appointed standing directors. Board operation performance is evaluated by the board itself; thus promoting function improvement and responsible management in this manner. KDHC’s Invested Companies Category Business outline Capital Details of investment Establishment date Financial results in 2010 Korea District District cooling and heating KDHC: KRW 2.205 billion (50%) Asset; KRW 23.3 billion Heating KRW 4.41 billion Nov. 1 1991 technology service POYRY FINLAND: KRW 2.205 (50%) Net profit: KRW 4.4 billion Engineering Supply of community energy to Incheon Songdo New Town (KRW KDHC: KRW KRW 37.8 billion (50%) Incheon Total Assets: KRW 390.8 billion 75.6 billion) and KDHC (KRW 37.8 KRW 75.6 billion Incheon Metropolitan City: KRW 22.7 billion (30%) Jun. 10 2004 Energy Company Net Profit : ∆KRW 14.9 billion billion, 50%) June 10, 2004 Assets: Samchully: KRW15.1 billion (20%) KRW 390.8 billion Supplying community energy to KDHC: KRW 24.5 billion (495) Assets: KRW 71.1 billion Huces Suwon Homaesil and Hwaseong KRW 50 billion Sep. 1 2006 Samchully: KRW 25.5 billion (51%) Net Profit : ∆KRW 2.5 billion Hyangnam Districts KDHC: KRW 8.7 billion (29%) Supplying community energy to Industrial Bank of Korea: KRW 15 billion (50%) Assets: KRW 302.3 billion Suwan Energy, Inc. KRW 30 billion Jan. 3 2007 Gwangju Suwan/Hanam District Kengnam Engineering: KRW 6 billion (20%) Net Profit : ∆KRW 14.2 billion Gwangju Metropolitan City: KRW 300 million (1%) *KDHC sold equity in Kyungnam Power in August 2010 16 17 2 Corporate Governance ● Rights and responsibilities of the board making system, the rank and file are encouraged to participate in As per the regulations of KDHC, important issues related to comthe non-standing directors’ meeting and present opinions following pany management are executed through deliberation and resolution pre-explanation on the items on the agenda of the board meeting. In by the board. The board meeting is convened when majority of the 2010, we revised the board regulations as follows to bolster the board incumbent directors are present, and the items on the agenda are meeting’s role and expand authorities: notwithstanding any business decided by the approval of the majority of the attending directors. Any decided though the resolution of the board meeting, when important director with interest in any item on the agenda cannot vote pursumatters such as business mode and facility size are changed, they ant to the board regulations. In this manner, the transparency of the are subject to the board meeting’s resolution again, and; to ensure board operation is maintained. fairness of the board of meeting resolutions, any director with special interest in an item on the agenda cannot participate in the voting proNon-standing directors’ meeting: cess as per the articles of the incorporation. KDHC is doing its very Operation is centered on Presided by the senior nonbest to support the board activities by operating the board homepnon-standing directors. standing director age; thus securing two-way communication between the board and Audit committee: employees. Composition Chairman : Standing audit committee member Senior non-standing director and two non-standing directors Composition : Management Strategy Committee: ● Systematized internal audit system 5 standing directors, 6 non-standing directors Two standing directors and four KDHC runs an internal audit strategy system in keeping with the non-standing directors trend of regular midand long-term audit strategies. We strengthen monitoring centered on work with huge ripple effects and conduct ● Status of board meeting operation preventive audit through general and specific audits. A total of 12 board meetings were held in 2010, with 34 items to be By developing the intelligent e-audit system, we recommend to the decided and 35 items of reporting for a total of 69 items deliberated management the improvement of the relevant system before an acon. For the past 3 years including 2010, the attendance rate of the cident takes place or carry out education/training for the prevention incumbent directors was at least 97%. KDHC will make every effort of recurrence. For the post-audit management system, we have esto secure various conditions to activate the board meeting. tablished an “On-audit system” and made sure audit is conducted once a year. KDHC consolidates transparency by building an internal Status of Board Meetings for Three Years audit quality evaluation system and conducts risk assessment on the audit object. Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of meetings held 13 14 12 No. of items on the agenda 63 85 69 Composition of Non-Standing Directors Attendance rate of 100 97.6 100 Category Gender Age Area non-standing directors (%) Male Female 50s 60s 70s Diverse areas including People 5 1 2 3 1 environment, media/press, ● Board meeting communication business sectors Ratio (%) 83 17 33 50 17 The board meeting needs to be convened each month as a rule; it can be held anytime as necessary depending on the pending issues of management. This way, KDHC ensures accountability and transparency in decision making. To improve the top-down mode of decision Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Smart Sustainability KDHC strives to establish a sustainability management system as its management system to lay the foundation for sustainable development. We divide activities for sustainable growth and development into the environmental, economic, and social sectors, establish specific vision, objectives, and execution strategies, and carry out sustainability management activities. 18 19 Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 1 Sustainability Management The establishment purpose of KDHC is to enhance citizens’ convenience and its social contribution by laying the groundwork for the System and Organizations long-term, stable supply of energy. This purpose has been embodied into KDHC’s mission of “We build a happy world of energy.” We play a role in presenting the sustainability management vision and strategy direction. ● Sustainability management system KDHC makes all-out efforts for sustainability management by diversifying energy supply sources, securing energy resources’ long-term stability, and pursuing the globalization of business areas. In particular, we spearhead the safe and smooth supply of energy, environmental protection, and minimization of global climate change impacts. KDHC executes an energy welfare policy to serve the people and fulfill its responsibility as a corporate citizen. Our Policy Team supervises each sector’s strategies such as the departments of environment, ethics, social contribution, and safety, integrates them into sustainability strategies, and links them with KDHC’s business strategies. The establishment of all these strategies and execution results are reviewed and decided through KDHC’s top decision-making organization. Sustainability Management Strategy Direction Linkage Between Sustainability Management Strategies and Business Strategies Value creation management Strategy Value growth Cost Leadership Society-friendliness direction •Purse quality growth rather than Develop quality quantity growth. Procure economic growth-centered Clean & Green Up energy sources. •Create new values according to business. environmental change. Top 9 Build social Optimize construction strategies Differentiate services responsibility •Enhance corporate values. investment. management system. Consolidate core Build efficient Shape favorable policy capabilities. operating system. environment. Cost Leadership Society-friendliness •Lead the industry with top-tier ●L  inkage between sustainability management strategies •Practice eco-friendly management. competitiveness. and business strategies •Actively accept public functions and •Maximize corporate income and KDHC checked the results of vision and strategies in 2010, analyzed roles. public benefits. the management environment and internal competence, and adjusted the strategic system. In the process of business for resources development, we have emphasized the social aspect such as posSustainability Management Organization sible human rights breach, supplemented the environmental manPresident agement policy including the reduction of GHG emissions and climate change, and integrated these into sustainability management. Management & Strategy Division We also included various preparation processes to use ISO 26000 -which was announced as an international standard -in our strategy Value creation Eco-management Social responsibility management management tasks at the end of 2010. •Actual value •Develop eco-energy •Put social responsibility management (Business (Green Growth Team) into practice (PR Team) Management Team) •Fulfill global obligations •Customer impression •Enhance corporate (Climate Environment management (Sales efficiency Team) Division) (Planning Team) •Eco-construction •Establishment of ethical •Business Environment (Construction Division) awareness (Business Management Management Team, (Planning Division) Auditing Office) 20 21 2 Sustainability Management KDHC’s Social Contribution Strategy System and Organizations Category Adoption period Settlement period Maturing period KDHC, KDHC, KDHC, Main player Happy Sharing Corps. Happy Sharing Corps. Happy Sharing Corps. ● Sustainability environmental management activities Environmental analysis structure Before new renewable energy -which is currently being developed worldwide -secures actual economic efficiency, the environmentMacro-environment (Eco, EST) Government policy (Policy) friendliness of natural gas is expected to attract interest and attenEco : Coping with climate change tion. KDHC has led efforts to reduce CO2 emissions at the national P  ublic corporation policy Economic : Environmental change Community energy system policy level through the active execution of district heating service business Social : Change of customer needs Other energy policy Technological : New technology development and has established and executed its “low carbon, green growth” vision in linkage with the government’s low carbon, green growth Midand long-term management strategy. All in all, we have laid the midand long-term foundation environment for efforts to cope with climate change. Natural gas is fuel boasting of KDHC’s environmental analysis environment-friendliness attributes compared with other types of energy; hence the negligible number of cases of environmental breach Strategy direction and task in view of our business features. KDHC wages various campaigns in* The analysis results of macro-environment and government policy cluding “cleaning and preserving one river per company” and “shapenvironment are used for comprehensive strategy development. ing camellia forest” to enhance overall responsibility awareness with regard to environmental protection, strive to protect our environment such as atmosphere, water, and soil and boost social environmental protection awareness. ● Sustainable social contribution activities Our efforts to develop continuous social contribution activities and ● Sustainable economic activities intensively execute those activities in line with KDHC’s features -beBy linking the sustainability management strategy and implementayond temporary, scattered social contribution activities -continued tion roadmap established in 2009 with KDHC’s entire strategies in the in 2010 as well. In particular, we continuously strive to consolidate review and re-establishment process of business strategies in 2010, linkage with communities and improve citizens’ energy welfare. we have consolidated our capability to implement those strategies. KDHC is committed to fulfilling its responsibilities as a public agency By securing resources in the economic aspect, and through green and promoting win-win development through communities, small growth strategy in the environmental aspect, we have bolstered the and medium businesses, and underprivileged based on consistent accomplishment of tasks to cope with climate change. change and innovation. Sustainable Planning and management KDHC Finance HR/Organization Ma Support a Activities R&D rg in Information Business development * By dividing corporate activities into primary and support Primary b activities and systematically examining individual activiConstruction Activities ties, we carry out value chain analysis to understand the Production and operation Margin firm’s strengths and weaknesses. Marketing Draw measures to consolidate the primary activity area and reduce the support activity area. Risk Management Risk management and responsiveness to efficient management of energy become the survival factors of companies given the worsening environmental disasters and climate change that seriously damage our living base worldwide. KDHC has built an enterprise risk management system by choosing the material risks in overall management in advance and systematically managing them. This way, we overcome the negative impacts of the global economic downturn. In particular, we focus on predicting, assessing, and preventing hazards in the risks in advance. Such is aimed at taking action to prevent the risks from evolving into a full-blown crisis. All these are designed to minimize damages in case risks actually occur and evolve into a crisis. Risk management consists of activities to cope with an emergency situation. ● Organization of Risk Management and Disaster Safety HQ KDHC’s risk management enables restricting new businesses, fragmenting potential risk factors by value chain of heating and cooling business ranging from facility construction and adoption and production of key facilities to supply and sales, assessing risks in combination with frequency and ripple effects, and deciding the response level. For management risks, we have decided the point in time to cope with a crisis and have illustrated the signs of crisis in advance in the manual by field. When a crisis sign is detected, we establish a preliminary action system as a stage of interest or caution according to the crisis level and decide whether to run the actual response system, which is a serious stage or a stage for vigilance. ● Risk management system and activities KDHC’s material risk management systems include a financial risk management system to control and manage financial risks including exchange rate, oil prices and interest rate, on-audit system for the real-time monitoring of organization members’ corruption situation, and financial ERP system to cope with emergency by examining field safety and health and environment management risk factors and by presenting counteractions. KDHC’s President serves as the supervising head of these systems, with the Finance Dept. Manager acting as manager of their execution. These systems are operated based on processes such as danger factor examination and risk assessment as well as devising actions to ease and seek measures to cope with a crisis. Risk Management Procedure Recognition M  easurement Control Monitoring Identify the and C  ontrol and location of Assessment risks thru Reporting various D  ecide the regular or C  ontinuously potential risks. measuring methods by routine reports. monitor the risk level risk type, measure the and decide the risk scale, and assess reporting path, details, the appropriateness. and cycle. Organization of Risk Management and Disaster Safety HQ ● System and activities to cope with crises KDHC has revised and supplemented the risk management manual so that a risk President (Supervision and Coordination) (accident) and a scenario match one-to-one. By devising a “Manual for Actions On-Site” to be applied to the head office and branches, we have built an organic cooperative system between the head office and branches. Through this, we HQ General Manager conduct field training on Safety Inspection Day every 5th of the month and continuously carry out virtual accident training to improve our capability to Vice President cope with disasters. Branch Branch Manager Committee Member ● Risk management activities Division KDHC strives for the safe, stable supply of energy, guided by its misManager HQ General Manager sion of providing fuels to people who account for more than 60% Management Support of the primary energy consumption in Korea. The crisis situaDivision Manager tion involving energy supply may cause a problem in the stable Customer Service supply of energy as well as considerable inconvenience to Branch Team Leader everyday life. Bearing all these in mind, we decide the level of coping with risks considering the social and economic Overall Action Unit Customer Service Unit Situation Handling Unit Head ripple effects. Technology Operation Dept. Planning Dept. Manager Sales Dept. Manager Manager Operation Division Customer Service Facility Division Branch Branch Branch Manager Team Leader Manager Planning Team Sales Team Technology Operation Dept. Budget and Investment Team Electric Power Team Network Dept. PR Team Customer Technology Team Construction Dept. *Team member: One 4th grade *Team member: One 4th grade *Team member: One 4th grade staff each staff each staff each Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 1 Ethical KDHC has never caused a negative social issue in relation to corporate ethics since its establishment. In the 2010 Sustainability Management Fact-Finding Survey carried out by the Management Knowledge Economy Ministry, KDHC was named excellent corporation for 7 consecutive years. We were also evaluated as an outstanding agency in the 2010 Public Agencies Integrity Measurement and as a very outstanding agency in the 2010 Anticorruption Policy Assessment conducted by the Anticorruption and Civil Rights Commission of Korea (ACRC). Vision 2015 Energy company that continually grows based on trust to build a world with integrity and a fair society Core Fairness Transparency Rationality Integrity Responsibility values <2010> Establishment of Integrity infrastructure <2012> Substantiation of Integrity Culture <2015> Best Integrity Level · Achieve 9.0 or higher in integrity index. · Zero Corruption KDHC Midand · Stakeholder satisfaction long-term · Maintain AAA in sustainability management for · Achieve the best rating in anticorruption policy · (No. 1 in customer satisfaction) objectives 7 consecutive years. assessment. Compliance with code of conEstablish anticorruption Interest and efforts of Improve system and reguladuct; activate internal reporting Educate and publicize antifoundation President tions of irregularities corruption · Identify corruption-causing · Maximize dissemination factors and maximize · Build anticorruption impleimprovement of such. effect of agency head · Prepare for internal irregu· Frequently shape ethical mentation system. · Thoroughly improve the Strategies integrity by stakeholder. larity reporting activation. and upright learning base. · Activate private-public secsystem related to corrupin 2010 · Participate in anticortion. · Enhance execution ability · Consolidate strategic PR tor cooperation together ruption and consolidate · Implement systematic of code of conduct. activities. with stakeholders. recognition. corruption impact assessment. KDHC Anti-corruption Execution System and Integrity Culture Foundation to put Anticorruption/Integrity Organization/System Enterprise participation CEO’s commitment e-Audit system Ethical awareness them into norm operation and action practice Planning (P) Sharing/Dissemination (D) Execution of measurement/Feedback (S) Management · Anticorruption and integrity plan, etc. · Operation of ethical helpers, etc. · Questionnaire survey workshop, etc. system ● Ethical management Ethical Management Committee Structure As the moral judgment criterion or value system that tells the right and wrong behaviors or attitudes, ethical management refers to the Ethical Management Committee criterion in corporate decision making and judging acts with regard (Carrying out integrity implementation simultaneously) to values and philosophy pursued by stakeholders. KDHC carries Business Management out business transparently, fairly, and rationally according to ethical Team/Audit Team norm, putting the highest priority on ethical management in management activities. In particular, we actively comply with corporate Integrity Integrity Expert TF Ethical Helper Implementation Group (Deputy Division Manager and (Team Leader level) ethics including stipulating preferential consideration of ethical as(Relevant Dept. in head office) Dept. Manager) pects in the code of conduct when conflict arises between profit purSearch weak factors of Decide practical work Operate help line suit and corporate ethics. corruption in the line of integrity policy and (consulting) and organize organization and execute improve performance department ethical and manage integrity management and system education, etc.) policy tasks.) Private-Public Council (KDHC and partner firms): Execute joint efforts to enhance integrity 24 25 2 Ethical Consequently, there was no corruption case in 2010. Likewise, as a result of the government’s public agency integrity measurement, we Management were recognized as an excellent agency and the best public corporation in the anticorruption policy assessment. Objectives in 2010: Consolidation of Integrity Culture Through Integrity Infrastructure Expansion ● Ethical management strategies by stage Planning System KDHC places the highest value on ethical management to realize Ethical management Integrity policy sustainable development and to grow as a trusted company and action system (STEP) implementation plan carries out management activities accordingly. We held an “Ethical Management Declaration and Action Convention” in June 2003 Process Process T ask selection (Team in charge) Selection of integrity policy task and proclaimed ethical responsibility consolidation internally and (Team in charge) Plan confirmation Task confirmation (Ethical Manageexternally. In 2005, we established an ethical management master ment Committee) Task implemen(Ethical Management Committee) plan, executed implementation strategies by stage, and reorganized tation Inspection/Evaluation (Ethical Inspection (Team in charge) Management Committee) Feedback Feedback strategic tasks. This way, we have been bolstering the ethical management system. In 2012, we plan to adopt an ethical management Execution Infrastructure program suitable for the global standard. KDHC is bent on establishing a world-class ethical management system. Area Existing system New and revised system · Operation of officer’s · Adoption of integrity information system for job integrity contract Leadership system new contracted persons Ethical Management Strategies · Management’s ethics · Institutionalizing the sending of CEO’s integrity letter message, etc. 2003 Year Ethical management declaration · Online/Offline · Adoption of the integrity learning  Best public corporation in the ethical management ethical and integrity 2004 Year Ethical certification system fact-finding survey education 2005 Year Establishment of ethical management master plan awareness · E&S decision-making · Reorganization of self-diagnosis system of ethical awareness system  Won ethical management grand prize in Korea Management 2006 Year Awards Ethics · Operation of ethics · Operation of integrity expert TF  Established sustainability management strategies and joined organization helpers 2007 Year UN Global Compact as member · Revision of norms including code of conduct 2008 Year Establishment of ethical management IT · Implementation of autonomous system 2009 Year Full revision of code of conduct System improvement tasks · Ethical norm revision,  Expansion of Integrity infrastructure and achievement as best improve· Establishment of integrity ombudsman 2010 Year etc. company in anticorruption policy assessment ment system operation base · IT expansion including building the integrity and ethics room ● Expansion of Integrity infrastructure Company· Implementation · Measures to activate integrity wide of ethics tasks by KDHC set as its ethical management objective for 2010 the consolisuggestion system and help line participation department dation of integrity culture to expand Integrity infrastructure and strove · Campaign not to give and accept gifts for Integrity infrastructure expansion. Through the enterprise ethical External during traditional · Implementation of campaign to build disseminaholidays an integrity world management action system (STEP), ethical management tasks are tion · Operation of integrity friends formation · Social gathering with assigned to each department of the head office and branches; KDHC cooperating firms, reflects the results on the internal management assessment, offers etc. · Clean call monitoring · Expansion and consolidation of internal feedback, and improves its ethical management activities. In 2010, Assessment · Ethical attributes assessment in ethical management we expanded the foundation considerably including the implementaassessment in case (company-wide expansion / 1 point → 3 points) of work evaluation tion of 13 system-improving tasks and adoption of the integrity sug· Raising the internal reporting reward for gestion system and integrity learning certification system along with Incentives · Ethical person award public benefits (KRW 200 million → KRW 2 billion) integrity friends formation. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 3 Ethical Management ●P  rotection of Whistleblower for Public Benefits and ReRevision of Regulations to Boost Ethical Management (Oct. 2010) ward System Operation Regulations Purpose of Revision Summary of Revision KDHC operates reporting regulations and system specifying the Enhance ethical ·S pecification of ethical reporting obligation, method, procedure for handling employee’s Ethical regulations management values regulations as top regulation corruption acts, and reporting person protection and reward respon·R aising the reward for Regulations on internal reporting: KRW 200 million sibility. Internal employees can report corruption acts through the public benefit reporting Activate internal public → KRW 2 billion person protection and benefit reporting ·E xtension of reporting period: cyber indictment center, visit, mail, fax, and email and receive up to rewards 2 years → 5 years KRW 2 billion in reward. ·L imiting dismissal at one’s Penalize people own request against a person Reward and punishment under investigation due to causing irregularities ●R  eceipt of reports on irrationalities through cyber Shinalleged irregularities moongo from our homepage ·S tipulation of criteria for Consolidate KDHC operates a cyber Shinmoongo on its homepage so that exCorporate card punishment for illegal use transparency of ·A ddition of types of corporate management guidelines ternal people can report corruption and budget waste issues related accounting card use limit to KDHC. People can report through various channels such as telephone, fax, and email. Status of Ethical Education in 2010 ● Clean card system operation and electronic bid activation Category Details KDHC operates a system through which fund settlement is susSpecial lecture on CEO’s special lectures on ethics and integrity upon auditor’s integrity by touring pended when corporate card use is inappropriate. Through the real branch touring (22 sessions) branches name system of corporate card, we ensure transparency of budget Education to nurture Education to nurture ethical helpers and integrity experts ethical helpers (28 people, December) execution. In 2010, we revised the “Corporate Card Management Cyber ethical 403 people received ethical education Guidelines” and precisely established the punishment criteria for the education (16-hour course for 4 weeks in July) unlawful use of corporate cards. This way, we consolidated the ethiEducation on code of Education on code of conduct focusing on job training conduct (10 sessions, 167 people) cal attributes in budget execution and accounting transparency. Integrity learning Integrity learning by branch organized by ethical helpers certification system (62 sessions, 106 hours) Integrity discussion Searching hazardous factors affecting integrity and meeting discussing measures for improvement (all branches, September) KDHC Integrity Cyber Shinmoongo on homepage 26 27 4 Ethical Management Results of Public Agencies Integrity ●S  ystem operation and culture dissemination campaign for the integrity advancement 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Year Year Year Year Year Year KDHC operates an Ethical Management Committee (in charge of anticorruption TF as 9.17 9.15 well) consisting of KDHC’s officers, external people, and employee representatives by 8.63 8.86 8.44 8.51 rank. In addition, we have developed frequent routine audit and information system, and we promote zero corruption KDHC. This way, we continuously consolidate our efforts to enhance integrity. By organizing the District Heating Integrity Friends with the participation of our employees, community residents, and partner firms, we spearhead the dissemination of an integrity culture including jointly carrying out integrity campaigns along with an integrity declaration ceremony. As we operate the internal management evaluaKDHC Related public All agencies tion system paying differential performance-based pay by evaluating management perorganizations (110) formance each year, we measure irregularities targeting each department of the head office and each branch. The department (branch) where irregularities occurred receives a lower score in management evaluation and consequently suffers disadvantages. ● Received Prime Minister’s Group Citation in the Corruption Prevention Sector KDHC received the prime minister’s citation in the corruption prevention sector in the “3rd People’s Shinmoongo Awards held by ACRC. The Awards aim at rewarding institutions and people that/who actively contributed to anticorruption/integrity culture dissemination along with the solution of people’s difficulties in various social areas. Group Citation KDHC was named very outstanding agency -which is the top rank in the public agencies’ corruption prevention policy assessment in 2010 -and excellent agency in integrity measurement. KDHC is committed to striving to help build a society with integrity by consistently carrying out the integrity policy based on the ethical management system. Quantitative Performance of KDHC’s Ethical Management KOBEX SM Public agency’s integrity Anticorrution Policy Assessment Accurence of corrution Target Over(Unit: points) achieve(Unit: points) achievement (Unit: grade) (Unit: case) ment of target 9.17 Performance Excluded from Performance Zero 95 ≥95 95 9.15 ≥9.15 in 2009 assessment in 2009 Target Target Excellent Zero in 2010 in 2010 Performance Very Performance Zero in 2010 Excellent in 2010 OverTarget achievement achieveof target ment 2009 2010 2010 2009 2010 2010 PerforTarget PerforPerforTarget Performance mance mance mance Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 5 Ethical Management ● Ethical Management Program for Stakeholders KDHC operates segmented ethical management programs to meet stakeholders’ expectations and demand level and enhance stakeholders’ ethical management action level. We consolidate partnership with our stakeholders and put ethical management into practice through various ethical management programs. Ethical Management Activity Programs Communities CEO Employees ·S  ocially equitable employment ·P  articipation in Ethical Management SM Forum: · Reorganization of ethical norm ·P  roject to support talented people fostering in CEO Pledge Ceremony · Improvement of internal reporting system remote areas ·S  igning the officer’s job integrity contract for public benefits Fostering of talented people in Yemi Elementary ·R  eceiving education on CEO ethical manage· Operation of ethical helper and help line School in Gangwon-do ment · Execution of ethical education and discus·B  uilding residential facilities for elderly living ·E  mphasizing ethical management in monthly sion meeting alone ·C  ontinuous operation of Hannan Happiness speech · Excellent company certification in terms of Sharing Corps ·E  xecution and dissemination of not giving and labor-management (Ministry of Labor) Support for underprivileged including elderly accepting gifts during traditional holidays · Consolidation of support for child rearing living alone and women’s health Participation in a campaign to build Houses of · Education reinforcement including credit Love system, etc. ·C  onsolidation of environmental responsibility -D  evelopment and use of new renewable energy Registration of business to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Details of ethical management by field Partner firms Shareholders Customers ·S  ustainable win-win cooperation and workshop · Activation of outside director system ·C  onvenience enhancement with heating forecast · Integrity contract system · Operation of officer recommendation comservice ·E  -contract system and EDI establishment ·C  onsolidation of validation procedure upon heatmittee ·E  lectronic bid and expansion of procured fund · Consolidation of opinion collection on pending rate adjustment ·C  RM (customer relationship management) op·O  peration of cooperation yard with partner firms ing management issues eration ·P  artner firm satisfaction survey · Awarding the right to connect with Intranet ·O  peration of information disclosure system tar·C  ontinuation of campaign of not accepting and · Management disclosure geting customers giving gifts · Disclosing the board meeting minutes ·F  ree inspection and technology guidance for ·E  ducation for partner firms and holding of social · Disclosure of management situation at customers’ facilities gathering anytime ·S  urvey of customer satisfaction with local gov· Operation of cyber PR room ernments and central government · Profit distribution ·C  ontinuous operation of open public corporation committee ·S  ocial gathering with key customers ·O  peration of cyber Shinmoongo (homepage) ·R  eview of regulations related to customer’s rights and interests 28 29 Transparent KDHC continuously strived to improve various systems and institutions for transparent and fair management in 2010 as well. We are commitManagement ted to growing as a reliable, trusted company through active transparent management. ● System improvement to consolidate financial soundness KDHC prepared an institutional vehicle for the consolidation of financial structure soundness by organizing the financial management committee with external experts for decision making on important issues such as fund size, procurement period, selection of securities firms, and foreign currency-denominated bonds related to the second-half fund procurement method for 2010. Financial ERP System SEM Data Mart, Management Analysis, etc. Integrated financial ERP Construction Corporate card Budget Management management management Accounting Electronic fund Financial Production operation accounting Electronic contract Materials Sales Fund management management Electronic tax invoice EAI HR and pay Groupware (e-settlement system) ● Establishment of Initial Public Offering (IPO) IR System KDHC enhances corporate value through IR system establishment and activity consolidation according to IPO. We have realized the effect of raising the stock price by contributing to corporate value enhancement including strategic strategies and DB management for corporate development via the development of an IR system. Financial Budget Management Improvement Effects According to the IPO IR System ERP Adoption Category Details Achievements Financial Establishment of monthly closing account process and developaccounting ment of international accounting standard system Company · IPO and performance · Two domestic presentaManagement Systematized cost management and embodiment of profit and presentation release tions accounting loss analysis process Budget · Three sessions weekly management Embodiment of standardized budget management process One-on-one · Interviews with visiting interview on the average institutional investors Fund (125 sessions in all) management Securing preciseness of fund balance information · Interviews with domestic · Annually Integrated management of receipts and disbursements process, IR EXPO Materials and foreign investors (participation each year) ensuring the preciseness of materials demand and supply management information · Institutional investors’ · Frequently Contract Securing linkage with the relevant systems and expansion of NDR visit (11 institutions in all) management online contract business * SAP ERP (SAP Enterprise Resource Planning): SAP is a German ERP software company. ERP is a program to manage an enterprise in an integrated manner and enhance management efficiency through the effective use of management resources. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 1 Stakeholder Communication Stakeholders of KDHC Shareholders Government Customer demand change •T ransparent information disclosing (price, safety, quality, service) • Harmony between public benefits and Top decision Management/ making Support profitability Customers (including NGOs) National Assembly Demand/Audit Audit · Legislation Demand for improvement Cooperation Cooperation in quality of life Employees Partner firms Internal Stakeholders’ Communication Channel ● Two-way communication for sustainability management Category Performance Main function KDHC operates various communication channels with stakeholders from all walks of life, listens to a variety of opinions, and reflects them on sustainability management. Workshop for Establishing next year’s Anytime management business plan and pursuing it Based on internal sympathy formation, we have established opinion collection sharing Conversation channels tailored for each stakeholder, i.e., employees, customers, shareholders, govListening to employees’ between the CEO Anytime ernment, and partner firms, centered on value dissemination conveyed to external stakegrievances and suggestions and employees holders. Through this, we make great efforts for two-way communication to be carried Sharing management strategies and material out actively, such as diffusing the KDHC philosophy and values, and listen to stakeholders’ Monthly meeting Monthly pending issues with all opinions and requests. employees LaborConsultation and handling management 4 sessions of issues of interest through ● Value sharing of internal stakeholders and operation of dialog channel council labor-management council KDHC held the CEO and officers’ road show for each branch to encourage the agency Operation of daily Sharing of pending communication Everyday information between labor head’s autonomous management contract. Through the midand long-term managesystem and management ment strategy handbook and pocket memo of strategies, we actively lead the disseminaDirect tion of business philosophy and values. The operation of dialog channel between KDHC Explanation of conversation management situation and and employees becomes the foundation through which discussion and cooperation can between the CEO Anytime opinion exchange related to and the labor be carried out together to pursue the development direction of KDHC. collective bargaining union leader KDHC ensures participation of and sharing with all employees as a rule when establishSeeking measures to LaborOnce ing company values. In the case of management meeting and establishment of strategy solve key pending issues management (October) including advancement of workshop to shape the CEO’s management philosophy and detailed strategies, we help organization industrial relations Labormembers form a bond of sympathy through their active participation. We also conducted Field seminar, listening to management Once grievances questionnaire surveys to set KDHC’s core values in June 2010 and reflected employees’ field seminar various opinions and enhanced execution capabilities. 30 31 2 Stakeholder Communication ● Value sharing with external stakeholders ment, we actively collect various stakeholders’ opinions and utilize KDHC develops communication channels for smooth opinion exthem for our development. In addition, we share values with collechanges with various external stakeholders. We identify sustainabilgians, the leading public opinion formation class, by commissioning ity trends through the sustainable report and strategically respond to them as collegian PR ambassadors. stakeholders’ opinions. They act on/offline, participate in KDHC’s PR plan establishment, KDHC releases management disclosures to various stakeholders social volunteering activities, and various events, and make efforts including customers, shareholders, government, partner firms, and for community development together with KDHC. Through all this, communities regularly or frequently. Through a total of 21 annual high interest in KDHC and active opinion exchange are ensured. All management disclosures including 5 regular disclosures in April in all, they help KDHC endear itself to various stakeholders as an and October each year and 16 disclosures that are frequently anamicable company. nounced within 14 days of occurrence of any management issue, we * PI (President Identity): Various marketing activities focused on the company’s president; PI refers to the top strive to let them know about our company value with added transmanagement’s image. parency and reliability. Based on the Act on the District Energy System Supply Business, we establish midand long-term objectives every 3 years according to 10-year midand long-term management strategies. After Status of Operation of Stakeholders Value Sharing Dialog Channels drawing up 3-year midand long-term management objectives, we · Reporters to the Ministry of Knowledge Economy submitted them to the Strategy and Finance Ministry and Knowledge Official press · Reporters stationed in the Seongnam region conference · Reporters of energy journals or newspapers Economy Ministry in April 2010 following resolution by the board of directors. KDHC will strive to become a sustainable energy company · Reporters of KBS News HQ, MBC News Broadcastthat develops further based on midand long-term management ing Bureau, SBS Scheduling HQ Unofficial press · Reporters of YTN, MBN, Hankyung TV objectives. meeting DongA Ilbo, Maeil Business Newspaper, Newspaper Munhwa Ilbo, Hankyoreh Newspaper, ● Stakeholder communication channel Yonhap News Neil Newspaper KDHC endeavors to establish a management system through social · Office of the Spokesperson of the Knowledge Econgatherings with partner firms as well and listens to their difficulomy Ministry Relevant institutions · PR Officer, Office of Seongnam City Hall ties and suggestions. Five social gatherings were held including a of the media/press · Korea Press Foundation · Kobaco presentation in March 2010 targeting private material suppliers and · Broadcasting companies including KBS, MBC, SBS KDHC bid-participating companies. With the activation of communi· Announcers Association, Reporters Association, cation through the e-contract system, a win-win cooperative system Stakeholders Broadcasting Camera Reporters Association, and in the PR area with partner firms was built, and support for bid participants was other PR agencie reinforced. We also carry out the policy of “Mutual Growth” with small and medium businesses (SMBs) through a practical contract management education program, which forms part of the SMB supporting education. We communicate with stakeholders from all walks of life through media/press, at the same time hosting intermittent social gatherings all-year round via access to each medium. By implementing social gatherings for business philosophy diffusion and PI enhance Launching ceremony for Collegian PR Ambassadors of KDHC Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Materiality Evaluation and KDHC sets the direction of sustainability management, evaluates the firm’s importance, draws core issues, and puts sustainability management tasks into practice to become a topCore Issues tier energy company boasting of sustainable competitiveness at the company-wide level. We also collect the various opinions of stakeholders and reflect them on overall management activities. ● Materiality evaluation process KDHC continuously monitors KDHC-related details exposed to the media and classifies Materiality test process and analyzes sustainability management issues. Using our online VOC system, we collect Internal policy assessment Test 1 and manage the major stakeholders’ grievances and interests. Policy and criteria evaluation data Analysis of direct/indirect economic effects Through sustainability management-related associations and institutions participated in Test 2 Key performance indicator (KPI) by KDHC, it acquires information on domestic and international sustainability manageReview of domestic and international norms, Test 3 criteria, laws and regulations, and global ment trends and cyclically collects information by accessing the main institutions’ online standards homepages. The information acquired through such process is classified into internal and Progress of stakeholders’ participation Test 4 Questionnaire survey (internal and external external trends and stakeholders’ perspectives and used as basic data for the significance stakeholders) test. For core stakeholders, we draw core issues through a separate questionnaire survey Benchmarking and apply them to the field. Test 5 Benchmarking advanced companies in sustainability management Media search Test 6 Search main press releases (Jan. ~ Dec. 2010). Materiality Test Results HIGH · Community communication · Listing with the stock market · Identification of community· Appropriateness of heating rate · System to implement social · Realization of energy welfare · CS education needs contribution · Customer communication · Expansion of clean energy use · Customer-oriented · Community recognition (VOC) External interest organizational culture · Community cooperation and · Partner firm communication · Anticorruption · Ethical management system support · Expansion of new renewable · Employees’ volunteering · Fair transaction · Win-win cooperation support · Law-abiding · Consolidation of ethical energy business · Recycling and reuse management · Coping with climate change · Low carbon, green growth · Technology innovation · Economic performance and · Fairness in HR system distribution · Sustainability management · New business fostering · Responsible for products and · Governance improvement · Accounting transparency MEDIUM strategy and system · Entry into new markets · Enhancement of quality · Health and safety enhancement · Environmental impacts organizational HR · Customer information protection · Child rearing and omen’s · Greenhouse gas management · Employee communication management efficiency assessment health support · Reduction of harmful · Energy efficiency · Balance in work and life · Industry-academe cooperation · Selling of subsidiaries substances enhancement · Offering equal employment · Sustainability management opportunity · Employee education/training · Industrial relations report and self-development improvement · Biodiversity protection · Measurement of sustainability · Waste and wastewater · Internal process innovation · Public corporation’s · Fostering and securing · Eradication of irrational demands management performance management leadership consolidation · Considering the LCA environment specialists to partner firms · Environmental management · Dissemination of sustainability environment · Management of environmental · Physical improvement of recognition level management recognition · Environmental accounting impacts of transport and logistics the work environments · Eco-purchase LOW · Employee grievance handling · Operation of board of directors and · Supporting the retirees · Reflection of sustainability · Women’s leadership steering committee · Employment stabilization management factors when · Financial performance · Employee’s personal investing overseas (stability) information protection and respect for privacy LOW MEDIUM HIGH Internal interest 32 33 Procedure for Report Publication STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Review of basic data Stakeholder communication Decision on report details Data collection Drawing up and review · Implementation plan · Analysis of issues reported to · Decision on report priorities · T FT education and drawing up · Wrapping up the collected data ·R  eview meeting on publication the media/press · Related indices by report field of each index and polishing the write-up methods · Stakeholders Steering · Listing ·P roduction and distribution of ·S  takeholder steering committee ·K  ick-off meeting Committee · Materiality evaluation guidelines review ·R  eview of international norms, · Reflection of key experts ·C omposition and planning of · Data collection by the relevant · e flection of review opinion and criteria, and laws (interview with experts) report framework staff in charge final reporting ·S  etting the reporting scope and · Identification of stakeholder · Related to other reported details · Report design planning · Release of the report criteria issues · Reflection of principles ·R eflection of report quality ·B  enchmarking similar (ISO 26000, etc.) assurance principles institutions abroad ● Questionnaire survey GRI quality assurance principles GRI details definition principles ·B  alance KDHC communicates with stakeholders such as customers, employ·M  ateriality ·C  omparability ·S  takeholder engagement ·P  reciseness/Timeliness ees, partner firms, and community people through various channels, ·S  ustainability context ·C  learness/Credibility reflects opinions and interests via multiple stages, and enhances the credibility of sustainability management. This questionnaire survey was conducted for about one month from April 25 to May 20, 2011. Yearly Comparison Table of Sustainable Areas’ Scores Readers can compare and analyze the 2010 and 2011 questionnaire survey results by stakeholder and check our sustainability manage90 88.76 2011 89 87.81 87.26 87.7 2010 ment, which has improved further compared to the previous year. 88 86.57 87 86 85.55 85.75 87 85 85 84.85 ● Media analyses 83.39 84 83 82.4 The number of exposures to media was 955 cases for the past 3 82 years. The most important issue was KDHC’s business expansion Corporate SustainaCustomer Mutual Community Laborimage bility satisfaction growth communication management abroad and listing with the stock market. Articles dealt with concommunication sumer issue on heating and cooling rates, customer satisfaction, tree planting event for energy saving and reduction of CO2 emissions, Number of exposures to the media in 2010 and business implementation for efficient energy use. The results of 200 media analysis have been reflected on sustainability management 201 strategies and various tasks. We will make more efforts to realize a 150 sustainable company that develops further by reflecting the opinions 100 53 50 41 of various media/press and stakeholders. 50 37 25 24 11 11 8 6 Yearly Comparison Table of Stakeholders’ Scores Co ns Pa ssen E Ge ne um er rtic ipa tia l ral se tio se rvi rvice ni nc ce u 89 88.1 ,s up dev omm e s 87.24 2011 Co nt Ef po elo u r p n 88 87.02 87.1 Ef rib ut for c t ts onfli and en ty m i 86.03 2010 for ion to e ct gr t s i 87 Effor ts tst oc r to co m ase e tt eva cli lem nce m 86 to e ate m a ent 86.8 84.9 84.48 pr otect co cul nity te ch m m ural edut u an 85 83.5 thee un ity deve atio c ge 84 83.3 nv iro nm we alt ha lop n a m nde Co Pr en nd nt 83 ntribution om oti on t an dn inc om an thro of Co atu ra e d t ug soc rru l h Employees Customers Partner Communities Average ec h hn de olo ve ial re sp ption pr a bit at gie lop on Firms sa e m nd nt sib fir ility e v e nt ion ad of e m’s wit op xp h tio er influ in th n i tis e n c e, nce e om fun m ctio un ns itie , s Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Smart Dream KDHC fulfills its social responsibilities to embody the future society for “Happy Energy World.” We make efforts to contribute to communities through financial and non-financial forms of assistance such as social contribution projects and volunteering for the socially underprivileged, balanced development of communities, and employment expansion. 34 35 Interview Nun, Philippa (ARIUM) _ Social responsibility sector I think KDHC’s district heating and cooling business is an energy business that is essential in communities. With high-quality energy supply, communities seem to be happier. Looking into various energy businesses and environmental management cases, I believe KDHC is a company with potential for sustainable development, and this ranks high in my book. KDHC’s active social contribution activities are regarded as those required for community development. I hope KDHC adequately collects various stakeholders’ opinions, contribute to community development, and grow as a warm-hearted energy company through its long-term and sustainable activities. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 The World KDCH Dreams of KDHC continuously carries out social contribution activities to fulfill its responsibility and role as a general energy company. As a typical public energy corporation, we strive to secure the energy welfare of the underprivileged, help neighbors improve their living, and fulfill our social responsibilities. We will deliver happy energy, dreaming of a world where all of us can smile brightly and live happily. ● KDHC’s social contribution strategies ● Social contribution carried out all together KDHC has selected three main sectors for the implementation of With regard to KDHC’s social contribution, we implement social consystematic social contribution activities: business sector, community tribution activities by sector including energy welfare under the visector, and volunteering sector. To ease economic bipolarism and sion “We build a happy energy world together with communities.” build a world where everyone can live happily, we implement energy To build a society where everyone can live happily, we carry out the welfare more intensively for the energy-alienated class. following: Winter Spending Campaign with Love and Heating Rate Reduction and Exemption Project in the business sector; Abandoned Mining Village’s Talented People Nurturing Support Project and ● Department in charge Sisterhood Relations Establishment based on the One Village, One PR Team: Social contribution, media/press and advertisement Company Campaign in the community sector, and; Volunteer service and environmental protection activities of Happiness Sharing Corps, a volunteering organization of the head office and branches, in the volunteering sector. We carry out continuous and various social contribution activities by sharing our labor and what we have for those who truly need help in society. Energy welfare Social realization contribution Community implementation cooperation and system support Main issues Social Contribution Vision and Mission Community needs identification Vision We build a happy energy world together with communities. KDHC’s employees put sharing management into practice to fulfill the company’s responsibilities as a public Mission corporation and build a society where everyone can live happily together. Community Slogan “Joy of sharing, warm-hearted world” recognition 36 37 Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Building a Happy Energy World KDHC consistently strives to secure energy welfare as a public energy corporation including heating rate reduction and exemption for the underprivileged and heating expenses subsidy and support for maintenance/repair of heating facilities in winter. ● Heating rate reduction and exemption centered on the Seoul Metropolitan Area, and we plan to expand the KDHC has been implementing heating rate (basic rate) reduction and campaign further. exemption for social welfare facilities as well as the underprivileged For the Campaign of Heating Expenses Support with Love, heartresiding in rental homes since 2006. We began heating rate support breaking stories of low income homes and social welfare facilities for basic living allowances beneficiaries, disabled people, patriots, suffering from difficulties due to lack of heating money for winter and multiple-child households as the first district energy business to were received on MBC Radio’s Women’s Era. We carried out due do so in March 2010. We also simplified the application procedure of diligence by visiting them with Good Neighbors people and selected the service through the simpler online application. some of them who urgently needed our help. This way, we provided We provided support equivalent to KRW 2.9 billion to 118,000 househeating expenses support. holds or 10.3% of the total households that we supplied with energy in 2010. The number of supported households went up 182.3%, and Institutions Engaging in the Campaign of Heating Expenses Support the amount of reduction and exemption rose 282.4%. This service is with Love and Heating Facilities Maintenance/Repair Project in partial fulfillment of our commitment to support the underpriviInstitution Role leged whose difficulties are exacerbated by income bipolarization Supervision of campaign including support for facility KDHC maintenance/repair, receiving stories thru homepage, visiting for and to expand social contribution activities to communities. site due diligence together with Good Neighbor people MBC Radio’s Story receipt thru board, news coverage, and broadcasting (guide Women’s Era to purpose and campaign, story introduction) Number of households receiving heating rate reduction and exemption Receipt of stories, follow-up management after due diligence of and amount Good Neighbors site Classification 2008 2009 2010 Happy Bean Online PR Number of households 63 85 118 (1,000 households) Amount (KRW million) 1,660 1,958 2,938 KDHC provided heating expenses support by searching for people who need actual help from among the stories received: a household wherein the oldest son drowned in a river and the father was hardly ●C  ampaign to Spend Winter with Love (subsidizing heathome since he was an alcoholic and heating was consequently iming expenses and supporting the maintenance/repair of possible; welfare facilities for five girls who were separated from their heating facilities) home due to violence and abuse; heating facilities were out of order KDHC has been implementing the Campaign of Heating Expenses due to flooding, the household head’s right leg was amputated, and Support with Love each year since 2006 to subsidize the heating members of the household earned a living by collecting waste and expenses of the underprivileged in winter. In 2010, this campaign other used items; the husband committed suicide due to depression, was transformed into a Campaign to Spend Winter with Love, not the wife leads a hard life because she has no income and the child only providing heating expenses subsidy but also supporting heatjust had polio surgery. ing facility maintenance/repair. We signed an agreement with Good Neighbors, a corporation specializing in social welfare, to continue the campaign. We also began a story contest in October 2010 to complete heating facility maintenance/repair before winter since long-term construction is required. We launched a pilot campaign 38 39 In 2010, KDHC expanded the support to heating facility maintenance/ KDHC has offered fundamental, genuine support to secure the welrepair with comprehensive assistance for winter, in addition to the fare of the energy-underprivileged through the campaign to spend campaign of heating expenses support with love. Heating facility winter with love, in addition to district heating supply via the heating maintenance/repair was carried out more effectively since we got to rate reduction and exemption service. We expanded support to basic use our know-how and resources. allowances beneficiaries, disabled people, wounded veterans, and Among the support objects were local children’s centers run with households with 3 children or more from the support for the existing their own money without treasury subsidies, resting place for foreign rental homes and social welfare facilities. Through the campaign to workers and Korean nationals from China, non-authorized alternaspend winter with love as expanded from the campaign of heating tive schools, flood-damaged welfare facilities for disabled people, and expenses support with love, we have established more long-term women victims of violence counseling centers operated under infemeasures for underprivileged neighbors to spend a warm winter by rior environment and mostly without subsidies. We provided support assisting in heating facility maintenance/repair. through heating equipment and electric panel installation and repair and insulation construction so that they can have a warm winter. Status of Support for the Campaign to Spend Winter with Love in 2010 Category Object No. of beneficiaries Subsidy amount (KRW million) Heating expenses Individuals: 58 with love households 58 35 Facilities: 51 70 70 Subtotal 109 1,405 105 Facilities Facilities: 37 903 204 maintenance/repair Total 146 2,306 309 Status of Subsidies for the Campaign of Heating Expenses Support with Love and Campaign to Spend Winter with Love for the Past 3 Years Category 2008 2009 2010 Subsidy size (KRW million) 150 100 309 Support object 134 71 146 Facilities 72 30(KRW 64 million) 88(KRW 274 million) Households 62 41(KRW 36 million) 58(KRW 35 million) Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Happiness Sharing Corps of Hope KDHC founded the Happiness Sharing Corps through the voluntary participation of employees. It is actively engaged in volunteering activities in three sectors – support for the underprivileged, environmental protection, and educational support by the head office and branches – according to the community features. ● Happiness Sharing Corps of Hope KDHC’s employees carry out sharing activities through the Happiness Sharing Corps, a volSocial contribution amount for the past 3 years unteering organization participated in by the employees themselves. The Corps is supporting (Unit: KRW million) the underprivileged and promoting environmental protection and education according to the community features. The Happiness fund for the corps’ activities is divided into the Happi(Unit: KRW Thousand) 2,413 ness Sharing Fund, which is procured by deducting the portion decided by members from 1,255 their wage/salary, and Happiness Matching Fund provided by KDHC through the one-to-one match grant. Fund of Happiness Sharing Corps for the Past 3 Years (Happiness Fund = Happiness Sharing 549 Fund + Happiness Matching Fund) Period 2008 2009 2010 Happiness Happiness Happiness Happiness Happiness Happiness(Unit: KRW Happiness Thousand) 2008 2009 2010 fund sharing fund matching fund sharing fund matching fund sharing fund matching fund 101,880 101,880 101,616 101,616 102,675 102,675 Total 203,760 203,232 205,350 Details of Happiness Sharing Corps by KDHC Branch Category Details Head Office R  egular sponsorship of local children centers, Habitat Volunteer Service for Building Houses of Love, delivery of briquette and winter supplies for the underprivileged within Seongnam City and facility maintenance/repair, regular patronage of foreign workers’ facilities, support in the form of student uniforms for orphaned families, regular volunteering activities for ARIUM (welfare facilities for elderly living alone), assistance in the form of winter jumpers for multicultural families’ chorus Goyang Branch Regular sponsorship of children’s foundations, regular sponsorship of children’s fund for abused children, cleaning and birthday party in welfare facilities for disabled people, support in the form of lunch for middle school students belonging to the underprivileged class, assistance to local children’s center facilities Gangnam Branch Donation and rice support for underprivileged households, winter Kimchi delivery for social welfare facilities, support for low income bracket children’s job experience, assistance in the form of Onnuri gift voucher to be used in traditional markets Bundang Branch Caring service for elderly living alone, support for senior citizens’ welfare facilities events Suwon Branch Subsidy of living expenses and home study materials for orphaned families, assistance in the form of free meal service for the homeless, subsidy of recuperation expense for the underprivileged, and snack making and meal service support for local children’s centers Yongin Branch Side dish making and delivery packing for welfare facilities for disabled people, river cleaning and protection event of the one river, one company campaign Daegu Branch Subsidy of meal expenses for elementary students from orphaned households, event to share briquettes, Santa Clause event on Christmas Day, maintenance/repair of heating facilities for local children’s centers, sponsorship of theme travel for youth from low income bracket households Cheongju Branch Swimming lessons by inviting children from low income households, assistance in the form of educational materials and uniforms (middle school students) for low income households’ youth, sponsorship of charity concerts to procure funds for living expenses for disabled people, support for elderly living alone, Ttasomi Autumn concert, Santa Expedition on Christmas Day Gyeongnam Branch Regular sponsorship of children’s foundations, assistance in winter preparation including local children’s centers and welfare facilities for disabled people, support for events for multicultural families Hwaseong Branch Visiting and offering snacks for children’s protection centers, wallpapering and flooring for senior citizens’ centers, facility support including low wooden benches installation, regular sponsorship of low income bracket within the relevant district and visiting and living supplies support, sponsorship of spring excursions of senior citizens’ colleges, sponsorship of senior citizens college programs and meal services, briquette delivery and lunch offering for low income bracket Paju Branch Regular volunteering activities and making of fermented soybeans for senior citizens’ welfare facilities, making winter Kimchi, subsidy for living necessities, subsidy of monthly meal expenses for local children centers and cultural activities invited by a branch, visiting and volunteering activities and living expenses subsidy for children from single-parent households Mapo Branch Regular subsidy of living expenses for children without families, sponsorship of hopeful post box and nursing business, senior citizen’s birthday, and Parents Day parties, assisting in side dishes and winter Kimchi making for the underprivileged, sponsorship of Pollack volunteers group of Mapo Love, free medical checkup for the elderly *1:1 Matching grant : KDHC pays the equal amount regularly donated by employees through 1:1 matching. 40 41 ① Volunteering activities to ensure warm winter ② View of ARIUM ➊ ➊ ➋ ● Volunteering activities to ensure a warm winter The Happiness Sharing Corps of KDHC carries out volunteering activities to ensure a warm winter. With around 50 employees participating, the Corps carried out in 2010 the sharing of winter Kimchi with love at ARIUM (welfare homes for elderly living alone), delivery of heating goods and living necessities to multicultural families and North Koreans residing in South Korea, improvement of residential environment targeting the low income senior citizens, and provision of heating goods. ● Regular volunteering activities of ARIUM for elderly living alone KDHC, Seongnam City, and Kumho Asiana signed an agreement for social contribution and built ARIUM, the welfare home for the elderly living alone, for the purpose of looking for a fundamental measure that will allow the elderly to spend their old age comfortably as part of volunteering activities to ensure a warm winter as carried out each year. Implemented in three-sector mode -a new concept for social contribution activities by private sector, public sector, and government ? the project was managed as a consortium type wherein Seongnam City took care of design and supervision and paid construction expenses and Kumho Asiana paid part of the construction expenses. In ARIUM, there are 19 senior citizens living alone. The Happiness Sharing Corps of the head office visits ARIUM every third Wednesday of the month and continually carries out tailored volunteering activities reflecting the tenant senior citizens’ needs. * ARIUM : This is the name adopted following a public naming contest in 2008 and is short for “Our beautiful and happy nest.” ARIUM in English means nest and space. Interview with members of the Happiness Sharing Corps Members of the Goyang Branch visit The House of Angels (welfare facilities for disabled people) every second Thursday of the month and help in washing and meal preparation. The Branch invited 19 people from the House of Angels to the branch at the end of 2010 and held Christmas and birthday parties. “I feel sorry that some friends who are sick could not come over even though they were invited. Still, I was so happy that many friends visited the branch and we had a good time together.” Interviews with Cheongju Branch members of Happiness Sharing Corps The Cheongju Branch has a tie-up with the Sannam General Social Welfare Center, which has been operating an after-school class for low income bracket children since 2005. The children are invited to the branch semiannually, and swimming lessons are offered by opening the swimming pool. The number of children who visited the Cheongju Branch was about 50 including elementary school students and mentally disabled adolescents. “I am happy to see children use and enjoy the facilities within our branch. Their visit is truly good and worthy if the children make fond memories of KDHC.” Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 A World Where All Become One KDHC does its best to transcend regional and cultural barriers and contribute to win-win development between cities and provinces through the signing of the one village, one company sisterhood relations agreement with Shinheung 2-ri, Namwon-eup, Jeju and Jeungdo-myeon, Shinan-gun, Jeonnam and through active exchange with those villages. ●S  upport for Abandoned Mining Village’s Talented People Nurturing Concerning the support for the abandoned mining village’s talented people nurturing, we signed a sisterhood relations agreement with Yemi and Bongyang elementary schools in Jeongseon abandoned mining villages, Gangwon-do. This way, we offer various forms of educational support to students with insufficient educational opportunities because of regional features. KDHC formed the Yemi Guardian Angel Group, a volunteer organization for effective and continual support. The Yemi Guardian Angel Group consists of the “Yes I can Team,” “CC Sympathy Team,” “Remote Learning Support Team,” and “IT Sharing Team” according to the sectors requiring support. Through this, we help in children’s ● City culture experience by Yemi Elementary School stusystematic learning. The guardian angel group played a role as mendents tor of life providing motivation, forming continuous ties with children KDHC provides city culture experiences by inviting Yemi Elementary along with invisible learning support. School students each year. Through new cultural experiences, we inThe biggest need of children with difficulty accessing educational vite 50 third ~ sixth graders in 2010 to help them nurture dreams and facilities ? which are insufficient to begin with -other than school, hopes and expand their vision and insight. They visited Seoul’s typical was English education. With the cooperation of Chuncheon YMCA, a streets such as Gwangwhamun, Cheonggyecheon, Myeongdong, and civilian organization equipped with professional expertise in student Namdaemun. They also experienced public transportation, watched English programs, we invited a native English teacher and held Engchildren gain job experience in theme park, and participated in chillish conversation after-school class twice a week. We also opened an dren’s etiquette school education. The Yemi Guardian Angel Group English camp during school vacations to supply high-quality teacher and children formed many groups together for convenience in visitand educational program. ing various places and made good memories, experiencing various We set as basic learning objective “I can speak in English.” The chilthings together. dren’s English proficiency improved remarkably over time. In fact, In addition, KDHC assists in remote learning programs monthly so those children won many prizes in English Speech contests nationthat children can supplement their learning in all subjects. KDHC’s wide and obtained opportunities to visit the US and receive English volunteering club, “Steppingstone,” continuously promotes exeducation abroad as part of the privileges of prize winners. Many changes and offers various assistances for Yemi Elementary School people took notice of the fact that an unknown school in Gangwon-do multicultural families’ stable settlement given the recent rise in the won almost all the prizes in national contests, a feat that city schools number of those multicultural households. did not achieve. In 2010, the children won 3 grand prizes and 5 prizes of excellence in the Korean Students English Speaking Contest organized by the World Association for Art of Exchange Organization. In the 11th International English Contest, one Gold Prize was won by the Gangwon/Chungcheong Region. 42 43 ● Support for the Tourist Information Board for Jeungdo Status of Camellia Forest Bridge and streetlights for mountain climbing path Forming Support Project As part of the one village, one company campaign, KDHC forged sisterhood relations with Shinheung 2-ri, Namwon-eup, Jeonnam and Jeungdo-myeon, Shinan-gun, Jeonnam and made active exchange. We have made efforts to transcend regional and cultural barriers and contribute to win-win development between cities and provinces. We set up tourist boards in Jeungdo-myeon, Shinan-gun and streetlights along the mountain climbing path for the village with which ● Camellia Forest Forming Support Project sisterhood relations have been established as part of the campaign. The measures to support camellia forest formation are part of the KDHC is implementing its new renewable energy business through one village, one company sisterhood relations support project besolar energy power generation by setting up power generation facilitween KDHC and Shinheung 2-ri, Namwon-eup, Jeju. This project ties in an area spanning approximately 56,298 sqm in Jeungdo-myhad been implemented for three years from 2008 to 2010 (522, 500, eon, after forging sisterhood relations with Jeungdo-myeon in 2007. and 262 trees were planted in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively). The We donated PCs, with our employees purchasing local specialties. camellias were purchased using the 1:1 matching grant money proThis way, we have continued mutual exchange. Recently, Jeungdo cured between employees and KDHC. On each tree, a name tag with Bridge was opened, and “2010 Easy Living City International Assemthe employees’ hopes and aspiration was attached. bly” was held in Jeungdo; thus, the number of tourists increased. As KDHC secured the emissions right to about 58t/CO2 with 522 trees such, we set up a solar energy-operated tourist information board at in 2008 and about 56t/CO2 with 500 trees in 2009 through the camelthe entrance of Jeungdo Bridge and helped cement Jeungdo’s status lia forest forming project and additionally secured the emission right as a slow city. Likewise, along the Sangjeong-dong mountain climbto 29t/CO2 through 262 trees planted in 2010. The camellia forest in ing path as one of the typical tourist courses in Jeungdo-myeon, we Shinheung 2-ri won for KDHC the prize of excellence as a beautiful installed streetlights in 2010 in addition to those put up in 2007. forest keeper in the 2010 National Beautiful Forest Contest and positioned itself as a top camellia village in Korea. KDHC and Shinheung 2-ri continuously exchange through specialty purchase and sales via head office visit and citrus picking volunteering to help the rural village with its insufficient labor force in addition to the forest forming support. Interview with the first president of the multicultural mothers’ association at Yemi Elementary School One heart, one will through cultural experience Members of “Steppingstone,” the volunteering club of KDHC, invited 11 married immigrants, their 9 children, and 4 mentor housewives in the Jeongseon area. The day’s event was organized by Steppingstone to provide the married immigrants to Korea -who formed families in the Jeongseon area -with an opportunity to experience city culture. The event was held to ease their loneliness that stems from living in a remote country and help them settle in Korean society through the Korean culture experience. “A multicultural mothers’ association was created focusing on the Yemi Elementary School Mothers’ Association last year. In this association, Korean housewives become mentors to multicultural mothers in adapting to life in Korea. When the association was first organized, Steppingstone helped them a lot. They opened a Korean class and a cooking class, which received good responses.” Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Smart Environment Environment is the foremost value for us to keep and protect. KDHC is committed to spearheading efforts to preserve a beautiful earth through low carbon, green growth, dynamic activities to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and power generation through new renewable energy based on eco-green management. 44 45 Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 We Report ● Environement Strategy for Sustainability Management KDHC produces heat energy and electric energy using various alternative energy sources such as solar light, solar heat, sewer heat, and incineration heat. Through this, we promote sustainable growth as a general energy company by actively coping with natural energy resources reduction such as the depletion of fossil fuels. We will also do our very best for the realization of a low carbon, green growth society and in searching for new renewable energy sources through environmental impact minimization and projects to comply with climate change agreements by establishing an environmental management system. KDHC’s Total Fuels Use Volume Category Unit 2008 2009 2010 Boiler kerosene thousand ㎘ 5,173 8,128 6,869 LSWR thousand ㎘ 118,432 154,032 162,093 B-C thousand ㎘ 140,699 139,999 151,024 LNG thousand N㎥ 690,173 666,500 859,567 LFG thousand N㎥ 66,297 63,433 62,459 KDHC’s Total Direct/Indirect Energy Use Volume (Unit: TJ) Category 2008 2009 2010 Fuel (direct energy) 42,365 42,676 54,825 Electricity and steam (indirect energy) 1,469 1,805 2,611 KDHC’s Total Energy Output Electricity output 4,075,746 3,358,802 3,257,787 2008 2009 2010 Heat output 12,709 11,593 11,201 2008 2009 2010 46 47 ● Vision and Strategy KDHC spearheads efforts to preserve a beautiful earth including low carbon, green growth based on eco-green management and activities to reduce GHG emissions as well as environmental protection through power generation using new renewable energy. We are steadfast in fulfilling our responsibilities as a general energy company that spearheads environmental management via midand long-term strategies establishment and by actively putting them into practice aiming at eco-management. External and ● Departments in charge within the organization internal activities Climate and Environment Team :  to reduce greenhouse gas Project to reduce GHG emissions, CDM project, emissions climate change, environmental laws and regulations Low carbon, Eco-recycling of Business Support Team : Energy saving work green growth waste resources Mutual Growth Team : Eco-products purchase Integrated Environmental management of impact Major issues greenhouse assessment gas Eco-power Searching for generation new renewable facilities energy sources Eco-R&D technology research and support Interview Jeong Gyeong-hwa (Korea Energy Economics Institute) _ Environment Sector I understand that KDHC is very interested in the reduction of CO2 emissions and environment, and that it systematically copes with such. I have heard that KDHC’s activation of heating, cooling, and electric power businesses along with the new renewable energy business is very excellent because KDHC carries out management considering the environment. I think KDHC needs to cement its status and role as a general energy company more on the PR dimension through its dynamic businesses so that the company can be heard more by customers, communities, and citizens. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Low Carbon, Green Growth 1, 2 With low carbon, green growth emerging as a hot issue worldwide, eco-management is a global trend that cannot be ignored. KDHC pursues environmental impact minimization including efficient facility operation and resources recycling by establishing an environmental management system in keeping with such trend. ● Low carbon, green growth ● Eco-facility operation for low carbon, green growth KDHC establishes and implements an eco-green management KDHC’s combined heat and power (CHP) facilities produce energy strategy as an eco-energy company. We systematically put into pracwith higher energy efficiency than general power generation facilitice activities to reduce GHG emissions and strive to become a susties. As environmental laws and regulations are continuously containable energy company by disseminating the green mindset and solidated, we consistently invest in eco-facility operation. To reduce securing green new growth engines. atmospheric pollutants discharged from power plants, we operate the selective catalytic reduction system (SCR), electric dust collector, ●E  nvironmental management system for low carbon, and flue gas desulfurization (FGD) facilities. We also operate TMS to green growth measure and monitor atmospheric pollutants in real time. KDHC has been operating in the head office and 9 branches as of KDHC is expanding green pipe use, which is an all-in-one type of 2010 the environmental management system it established in 1996. pipe for supply and recovery, for clean and green heat supply pipe We inspect environmental objectives and performance each year, construction. Compared with the general pipe, the green pipe concarry out internal environmental deliberation, and receive followtributes to the reduction of environmental hazardous materials by up management screening from an external agency. Through enreducing CO2, NOx, and Sox by 26%, 21%, and 43%, respectively. vironmental accident prevention and efficient facility operation, we promote the systematization of business and environmental impact KDHC’s Total Atmospheric Pollutant Emissions minimization. We also conduct environmental accounting each year in accordance with the Environment Ministry’s environment cost acNOx 2,670,818kg (76.8%) counting guidelines to consolidate the transparency of eco-manage2010 ment. For follow-up handling activities, we include environmental 3,476,018kg SOx (100%) 756,351kg (21.8%) management in the environmental facility’s maintenance expenses Dust (depreciation and operation expenses) and preventive activities. Con48,849 (1.4%) cerning stakeholder activities, we estimate them by including customer satisfaction activities and PR expenses. Regarding the costs of NOx coping with laws and regulations and environmental restoration, we 2,442,793kg (78.1%) 2009 estimate them by taking into account the environmental burdens. 3,128,709kg SOx (100%) 646,464kg (20.7%) Dust Environmental Accounting Expenses of KDHC 39,452 (1.2%) (Unit: KRW million) Environmental cost 2008 2009 2010 Follow-up management activities 8,788 8,880 9,944 Preventive activities 12,046 10,299 7,298 NOx 2,575,417kg (80.2%) Stakeholder activities 3,124 2,765 2,607 Coping with laws and regulations and 2008 40 53 56 32,09,934kg SOx environmental restoration 589,944kg (18.4%) (100%) Total 23,998 21,997 19,905 Dust 44,573 (1.4%) 48 49 ● Recycling of sewage and wastewater resources ● Recycling of waste and byproducts KDHC’s water intake is through sewage recycling facilities. We also Mote, sludge, waste oil, waste logging materials, and waste plastics reuse the high-temperature water of KEPCO’s subsidiary located are generated in KDHC’s combustion and waste processing processnearby as district heating process water; thus spearheading rees, but they are lawfully processed under the Waste Management sources recycling and environmental pollution improvement. With Act. In particular, mote is fully recycled as auxiliary fuel for the cethe government’s recent consolidation of water environment laws ment manufacturing process. The desulfurization gypsum generated and regulations including the Act on Water Quality and Water Ecoas a byproduct of flue gas desulfurization facilities is fully used as raw system and the completion of the Hwaseong Combined Cycle Power material of cement, thereby contributing to resources recycling. Plant, the need to control system water quality strictly was brought to the fore. Recycled Volume of Mote and Desulfurization Gypsum (Unit: ton) KDHC acquired KOLAS certification in the water quality analysis Category 2008 2009 2010 area. Thus, we discharge wastewater generated from heat sources Mote (tons) 347 280 246 and with lower pollutant content than the existing water quality criteDesulfurization gypsum (tons) 5,617 5,853 6,458 ria through physical and chemical treatment processes in the wastewater treatment plant via in-house lab operation. Status of Water Discharge (Unit: kg) Category 2008 2009 2010 Water Use Volume (Unit: thousand ㎥) Designated waste 6,100 19,810 17,200 Category 2008 2009 2010 General waste 117,333 134,450 163,180 Water intake volume 1,949 1,832 2,469 Discharged wastewater volume 271 266 371 * TMS (Tele-Monitoring System) : A frequent monitoring system managing atmospheric pollutant concentrations by meaRecycled Reused water 5,448 12,489 22,127 suring them with an automatic gauge and sending the discharge volume information to water volume Discharged water 13,525 7,499 26,913 the environment control center * SCR and FGD : Water Intake Volume (Unit: thousand ㎥) Facilities reducing nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides generated from discharge facilities Category 2008 2009 2010 * KOLAS (Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme) : Drinking water intake volume 1,699 1,547 1,825 A system by which analysis ability is accredited by the government (Korean Agency for Technology and Standards affiliated with the Knowledge Economy Ministry) through the Underground water intake volume 147 151 136 verification of domestic analysis facilities compliant with the international standard Intake volume of water for industrial use 102 135 508 Total 1,948 1,833 2,469 Waste Treatment Volume Green (Unit: thousand ㎥) Growth and Category 2008 2009 2010 In-house treatment volume 244 240 338 KDHC Entrusted treatment volume 28 26 33 Total 272 266 371 Wastewater Discharge Concentration by Main Branch Discharge Discharge concentration Category Branch permission Unit result criterion 2008 2009 2010 Chemical Daegu ≤40 2~19 3~10.5 4~14 Oxygen Suwon ≤90 2~2.6 1.5~3.5 1~3 Demand mg/ℓ (COD) Cheongju ≤130 2~5.6 1.6~7.0 2~10 Hwaseong ≤130 1.9~2.1 3.6~14 2~11 Suspended Daegu ≤30 1.3~18 1~12 0.3~5 Solids Suwon ≤80 0.4~4.3 0.3~5 0.2~4 (SS) mg/ℓ Cheongju ≤120 0.8~3.2 0.7~7.6 1~6 Hwaseong ≤120 0.5~8.0 0.5~7 0.5~3.0 Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Low Carbon, Green Growth Yearly Performance Indices in the Environmental Sector 3 Environmental objective Detailed target Unit 2008 2009 2010 Continuous expansion and diffusion of 1,000 Implementation of heat supply expansion 1,025 1,095 1,148 district heating and cooling business households Segregated collection of municipal waste kg/person·day 112.7 114.6 115.0 Reduction of municipal waste discharge Minimization of food leftover discharge g/person·day 19.8 20.0 19.0 Compliance with the Compliance with the Compliance with the Total waste discharge management allocated discharge allocated discharge allocated discharge in the Seoul Metropolitan Area volume volume volume Minimization of pollutants emissions Installation of water recycling facility Under review Feasibility study Installation, operation Reduction of GHG emissions, Implementation of 4 Registration of 1 case Sale of 1 case implementation of CDM cases Purchase of eco-products Purchase Purchase Purchase Inducement of user’s energy saving Guide to rational heat use method persons 874 743 887 Enhancement of environmental Implementation of sessions 2 2 2 awareness of all employees environmental education Enhancement of environmental image Eco-PR activities times 285 257 279 Purchase of eco-products Inducement of supply of eco-products KRW 1 million 341 1,137 2,314 ● Operation of environment education programs Environment Education Programs KDHC operates various eco-education programs so that all employEducation institution Details ees can strategically cope with climate change and environmental Korea Energy · Education to foster experts in greenhouse gas-related work laws and regulations. Through regular practical work education for Management · Education to nurture pilot project validation personnel for Corporation energy objective management personnel in charge of environment, we have consolidated their en· Program for MBO pilot certification validation experts Korean Standards · Program for internal auditors of the environmental vironmental capabilities and acquisition of expertise. Likewise, the Association management system environment education programs enable the employees to share enKorea Power · Practical work on treating water for power generation vironmental expertise, learn facility technology and operation knowLearning Institute how between the head office and branches, and strive to enhance Korea Testing and · Uncertainty of measurement Research Institute expertise and reinforce employee competencies. · Seminar related to total air pollution management system Thanks these activities, there were neither cases of violation of en· Practical environmental work seminar In-house education ·  Program to improve practical water quality management vironmental laws and regulations by KDHC nor cases of penalty and work punishment. KDHC achieved its 2010 energy objectives and targets · International symposium on the Emission Trade System by actively coping with climate change and through energy use tech· International workshop on the design direction of the Greenhouse Gas Emission Trade System nology development and district heating service dissemination along · Coping with climate change through the corporate network Seminar/Forum · Carbon market research association with efficient heat energy supply and inducement of internal and ex· Plan of MBO for greenhouse gas emissions and measure to ternal energy saving. adopt the Emission Trade System · International conference for MBO for greenhouse gas emissions Results of Energy Saving of KDHC in 2010 Plan Result Volume of saving Amount of saving Volume of saving Amount of saving (1,000 TOE) (KRW 1 million) (1,000 TOE) (KRW 1 million) 335 1,881 352 2,117 50 51 Eco-Energy R&D KDHC has established 3-stage, midand long-term R&D plans pursuing field operation-centered R&D, securing independent research capabilities, and seeking efficient research; we implement all these to acquire sustainable growth engines for the community energy system. KDHC plans R&D for accumulating and securing in advance its own eco-energy core technologies to overcome the environment and energy crises including measures to cope with climate change and high oil prices through the consolidation of linkage between the government’s low carbon, green growth and KDHC’s midand long-term development direction. We select and implement 22 core technologies in 6 fields related to the reflection of rapidly changing advanced technology trends and efficiency improvement technologies according to energy use volume increase and environment, a hot issue domestically and internationally. 22 Core Technologies in 6 Fields in Terms of R&D Roadmap Securing a Sustainable Growth Engine for the Community Energy System · CHP efficiency design and configuration technology, Combined heat technology to enhance operation efficiency and power (CHP) · Development, forecast, and diagnosis technologies for generation major parts of power generation facilities · Technology to enhance district heating demand development, facility optimization technology District heating · Technologies for DH facility forecast, diagnosis, and repair and for the reduction of environmental pollution Basic Direction · Development of new technology for heat piping, material of the Midand performance, and supply (delivery) efficiency improvement Long-term R&D Network · Technologies for securing independence of power distriPlans bution and establishment of power distribution credibility · User’s heating and cooling demand management and Heat user technology to diagnose energy use · New technology for user’s secondary system New renewable · New energy technology to apply to district energy system energy · Technology to apply water resources and bio energy Research centered on Securing independent Efficient research worksite operation research competence · Efficiency improvement for the absorbing/dehumidifyingDistrict cooling type cooling system and compacting the system · Technological indepen· Operation of specialist · Enhancement of cold water direct supply system efficiency · Consolidation of district dence centered on field personnel to secure heating and cooling and operation to prevent specialization in renew renewable energy leak of management search Since its establishment, KDHC has been performing 239 task projresearch field in line secrets such as finan· Nurturing experts in ects (completed: 188; in progress: 51) as R&D achievements as of with the government’s cial status each field policy of “low carbon, 2010. We invested about KRW 25.3 billion in R&D for the past 3 years, · Technological support · Expansion from green growth” for the improvement of entrusted research and we plan to invest KRW 12.4 billion in 2011. site facilities to in-house and joint · Implementation of prac· Research on policies research tical research focusing and systems on facility localization and technology developStatus of Research: Status of KDHC’s R&D and Investment ment Category 2008 2009 2010 · Conducting in-depth research through the No. of research cases 75 52 51 gradual reduction of Investment cost(KRW billion) 104 75 74 research tasks per person thru selection and concentration Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to cope with climate change As a public corporation fulfilling its social responsibilities, we conduct various activities to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. ●D  evelopment of integrated management system for GHG ● Establishment of GHG reduction roadmap 1, 2 KDHC has developed an integrated management system for GHG Korea has established a target to reduce GHG emissions by 30% emissions for systematic GHG emissions management. Through compared to BAU by 2020. Consequently, KDHC has built a system this system, we manage GHG emissions data using computerization to estimate and manage GHG emissions. technology. We plan to increase strategically the efficiency of manBy establishing a roadmap to reduce GHG emissions by 30% based agement of each GHG emission source ranging from the analyses of on basic unit through highly efficient CHP facilities, we systematically emissions and projected data and targets of reduction. manage GHG emissions. We plan to spearhead efforts to cope with climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions by realizing a Status of Integrated Management System of GHG Emissions 577,000-ton CO2 reduction by 2020. Stage 1 (2010) Stage 2 (2011) Setting the GHG emissions basic unit: 30% reduction based on CO2 basic unit compared to 2005 · Inventory · Management of potential reduction Calculation and forecast of of emissions GHG emissions basic unit 2005 2020(Target) Remark emissions Management of reduction items Electricity (t/MWh) 0.510 0.357 30% Reduction Energy sources management Reduction plan management Heat (t/Gcal) 0.237 0.166 30% Reduction Standard information management Analysis of potential reduction of Statistics analysis, drawing up emissions * BAU (Business As Usual: forecast value of emissions) : reports → Evaluation of marginal reducForecast value to be discharged when special action is not taken (low carbon, green QA/QC tion expense growth, etc.); in other words, BAU refers to the estimated value of GHG emissions in the · Management of GHG emissions · Emissions trade future as affected by oil price fluctuation, population change, and economic growth rate reduction projects Reduction target management based on the national economy’s usual growth Registration of GHG emissions → Setting reduction targets reduction projects → Assessment of target achieveStatus management of GHG emisment sions reduction projects Inquiry on transaction of trade Direct emissions Indirect emissions History management of GHG emisIncentive management (Unit: tCO2e) (Unit: tCO2e) sions reduction projects 117,265 · Credit management 2,991,917 Management of CERs/KCERs trade Credit trading management 2,327,705 2,379,380 Analysis of forecast reduction of GHG → Management of credit issue 80,463 emissions quantity, sales volume, purchase volume, holding quantity, fore66,478 cast issue quantity 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Status of GHG emissions (Unit: thousand ton) Category 2008 2009 2010 GHG emissions 2,394 2,460 3,109 52 53 ● Continuous implementation of the CDM project ● Stop CO2 mentoring The CDM (carbon development mechanism) project is a project KDHC participates in Gyeonggi-do’s “Stop CO2 Mentoring” wherein wherein advanced countries with the obligation to reduce GHG emisa large enterprise serves as mentor to small and medium businesssions invest in the GHG emissions reduction projects of developing es (SMBs) and offers them technologies to reduce GHG emissions. countries without such obligation. This is used as a means of acquirThrough win-win cooperation between large enterprises and SMBs, ing carbon emission rights (CER) for the sustainable development we actively spearhead efforts to protect our environment while putof developing countries and fulfilling the GHG emissions reduction ting green management into practice. We have chosen district heatobligation of advanced countries. KDHC registered 3 cases with UN: ing users as mentees, with our Goyang, Yongin, and Hwaseong Gangnam LNG fuel conversion; Bangcheon-ri landfill gas capture Branches participating as mentors. KDHC carried out energy saving and treatment, and Daegu and Shinan Jeungdo’s solar power genereducation and facility improvement support and held energy saving ation. In 2010, we generated additional income of KRW 470 million by events to assist each household actively in reducing GHG emissions. selling Daegu Bangcheon-ri CDM project’s CER. We were awarded the Environment Minister’s prize in December 2010 in recognition of our efforts to cope with climate change and CDM project achievement. Status of the CDM Project Project National UN Forecast Forecast Status of approval registreduction income implementation ration volume (KRW 100 (tCO2/year) million/year) LNG fuel conversion Jul.04 Apr.02 Validation of 34,703 7 in Gangnam 2006 2007 monitoring Branch Capture and Application for treatment in Jan.24 Aug.19 41,823 8 secondary CER Bangcheon-ri 2007 2007 issue Landfill Gas Solar power generation in Jun.20 Jan.14 Validation of 827 0.2 Daegu, Shinan 2008 2009 monitoring Jeungdo Woodchip and Aug.19 Confirmation of Biomass CHP 24,584 5 2009 feasibility in Daegu * Forecast income : Apply EUR 13/CERs (KRW 1,500/euro) CDM Project Approval and CERs Issue Procedure Approval of National approval method Drawing up the CDM Validation and certifiConfirmation of feasibility UN registration Monitoring CERs issue project plan cation * UN Global Compact (UNGC): The UN Global Compact presented a framework that can combine corporate strategies in human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption fields with Global Compact’s 10 principles. As the largest corporate citizen’s voluntary initiative, UNGC consists of thousands of members from more than 100 countries worldwide. Above all, UNGC seeks to present and develop the rationality of firms and world markets. * CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) is a system wherein the GHG emissions reduction results achieved by advanced countries’ investment of capital and technology in developing countries and results of implementing GHG emissions projects can be utilized for advanced countries’ reduction targets for GHG emissions. CDM is managed by the UN CDM Execution Committee. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 new and renewable KDHC implements new growth engine creation strategies based on power generation facility expansion using various types of new renewable energy. In particular, KDHC seeks to have new renewable energy account for 12.1% of the total energy supply by 2022. New renewable energy resources business exploration and support of each branch are reviewed by the team in charge at the head office. ●E  fforts to expand the new and renewable business linked ● Woodchip CHP Plant with the community energy system KDHC has been spearheading the exploration of new renewable enKDHC strategically operates its new and renewable business conergy that recycles natural resources to replace oil import and minisidering linkage with the community energy system to secure a new mize CO2 emissions. The woodchip bio mass CHP plant produces growth engine through the business. Consequently, we aim to have heat and electricity using waste wood damaged by pine tree scab 10% of total power and 16% of total heat energy come from new and mite. Construction of the woodchip bio mass CHP plant in Daegu was renewable by 2022. The short-term plan of the new and renewable completed at the end of 2010; currently operated as one of the typibusiness linked with the community energy system business has cal new renewable energy businesses, it produced 5,570toe heat and been set to reduce production cost using energy recovered from electricity in 2010. KDHC actively supports investment in new renewwaste, etc. As midand long-term plan, we will continuously invest able energy business. For instance, an MOU was signed with Korea and carry out woodchip-combined heat and power generation busiExpressway Corporation to secure and procure woodchip fuel stably. ness and RDF business; thus, we will do our very best for consistent We expect oil import replacement effect worth approx. KRW 6.8 bilexploration and commercialization of various new and renewable lion equivalent to 66,000 barrels per year and annual GHG emissions sources to protect the environment. reduction of 27,000 tons in the future. * MOU (Memorandum Of Understanding): Agreement in writing signed prior to signinga formal agreement to coordinate, confirm, and record both parties’ opinions Response System of Team to Support new and renewable Head Office Branch ● Commercialization of RDF CHP plant and wood biomass · new and renewable business · Explore new and renewable CHP plant · Support of branch’s businesses around a branch KDHC is building an RDF CHP plant using municipal solid waste (refuse-derived fuel) and a wood biomass CHP plant together with Technological 6 municipalities and guns (counties) including Naju City, Jeonnam. support for the new These two CHP plants are expected to be completed in June 2014. and renewable Support Team The energy produced in these two power plants will be supplied to (part-time) Innovation Cities including Gwangju and other cities in Jeonnam; thus supplying electricity to 40,000 households and heat to 26,000 households. We also expect to replace imports worth KRW 45 billion Waste RDF Fuel cell Woodchip Solar light Bio gas Wind power annually and reduce GHG emissions by 180,000 tons. Status of the new and renewable Business ● Recovery of energy from landfill gas Sources Facilities used Facility capacity Output (2010) KDHC succeeded in producing energy using waste landfill gas in 12 incineration Nanjido as fuel for the first time in Korea. The produced heat and plants including electric energy are supplied to the Seoul Sangam Housing Lot DeIncineration heat 221Gcal/h 1,777,000Gcal the Gangnam Incineration Plant velopment Zone and World Cup main stadium. In 12 places including Gangnam, incineration heat is used as community energy system 2 plants: Sangam Landfill gas 118Gcal/h 202,000 Gcal supply. Thanks to the development of energy recovery from landfill and Daegu Solar heat 1 plant: Bundang 500Gcal/year 248Gcal gas, about KRW 79.9 billion annual oil import substitution effect and Solar light 2 plants: Shinan 0.9MWp 1,192MWh annual 165,400 toe energy saving effect have been realized. and Daegu 3MW 62,000Gcal+ Wood system bio mass 1 plant: Daegu +14.5Gcal/h 12,960MWh Power generation using 1 plant: Gangnam 13MW 80,007MWh incineration steam Total: 19 plants; Total output of new and renewable as of 2010: 220,980TOE (10.5% of KDHC’s total output of 2,208,808TOE) 54 55 Homes and offices Generation of Recovery of fuel from landfill gas f waste ply o Sup t heat ic Landfill of waste distr Landfill gas dfill extraction Heat production Lan g pipe system facilities Power generation Heat boiler of Landf lyin ill ga supp CHP plant s Community energy system Landfill refining facility T/B G Solar light power generation /solar heat business Solar heat power generation system ●B  usiness to recover energy from sewerage recycling KDHC signed an agreement with Yongin City to carry out the nonutilized energy development test business to recycle sewerage of the Suji Sewerage Treatment Plant (Suji Respia). Of the 110,000 tons daily average sewerage discharged from the Suji Sewerage Treatment Plant, 30,000 tons of discharged water is absorbed by heat pumps and heated as heating water. This way, we produce heat energy that can be used by about 1,100 households. Currently, 2% of the heat energy in Yongin City should be supplied by sewerage heat energy. The effects of reducing GHG emissions by 6,000 tons annually and saving 20,000Gcal energy annually are expected to contribute dramatically Building’s rooftop solar light facilities to cutting down LNG fuel consumption. ●S  olar light power generation/ Solar heat business * RDF (Refuse-Derived Fuels) : Solid fuels created by crushing municipal waste (general waste) such as food leftovers, paper, and plastics and mixing them with lime; KDHC is actively engaged in the solar light power generation busiRDF generates 5,000kcal per kg like coal ness to secure strategic advantage in the generation of solar light power, a new and renewable resource. Concerning the solar light * LFG (Landfill Gas) : Producing heat or electricity or alternative fuel to LNG using gas and methane gas generated from decomposing organic matters in the municipal power generation business, we operate two solar light power plants waste landfill in Daegu and Shinan. We operate the district energy system business * IGCC (Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle): Unlike the existing coal-fired thermal using solar heat in Bundang. As a clean energy source that neither power generation, this is a system that produces power through a combined cycle discharges exhaust gas and waste heat nor incurs fuel expenses, socomposed of gas and steam turbines after the gasification of coal. lar light is expected to help comply with climate change agreements and contribute to continuous new and renewable sources utilization. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Smart Energy KDHC contributes to the enhancement of citizens’ convenience through efficient energy use and atmospheric environment improvement. As the top energy company in Korea that diversifies its businesses into electricity, energy, and district energy system businesses and expands and diffuses the district heating business and new technology development, we are preparing for a second take-off. We plan to execute the global energy business actively to supply high-quality energy at cheap prices to Korean people. 56 57 Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 We Report ● Economic Strategy for Sustainability Managment KDHC was chosen as an autonomous management pilot agency. Therefore, we signed an autonomous management agreement with the government, and broader management rights were guaranteed in human resources, organization, and budget. This greatly helped our active engagement in the energy development business. KDHC’s district heating business’ sales rose, thanks to an increase in domestic district heating service-adopting households. Since the new district energy system facilities are scheduled to be launched from the end of 2010 to 2014 in Paju, Pangyo, Gwanggyo, Goyang Samsong, Sejong City, Gwangju Innovation City, and Dongtan New Town 2, we expect sales and operating profit in 2014 to be 3 times and 2.5 times those of 2010, respectively. ● Financial statement indices in the economic sector Status of Financial Statements of KDHC for 3 Years and Outlook for 2011 (Unit: KRW billion) Category 2008 2009 2010 2011(Target) Current assets 639.5 519.5 533.2 555.1 Non-current assets 1,743.4 2,383.2 2,806.1 3,796,0 Total assets 2,382.9 2,902.7 3,339.3 4,351.1 Current liabilities 465.8 603.8 658.6 615.2 Non-current liabilities 1,201.2 1,429.1 1,591.7 2,277.5 Total liabilities 1,667.0 2,032.9 2,250.3 2,892.7 Capital stock 43.4 43.4 57.9 57.9 Capital surplus 113.7 113.7 Other comprehensive income Retained earnings 11.9 6.7 7.9 8.4 Total stockholders’ equity 684.4 833.1 925.3 1,295.2 * The 2011 target is based on estimated financial statements according to the International Financial Reporting Standards. ● Projected Revenue Indices in the Economic Sector (Unit: KRW billion) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 District heating 905.3 1,064.9 1,215.6 1,351.2 1,497.9 1,671.8 District cooling 19.2 34.0 49.4 54.3 62.4 66.0 Electric 954.3 873.0 1,065.3 1,120.6 1,142.5 1,282.0 power sales Total 1,878.8 1,971.9 2,330.3 2,526.1 2,702.8 3,019.8 58 59 ● Departments within the organization Fund IR Team: Fund procurement and management, disclosure and employee stock Main issues ownership association Economic performance and distribution Distribution of Created Values (Unit: KRW billion) Created Value-Added 1,535.5 Creditors 46.7 Internal reserves 81.3 New business nurturing Shareholders (dividend) 14.5 Return to communities 1.3 Government, local governments 10.5 Fuel suppliers 769.8 Water heat and electric power suppliers 299.6 Maintenance/Repair and service suppliers 45.1 Penetration of Employees 60.4 new markets Miscellaneous 147.8 KDHC’s Stability, Profitability, Growth, and Activity Category 2008 2009 2010 Target in 2011 Industry average in 2009 Stability Liquidity ratio (%) 137.3 86.0 81.0 90.2 109.0 Debt ratio (%) 232.8 233.7 206.6 198.3 101.6 Dependence on borrowings (%) 60.6 60.7 59.4 57.0 33.2 Interest coverage ratio (times) compared to operating profit 0.88 2.77 2.91 2.77 1.4 rofitability Net profit to sales ratio (%) 0.8 12.0 6.7 4.9 2.6 Net profit to total assets ratio (%) 0.4 5.7 3.1 2.1 1.6 Return on equity (%) 1.3 18.9 9.8 6.3 3.2 Operating profit to sales ratio (%) 3.7 13.7 9.5 9.6 3.6 Growth and activity Sales growth rate (%) 73.4 4.9 15.2 30.7 -0.4 Turnover ratio of net worth (times) 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.3 1.2 Total assets growth rate (%) 19.2 21.8 15.0 30.3 6.2 Turnover ratio of total assets (times) 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.6 Interview Cho Hyeong-gi (Seoul School of Intergrated Sciences & Technoligies): Economy Overall/Creativity Innovation Sector The active communication activities of KDHC, which collects various stakeholders’ opinions and develops by reflecting them on the corporation’s management, are evaluated very positively. I think KDHC’s supply of heat and electric energy at cheap prices to Korean people is commendable. Still, I believe KDHC needs to enhance its corporate image and credibility through the precise recognition of KDHC’s specific businesses and active social contribution activities by Korean people through more strategic and overall PR activities. I expect KDHC to grow and develop further with midand long-term and sustainability management strategies considering the economy and environment of communities. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Community Energy Supply System KDHC is a public corporation leading the adoption of the community energy supply system (CES), which involves supplying many consumers including buildings with heat or electricity produced in large-scale energy production facilities such as combined heat and power (CHP) plant. We mainly produce and supply electricity and heat from the CHP plant and supply community energy using waste incinerators and peak load boilers. ● Status of CES ● Prospect of CES KDHC’s CES is divided into heating and cooling business, power KDHC believes CES’s competitiveness depends on how efficiently and business, and new and renewable business. The heating and coolcleanly heat is produced and consequently plans to increase investing business supplies heat for heating, boiler, and cooling targetment in solar light and solar heat. Currently, all energy businesses ing various buildings including homes and shopping malls in large must use new and renewable at a certain ratio according to the residential areas. Currently, KDHC supplies district heating service government policy. new and renewable should account for at least to apartments and large buildings through branches nationwide. 12.1% of total energy use by 2012, and solar light is the object to be We also supply district cooling service to 334 buildings including the adopted in priority. KDHC already installed 800KW facilities in ShinanSeoul Sangam-dong World Cup Stadium. gun, Jeonnam in 2007 following the adoption of 100KW solar light We plan to expand gradually our power business selling electric powpower generation facilities in the Daegu Plant in 2006; it is scheduled er produced from the CHP plants and build mediumand large-scale to expand solar light power generation facilities gradually. CHP plants centered on the Paju and Gwanggyo branches. We are also producing electricity using new and renewable including incin●C  reation of synergy effect with new business linked with CES eration heat, landfill gas, or RDF and woodchip waste energy. KDHC seeks a new business model that can create synergy effect using the existing CES and network for this year’s management obStatus of CES for 3 Years jective. We plan to find measures to maximize the use of the existing Category 2008 2009 2010 heat sources and to carry out businesses strategically with energy efBusiness 19 25 26 ficiency and environmental improvement effects. KDHC improves the Heat supply area 37 43 41 efficiency of heat supply facilities and devises measures to cope with No. of supplied households 1,736,031 1,887,767 2,013,885 aging heat supply facilities (pipes, etc.); it fully prepares for securing Market share of KDHC 59.3% 58% 57.0% stable energy sources by diversifying fuel purchasing sources. Diffusion rate nationwide 12.3% 13.1% 13.5% (thousand household) (14,169) (14,456) (14,877) To respond proactively to the government’s core policy of low carbon, green growth, we plan to operate aggressively our new and renewable business, through which competitiveness can be secured and Strategy to Link CES and new and renewable synergy effect can be realized by linking with CES. We are set to sup(based on 2015) (Unit: TOE) ply about 80% of heat energy using energy recovered from waste in New Renewable Energy Linked with CES (97%) Others (3%) Category (Solar light Total the case of CES in Gwangju and Jeonnam Innovation cities. We also RDF Bio gas Woodchip Waste, etc. /wind power) plan to build a woodchip CHP plant in Daegu, which uses waste wood Energy production 144,202 44,660 10,019 37,787 6,874 243,542 such as scab mite-damaged trees and byproducts of development. plan We have established midand long-term strategy to produce 10% of total electric power and 16% of total heat energy using new and renewable by 2022. Energy Utilization Results from new and renewable Sources (Unit: TOE) Rate of ● Engagement in CES Acquisition of CES permit in Dongtan Category 2009 2010 increase District 2 Total energy output 1,855,557 2,208,808 19.0% It was difficult to operate a new business in Dongtan District 2 due to new and renewable output 202,940 220,980 8.9% the government’s policy of restricting public corporations’ engagement 60 61 in new business. Amid such deteriorated condition, we have devised rate. Likewise, the branch promoted ordinary people’s residential detailed criteria for rational business engagement to cope with such security, convenience, and benefits and enhanced public benefits by government policy according to the public corporations’ advancement supply community energy to Gangnam Nest Complex -a nest APT plan. Consequently, we obtained a permit by effectively convincing the district -centered on ordinary people’s residential area. government agencies that our engagement in the business can save national energy and enhance consumer convenience. Munjeong Urban Development KDHC is taking off as the largest power generator in the Seoul MetArea No. of Heat load District (1,000㎡) households (Gcal/h) ropolitan Area, at the same time consolidating its reputation as the Gangnam Nest Residential District 941 6,821 45 world’s largest district heating business after obtaining the Dongtan Munjeong Urban Development District 548 56 District 2 project permit. We also enhanced national energy use effiTotal 1,489 6,821 101 ciency along with investment cost saving through operation linked with the existing Hwaseong project. With the heat rate decline following production cost cutting, we play our part and fulfill our responsibilities ●R  esearch on community energy supply system using as a public corporation leading the market through the enhancement waste heat from nuclear power plant of consumer convenience and benefits and relevant R&D. To cope with low carbon, green growth and climate change through the reduction of fossil fuel use, we research on measures to supComposition of Optimal Heat Source Facilities Using 116Gcal/h of ply community energy using waste heat from nuclear power plants. Redundant Heat from the Existing Facilities This research deals with the community energy supply system using waste heat from nuclear power plants, and we are conducting techExisting facilities Additional installation Total heat supply facilities nical feasibility analysis, candidate site selection, economic efficiency Dongtan District 1 Dongtan District 2 Dongtan District 1 and 2 analysis, and precise business feasibility review together with the CHP facilities CHP facilities CHP facilities relevant agencies (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power and KEPCO Engi512MW+396Gcal/h 325MW+224Gcal/h 837MW+620Gcal/h neering & Construction). Peak load boiler new and renewable new and renewable 342Gcal/h 13MW+13Gcal/h 13MW+13Gcal/h Total Peak load boiler Peak load boiler Energy Saving and Environment Improvement Effects 512MW+738Gcal/h 549Gcal/h 891Gcal/h Utilization of nuclear power Category Total Total plant configuration 338MW+786Gcal/h 850MW+1,524Gcal/h Energy saving Saving volume (TOE) 2,224,881 effect (annual) Saving amount (KRW 1 million) 1,780 Environment Atmospheric pollutant (ton) Status of the Dongtan 2 District Project improvement effect (annual) Greenhouse gas (TCO2) 5,108,000 Category Existing Dongtan 1 Project Dongtan 2 District Development area 10,692,000km2 23,972,000km2 No. of households 54,213 108,463 ●R  eview of measure to use waste heat generated from the Maximum heat load 622Gcal/h 872Gcal/h industrial complex adjacent to Ulsan Initial-stage heat KDHC established a measure to supply community energy using 2004 year 2014year supply waste heat from the industrial complex adjacent to Ulsan and review CHP facility size 512MW+396Gcal/h 325MW+224Gcal/h it. This way, we seek the diversification of business and review a measure to enhance national energy use efficiency by linking and utilizing ●A  doption of community energy supply system close to the low-price waste heat adjacent to the community where community Gangnam branch network energy is supplied. As a result of securing the base heat source near the Gangnam Branch through active consultation for additional reflection of heat source site in the Munjeong Urban Development District near the Gangnam Branch, the management balance of the Gangnam Branch improved following the reduction of the peak load boiler’s operation Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 District Heating System KDHC’s district heating system involves supplying economical heat energy at low cost. Customers can use our heating service at their desired time and temperature, and heating cost is rationally imposed according to use volume. By actively utilizing low-cost energy sources such as incineration heat and network, we contribute to users’ economical life by maintaining about 10% lower heating cost compared with other heating modes. ● District heating system ● Continual installation of heat pipe The district heating system is a city-based facility that supplies largeThe stable supply of community heat necessitates continuously inscale communities -without installing individual heat production stalling heat pipes. The length of heat pipes we installed nationwide facilities in apartments, business, and commercial buildings -with is 3,336km (1,668kmx2 rows of heat supply and recovery pipes), which economically produced heat from large-scale heat production faciliis equivalent to making round trips thrice from Seoul to Busan. This ties equipped with cutting-edge pollution prevention equipment such actually accounts for about 60% of the total domestic heat pipe netas CHP plant. This is an advanced heating system with excellent efwork. In particular, with the heat pipe network expansion linked with fects of energy saving and reduction of air pollutants compared to the regions within the Seoul Metropolitan Area based on linkage lines of existing heating modes. 99kmx2 rows of pipelines, we contribute to enhancing heat supply efficiency and stability and expansion of heat supply regions in the Heat Rates and Comparison Index by Heating Mode Seoul Metropolitan Area. (Unit: KRW thousand) Comparison index (%) Status of Sales of District Heating Service and Outlook Annual heating cost 952 856 9,000 Sales (KRW billion) 14,979 702 136% 13,512 6,000 122% 12,156 100% 10,649 3,000 9,018 9,053 8,448 District LNG central LNG individual 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 heating heating heating Sales volume (1,000Gcal) 15,711 14,648 ● Status of district heating business 13,738 12,500 Korea’s district heating service was supplied to 2.01 million house11,987 11,770 10,873 holds or about 13.5% of the total households for heating nationwide as of the end of 2010. Our 13 branches nationwide supplied 1.15 mil2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 lion households or approximately 57% of the total district heatingsupplied households. KDHC has devised step-by-step indices for No. of household (1,000l) 1,445 1,545 1,340 continuous growth through business implementation via linkage 1,230 with the existing business and network; we will actively develop new 1,173 1,148 1,095 demand, aiming at supplying to 2 million households by 2015. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ● CHP Plants in New Towns * Financial outlook (based on business permission) KDHC is implementing or planning power generation business using new CHP plants targeting new towns such as Paju, Pangyo, Gwanggyo, and Dongtan District 2. We strive to supply energy stably by building medium-sized and large CHP plants in new community energy supply regions as well as the existing CHP plant. 62 63 District Cooling System The district cooling system involves supplying cooling service by economically supplying to certain districts warm or cold water produced from largescale heat production facilities. This system realizes load reduction at peak time of power consumption using alternative electric energy including residual heat from a CHP plant. (Warm water) Builing using district Supply(95℃~98℃) cooling service Absorption chiller Heat production facilities Recovery(Max80℃) Recovery(Max13℃~15℃) Cooling heat exhanger Supply(95℃~98℃) (Cold water) ● District cooling business service sales by 2015 through technology development and system The district cooling system does not discharge ozone layer-destroyimprovement for district cooling system dissemination. ing materials such as Freon gas since it supplies a cooling system using heat for the district heating service. In other words, the district cooling system is environment-friendly and is able to reduce power peak load in summertime. When the district cooling system is adopted, each household does not have to use an air conditioner; thus reducing electricity use considerably. Excellent and The district cooling business is a must to cut energy use, reduce the advanced peak load boiler, and enhance the use rate of CHP plants. KDHC is cooling system currently expanding its business area from heat and warm water supply to cooling system. Our district cooling system uses a dehumidification cooling mode supplying cold air using the existing heating pipes; thus, business size is forecast to grow. We also develop a user system for highquality cooling system considering user needs such as multi-room cooling. We have adopted an economical cold water direct supply mode using residual heat from power generation and late-night electric ice storage for Sangam DMC, Southeast Region Distribution Complex, and KINTEX. Following the development of a 2-step absorption refrigerator that increases user efficiency, we plan to supply district cooling service homes including apartments. We have a master plan to increase district cooling service sales to 10% of district heating Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Power Business KDHC expands the power business ratio by building its own CHP plants to grow and develop into a general energy company beyond sales structure that depends solely on the heating business. To carry out power production stably, we strive for stable operation, efficient enhancement of power generation facilities, and power generation cost reduction. ● Operation of power generation facilities KDHC has power generation facilities in the Hwaseong, Pangyo, Daegu, Suwon, Cheongju, and Gangnam regions. For power business expansion, power generation facilities rose 436% from 161MW in 2001 to 863MW in 2010, with the generated power volume increasing 1,121% from 334Gwh in 2001 to 4,079Gwh in 2010. The timely operation and suspension of power plants in the Seoul Metropolitan Area such as Hwaseong, Pangyo, Suwon, and Gangnam contribute greatly to stable power system operation in the Seoul and Gyeonggi regions. Yearly Trends in Sales and Sales Volume 13,062 13,359 15,000 11,425 12,820 13,154 Sales volume(Unit: 1,000MWh) 11,206 12,000 10,653 9.973 10,099 10,168 10,128 Sales (Unit: KRW billion) 9,543 8,730 9,036 8,377 8,817 9,000 6,782 7,028 6,000 5,173 4,034 3,942 3,000 3,123 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy sources by workplace ● Power generation facilities construction plan KDHC plans to expand power generation facilities in Paju, Gwanggyo, Region Energy sources Facility capacity(MW) Hwaseong LNG 511.8 Samsong, Hwaseong, Dongtan District 2 and Gwangju, and Jeonnam Pangyo LNG 146.3 Innovation Cities. We have been operating the LNG CHP plant in Paju Suwon Heavy oil 43.2 whose construction was completed in April 2011. Gangnam Incineration heat 13.3 Cheongju Heavy oil 61.4 Heavy oil 43.5 ● Facility operation system Daegu Solar light 0.1 KDHC maintains facilities in superb condition through the establishWoodchip 3 ment and execution of preventive maintenance plans so that electric Shinan Solar light 0.8 power essential to the national economy and people’s living can be District electricity LNG 39 supplied stably. To forecast and analyze the fluctuation risk of sales volume and selling prices by external factors, we have secured the Scheduled Construction of Power Generation Facilities for flexibility of fuel use by putting up a shortand long-term forecast District Heating Service system. We expect to maximize efficiency at the time of facility opConstruction Facility Category Power plant completion Fuel capacity Remarks eration and suspension by installing a mock operation system of a used (scheduled) date (MW) power plant in Paju and to improve operators’ operation capacity. In Under Paju Apr.30 2011 LNG 515.5 Under operation operating the community electricity supply business, we have sysconstKwanggyo Oct. 2012 LNG 141 ruction Samsong Nov. 2011 LNG 99 District electricity tematically inspected power meter system quality, recorded zero Hwaseon Dongtan Including 13.6MW breakdown rate, and conducted preventive inspection of power distriLNG 338.6 district 2 of electricity as fuel bution facilities and virtual failure training. Consequently, we realized Plan Gwangju and Jeonnam RDF 17.8 zero power failure in 2010. Innovation City 64 65 Overseas Business KDHC aims at the active implementation of the new and renewable business and proper model development in overseas business as a key management objective. We are looking for new project development opportunities abroad including Mongolia, Uzbekistan, East Timor, and Malaysia. Revision of overseas business development strategy Initial strategy Base Penetration Category establishment Growth period period period Period 2007~2008 2009~2011 After 2012 ODA (Official Development Assistance) project in Mongolia Joint penetration Fostering Joint penetration of cooperative competence Plan of cooperative projects Direct projects Earnings investment creation ● Overseas business development strategy KDHC is actively penetrating overseas markets to develop new markets based on Revision energy-related expertise and technological prowess accumulated for more than 20 Base Penetration years. Above all, KDHC raises credibility in overseas markets by passing down district Category establishment Growth period period period heating-related advanced technologies. Period 2010~2012 2013~2015 2016~2019 ● Overseas business development – ODA projects for developing countries O&M business ODA project penetration KDHC improved the district heating and water supply systems in Ulaanbaatar, MonDirect implementation Packaging investment golia from March 2008 to October 2009. We also replaced 44 pumps, heat exchangPlan Review of project project package project penetration ers, and pipes in worn-out machine rooms. For having passed down advanced district implementation Participation in state projects heating technology along with comprehensive project management, KDHC was given a plaque of appreciation and an achievement award by the Mongolian government. ▶Devising a measure to operate the Overseas Business Furthermore, we enhanced Korea’s status and credibility by implementing ODA projDeliberation Committee ects for developing countries such as Uzbekistan, East Timor, and Malaysia. Establishment of system operation guidelines to minimize risks Specify the use of external experts upon review of inSuccessful Project to Improve Heat Supply System in Khorezm Province, Uzbekistan vestment feasibility and risks. Replacement of worn-out boilers, heat exchangers, Project outline pumps, gas meters, etc. (54 places) Consolidation of procedure for monitoring overseas investment risks Execution of technology training related to district Service of KDHC Overseas Business Overseas Business heating machine rooms and project management 1 2 Working Committee Deliberation Committee Size and duration USD 3.5 million (PMC: KRW 189 million). Dec. 2009 ~ Dec. 2010 3 Management meeting 4 Board meetings ● Outlook of overseas business * ODA (Official Development Assistance): Loans provided to developing countries or international organizaKDHC plans to export actively expertise in the community energy supply system and tions in the form of donation or commitment for developing counnew and renewable fields built up in the district heating/cooling and power sectors for tries’ economic development and welfare enhancement 20 years to foreign countries and nurture it as a new growth engine. We are devising measures to penetrate overseas markets jointly with other domestic companies. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Smart life KDHC pursues a convenient, happy world where it can grow and develop together with various stakeholders. We are doing our very best to grow together with our customers, employees, and partner firms. 66 67 We Report ● Vision and strategy KDHC strives to pursue customer impression as its management direction, improve service quality, and enhance customer satisfaction guided by its mission of “Customer impression beyond customer satisfaction.” We have established a strategic system to respond to various customer needs, aligning the customer-oriented business process through a cooperative network of customers, partner firms, and KDHC in establishing customer-tailored communication strategies. KDHC will make its utmost efforts to pursue customer impression through happy energy in the future. ● Departments in charge within the organization Sales Team : Customer satisfaction management supervision and energy welfare policy All branches : Customer satisfaction activities Customer Technology Team : Customer cooperation and facilities management Leader in customer satisfaction Tailored communication management by customer Improvement of internal system for customer satisfaction Material issues VOC system establishment Maintaining the high quality of customer satisfaction service Differentiated customer satisfaction service 68 69 Customer KDHC is committed to consolidating leadership worldwide through insight on customers, intuition on the future, and continual win-win cooperation with business partners. ●W  on Customer Satisfaction Management Grand Prize for 5 consecutive 1 years KDHC was inducted to the hall of fame for customer satisfaction after winning the Customer Satisfaction Management Grand Prize for 5 consecutive years, the first public corporation to achieve such feat. We pledge to offer happy energy suitable for the customer’s emotion, simultaneously implementing takeoff as a general energy company by providing world-class services, Inducted to the customer satisfaction hall of fame (first based on the execution of our specialized social responsibilities. public corporation to achieve such feat) Government’s Customer Satisfaction Survey Category 2008 2009 2010 Customer Satisfaction No. of institutions surveyed 24 23 23 Survey organized by Average score of institutions surveyed (points) 89.4 92.0 92.9 the government KDHC (points) 88.1 93.4 92.6 In-house customer satisfaction survey (points) 85.7 85.3 85.2 Service Quality Management Strategy Service quality target Build a happy energy world – Service No. 1 Non-suspension, eco-service Precise service Prompt service Satisfactory service Service quality targets zero heat supply suspension rate, environmental 99% or more of service 95% or more of daily 91.6 points or more of management exceeding government’s criteria standard response satisfaction Pre-problem prevention activities Post-problem prevention activities Service standard execution consolidation Continuous service standardization VOC solving · Environment (facility) standardization · Major VOC improvement · Core service standard · Business standardization · Grievances solving · Definition of customer-required quality · Personal response standardization · Repeated VOC solving · Customer facility criteria standardization Implementation strategies · VOC-based service improvement Making product and service high-quality Customer needs searching and monitoring system operation · Construction quality consolidation · Integrated operation establishment · Customer needs search · Stable and economical service offering · Service level diagnosis · International level of environmental · Monitoring and feedback management Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Customer Establishment of Integrated Management System for Customer Business (existing) Organization operation (improved) Integration centered on centered on job group customer convenience 3-Circle Organization System Organization Role Organization Role Field-centered customer service Sales and fee Sales and fee Participatory customer advisory group management management organization Customer Service Team Supervision of Customer Supervision of Customer service improvement Suggestions for improvement branch customer · Sales Dept. (Head Office) · Open Public Corporation Committee Service Team branch customer service service → Establishment of direction to (Head Office) Operation Customer technology Customer technology improve service to discover tasks · Open Customer Satisfaction (CS) Division support support to improve Committee (Branch) · Improvement of customer’s district · District Heating Friends One-Stop service embodiment heat installation quality Customer (All branches) (Effect) Integrated solution to customer facility, rate (fee), Service Team (Head Office) and heating problems → Improvement activities · Improvement of customer’s district heat installation quality Eco-heating ● Management based on CS for customer impression doctor (non-standing TF) → Service coming to the site Cus Management based on CS is a core factor in all management acHC t · Happiness Sharing Corps KD er → Social contribution Customer om tivities. We regard CS as an essential competitiveness and do our satisfaction very best in management for customers by establishing as our misip Coo nsh p sion “Customer impression beyond customer satisfaction.” KDHC tive relatio era makes pre-problem prevention and post-problem solving efforts to Cooperation and Suppot achieve its service quality sector objective of “No. 1 in service,” in an integrated manner, and it is establishing a service delivery support Playing a role in bridging service Customer satisfaction education system between customers, KDHC, and partner firms. We listen to improvement Management Office/ Machine Room Construction companies including the voice of customers (VOC) to activate relationship with custom· Playing a bridging role between heat pipes ers, reflect them actively on our policy, and carry out activities for indirect customers (APT residents) · Improvement of customer’s district and KDHC heat installation quality customers through service visiting the site. For the nurturing of CSF irst phase solving of APT specialized personnel, we operate an integrated measure including residents’ civil petitions Efficient customer’s facility operation machine room operators who are value deliverers as well as internal employees as value producers. CS Leadership CS = KDHC’s DNA CS m anagement for strategy/organization system = Enhancement  as a brand · CS management culture that begins with the CEO · Establishment and revision of CS strategy every 3 years · Differentiated CS Keywords and Promotion of Execution · Scientific and regular CS strategy process · Service identity (Eco Service) establishment Adoption Period Continuous System Enhancement Period · Operation of eco-service execution system (2002~2005) Establishment Period (2008~2011) · Linkage and cooperation system establishment between internal and (2006~2008) external CS organizations Making CS routine Dedication management Cheap and high-quality of performing together service (eco-service) with society CS Service improving activities / Top-level service CS C ompetence/Learning system/Continuous growth though · Implementation of step-by-step E-CRM for VOC management and learning and experience communication consolidation · Establishment of CS model personnel and operation of competence· Development of specialized service based on eco-service centered education/training system · Operation of CS standard activity system (20 activities) · Performance-based reward system including Eco-CS STAR · Standardization of business handling, facility criteria, and response level · Value delivery customer competence improvement program · Validation and monitoring system of objective CS level · Best practice finding in each branch and operation of sharing and dissemination system for all branches · Two-way benchmarking of best practices · Operation of CS and VOC process feedback system 70 71 Step-by-Step E-CRM Plan Stage Outline Period 2, 3 Stage 1 Integrated management of wired/wireless 2010 (integrated VOC system) and on/offline VOC Stage 2 Integrated wired VOC management, (establishment of integrated establishment of specialized consulting 2010~2011 customer center) system Stage 3 (establishment of cyber Integration of online customer work 2011~2012 branch) ● Customer communication Stage 4 Embodiment of integrated customer KDHC built an IT-based VOC operation system in 2009 and customer 2013 (establishment of E-CRM) management and marketing consulting center in 2011, and it implements construction of an online cyber branch until 2012. As part of our efforts such as regular Results of Integrated VOC System Implementation VOC inspection system and reflection of VOC implementation ratio on management evaluation, our customer consulting reply rate imCategory 2009 2010 Increase VOC collection (cases) 1,947 2,365 418 proved from 93.8% in 2008 to 99.6% in 2009 and to 100% in 2010. Handling rate within one day 99.6 100 0.4 KDHC selected “Warm Light Sound System” as VOC name followof consulting (%) ing a VOC name contest targeting our employees to activate the VOC Handling rate within 5 days of civil petition (%) 96.8 100 3.2 system. By linking the VOC response level and performance with inSatisfaction with VOC 4.26 4.34 0.09 ternal management evaluation, VOC management is spreading to all handling results (very satisfactory) KDHC organizations. We have been operating the VOC channel centered on response to Summary A system wherein the government certifies an agency whose service quality level and the customers who presented VOC to date, but we plan to consolidate Korea Service achievements are excellent and officially the VOC channel into a searching type of VOC channel that suppleQuality (SQ) announces the agency as an outstanding Certification agency ments the existing one. We endeavor to offer services approaching (KATS affiliated with MKE) Results KDHC’s head office and all 12 workplaces the in-depth needs of customers by continually diversifying the colacquired SQ certification for the first time ever lection channels of VOC. among public corporations in July 2007. Summary The award was established to select companies ●R  e-acquisition of Korea Service Quality (SQ) that are excellent in the customer satisfaction KDHC continuously maintains the high quality of service by undergoarea and to disseminate customer satisfaction CS Management nationwide in 1993. ing regular diagnosis on services, customer satisfaction, and overall Awards Results Began contest in 2003 to spread enterprise quality levels by the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards (KMAC) management based on CS 2004~2008: KDHC affiliated with the Knowledge Economy Ministry. Following the cerwon the grand prize for 5 consecutive years (first public corporation to achieve such feat) tification expiration date in July 2007, we succeeded in acquiring re2009: Inducted to the hall of fame as the first public corporation to achieve such feat certification for the head office and all branches. Consolidation of VOC System for Customer Response Response type of VOC Searching type of VOC Channel Main VOC details Method Main VOC details · CS index CS survey · Customer’s major needs · Consulting, inquiry, civil petition Customer Consulting Center · Customer’s suggestions (Internet) · Kind/Unkind Interview · Major VOC by customer type and matters to improve Suggestion and experience memoir · Contest of ideas and experiences Tel. (1688-2488) · Consulting, inquiry, civil petition Employee training and workshop · Sharing customer VOC by region · Heat use application, rate, arrearage Two-way opinion exchange · Return postcard, FGI, Box of VOC Branch (sales support) Questionnaire survey (targeting internal · Survey of customer opinions and needs by biz · Inspection of households with inferior and external customers) Visiting and inspection service heating system and consulting on how to · District heating information offering to occupants and use the heating system APT i home service need for collection · Reply to questions related to civil petition Head’s responsibility management · Satisfaction with customer-related work process and Post/FAX and sales Happy call discovering tasks to improve Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Customer Service Main Details Type ECO Customer Service Declaration Handbook on heat use Booklet and Eco-service is a service value of KDHC to supply ecological and economical  facilities Technology know-how as well as how to respond to CD energy. KDHC pledges to supply stably good-quality services so that for district civil petitions for a machine room manager to cope Booklet and citizens do not experience inconveniences in the use of heating/cooling heating (for with APT civil petitions primarily (July 2009) CD service. machine room manager) First, we shall maintain reasonable and stable level of rate through economical operation and rational management. Second, we shall carefully listen to the voices of customers, reflect them on Eco-Business Schedule our management to the fullest, and quickly, precisely, and kindly carry out customers’ requests. A. Model personnel for customer satisfaction (Eco-Planner) Third, we shall continuously endeavor to realize energy saving and social To supply eco-energy, our model personnel needs to conduct R&D responsibility by supplying eco-energy. on cutting-edge technology and implement specialized customer satisfaction for energy customer satisfaction and support for To realize such objectives, we pledge to establish specific service intermediate service delivering customer’s capability improvement. implementation standards and earnestly put them into practice. B. Strategies to enhance capabilities to embody model personnel for CS July.7 2011 Implementation of Integrated Strategies on the Dimensions of Capability President of KDHC Diagnosis, Process Improvement, Education, Performance-based Reward Diagnosis of customer satisfaction Consolidation of Performancecapabilities based Reward ●O  ffering differentiated services satisfying customers · Service delivery quality · Operation of integrated KDHC operates a visiting Eco-Service Group to offer tailored energy (90 points or more) mileage for CS service to customers. The Eco-Service Group enhances customer · Necessary capability · Operation of ECO-CS Star satisfaction in the course of offering energy consulting services indiagnosis (13 items) · Discover diversified · Identification of employee cluding eco-heating doctor operation and production of customized Perfo needs is nos rm manuals to support efficient heating use. iag rew an Capab base d ility ce-rd d a Manual for Customer Use Convenience ECO-Planner p Nurturing im Work Service Main Details Type cat ion rov u APT customer Offering guidelines by examining suitable  em ed ent CS facilitiesAfterequipment and after-sales service information Booklet sales service system so that stable, quick action can be taken Electronic file information upon trouble in customer’s facilities Work process improvement CS education How to use the heating service within the home · Work process improvement for · Establishment of midand Easy method by presenting the gist of taking actions in case employee grievances long-term CS education of using of trouble, diagnosis of trouble utilizing 3D animation · External entrustment of nonsystem 3D district heating Presenting 7 items on hot water supply as well as animation how to use, how to use a thermostat in each core work · Consolidation of CS education service using 3D animation room of a household, simple diagnosing method for · Resolving fatigue thru work centered on moment inferior heating (7 minutes and 30 seconds) simplification · Operation of learning and User manual that takes into account the features of a innovation system heating meter (caloric value meter, flow meter), thermostat (digital and dial mode), and warm water distributor Tailored user Produce three types: type attaching to a refrigerator 3 types manual (general use), type attaching to a refrigerator (tailored), and booklet (tailored) Produce by visiting APT complex and homes and photographing actual facilities so that users can easily understand. 72 73 ●E  stablishment of Customer Consulting Center for management based on CS 4, 5 Effects Through Establishment of Efficient Customer Consulting Center KDHC plans to convert the non-specialized customer consulting sysBefore Improvement tem wherein consultants carry out other work simultaneously with Dispersed consulting between head Integrated consulting from the consulting into a specialized consulting system. We plan to build a office and branches customer center (1688-2488) Customer Consulting Center on June 1, 2011 to enhance efficiency Non-professional response of customer consulting via telephone and begin telephone consulting Handling and response rates Professional consultants’ response went down due to simultaneous Consulting details recording, enabling with the telephone no. 1688-2488 nationwide. performance of regular work and database As such, we are committed to bolstering management based on CS telephone consulting by systematically collecting and analyzing VOC, along with building One-stop handling difficult One-stop handling possible an integrated VOC system and reflecting customer needs promptly Personnel’s CS satisfaction decline at and precisely. Based on digitalization management regulations, we moment of truth Entrustment of core work to the CS satisfaction of personnel at outside, have protected customers’ personal information, and no complaint moment of truth is low at 59.4 points, Enhancement of competitiveness cases related to customer’s personal information protection were down 19.2 points compared with all other employees. recorded. Management office and customer Individual customers-centered representatives-centered customer customer management management System Chart of the Warm Customer Consulting Center System Chart Customer service work CTI Function Consulting handling Energy saving event In-bound call handling · Consulting handling information · Work execution information Service by visiting Happy call management (integrated VOC) Customer Out-bound call handling Rate reduction & exemption Various Information Service service Screen popup Manager work Dept. management System Mgt. Code Mgt. Conference call (Mgt.) Consultant Campaign Mgt Consultant Mgt. Schedule Mgt. Consultation call Information system linkage DB Mgt. Call statistics Report Mgt. Call conversion · Customer facility Mgt. Call work and campaign Mgt. information Happy call Call back Call again Campaign Call monitoring · VOC customer information · Homepage, event, information Manager Consulting Listening to Information background History Mgt. recorded tape Call history management Support work – Work flow IVR CTI PBX Rec Call statistical analysis We Report ● Vision and strategy KDHC’s competitiveness base is the employees. We overcome crises together with our employees and promote the development of KDHC. To search for excellent talented people who can cope with internal and external management changes, we have improved fairness and equity, striving to enhance employees’ welfare and satisfaction. In addition, we build an environment wherein the best performance can be achieved by adopting various evaluation systems to improve employees’ work performance capabilities. ● Depts. in charge within KDHC HR Training Team : HR management such as employee employment, work improvement, promotion, and education/training Labor & Welfare Team : Employees’ welfare and health management Enhancement of equity in employee Fairness in ratio socially equitable HR employment Performance – oriented HR management Material issues Employees’ welfare improvement HR within the workplace Education/Training Balanced execution coexistence between work and life Interview Hwang Hyeon-bae (International Science Business Belt Planning Group _ Employees Sector I positively assess the excellence of KDHC’s internal employment performance, which produces efficient, economical energy. I think KDHC’s resources and education can create good results for the competence concentration of the employees. Through efforts to establish productive labor-management culture based on win-win industrial relations and employees’ internal competence concentration on passionately carrying out work with solid goals, KDHC can grow and develop much more robustly given its great potential. 74 75 Employees – Status of Employees and HR Management 1 KDHC strives to secure outstanding specialized human resources by establishing measures to employ and train core expert personnel in line with its midand long-term development direction. We bolstered personal and aptitude tests, improved written exams and interview tests based on in-depth interview and external experts to secure suitable talented people, and strengthened the fairness and efficiency of the employment process. ● Status of employees We carried out socially equitable employment for patriotic casualties As of the end of 2010, 1,200 employees worked at KDHC including as well as the bereaved, organ donors, socially well-doers, mem5 officers. By employment type, regular positions numbered 1,196 bers of the low income bracket, people from rural villages, disabled (99.7%), and irregular positions were 4 (0.3%); males accounted for people, and patriots for the first time in Korea. 90.8% (1,089), a high ratio. We gradually increase females’ employment to secure balance in talented people. Our employee turnover Status of Socially Equitable Employment of is a low 0.58%, and average number of years of service is 11 years Talented People for the Past 3 Years (Unit: persons) and 8 months. Our college-graduate employees’ initial annual salary Socially equitable talented Public recruitment and expert Category in 2010 was KRW 23.23 million, which is similar to Korea’s public people employment recruitment corporations’ average initial salary of KRW 25.38 million. By apply2009 2010 2009 2010 No. of employed people 16 11 33 72 ing a single pay system, we treat males and females equally without gender discrimination. Status of employment results of science and engineering graduates and expert positions Status of Total Employees of KDHC (Unit: persons) No. of cases of employment of general graduates (Unit: people) Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of employed people 83 No. of officers 5 5 5 No. of employees 1,091 1,127 1,195 No. of cases of employment of science and engineering graduates 49 Total no. of employees 79 1,096 1,132 1,200 No. of cases of employment of including officer general graduates Gender Male 989 1,021 1,089 47 4 2 Employment Female 107 111 111 Regular 1,091 1,127 1,196 2008 2009 2010 Employment type Irregular 5 5 4 Common 59 57 59 Expert position (expert engineer, doctoral degree holder) (Unit: people) Job group Office work 242 240 238 Technical work 778 820 885 Expert position 27 24 28 Average number of years of service 11.1 10.1 11.8 Expert engineer Employment Newly employed persons 49 83 Doctoral degree 23 21 25 Change of job Turnover 0.46% 0.53% 0.58% holder 3 4 3 ● Employment of fair and socially equitable talented people KDHC abolished application qualifications related to education, age, 2008 2009 2010 and foreign language scores step-by-step so as to offer equal opportunities to every citizen when recruiting talented people. Moreover, we Status of employment of the underprivileged for the past 3 years (disabled people) (Unit: people) carry out a system of employment by objective with regard to women, talented people in provincial areas, and science and engineering perCategory 2008 2009 2010 Total number 1,096 1,132 1,200 sonnel and simultaneously conduct a preferential system for those No. of disabled people employed 26 30 37 with expert engineer certificates, doctoral degrees, and qualification Employment ratio of disabled people (%) 2.4 2.7 3.1 certificates. We make great effort to secure talented people by par* Mandatory ratio of disabled people : The ratio rose from 2% in 2009 to 3% in 2010. ticipating in HR employment expos. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Employees ● Performance-based annual salary system KDHC continuously maintains employment stability by operating a performance-based salary system; it not only uses accumulated ex● Gender equality spport system perience but also gains the effect of employment creation. Through KDHC has been establishing various support systems to consolidate internal evaluation, we differentially raise salary through cumulative the internal working environment where work and home can be balcalculation and conduct performance-based annual salary system anced for internal employees by carrying out a maternity protection using management evaluation performance-based pay and in-house leave system and operating workplace childcare facilities. By expandperformance-based pay. ing the women’s employment ratio, we plan to gradually increase the women managerial position ratio. We were awarded the Women’s Females’ Ratio and Female Managerial Position Ratio Minister’s Award in July 2009 in recognition of our efforts. (upper positions) (Unit: people) Category 2008 2009 2010 ● Fair HR system Total number 1,096 1,132 1,200 KDHC expands and operates a diversified evaluation system to conNo. of females 107 111 111 solidate the HR management system. We strictly prohibit discriminaFemales’ ratio (%) 9.8 9.8 9.3 Total number of managerial positions 490 508 528 tion on grounds of education, gender, age, region, physical disability, No. of female managers 16 17 17 etc., in training and deliberation of promotion. For performanceFemale manager ratio (%) 3.3 3.3 3.2 based HR culture consolidation, according to team system execution, we have been expanding and executing a rank and position separation type of “contest system of position” since 2006 for all positions Education/Training Hours and Fees for the Past 3 Years from team leaders to higher positions. As a result, we were selected 130,000 2,300 2,282 as an outstanding case in the “Workshop for Public Agency Advance120,897 ment” organized by the government in March 2010. 120,000 118,368 2,193 2,200 2,143 110,000 110,936 2,100 Status of Position Contest System for the Past 3 Years Category 2008 2009 2010 100,000 2,000 127 positions (No. of positions Training fee Object declined, according 128 positions 90,000 Hours 1,900 140 positions position to merger and (KRW million) 2009 2010 2011 (Hours) abolishment of organizations) Transparent Assignment of leader’s rank without Consolidation of HR system ● Employees’ self-development embodiment thru Operation post (team member) selective HR system KDHC actively copes with changes in internal and external managepublic competition criteria for the first time and continuous for all positions ment conditions including fierce competition in the domestic comever and execution execution of no post and continuous of downward posting for leader’s rank munity energy supply business and change of industrial structure execution of no post system for leader’s rank and operates expert nurturing programs to lead the industry. Training Details and No. of Personnel Who Completed Training (Unit: people) No. of Trained Personnel Category Details 2008 2009 2010 Basics of job Course to be completed essentially as an employee; consists of 814 595 655 hierarchical training and basic job training Management, finance, sales/business development, energy engineering, machine, electricity, Job improvement control, construction, environment, heat pipe, customer facility, R&D, power transaction, 8,099 6,207 6,848 quality control, power plant operation, repair, etc. In-depth job Expert nurturing courses by field, future experts nurturing courses, etc. 39 44 38 Digitalization, change innovation, customer satisfaction, ethical management, General competence labor-management relations, etc. 4,651 4,172 3,488 Total 13,603 11,018 11,029 76 77 2, 3 ● Fringe benefit system This benefit system to embody corporate welfare promoting balance between work and life along with the enhancement of employee satisfaction enables us to operate various welfare programs such as stable living support, healthy life support, and family-friendly welfare by life cycle stage. Through the welfare satisfaction survey each year, KDHC identifies various types of welfare demand of employees and Matters Supplemented in KDHC’s Fringe Benefits adopt and expand welfare programs focused on the improvement Category Welfare demand Improvement of quality of life. As of 2010, we have improved the loan criteria for Loan criteria for housing fund improved in housing fund; we operate a Health Up health enhancing program to Aug. 2010 Housing loan Preferential loan service for household prevent cerebral and respiratory diseases, and we also implementwith 3 or more of children and employees Stable living supporting their parents ed the expansion of workplace childcare facilities. by life cycle Abolishment of partial subsidy of tuition fee stage for collegian children from welfare fund Tuition fee Financial consulting service in April 2010 Welfare implementation Completion of Establishment of Support for financial planning consulting by direction in 2011 Life Cycle-Style Welfare System life cycle stage Implementation of workplace childcare facility Reflection of expansion Low satisfaction in 2009 (70%) Familywelfare demand Increase in childcare demand in the northern friendly area of the Seoul Metropolitan Area · Improvement opinion Childcare expense (set up in 2011) Enhancement of welfare equity welfare · Implementation of life cycle-style support Support expansion for those on childrearing Expansion of housing and tuition welfare system leave fee support Expansion of childcare facilities Expansion of leave period: (1 year → 3 years) Execution of health enhancement program 〈Health Up!> Visiting health service Medical expense (Health consulting, simple examination) Healthy life Expert’s exercise guidance, support for Improvement of satisfaction in Welfare direction in 2011 support muscular motion for shift workers 2010 (Completion of life cycle-style Consolidation of follow-up care of medical (70% 79%) welfare establishment) Cerebral and checkup respiratory diseases Consolidation of examination items to · Improvement opinion · Consolidation of familyprevent cerebral and respiratory diseases Support for children’s education friendliness and health Expansion of holiday support enhancement Enhancement of welfare equity · Improvement of selective welfare Fringe Benefit System in 2010 Category Details ● Retirement pension system Stabilization of Loan for living stability fund stable living by Housing loan KDHC manages retirement allowances by setting them as the aclife cycle stage Support for collective accident insurance and medical expenses count of reserve for retirement allowances to guarantee the stable Support for recreational facility (condo) old age life of retired workers. Reserve for retirement allowances Leisure support Operation of in-house club stood at KRW 16.7 billion in 2010 (defined benefit type: KRW 15.3 bilOperation of workplace childcare facilities Familylion; defined contribution type: KRW 1.4 billion), accounting for 23% of Execution of family culture experience event friendliness Operation of maternity protection lounge the KRW 72.9 billion annual labor cost. We subscribed to retirement Execution of tailored medical checkup pension of 9 retirement pension businesses. In 2010, we introduced Visiting health management service Health this system by converting the existing retirement insurance system management Precise physical strength checkup and expert’s exercise guidance into the retirement pension system. Employee aid program (EA) operation We Report ● Vision and strategy KDHC makes great efforts to overcome crises and deliver happy energy between KDHC and labor union. Labor and management strive to improve irrational practices between labor and management and collective agreements through labor-management cooperation based on compliance with the government’s guidelines. Through various and cooperative communication channels of labor-management, we embody a more efficient work process. ● Depts. in charge within the organization Labor & Welfare Team : Collective bargaining and Labor management Status of labor union Labormanagement communication Procedure for the Grievance Handling System Material issues 3 advancement and 3 promotion strategies Excellent company in labormanagement culture SR activities of Labormanagement 78 79 Labor-Management Communication 1 KDHC makes great efforts to establish rational and lawful industrial relations based on labor-management relations of “practical field work,” “principle and truth,” “labor-management advancement,” and “trust and reliability.” We are doing our very best to prevent all possible labormanagement conflicts by frequently holding labor-management meetings to solve key disputable issues. ● Status of the current labor union ● Cooperative labor-management communication KDHC guarantees labor union members’ free union activities unKDHC operates the various communication channels it established der the three rights of labor -the Labor Union and Labor Relation to form sympathy between labor and management. Through a Adjustment Act and Collective Agreement Membership Clause ? as program of visiting the sites of construction branch and operation guaranteed by the Constitution. Our labor union was launched on branch, we collect a variety of opinions and reflect them on work May 24, 1993, and it adopts a union shop system wherein all employfor management efficiency including job simplification and process ees with rank of department managers and lower can be members improvement. Through “Open Talk Time,” we operate a free face-toof the union, except employees of the HR, Labor, and Audit Depts. face communication program between the President and employees As of the end of 2010, the number of labor union members stood of KDHC. Likewise, a Daily Communication System wherein internal at 1,022, and membership ratio is 100% of the membership object. employees share and freely present company policies is operated KDHC’s labor union is a member of upper-level organizations such for the 50th session, and we regularly carry out informal gatherings as the “Korean Confederation of Trade Unions/Confederation of Pubwith the labor union leader. KDHC conducts labor-management field lic Transport Trade Unions. Our labor union organization consists of debate, joint seminar between labor and management, labor-man14 chapters including the head office chapter. The operation orgaagement council, and labor-management development TF meeting nization consists of General Assembly, Representative Committee, and strives to carry out two-way communication activities actively Steering Committee, Regular Business Execution Committee, and between employees and management. Accounting Auditor. * Union shop : An employer can employ a laborer regardless of whether or not he/she Labor-Management Communication System is a labor union member. Once the person is employed, however, he/she must become a labor union member. Formal communication channel Informal communication channel · Labor-Management Council, · Direct communication with Status of Union Members vs. Entire Employees (Unit: people) workshop the union leader · Collective negotiation on wages Category 2008 2009 2010 Trust formation Total no. of employees 1,096 1,132 1,120 between labor No. of union members 942 959 1,022 and management Union members (%) 85.9 84.7 85.2 Online communication channel Offline communication channel · Intranet · Working-level consultation, presentation · Labor union homepage · Labor-management development TF meeting Status of Labor-Management Communication Operation Daily Visit to Sites of Labor-Mgt. Labor –Mgt. Open Labor-Mgt. LaborMgt. Labor-Mgt. Channel Communication Construction Branch Mgt. Informal Cooperation talk time Council Joint Seminar Development TF System and Operation Branch Gathering for Debate Operation Meeting Discussion No. of cases Every two months 50 sessions Some 20 times Once a year Once a year Four times Once a year Each month Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Labor-Management Communication ●G  rievance handling system to prevent labor-management Establish labor-management conflicts prevention and cooperative conflicts labor-management relations. KDHC operates a Grievance Handling System to solve personal conflicts and grievances as a fundamental activity to prevent laborSet mutually respectful and cooperative labor-management management conflicts. The grievance handling counseling room is relations thru feedback. operated on/offline. We strive to solve the grievances of employees, including private life-related issues, working environment, and fieldcentered, general grievances in various ways. Procedure for the Grievance Handling System Through the system, we can enhance labor-management stability Enhancement of labor-mgt. stability and employee’s personal satisfaction, along with job performing caand employee satisfaction pabilities. Online Offline ●3  advancement and 3 promotion strategies for the ad· Labor-Mgt. vancement of industrial relations Grievance informal · Grievance solving gathering for KDHC established “3 advancement and 3 promotion strategies” listening system consultation, linked with top 9 midand long-term strategies for the advancement · Grievance Committee of industrial relations. We spearhead the advancement of labormanagement relations through cooperative labor-management relations sharing performance and risks with 3 advancement strateCounseling Operation Room for Grievance Handling gies -“ advancement of philosophy, advancement of strategy, and Category Head office Branch advancement of framework” -and 3 promotion strategies having Mgt. Support Dept. Customer Service Team Designated the concept of execution: “utilitarianism, mutual development, and place (Counseling Room) (Counseling Room) field-centered.” We also signed a wage agreement without nega· Labor union office · Labor union chapter office Other · Female employees’ lounge · Branch manager’s office tions for 3 years in a row since 2007. With all these, KDHC signed places (Sexual Harassment (Sexual Harassment an essentially maintaining work agreement, and it can supply stable Counseling Room) Counseling Room) heat supply service to Korean people without suspension of work as a normal consequence of disputes Yearly Grievance Handling Operation Results (Unit: case) Category 2008 2009 2010 Feedback System of 3 Advancement and 3 Promotion Strategies Raised 63 55 38 Handled 48 45 32 Identify previous year’s labor–management performance and Unhandled 15 10 6 problems. Satisfaction (%) 76.1 81.8 84.2 Set labor-management objectives. Carry out win-win labor-management relations. 80 81 2, 3 ● Excellent company in model labor-management culture KDHC received a certificate of excellent company in labor-management culture from the Employment and Labor Ministry in 2010 by putting the model win-win labor-management culture into practice through labor-management partnership KDHC received excellent evaluation through financial support for social company fostering, devising new employment sources, specific programs for balance between work and home and the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of age especially discrimination of the aged. We will spearhead the continuation of win-win culture wherein the employees and KDHC thrive together through dynamic activities such as social contribution and volunteering activities for the socially underprivileged, social contribution matching fund, and employment Prize awarding ceremony for socially responsible expansion via cooperation between labor and management. companies with excellent labor-management relations Social Responsibility Activities of Labor-Management Results of Labor-Management Communication Yearly performance and target Social contribution KPI Unit Consideration for the Socially equitable service in 2008 2009 2010 underprivileged employment “Private/Public Third Satisfaction on grievances Sector Mode” handling % 76.1 81.8 84.2 · Full exemption from · Employment of socially · Building residential Satisfaction in the welfare area % 38 51.0 basic heating service underprivileged for the facilities for the elderly Satisfaction in the wage/salary area % 65 61 62.5 rate first time ever among living alone to prepare · Campaign of Heating public corporations measures for livelihood Satisfaction on laborprotection management relations % 81 Expenses Support with Low income bracket, Love on MBC Radio’s patriotic casualties, No. of communication 7channels 11channels 10channels channel operations Cases (101cases) (120cases) (130cases) Women’s Era disabled people, · Campaign to Spend socially good-doers, No. of revision of patriots collective bargaining Clauses 0 16 13 Winter with Love agreements Briquette Delivery and Heating Facilities Repair Labor-management dispute cases No dispute No dispute No dispute Wage/salary increase rate % 3% Fixed Fixed Labor-Management Development Roadmap Establishment of win-win labormanagement relations Stage 3: 2012 ~ . Maturity period · Realize future-oriented labormanagement relations · Establish value creating labormanagement relations · Establish legal, autonomous · Secure the rationality of collective and win-win labor-management bargaining agreements relations · Establish lawful and reasonable · Build labor-management sharing labor-management relations performances and risks. · Implement onsite execution style · Complete the advancement of labor-management relations labor-management relations Consolidation of cooperative Consolidation of cooperative labor-management relations labor-management relations We Report ● Vision and strategy KDHC set as its objective for 2010 the “activation of small and medium businesses (SMBs) and realization of low carbon, green growth through national competitiveness consolidation.” We seek to fulfill our social responsibilities as a public corporation and build a win-win network through our mutual growth policy with SMBs. We also create win-win synergy effects via various systems such as fair bid participation together with partner firms and direct payment system of subcontract money based on integrity. ● Dept. in charge within the organization Mutual Growth Team : Construction, services, and purchases contracting, support for partner firms, and supervision of business related to mutual growth Policy to support SMBs linked with agency features Fair transactions based on integrity with partner firms Continuous consolidation for mutual growth Major issues Implementation of cooperative R&D support projects Consolidation of communication with partner firms Interview Bae Seong-ho (Green Growth Korea) _ Win-Win Cooperation sector KDHC grows together with partner firms in communities based on transparent procedure implementation and equal participation opportunity guarantee. Through various channels including informal gatherings with partner firms, we exchange opinions with them and gain their trust with clean transaction. Thanks to KDHC’s R&D investment in mainly SMBs, we greatly contribute to communities. Our win-win cooperation system through the sustainability management of our partner firms enables us to grow remarkably together with our partner firms in the future. 82 83 Mutual Growth with Partner Firms ● Implementation of policies to support SMBs combined ●A  ctivation of separate order placing for support increase 1 with agency features for SMBs KDHC carries out various support policies including the expansion of KDHC expands actual support for SMBs through the direct purchase opportunities for SMBs’ participation in bids, direct payment of subof materials for construction from the existing blanket order placing contract money, and activation of separate order placing. since the construction amount ratio is huge. In 2011, we purchased construction materials worth KRW 11.5 billion and separately placed ●E  xpansion of SMBs’ participation in bids for win-win orders for materials with KDHC-purchased materials worth KRW development 10.4 billion except legal items. We greatly expanded opportunities for SMBs’ participation in heat Results of Contract SMBs’ Products in 2010 pipe construction by increasing the estimated price from less than (Unit: cases, KRW million) KRW 5 billion to less than KRW 30 billion. With the simplification No. of cases Amount Categor Total SMBs Ratio (%) Total SMBs Ratio (%) of contract stages, we create win-win effects including cost savConstruction 342 296 86.5 512,094 69,157 13.5 ings, construction quality improvement for KDHC, and actual order Service 437 385 88.1 31,407 23,234 74.4 amount increase and solving of low subcontract amount problem for Purchase 443 410 92.6 200,599 82,887 41.3 SMBs. KDHC selects partner firms fairly through open bids and puts Total 1,222 1,091 89.3 744,100 175,278 23.6 limits in contracting against firms incurring social criticism. Win-Win Effects Between KDHC and Specialized Construction Companies ● Implementation of direct payment system for Existing Change subcontract money based on integrity management Estimated price [100] Estimated price [90] Correction [10] For the construction orders placed by KDHC, the order placer (client) General contract General contract directly pays subcontract money based on an agreement signed beGeneral construction company [80] Specialized construction company [72] tween the client, large enterprise, and subcontractor targeting conSubcontract struction projects with estimated price of KRW 30 billion. Specialized construction company [64] * Client’s purchase and supply of materials : A client purchases materials en masse and supplies them to the contracted construction company. Through this system, costs can Procedure for Directly Paying Subcontract Money be reduced, and problems in material purchase can be solved by forming an efficient supply line between a parent company and a subsidiary. The parent company can help ① Requesting inspection of performed ③R  equesting inspection its subsidiary comply with the due completion date, thereby promoting mutually efconstruction portion by of performed subcontract construction portion ficient management. SubconGeneral ② Completion of inspection ④ Completion of inspection Client tractor contractor ⑤ Requesting inspection ⑥ Claiming the amount of of performed performed construction construction portion portion ⑦ Direct payment Development Stage to Support SMBs 2007 2008 2009 2010 ~ Sustainable KDHC Overcome economic crises with Present need to support SMBs. Adopt and execute various stable system establishment. Present need to support SMBs. support systems. Establish system for win-win CEO keywords System improvement results, cooperation with SMBs for Emphasize efforts to support execute additional support sustainability management. Diversification of SMB support SMBs continuously. Secure optimized efficiency systems and search of measures of SMBs support system via selection of a strategic task for delivery of construction money. Adoption period Growth and development period Establishment and stability period Continuous improvement Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Mutual Growth with Partner Firms ● Operation of TFT for mutual growth with SMBs ●M  arketing support service for overseas sales KDHC endeavors for the effective implementation of measures for channel development mutual growth between large enterprises and SMBs and dissemiKDHC carries out overseas marketing support service targeting nates a mutual growth culture. Since September 2010, we have been SMBs manufacturing materials and equipment in the district heatoperating a TFT for win-win cooperation with SMBs, an enterprise ing field. We provide up to KRW 5 million support per company, which organization to execute “Mutual Growth.” This way, we do our best for helps enhance SMBs’ overseas marketing capabilities and internawin-win cooperation with SMBs by establishing policies to support tional competitiveness. SMBs and devising the relevant measures. Thanks to such efforts, we were selected as an excellent agency in the assessment of supResults of Overseas Marketing Support (Unit: KRW million) port for SMBs in 2010. Category Details Support expenses Supporting participation in the German 2008 5 ●P  erformance sharing system for consolidation of win-win District Heating Expo in Bremen, Germany Supporting participation in the Vietnamese cooperation 2009 ENTECH 2009 2.5 KDHC has been sharing its achievements through cost savings, qualSupporting participation in the Busan ity improvement, new products development, and patent application 2010 International Environment and Energy 1.9 Industry Exhibit since 2007 through joint innovation efforts with SMBs. Through an agreement of patent execution right permission for the wireless ●P  urchase expansion of SMB products through technology communicative heat pipe monitoring system, KDHC collects royalty, development, eco-products, and products made by with the partner firms creating new sales. Concerning the 2-phase Physically-challenged people absorption-type refrigerator development case, we awarded our patWith continual preferential purchase of 6 types of products made ent execution right to five SMBs free of charge for district cooling through technology development certified by the government, we service market activation. This way, we bolster win-win cooperation contribute to SMBs’ sales channel development and the promotion with SMBs through the continuous expansion of the achievement of technology development. In 2010, we actively complied with the sharing system. government policy by achieving more than the 10% legal mandate purchase ratio (11.9%). Furthermore, we make contributions to ecoAchievement sharing of wireless communicative heat pipe monitoring system development (Unit: KRW million) nomic independence support and product’s environment competitiveness for the socially underprivileged by preferentially purchasing KDHC: Royalty ratio (3% of net sales of a product) the products made by them. 2007 2008 2009 2010 36 64 67 38 * 6 types of products made by technology development : NEP, Net, excellent procurement, performance certification, GS, purchase-conditional newly developed SMBs: Patent execution right-permitted product sales products 2007 2008 2009 2010 1,208 2,130 2,246 1,274 Results of Purchase of Eco-Products and Products Made by (Unit: KRW million) Category Result in 2009 Plan in 2010 Result in 2010 Ratio (%) Status of Means to Support SMBs Eco-products 1,137 901 1,423 158.0 ➊ · Reorganization of infrastructure to enhance support system execution Products made by 460 365 812 222.1 along with active participation in government’s support policies · Innovative improvement of various support systems for win-win cooperation with SMBs ● Operation of tailored financial support system ➋ · Offering SMB support information through various channels KDHC assists its partner firms that are having difficulties in secur· Configuring HR for cooperative activities (tailored support) with SMBs ing production fund through tailored financial service that they can ➌ · Enforcement of technology and financial support using KDHC’s external credibility select, such as partnership loan and public purchase loan. We plan · Consolidation of technology development support for SMBs’ sales to increase financial support by continually publicizing the financial channel development on the public benefit enhancement dimension · New product development promotion based on conditional purchase support system for existing and new partner firms. utilizing know-how and implementation of achievement sharing system ➍ · Bolstering linked industry information offering and continuous feedback through patternization of SMBs’ claim handling 84 85 2, 3 Financial Support System for SMBs Category KB Partnership Loan Public Purchase Loan Organized by the Small and Signed with Kookmin Bank Medium Business Summary in Sept. 2006, supported SM Bs Administration; offered credit with construction records with KDHC loan for production fund based on contract relations Frequent assistance within the Credit-focused loan assistance, contract period, lower interest prime interest rate for contract Features amount; loan can be made rate compared with general loan, up to 80% assistance ●U  se of technology deposit system to prevent regardless of period except for advanced receipts technology leak Support amount KRW 12 billion for 11 companies KRW 870 million for 3 companies For SMBs’ technology leak prevention and stable technology use of since 2007 KDHC, four software development technical data developed since 2009 were deposited to a third party agency. We induce the use of this ●P  urchase-conditional new product development project system by specifying this deposit system upon bid notice for software to secure stable sales channel development. KDHC implements a purchase-conditional new product development project wherein KDHC supports SMBs’ technology development for Status of Software Deposit external materials and new products and mandatory purchase of System name Deposit date Deposit agency those developed products via private contract for a certain period. Integrated VOC system June 17, 2010 Through this, we support SMBs’ technology innovation and contribHeat pipe information system July 28, 2010 Korea Copyright ute to foreign currency savings. e-monitoring system October 7, 2010 Commission Construction information management system April 15, 2011 Status of Purchase-Conditional New Products Development Purchase amount ● Miscellaneous cooperation and assistance DevelopNo. of Purchase-conditional newly ment developed products participating (amount actually paid) KDHC strives for manpower exchange, technology training, and opinperiod companies Before 2010 2010 ion collection with SMBs. We also support co-penetration into foreign Dual lagging pipe of supply and KRW 1.5 KRW 18 markets through technology guidance for SMBs as well as overseas 2004 4 recovery billion million market development through ODA projects. In addition, we hand Heat pipe field lagging part air KRW 23 KRW 2 1 down management innovation methods via quality management plug million million 2007 Flexible absorbent at the curve KRW 3.49 KRW 419 system establishment and prior technology guidance for companies 1 part of a heat pipe billion million wishing to participate in a bid. We operated various opinion collecKRW 200 2010 Turbine Stationary Unit 1 million tion channels with SMBs as well including communication between (2011) KDHC CEO and presidents of specialized construction companies, cooperation arena, integrated VOC system, and cyber Shinmoongo. ●C  ooperative R&D project to preempt innovative technologies * ODA (Official Development Assistance) : Loans offered as donation or permitted by KDHC subsidizes the technology and research expenses of various public agencies including central and local governments to developing countries or international organizations to develop the economies of developing countries and enSMBs through the establishment of Guidelines for SMBs Support. hance their welfare We assist district heating-related companies with R&D department or affiliated research center and software developers and candidate startups with new technologies including intellectual property rights in the district heating field within the limit of 75% of research expenses or up to KRW 200 million. Currently, a “multiroom control hybrid dehumidifying cooling system” is developed through cooperation between the industry, academe, and research sectors including 4 SMBs. We help ease SMBs’ research expenses burden and aid in core technology preemption through the patent application of SMBs. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Beautiful Fruits of Happy Energy Sustainable Growth for the Company KDHC makes new milestones beyond its current status. Like a tree producing healthy fruits each year, overcoming storms and droughts, KDHC continuously grows, creating new achievements each year. 86 87 Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 Third-Party Assurance Report KDHC’s 2010 Sustainability Report To: The management of KDHC Creation and collection of data by performance area and confirmation of the reporting process ● Assurance scope Review on whether the financial information and greenhouse gas BSI Group Korea Limited (“BSI”) has received a request for the inemissions report match the audit report and greenhouse gas emisdependent assurance of the 2010 Sustainability Report from Korea sions validation report District Heating Corporation (“KDHC”). Independent assessment of KDHC’s report to cope with the appliThe scope of this assurance includes KDHC’s domestic places of cability level of the GRI Guidelines business including the head office and three divisions. KDHC’s subsidiaries and the following inclusions in the report have been exclud● Opinion ed from this assurance: BAT has reviewed the draft of the report and presented an opinion, Financial information with the revision of the report made as necessary. Based on the Data on greenhouse gas emissions (We have checked and found assurance activities that have been carried out, BAT has not found that separate assurance was conducted.) improperly described parts in terms of KDHC’s compliance with the Additional information posted on the homepage, not in the report reporting principles and sustainability performance in this report. BAT has confirmed that the GRI indices specified in the GRI Index are ● Responsibility and independence reported perfectly or partially in this report as a result of the materiKDHC is fully responsible for drawing up the sustainability report. ality test process. With the electric power business of KDHC expandThe assurance responsibility involves offering an independent ased, the application of the Electric Utility Sector Supplement has been surance Report to the management of KDHC by applying assurance attempted and is likely to be applied formally in next year’s report. methodology in relation to the specified scope and providing such BAT has confirmed that this report meets G3.1 ‘s A+ applicability level information to its stakeholders. of the GRI Guidelines. The BSI Assurance Team (“BAT”) has no interest in KDHC for the purpose of gaining profits, and it has not engaged in drawing up the BAT presents the following opinion within the scope that does not report except offering assurance opinion. Assurance has been caraffect the assurance results : ried out by BAT (consisting of experts in each field boasting of broad technologies, know-how, and many years of experience so that BAT KDHC has established measures to reduce greenhouse gas emiscan exercise high level of competencies according to BSI’s code of sions to cope actively with sustainability issues including national conduct for fair transactions). policy of low carbon, green growth, climate change, and depletion of energy and has set the new and renewable business as a fu● Assurance Standards ture growth engine. In this context, KDHC has devised a strategy to The assurance of this report has been conducted based on the folmaximize business opportunities using waste incineration heat and lowing standards: landfill gas. All in all, KDHC clearly demonstrates its commitment to AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) sustainability management. GRI G3.1 Sustainability Report Guidelines KDHC was listed with the stock market in January 2010. The corBAT has complied with the principles of inclusivity, materiality, and poration’s ethical and transparent organization operation and active responsiveness and has carried out reliability assessment of susresponse to social responsibility -through which KDHC carries out tainability performance information by applying AA1000 AS(2008) social contribution and sharing management ? are considered to be Standard’s type 2 moderate level. BAT has used GRI’s indices as the foundation for building a social responsibility management sysauxiliary standard by applying the application level A. tem and winning the trust and support of the Korean people as a public corporation. ● Methodology BAT has used the methodology developed to establish the relevant Inclusivity is a principle to guarantee stakeholder engagement to evidence to comply with assurance standards and reduce errors in develop a responsible and strategic method for coping with susthe details of the report. This way, BAT has carried out the following tainability. activities: Review of materiality decision process of KDHC and conformance Inclusivity is a principle to guarantee stakeholder engagement to check to decide the assurance priorities develop a responsible and strategic method for coping with sustainReview of sustainability strategy implementation process and sysability. tem to execute the process BAT has confirmed that KDHC carries out the stakeholder engageInterview with the senior management with liability of managment process and makes great efforts to collect various stakeholding sustainability issues and employees and review of selection of ers’ opinions and reflects them on its sustainability policy. KDHC has grounds and conformance backing up the debated issues established patterned channels to communicate with each stake88 89 holder group; the systematized stakeholder questionnaire and priorResponsiveness is a principle concerning the scope of an organizaity setting on feedback have been of great help in deciding the details tion’s response to stakeholder issues. of the report. The consolidation of inclusivity and responsiveness is judged to be The report describes the issues identified through communication the key motivation to bolster core capabilities in the sustainability with stakeholders and situation to respond to those issues. BAT has management of KDHC. BAT advises KDHC to disclose the inclusiveconfirmed that KDHC properly responded to the material issues ness and responsiveness by segmenting and expanding them by through various communication channels. stakeholder group. In addition, including the organization’s ability to consolidate responBAT recommends that KDHC operate a sustainability management sibility, detailed strategy, training, procedure, and monitoring can be committee affiliated with the board of directors to consolidate stakemore effective as well as controlling all these in relation to each asholder engagement and sustainability issues management further pect of economic, social, and environmental sustainability manageand bolster the sustainability management governance system. BAT ment to express DMA (disclosure on management approach) more judges that organization members’ abilities can improve in terms scrupulously. of sustainability issues, and that sustainability management goverIn this report, KDHC’s efforts to explain the relatively positive aspects nance can be reinforced by cyclically reporting sustainability issues and develop them further in each business area are exhibited. At the and checking the implementation process. same time, if the report describes negative issues and specifies concrete plans to solve them, it will also be of help to the improvement Materiality involves selecting the issues for stakeholders to decide of balance in reporting. regarding KDHC and its impacts based on information. ● Performance Information BAT has confirmed that sustainability management issues identified BAT advises KDHC to establish a system of collecting, integrating, among the stakeholders through the materiality test and core issue and managing performance data by economic, social, and environselection process are developing into sustainability management mental area and combining the system with the internal audit prostrategies. KDHC has used the VOC (voice of customer) system to cess for the establishment of a system to manage regularly perforidentify sustainability management issues and executed stakeholder mance vs. objectives and manage the reliability of data. communication, questionnaire surveys, and media analyses and has KDHC needs to change its reporting system so that it can set middrawn material issues of KDHC’s internal and external stakeholdand long-term objectives on core and material issues identified in the ers. materiality test and carry out continuous and reliable disclosure of KDHC diversifies fuel supply sources from fossil fuels to new and performance vs. objectives. renewable for sustainable growth as an eco-friendly energy corporation based on its establishment purposes of compliance with climate August 10, 2011 change agreements, energy saving, enhancement of Korean people’ BSI Group Korea Limited s conveniences and benefits, and tackling of external and technoCEO, Chun Jung-gi logical environment change. In addition, KDHC expands its business area to power and cooling services on the basis of heat supply service. Moreover, the fact that KDHC handles new and renewable development and activities with great importance to reduce greenhouse gas emissions identified as key issues is noteworthy. The corporation implements social contribution activities including energy welfare service by dividing them into business, community, and volThe BSI mark will be present on your Independent Assurance Opinion unteering sectors according to its vision of “building a happy energy for insertion in your organization’s sustainability report or corporate soworld together with communities.” KDHC carries out various social cial responsibility report once the assurance has been completed. contribution activities continuously, not just temporarily. Nonetheless, it may be desirable to compose the report such that there is mutual linkage between management policies, strategies, and key issues reflected on internal and external opinions and performance indicators of major activities to enhance stakeholders’ understanding. BAT recommends that KDHC include future targets -in addition to past performance information -so that the readers can forecast KDHC’s short-term performance and policy direction on individual sustainability issues. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Report To: The Management of KDHC ●D  iagnosis opinion on each process of ISO 26000 social responsibility ● Assessment Criteria KDHC is judged to recognize social responsibility through the establishment The Korean Standards Association (KSA) has developed a checklist to assess of CEO management philosophy and midand long-term strategy measures the social responsibility Compliance based on an international standard, ISO for sustainability management based on social responsibility. KSA has con26000, for social responsibility. firmed that KDHC clearly identifies various brackets’ stakeholders related to This Assessment report presents the Assessment results of KDHC’s social KDHC and secures -and participates in -various communication chanresponsibility management process and performance by top 7 core subjects. nels including employees’ participation in meetings and VOC channels with customers. ● Assessment Scope Through all this, we understand that KDHC executes its midand long-term KSA has reviewed and assessed the details of KDHC’s ISO 26000 Compliance strategies and active communication with each stakeholder. KDHC enhances as follows: its reliability through constant sustainability report publication and third-party KDHC’s sustainability management policies, systems, and practices assurance. KDHC’s sustainability management activities and performance KSA advises KDHC to express externally the enterprise commitment to sustainability management through the establishment, execution, and improve● Diagnosis Method ment of constant social responsibility management strategy plans. KSA has carried out the following activities through data collection related to the ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment criteria: Questionnaire survey on the checklist of KDHC’s ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Review of KDHC’s sustainability report and internal data on activities and performance KDHC’s stakeholder interview and media survey ISO 26000 Summary and System of Checklist Configuration of ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Total 1,000 points ISO 2600 Process (360 points) Performance (640 points) ImplemenMaking assessments based on the process of building organizational social responsibility Diagnose organization’s performance level concerning ISO 26000’s top 7 core themes (orgasystems as presented in ISO 26000 (Recognizing, engagement, analysis, strategy, execunization governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operation practices, tation Level tion, communication, verification, improvement). Enabling the organization to integrate consumer issues, community participation, and development). Help the organization easily Checklist social responsibility into its current management systems and to improve it continuously. understand the concepts and terms used for the top 7 core themes, 37 issues and activities, and expectations by issue, and evaluate whether the organization implements them. Process diagnosis (8 steps) Assessment of achievement(7 core subjects) Social responsibility Step 1 Recognizing social responsibility Reviewing the Organizational Activities of respecting the principles of social responsibility and Stage 1 recognition current status based on the commitment of CEO governance integrating them to business practices Stakeholder identificaStep 2 Stakeholder identification and Engagement Reviewing stakeholders’ Activities of respecting and protecting the human rights within an Integrate social responsibility into Stage 2 Human rights organization and its scope of influence. tion and engagement interests and expectations and setting up engagement strategies Core themes and Step 3 Analysis of core subjects and issues Listing up the issues Policy and practices influencing the labour environment of employStage 3 issues analysis by reviewing the issues and analyzing internal capability Labour practices ees of an organization and its subcontracted organizations Establishment of Step 4 Setting priorities, strategies and plans Activities of integrated approach to decrease the impacts of an Stage 4 priorities and execution Prioritizing the issues that need to be improved and managed taking The environment organization to the environment by taking account of the meaning of strategies account of organization’s capability organization’s decisions and activities. overall organizations Step 5 Execution Executing the strategies, vision, goals and implementation Fair operating Activities of giving attention to the ethical behavior of the transactions Stage 5 Execution plans and monitoring the performance of social responsibility regularly between an organization and other organizations such as partners or suppliers practices Step 6 Communication Communicating with stakeholders through Stage 6 Communication the issuance of performance reports Activities of protecting consumers’ rights such as consumer Consumer issues education, fair and transparent marketing information and contract, Step 7 Verification Activities and reports to enhance the sustainable consumption promotion, etc Stage 7 Assurance credibility of performance Community Activities of trying to maximize the resources and opportunities Stage 8 Step 8 Improvement Reviewing performance regularly and involvement and Improvement building on it continuously development while recognizing and respecting the right of the community Contributing towards Sustainable Development 90 91 KSA is a special corporation established under the Korea Industrial Standardization Act in 1962. As a knowledge service agency disseminating industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, and KS/ISO certification to companies, KSA is Korea's ISO 26000 administrative agency, appointed GRI education agency, AS1000 assurance provider, Korea Sustainability Index (KSI) operating agency, UN CDM operating body, and greenhouse gas and energy target management assurance body contributing to Korean society's sustainable development. ● Diagnosis Opinion on the Top 7 ISO 26000 core subjects Consumer Issues The assessment Team of KSA has assessed the implementation level by top KDHC’s collection and reflection policy for opinions from all walks of life in7 core themes based on KDHC’s self-assessment checklist of the ISO 26000 cluding call center operation for continual communication with various stakecompliance. holders is judged to be a huge advantage of the organization. KDHC’s maintenance and repair activities to supply stably power and heating Organization governance and cooling service -which are essential services for citizens -and crisis KSA has confirmed that KDHC recognizes core values on social responsibility responsiveness system have been evaluated as excellent. issues and has a commitment to implement them. For its midand long-term management strategies, KDHC has prepared a base through which employCommunity participation and development ees can carry out decision making on the basis of social responsibility by esKDHC’s social contribution activities including energy welfare -combined tablishing a social responsibility management system. KDHC establishes dewith KDHC’s features -are considered remarkable. Continuous and specific tailed implementation tasks and applies social responsibility principles when volunteering activities such as heat rate reduction & exemption, “Spend Winanalyzing the core subjects and issues of social responsibility. ter with Love” campaign, “Happiness Sharing Corps,” and “Arium” regular volunteering for the elderly living alone have been confirmed to contribute Human rights greatly to community development. KSA has confirmed that KDHC strives to prevent human rights risk situations of its internal and external stakeholders. To guarantee various stakeholders’ ●Conclusion of Assessment human rights, KDHC basically prohibits discrimination in the case of offering As a result of the ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment, KDHC has been conservices and reflecting requirements. KDHC guarantees internal stakeholdfirmed to carry out cooperative sustainability management by establishing ers’ basic rights and operates a grievance solving system to prevent human balanced systems. KSA advises KDHC to draw and supplement continually rights infringement in advance. All these are outstanding activities to guaranthe linkage and integrity of midand long-term strategies and social respontee human rights. sibility activities, consolidate capabilities to implement them, and enhance performance in the future. Labor Practices KDHC carries out a model HR system based on social responsibility through a Results of Social Responsibility Process Diagnosis method of gradually increasing the employment ratios of the underprivileged, science and engineering graduates, and experts. Through the life cycle manSocial responsibility recognition 84Points agement welfare system, KDHC has enhanced employees’ satisfaction with Stakeholder identification and engagement 86Points the working condition, encouraging self-development through various eduCore themes and issues analysis 87Points Establishment of strategy to implement priorities 84Points cation/training programs for employees. All these are remarkable achieveImplementation 88Points ments. Communication 82Points Assurance 80Points Environment Improvement 83Points KSA has confirmed that KDHC strategically copes with “low carbon, green growth” and issues of climate change and depletion of energy. Likewise, KSA Results of Social Responsibility Diagnosis has confirmed that KDHC actively copes with climate change through combined heat and power plants that can produce heating/cooling energy and Organization governance 90Points power and activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and new and reHuman rights 84Points Labor practices 92Points newable business using various types of waste. Environment 93Points The fact that KDHC spearheads energy saving with various policies includFair operation practices 85Points ing internal employee’s campaign to wear long johns has been evaluated as Consumer issues 90Points excellent. Community participation and development 90Points Fair operation practices KSA has confirmed that KDHC executes fair transactions with a variety of August 22, 2011 stakeholders including partner firms through the subcontract money direct Kim, Chang-ryong payment system and policy of separately placing orders. KDHC’s external KSA Chairman & CEO activities that can promote social responsibilities within KDHC’s influence sphere -based on internal integrity activities via an anticorruption policy -are considered to be model activities for KDHC’s fair transaction operation. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Stakeholder engagement principle 6.8.2 Community engagement 32~33 ● Promotion of social responsibility within Boundary protocol 6.6.5 value chain 4 ● Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.1 organization. 6.2 6~7 ● Governance of Organization 22~25, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6.2 34~35 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 13 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 16~17 ● Operational structure of the organization, including main 2.3 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint 6.2 Governance of Organization 13, 17 ● ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 13 ● Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or 2.5 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 13, 16~17 ● covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 18~19 ● Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 2.7 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 16~17 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 13, 18 ● Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 18~19 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 8~9 ● Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 information provided. 4 ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 4 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 4 ● Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 3.4 contents. 4 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content. 32~35 ● Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, 3.6 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 4 ● See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary 3.7 of the report (see completeness principle for explanation 4 ● of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 can significantly affect comparability from period to 4 ● period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the 3.9 Indicators and other information in the report. Explain 4 ● any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 92 93 Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, 4 ● change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 3.11 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 4, 10~11 ● in the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 3.12 in the report. Appendix ● Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3.13 external assurance for the report. 7.5.3 Assurance Appendix ● Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy 6.2 18~19 ● or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 4.2 body is also an executive officer. 6.2 18~19 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non6.2 18~19 ● executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance 6.2 18~19 ● body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and 6.2 18~19 ● the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 6.2 18~19 ◐ ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, Governance of Organization and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 body and its committees, including any consideration of 6.2 18~19 ● gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 environmental, and social performance and the status of 6.2 26~27 ● their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, 6.2 19 ● and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 6.2 19 ● environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 4.11 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 6.2 18~19 ● Externally developed economic, environmental, and 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 6.2 6, 27 ● the organization subscribes or endorses. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions 4.13 in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or 6.2 Appendix ● committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 32~35 ● Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Governance of Organization 4.15 with whom to engage. 6.2 32~33, 35 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 6.2 32~35 ● group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including 6.2 32~35 ● through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach EC Direct economic value generated and distributed, Community engagement and including revenues, operating costs, employee 6.8/6.8.3/ development/ Community engagement/ EC1 compensation, donations and other community 6.8.7/6.8.9 Creation of wealth and income/ Social 60~61 ● investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital investment providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 50~51, EC2 for the organization's activities due to climate change. 6.5.5 Ease of and adaptation to climate change 62~63 ● Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan EC3 obligations. 6.4.4/6.8 78~79 ● Significant financial assistance received from Benefit amount is EC4 Not material government. extremely small. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Working conditions and social EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant 6.4.4/6.8 protection/ Community engagement and 77 ● locations of operation. development Promotion of social responsibility within Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally6.6.6/6.8/ value chain/ Community engagement EC6 Not applicable N/A based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6.8.5/6.8.7 and development/ Creation of wealth and income/ Social investment Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Community engagement and EC7 management hired from the local community at 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 development/ Creation of wealth and Not applicable N/A significant locations of operation. income/ Social investment Economic, social and cultural rights/ Community engagement and Development and impact of infrastructure investments 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/ development/ Community engagement/ EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6/ Education and culture/ Self-development 40~45 ● through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 6.8.7/6.8.9 and access/ Creation of wealth and income/ Social investment Economic, social and cultural rights/ Promotion of social responsibility within value chain/ Respect of property rights/ 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7 Access to essential services/ Community Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. /6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ engagement and development/ 62~63 ● 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 Employment creation and function development/ Self-development and access/ Creation of wealth and income/ Social investment 94 95 Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Disclosure on Management Approach EN EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 49 ● Percentage of materials used that are recycled input EN2 materials. 49 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 49 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 49 ● Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 improvements. 52 ● 6.5/6.5.4 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Environment/Use of sustainable EN6 energy based products and services, and reductions in resources 56~57 ● energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 reductions achieved. 52,54 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 51 ● Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of EN9 water. 51 ● ercentage and total volume of water recycled and EN10 reused. 6.5/6.5.4 51 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Not applicable No protected area. biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Not applicable No protected area. of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Environment/ Environmental protection, 6.5/6.5.6 diversity and natural habitat restoration EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable No protected area. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14 Not applicable No protected area. impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected Not applicable No protected area. by operations, by level of extinction risk. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN16 weight. 54 ● No other indirect Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Environment/ Ease of and adaptation to EN17 6.5/6.5.5 Not applicable greenhouse gas weight. climate change emissions. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18 reductions achieved. 54~55 ● No ozone EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not applicable destroying materials NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type EN20 and weight. 51 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 51 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5/6.5.3 Environment/Pollution prevention 51 ● No hazardous EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not applicable materials emissions. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel No waste taken out EN24 Not applicable Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of to abroad. transported waste shipped internationally. Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Environment/ Use of sustainable No ecological area water bodies and related habitats significantly affected EN25 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 resources/ Environmental protection, Not applicable affected by waste by the reporting organization's discharges of water and diversity and natural habitat restoration water. runoff. Environment/ Use of sustainable Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 6.5/6.5.4/ resources/ Promotion of social EN26 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 6.6.6/6.7.5 responsibility within value chain/ 48~57 ● Sustainable consumption No recycling of Percentage of products sold and their packaging Environment/ Use of sustainable EN27 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 Not applicable products and materials that are reclaimed by category. resources/ Sustainable consumption packing materials. Monetary value of significant fines and total number EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 6.5 Environment 52 ● environmental laws and regulations. Significant environmental impacts of transporting Environment/ Use of sustainable products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization's operations, and transporting members of 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 resources/ Promotion of social 53 ● responsibility within value chain the workforce. Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 investments by type. 6.5 Environment 50 ● Disclosure on Management Approach LA Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1 and region, broken down by gender. Labor practices /Employment and 77 ● 6.4/6.4.3 employment relations Total number and rate of new employee hires and LA2 employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 77 ◐ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Labor practices /Employment and LA3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 employment relations 79 ● operations. Labor practices/Employment and Percentage of employees covered by collective 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 LA4 bargaining agreements. 6.4.5/6.3.10 employment relations /Working conditions 81 ● and social protection Labor practices/Employment and Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant 6.4/6.4.3/ employment relations/ Working conditions Specify in Company LA5 operational changes, including whether it is specified in Not applicable collective agreements. 6.4.4/6.4.5 and social protection/social conversation/ Regulations.. Basic principles and rights in working Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and 79 ● Labor practices/Employment and safety programs. 6.4/6.4.6 employment relations / social protection Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Not applicable No occurrence. region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskLabor practices/ Safety and health in control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/ working/ Community engagement and LA8 their families, or community members regarding 6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 development/ Community engagement / ○ Not available serious diseases. Education and culture/ health Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Labor practices/ Safety and health in LA9 with trade unions. 6.4/6.4.6 working 79 ● Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, LA10 6.4/6.4.7 Human development and training at work and by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Labor practices/ Human development and LA11 that support the continued employability of employees 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 training at work/ Employment creation 79 ● and assist them in managing career endings. and function development Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Labor practices/ Human LA12 and career development reviews, by gender. 6.4/6.4.7 development and training at work 78 ● 96 97 Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Discrimination and underprivileged employees per employee category according to gender, 6.3.7/6.3.10/ brackets/ Basic principles and rights in LA13 age group, minority group membership, and other 6.4/6.4.3 working /Labor practices/ Employment 77~78 ● indicators of diversity. and employment relations Discrimination and underprivileged The same Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to brackets/ Basic principles and rights in 6.3.7/6.3.10/ amount is paid LA14 men by employee category, by significant locations of working /Labor practices/ Employment Not applicable 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 without gender operation. and employment relations/ Working discrimination conditions and social conversation Prohibition of discrimination against Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, underprivileged brackets/ Economic, LA15 by gender. social and cultural rights guarantee of ○ Not available company and community Disclosure on Management Approach HR Percentage and total number of significant investment Human rights/Actual inspection/ agreements and contracts that include clauses 6.3/6.33/6.3.5/ HR1 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have 6.6.6 Avoidance of collusion/Promotion of social 83 ● responsibility within value chain undergone human rights screening. Human rights/Actual inspection/ Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ Avoidance of collusion/ Employment and HR2 other business partners that have undergone human 83 ◐ 6.4.3/6.6.6 employment relations/ Promotion of rights screening, and actions taken. social responsibility within value chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR3 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 6.3/6.3.5 Human rights /Avoidance of collusion 28 ● employees trained. Human rights/Grievance solving/ Discrimination and underprivileged Total number of incidents of discrimination and 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ No case by HR4 brackets/ Basic principles and rights in Not applicable corrective actions taken. 6.3.10/6.4.3 company. working/Employment and employment relations Operations and significant suppliers identified in 6.3/6.3.3/ Human rights/Actual inspection/ Risk which the right to exercise freedom of association and HR5 6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.8/ situation of human rights/Civil rights and 81 ◐ collective bargaining may be violated or at significant 6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 Political rights/ Respect of property rights risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Human rights/Actual inspection/ Risk Operations and significant suppliers identified as having situation of human rights/Avoidance significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures N/A under the HR6 of collusion// Discrimination and Not material taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child domestic law. underprivileged brackets/ Basic principles labor. 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ and rights in working Operations and significant suppliers identified as having 6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 Human rights /Avoidance of collusion/ significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Employment and employment relations/ HR7 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of Promotion of social responsibility within 81 ● all forms of forced or compulsory labor. value chain Human rights/Grievance solving/ Percentage of security personnel trained in the Discrimination and underprivileged 6.3/6.3.5/ HR8 organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects 6.4.3/6.6.6 brackets/ Basic principles and rights in 28 ● of human rights that are relevant to operations. working/Employment and employment relations Human rights/Actual inspection/ Risk Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ HR9 situation of human rights/Civil rights and Not applicable No violation case. indigenous people and actions taken. 6.3.8/6.6.7 Political rights/ Respect of property rights Percentage and total number of operations that have Assessment of the Actual inspection/ Risk situation of human HR10 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Not material same human right rights assessments. impacts Number of grievances related to human rights filed, No civil petition HR11 addressed and resolved through formal grievance Grievance solving Not applicable case. mechanisms. Disclosure on Management Approach HR SC Economic, social and cultural rights/ Percentage of operations with implemented local Community engagement and 6.3.9/6.8/ SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and 6.8.5/6.8.7*/6.6.7 development/Employment creation and 67 ● development programs. function development/Creation of wealth and income/Respect of property rights Korea District Heating Corp. Sustainability Report 2010 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Core themes and disputes Reasons of Additional GRI Details of index ISO 26000 Pages Application of ISO 26000 exclusion description Percentage and total number of business units analyzed SO2 for risks related to corruption. 29 ● Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures. 6.6/6.6.3 Fair operation practices/Anti-corruption 28 ● No corruption SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not applicable case took place. Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 development and lobbying. Fair operation practices/ Responsible 14~15 ● Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 political engagement/ Community engagement No engagement in SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by Not applicable political activities. country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive 6.6/6.6.5/ Fair operation practices/Fair competition/ No legal action SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Not applicable 6.6.7 Respect of property rights case. outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fair operation practices / Respect of No violation case SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7* property rights/ Creation of wealth and Not applicable of law. and regulations. income No negatively Operations with significant potential or actual negative influencing SO9 Community engagement and development Not applicable impacts on local communities business takes place. No negatively Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in influencing SO10 operations with significant potential or actual negative Community engagement and development Not applicable business takes impacts on local communities. place. Disclosure on Management Approach PR Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 and percentage of significant products and services Economic, social and cultural rights/ 74 ● Promotion of social responsibility within categories subject to such procedures. 6.3.9/6.6.6/ value chain/ Consumer issue/consumer's Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5 safety and health protection/ Sustainable regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and consumption PR2 Not applicable No violation case. safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by Consumer issue/Fair marketing, PR3 procedures, and percentage of significant products and factual and unbiased information and 73~75 ● services subject to such information requirements. fair contracting practices/Consumer's 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ safety and health protection/Sustainable Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 consumption/Consumer service support PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and and complaints and disputes solving/ Not applicable No violation case. service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Education and awareness enhancement Consumer issue/ Consumer's safety and health protection/Sustainable Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/ consumption/Consumer service support PR5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7.6/6.7.8/6.7.9 and complaints and disputes solving/ 71 ● Access to essential services/Education and awareness enhancement Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Consumer issue/Fair marketing, factual PR6 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, and unbiased information and fair 75 ● including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. contracting practices/Consumer's safety 6.7/6.7.3/ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with and health protection/Consumer service 6.7.6/6.7.9 support and complaints and disputes regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 solving/Education and awareness Not applicable No violation case communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. enhancement Total number of substantiated complaints regarding No customer data Consumer issue/ Consumer data PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 6.7/6.7.7 Not applicable loss case takes protection and privacy data. place Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Consumer issue/ Consumer service No fine-imposing PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and 6.7/6.7.6 support and complaints and disputes Not applicable case takes place use of products and services. solving 98 99 Introduction to Sustainability Management TFT CEO, Jung Seung-il Assurance Committee: ExterAssurance Committee: External nal Expert Group Expert Group Management Strategy Dept. BSI Korean Standards Association Representative writer and Kim Sang-gi overall planning Data reviewer Lim Dong-chun Data collector Kim Jae-hong Sustainability Management TFT Economic Environmental Sustainability Social Performance Performance Performance Management Team Company Overview Environment Employees Domestic and International /Innovation Technology Operation Dept. Mgt Support Dept. Guidelines Planning Dept. Lee Jae-geon Kim Chul-gi Jang Young-seok Significance Test Dam Ja-ryong Business Development Dept. Kim Hang-jin Customers Legitimacy Sustainability Mgt Strategy Sales Dept. Mgt Strategy Dept. Stakeholder Investigation Kim Li-jin Kim Jae-hong Partner Firms Drawing Sustainability Mgt Economy Financial Dept. Issues Financial Dept. Choi Se-hoon Response Situation Diagnosis Lee Chang-ho Communities to ISO26000 Ethics Mgt Strategy Dept. Planning Dept. Han Sang-guk Baek Seung-yeop Kim Sang-mi Government Planning Dept. Dam Ja-ryong Participation in Associations and Bodies Domestic • Korea Environmental Prevention Association • Korean Accounting Association • Korean Resource Economics Association • Korea Federation for Environmental Movements • Korea Fair Competition Federation • Korea District Heating and Cooling Association • Korea Society of Environmental Engineers • The Korea International Trade Association • Business Ethics and Sustainability management for Top • Korea Society of Energy and Climate Change • Korea Plant Industries Association performance • Korea Construction Engineers Association • The Institute of Internal Auditors of Korea • Business Ethics and Sustainability management for CEO • Korea Electric Engineers Association • Korea Industrial Safety Association • Un Global Compact Network Korea • International Institute of Refrigeration Korea Committee • Korea Fire Safety Association • Energy and Mineral Resources Development Association • The Society of Air-conditioning and Refrigerating Engineers Overseas Korea of Korea •WEC(World Energy Council) • Korea DME Association • The Korea Society for New And Renewable Energy •IDEA(Inernatoinal District Energy Association) • Korea Power Exchange • Korea Management Association •FFI(Fernwarme Forschungs Institute) • The Korea Institute of Electrical Engineers • Korea Personnel Improvement Associate •Euro Heat & Power • CS Leaders Club • Management Accounting Association of Korea •IEA-DHC The Best Envioronment Friendly Energy Company KDHC does not live for the present. We are committed to striving for and researching continuously on building a happy energy world and doing our very best to become a clean company contributing to citizens’ convenient living and national economic growth, based on our expertise and experiences. dotted line Readers’ Opinions Questionnaire Survey on the 2010 KDHC Sustainability Report KDHC cordially asks for your valuable opinions for the production of better sustainability reports in the future by listening to various stakeholders’ opinions including the readers of this report. 1. In which category do you belong? 􂇂 Employee 􂇂 Shareholder 􂇂 General investor 􂇂 Business partner 􂇂 Public official 􂇂 Social organization including NGO 􂇂 Sustainability management expert 􂇂 Media 􂇂 Academe 􂇂 Others 2. What part of the report are you most interested in? 􂇂 Company Profile 􂇂 Investment Information 􂇂 Sustainability Management 􂇂 Financial Performance 􂇂 Environmental Management 􂇂 Social Responsibility Management 􂇂 Status of Employment and Working Environment 􂇂 Customer Management 􂇂 Win-Win Strategy with Business Partners 􂇂 Stakeholder Communication 3. Rate your degree of agreement to the following by ticking the boxes below: Strongly agree Agree Neutral Disagree Strongly disagree •The terms used in the report are clear and easily understandable. 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 •The report offers adequate and useful information on key issues. 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 •The details of the report are reliable. 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 •The design of the report is good, and it aids in the understanding of the report. 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 􂇂 4. Which area do you think requires supplementation by KDHC? 􂇂 Company overview 􂇂 Sustainability management 􂇂 Ethical management 􂇂 Economy 􂇂 Social contribution 􂇂 Environment 􂇂 Customers 􂇂 Employees 􂇂 Partner firms 􂇂 Labor-Management communication 􂇂 None 5. We will refer to your valuable information (sectors: Economy/Society/Environment/Internal Customer Satisfaction, etc.) •What part of this report has given you the most lasting impression? •What part or description of this report is useful? •How satisfied are you with this report? 􂇂 Very satisfied 􂇂 Satisfied 􂇂 Fair 􂇂 Dissatisfied 􂇂 Very dissatisfied 6. Please feel free to present your candid opinion on KDHC’s Sustainability Report. Please fax your opinion to 031-709-5058. Thank you for your cooperation. Happy Energy Happy Life KDHC is committed to supplying happy energy as a corporation striving to build a bright and pleasant world. Designed by storybeen.com T. 02-3453-2070
