SCA Sustainability Report 2010 SCA at a glance Personal Care SCA creates value by fulfilling the needs of cusThe business area comprises three product tomers and consumers in a spirit of innovation, segments: incontinence care, baby diapers and feminine care. Production is conducted at 27 through continuous efficiency enhancements and facilities in 23 countries. Products are sold in more than 100 countries throughout the world. with a clear desire to contribute to sustainable development. The Group develops, produces and markets personal care products, tissue, packaging, publication papers and solid-wood products, Share of Group net sales 22% 29% and has sales in more than 100 countries. In 2010, SCA had annual sales of SEK 109bn and about Share of Group operating profit 45,000 employees. Tissue Consumer tissue consists of toilet paper, kitchen rolls, facial tissue, handkerchiefs and napkins. In the Away-From-Home (AFH) tissue segment, SCA delivers complete hygiene concepts to companies and institutions. Production is conducted at 38 facilities in 18 countries. Products are sold in some 80 countries throughout the world. Share of Group net sales 36% Share of Group operating profit 30% Europe (including Africa) 2010 2009 Employee age distribution Americas 2010 2009 Employee age distribution Sales, SEKm 83,036 84,414 % 50 Sales, SEKm 16,312 15,936 % 50 Employees 33,363 34,084 40 Employees 7,980 7,701 40 Women, % 24 24 30 Women, % 26 30 30 Salary costs, SEKm 12,619 13,544 20 Salary costs, SEKm 1,994 1,994 20 Social security costs, SEKm 3,616 4,055 10 Social security costs, SEKm 627 650 10 0 0 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ Packaging SCA is a full-service supplier of packaging solutions and offers both transport and consumer packaging. SCA operates one innovation centre and 16 design centres. Production is conducted at 170 facilities in 21 countries. Products are sold in 27% 36 countries in Europe. Share of Group net sales Share of Group operating profit 16 % Forest Products Production comprises publication papers, pulp and solid-wood products, and is conducted at 17 facilities in three countries. Products are mainly sold in Europe, but also in Asia, North Africa and North America. Share of Group net sales 15% Share of Group operating profit 25% Asia 2010 2009 Employee age distribution SCA Group total 2010 2009 Employee age distribution Sales, SEKm 9,794 10,506 % 50 Sales, SEKm 109,142 110,857 % 50 Employees 3,998 7,746 40 Operating profit, SEKm 8,677 8,190 40 Women, % 41 39 30 Operating profit, SEKm1) 9,608 9,648 30 Salary costs, SEKm 1,041 1,058 20 Earnings per share, SEK 7:90 6:78 20 Social security costs, SEKm 54 169 10 Earnings per share, SEK1) 8:89 8:32 10 0 Employees 45,341 49,531 0 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ Women, % 26 27 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ Salary costs, SEKm 15,654 16,596 Social security costs, SEKm 4,297 4,874 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. Recognition Contents SCA at a glance ......................................................... flap ❯❯❯ CEO’s message .............................................................. 2 SCA was named one of the world’s most ethical com­ panies by the Ethisphere Institute. n Sustainability strategy Integrating sustainability into strategy ................ 4 Sustainability targets ................................................. 6 SCA was ranked one of the world’s most sustainable com­panies in 2010 by the responsible business magazine Sustainable Governance ........................................ 10 Corporate Knights. Ethics and core values ............................................. 12 Stakeholder dialogue ................................................ 13 SCA was cited as the best Swedish company for carbon dioxide reporting in the global Carbon Disclosure Project n Economic responsibility survey 2010. Shareholders ................................................................. 18 Stakeholders ................................................................. 23 SCA won FAR’s prize for the best 2009 Sustainability Report. FAR is an industry organization for accountants n Environmental responsibility and consultants. Climate and energy .................................................... 26 Forest ................................................................................ 32 Water ................................................................................. 37 SCA has been listed on the FTSE4Good global sustain­ ability index since 2001. Chemicals and product safety ............................. 39 n Social responsibility SCA’s Code of Conduct .......................................... 40 SCA is listed on the Global Challenges Index, which was launched by the Hannover Stock Exchange and the Health and safety ........................................................ 44 research company Oekom Research AG in 2007. Employee relations .................................................... 47 Community involvement ......................................... 50 SCA is included in Kempen SNS SRI Universe and was n Control and assurance approved for inclusion in the Orange SeNSe Fund. RMS ................................................................................... 52 Environmental data .................................................... 55 Social data ..................................................................... 62 SCA is a constituent of ECPI indices. ECPI is a rating and index company dedicated to ESG Research (EnvironmenAbout this report ......................................................... 63 tal, Social and Governance). GRI Index......................................................................... 64 Global Compact Report .......................................... 66 SIX STAR is a Nordic sustainabil­ity index launched in 2009 Assurance Report ....................................................... 67 by SIX and the consultant Ethix. SCA is ranked among the top 25 Swed­ish companies. Glossary .......................................................................... 68 SCA is included in OMX GES Sustainability Nordic and About this report OMX GES Sustainability Sweden, two indexes for responSCA publishes a separate sustainability report each sible investments launched by Nasdaq OMX and GES year. The report describes the environmental, social Investment Services. and economic perspectives of SCA’s sustainability initiatives, and is aimed at specialist audiences with an interest in SCA’s sustainability performance, including analysts, investors and NGOs. As of 2008, SCA is a SCA became a UN Global Compact member in 2008. signatory to the UN Global Compact. The sustainabiSCA’s 2008 and 2009 Communication on Progress lity report represents the Group’s Communication on reports were selected as representative of Best Practice Progress, describing SCA’s work to address the Globy Global Compact. bal Compact’s ten principles on human rights, working conditions, the environment and anticorruption. The Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, level A+, SCA applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) at A+ level in its sus­tainability are applied in this report, and the GRI content index reporting. The report was audited by Pw­C. (p. 64–65) provides a cross-reference to the indicators included in the report. The entire report has been reviewed by PwC. All data in this report has been collected over the calendar year 2010, and covers the SCA Group, including wholly and majorityowned subsidiaries. For further information regarding the sustainability report and its reporting principles, see page 63. Highlights 2010 • Installation of lime kiln at Östrand pulp mill, ­Sweden, will cut carbon dioxide emissions at the plant by 80%. • C  onstruction of new power plant in Aschaffenburg, ­Germany, will reduce carbon dioxide emissions. • F  ormation of a new business unit, SCA Energy, aimed at development and growth of renewable energy. • New global hygiene supplier ­standard. • Code of Conduct supplemented with new guidelines. • S  CA raises its sustainability ambitions with the establishment of new staff function, Corporate Sustainability. CEO’s message Making a difference – SCA’s role in society SCA’s presence in society generates many positive effects through the business operations themselves and also the company’s strong tradition of corporate sustainability and social responsibility. This involvement ensures our relevance in society and, in particular, helps to generate good business and thereby value for our customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. As a company, SCA creates jobs across the globe demands for sustainable business practices. thus adding to the economic prosperity of thou­ From focusing on shareholder value, a frequently sands of families – we pay tax, educate our used term now is enlightened shareholder value – employees and purchase goods and services where sustainability, as part of effective corporate from other companies in society. governance, adds to value generation. There is a strong link between consumption of The pivotal point of the debate has mainly hygiene products and income levels. The stand­ focused on environmental actions, particularly ard of living is rising in a growing number of coun­ deriving from the climate-change problem, and tries and more and more people are gaining sustainability is often equated to environmental access to hygiene products. Surveys show that at responsibility. To a great extent, social responsi­ income levels as low as USD 2 per day, people bility has been about risk minimisation, whereby start to use their money to finance items other companies guarantee that production takes place than food and housing – and hygiene products in a safe and healthy environment, that there is a are high on the list. Countries with populations system in place to minimise the risk of corruption that are rapidly climbing up the hygiene pyramid and other violations of the Code of Conduct, and include Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, so forth. However, this is only one side of the coin. Russia, Mexico, Malaysia, South Africa, Chile, Conducting business in a socially responsible India and China. manner also offers considerable potential and While incomes are rising in these countries, opens up many business opportunities. I believe many people still survive on a small daily budget that this is an area that will grow in significance in and cannot afford to buy large hygiene product the years ahead. packs. In Latin America and Southeast Asia, SCA is working on the development of ways to match Common theme throughout the business these needs; for example, by offering fewer prod­ Social responsibility runs like a common theme ucts in each pack and distributing products to throughout SCA’s business. When the company small local stores. was first formed, we built housing for employees, By increasing availability, SCA helps to raise infrastructure and schools, and offered leisure the quality of life of people while also creating activities. The first social programme was initiated new business opportunities. For example, access already in the 1950s. At that time, just like today, to feminine care products is often a crucial factor the purpose of social responsibility was to create that governs whether women have the opportu­ the platform for a sound business operation, nity to go to work or school. Feminine care prod­ since this was a way to attract and retain labour. ucts also reduce the risk of infections. In 2008, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, an alliance among more than Social responsibility gaining in significance 8,700 companies in 130 countries working to Sustainability is a megatrend that has been onpromote responsible business practices. For me, going for a number of years. A growing section of it is obvious that companies and the business society questions the way we live, and customers community can play a decisive role in efforts to and consumers are imposing ever-stricter achieve a sustainable, global economy. 2 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 CEO’s message A strong social agenda carbon dioxide reporting in the annual Carbon In recent years, SCA has worked intensely to Disclosure Project (CDP) survey. The CDP, which develop and systemise the social agenda and acts on behalf of 534 institutional investors and these efforts are beginning to yield results; many has USD 64 trillion in assets under management, advances were made in this area in the past year. uses the survey as an evaluation tool. In 2010, the process for evaluating compli­ We continue to develop our sustainability pro­ ance with the Code of Conduct, including human grammes and we raised the aspiration level fur­ rights, was updated and the first assessment ther during the year by taking the step of forming according to the new guidelines was performed a new corporate staff unit for sustainability. The in Mexico. We developed a new, global supplier head of this unit is also a member of the Corpo­ standard for the hygiene operations containing rate Senior Executive Management Team. By expanded requirements for suppliers in terms of moving sustainability up to the highest manage­ social responsibility, and added new guidelines ment level, we will build an even more solid foun­ to the Code of Conduct. dation for a successful business. Confirmation that we are heading in the right direction can be seen in our selection, for the third consecutive year, as one of the world’s most ethi­ cal companies by the US-based Ethisphere Insti­ tute, and our inclusion for the sixth consecutive year in the world’s top 100 most sustainable companies by Canadian Corporate Knights. We were also named the best Swedish company for Jan Johansson, President and CEO SCA Sustainability Report 2010 3 Sustainable strategy | Strategy Integrating sustainability into strategy Sustainability is an integral part of SCA’s operations and the company’s strategy for growth and value creation. For SCA, corporate sustainability is a business approach that generates long-term shareholder value by embracing opportunities and managing risks deriving from economic, environmental and social developments. Sustainability initiatives generate improved competitiveness, reduced cost and reduced risk. The sustainability strategy is an integral part of SCA’s process for supplier assessments dates to assess the environmental performance of com­ the company’s strategy and business plans, and back many years. Over time, the programme has panies SCA considers for acquisition. supports SCA’s strategic focus areas: cost and been developed and systemised and a global In the due diligence process performed in cash flow, capital efficiency, innovation and supplier standard for the hygiene business was conjunction with acquisitions, SCA conducts a growth. drafted in 2010. Supplier standards and assess­ risk assessment to highlight potential business The sustainability strategy framework is ments are also applied by the Forest Products practice issues. This risk assessment includes an divided into three key directions: and Packaging operations. estimate of possible costs for the introduction of • Sustainable solutions: “SCA proactively deliv­ Since 2005, the Group conducts human rights health and safety measures into the workplace, ers sustainable and innovative solutions based assessments at its production sites to ensure overtime compensation, work insurance cover­ on customer and consumer insights, with compliance with such aspects as occupational age and so forth, that are required for the acquisi­ added value for SCA and its stakeholders.” health and safety. In 2008, a new method was tion target to comply with SCA standards. • Sustainable operations: “SCA delivers sustain­ introduced to evaluate business ethics – Busi­ able products through safe, resource-efficient ness Practice Reviews. Innovation and environmentally sound operations.” Innovation is fundamental to SCA’s strategy and • Sustainable dialogue with stakeholders: “SCA Transparency creates value through driving sales and building is one of the industry leaders within sustaina­ SCA is committed to transparency with respect to customer loyalty. Innovation is based on cus­ bility and the company proactively interacts the company’s environmental and social activi­ tomer and consumer insight and the ability to with key stakeholders.” ties, challenges and ambitions. SCA was one of understand the issues that are important to the pioneers when it published an environmental stakeholders. Sustainability and product safety The strategy is based on clearly stated targets, report for the first time in 1998 and today’s sus­ remain a priority for customers and consumers a systematic approach, transparency, integration tainability report is third-party verified. The Group and are thus a significant component of product with business operations and innovation. is engaged in an extensive dialogue with various and service development. stakeholders to develop world-class working Improved materials and improved fit have Clearly stated targets methods. made Libero diapers, Libresse pads and TENA SCA’s four sustainability targets are an essential incontinence care products thinner, drier, more element of SCA’s sustainability strategy. The Integration with business operations comfortable and better for the environment. Dur­ targets address the areas that SCA has identified SCA’s sustainability targets are incorporated into ing the past year, TENA launched ultra-thin incon­ as being key for business in the long term: the Group’s overall strategy and business plans. tinence care products while Libero introduced water, carbon dioxide, responsible sourcing of This ensures that long-term ambitions will be pri­ thin baby diapers. The reduced impact of current raw materials and compliance with the Code of oritised at Group and business group level. The products on the environment compared with Conduct. targets are cascaded into the business opera­ older products has been verified by an independ­ tions with accountability to deliver at all manage­ ent party (see page 31). Systematic sustainability approach ment levels. All aspects of sustainability – finan­ Innovative napkin dispensers, such as Tork Successful sustainability activities require a cial, environmental and social – should be taken Xpressnap Café, help to reduce the consumption methodical approach. At the end of the 1990s, into account in decision making. For example, of tissue, which is positive for the customer and SCA developed its Group-wide Resource Man­ consideration of environmental impact, such as strengthens SCA’s offering. agement System (RMS) – a database that con­ carbon emissions, is included in investment deci­ In packaging operations, there are numerous tains detailed information on resource utilisation sions. examples of design and innovation that result in and environmental data. SCA’s social agenda is The Resource Management System plays a a reduction of board (weight) and improvements built on its Code of Conduct and its core values. key role in the Group’s strategic activities by pro­ related to the volume efficiency of packaging. The Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, level viding the supporting data on which analyses of Savings are also made by designing multifunc­ A+, are applied in the sustainability report. SCA’s use of resources are based. These analy­ tional packaging that meets transport demands ses are used in conjunction with investments and in combination with in-store or on-shelf features. 4 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Strategy | Sustainable strategy At Forest Products, a new business unit was saving projects that have been executed since nies. Long-term sustainability programmes, formed during 2010 called SCA Energy. The unit the start-up of the programme in 2003, co-gen­ including financial, environmental and social will take charge of all operations in renewable eration projects and wind power projects are considerations, strengthen the company’s energy and will also be responsible for developing not only beneficial for the environment – they competitiveness in many ways and are thus new business opportunities in the energy area. also save money. significant to SCA's inclusion in various inves­ • People agenda: SCA’s long term competitive­ tor indices and funds. Holistic approach to build value ness is highly dependent on being perceived • Reduced risk level: SCA’s global expansion The various aspects of SCA’s sustainability initia­ as an attractive employer with the ability to means that the company is faced with new tives combine to make a positive contribution to recruit, retain and develop the right employees challenges and problems. Activities that play business operations. with the right skills. To achieve this, SCA has an important role in this area include human • Strengthened competitiveness: Competitive­ identified four strategic focus areas: talent rights assessments, occupational health and ness is strengthened by being far advanced in management, performance management, safety and business ethics, as well as assess­ terms of sustainability. Research shows that workforce planning and compensation and ments of the company’s environmental perfor­ consumers increasingly choose brands they benefits. SCA’s strong sustainability agenda mance in connection with acquisitions through perceive as “ethical” and “environmentally contributes substantially to the work to attract the RMS system. These activities reduce the friendly”. This has been particularly evident in the top talent needed for the company’s future likelihood of negative outcomes in the environ­ recent years when a number of customers competitiveness. The Group works actively mental and social area – factors that are have stated environmental considerations as with programmes aimed at employee training becoming increasingly significant. the reason they chose SCA as a supplier. Dur­ and development. • Strong brand: SCA’s tradition of applying a ing the recent recession, SCA noted that vol­ • Attract investors: Ethical investors are an strategic approach to sustainability has made umes of several products with an environmen­ increasingly important group in the financial it one of the strongest components of the SCA tal profile remained constant or even expanded market. The proportion of SCA investors with brand and represents a competitive strength in a declining market. sustainability criteria has increased steadily in for several of the Group’s product brands. • Reduced costs: Environmental activities, more recent years. A growing number of “traditional” Sustainability is one of the three supporting efficient production and reduced costs often investors are also becoming more interested in pillars of SCA’s brand platform. go hand-in-hand. Investments in green elec­ certain ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) tricity, the 1,300 small-scale ESAVE energyfactors when preparing valuations of compa­ SCA Sustainability Report 2010 5 Sustainable strategy | Targets Target 1. Carbon dioxide from fossil fuels shall be reduced by 20% SCA has worked proactively for some time to reduce emissions from fossil fuels. The Group adopted its first carbon dioxide target in 2001. In 2008, SCA introduced a new quantified carbon dioxide target that requires the Group to reduce emissions from fossil fuels by 20% by the year 2020. • Construction work on a new co-generation SCA’s carbon dioxide target plant commenced in Aschaffenburg, Germany. SCA will reduce its carbon dioxide emis­ The new plant will reduce carbon dioxide emis­ sions from fossil fuels and from the pur­ sions by 10%. chase of electricity and heat, relative to the • SCA Forest Products consolidated all opera­ production level, by 20% by the year 2020, tions in renewable energy to a new business using 2005 as a reference year. unit, SCA Energy. The unit will develop new business opportunities in the energy area. Driving forces Results in 2010 The climate issue is one of most critical environ­ At year-end 2010, carbon dioxide emissions had mental and social issues facing the world today. declined by 4.2% relative to the production level. Background factors include the following: • According to the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel % 2005 2010 2020 on Climate Change, the earth’s average sea and surface temperatures continue to rise. This 0 increase is attributed to emissions of green­ -5 house gases resulting from human activities. -10 • In 2008, the EU adopted its energy and climate targets for 2020. These included a 20% reduc­ -15 tion in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% cut in -20 energy use and 20% of energy to be derived Target from renewable sources. • In the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, an international Activities in 2010 agreement aimed at reducing global emissions SCA continued its systematic efforts to strengthen of greenhouse gases was reached. The agree­ the Group’s climate work and reduce carbon ment will apply until 2012 and work is ongoing dioxide emissions. to reach a new agreement. • SCA is investing SEK 500m in a new lime kiln at • More efficient production and reduced energy the Östrand pulp mill in Sweden. The invest­ use result in lower costs. ment dramatically reduces Östrand’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels. • SCA’s extensive investments in wind power, made in cooperation with the Norwegian energy company Statkraft, proceeded. • SCA implemented a new target for the compa­ ny’s energy-efficiency program, ESAVE, involv­ ing a corresponding reduction in energy con­ sumption of 7.5% per tonne of product by 2012, using 2005 as the reference year. 6 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Targets | Sustainable strategy Target 2. 100% control of fresh-fibre raw materials SCA is Europe’s largest private owner of forestland and the Group’s own forests have been certified in accordance with the FSC, Forest Stewardship Council, since 1999. SCA also purchases large quantities of fresh-fibre raw materials from external suppliers. SCA’s goal is that no wood fibre used in production derives from controversial sources. Activities in 2010 Driving forces SCA’s target for responsible use of • In 2010, SCA developed a new global supplier • Forests cover about one-third of the earth’s wood raw material standard, which includes pulp suppliers, for land surface. Each year, about seven million SCA will employ methods that ensure that the hygiene operations. hectares of land are deforested, corresponding no wood fibre or fresh fibre-based material • The FSC audit of SCA’s forestry activities to 0.2% of all forested areas. comes from controversial sources*. The was successfully completed. All deviations • Illegal logging and timber from controversial target also includes purchased fibre in the reported in the 2009 audit have been sources* are threats to the world’s forests and form of pulp and containerboard. corrected. to biodiversity. • SCA Tissue Europe has reviewed its pulp • Forests managed in a sustainable manner suppliers, resulting in a 55% reduction in the are vital from a number of perspectives: they number of suppliers between 2007 and 2010. enable efficient production of the forest stand, Results in 2010 • During the year, the Group FSC Chain of create job opportunities and contribute posi­ • All deliveries of pulp to SCA’s facilities comply Custody certified eleven plants in Poland, tively to climate change by absorbing carbon with the Group target. Sweden, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands dioxide. • All of SCA’s wood-consuming units are and New Zealand. reviewed by independent auditors and meet the requirements of the Group target. • SCA Packaging Europe has control of the origin of 85% of the fresh fibre used by the business group. The ambition is to fully comply with the Group target regarding the control and use of fresh-fibre raw materials by 2011. * Controversial sources are defined as: • Illegally logged timber. • Timber from forests with a high conservation value. • Timber from areas where human rights or traditional rights of indigenous people are being violated. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 7 Sustainable strategy | Targets Target 3. Improved water usage 2010 was the final year of SCA’s target for improved water usage: to reduce usage by 15% and reduce organic content in wastewater by 30%. Although SCA achieved its target of reducing the organic content in wastewater by a comfortable margin, it did not entirely reach its target of reduced water usage. Results in 2010 Activities 2005–2010 SCA’s water target By year-end 2010, specific water usage had • New, conventional biological treatment plants • Reduce specific water usage by 15% decreased by 12.0% and organic content of were installed at the liner mill in Munksund, between 2005 and 2010. wastewater (BOD) by 35.4% compared with the Sweden, the tissue mills in Drammen (Norway) • Reduce the specific organic content of reference year 2005. and Stembert (Belgium), and at the newly con­ wastewater, measured as BOD, by 30% Consequently, SCA was close to achieving its structed mill in Sovetsk, Russia, among others. between 2005 and 2010. commitment to reduce water usage by 15% and • New anaerobic treatment plants were installed exceeded its target of reducing organic content in at the tissue facility in Kostheim (Germany), the wastewater by 30%. testliner mill in Lucca (Italy) and at Aschaffen­ burg (Germany). • The ten SCA plants that achieved the greatest % 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 reduction in water usage during the period are Munksund, Kawerau, Pisa, Svetogorsk, 0 Östrand, Box Hill, Stembert, Mannheim, –10 Kostheim and Prudhoe. –20 –30 The way forward –40 SCA’s water target 2005–2010 has reached its –50 conclusion and work is under way to prepare future water initiatives and targets. SCA believes Specific water usage Specific organic content (BOD) in wastewater that access to clean water is one of the most important global environmental issues. 8 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Targets | Sustainable strategy Target 4. Universal Code of Conduct Over the past two decades, SCA has grown into a global company with about 45,000 employees worldwide. This places stricter demands on the company’s social and environmental responsibility. SCA’s Code of Conduct applies to all employees at all ­locations ­worldwide. Driving forces SCA’s target for Code of Conduct Demands from stakeholders will increase for compliance production to take place under responsible The Code of Conduct is an integral ele­ conditions: ment of daily operations. • The Global Compact, a United Nations initia­ tive launched in 2000, established that compa­ nies must work to promote human rights and fundamental working conditions, and must Results and activities in 2010 combat corruption and strive for environmental • The process for Code of Conduct assess­ improvement. ments, including human rights compliance, • SCA has expanded significantly during the was updated. An initial assessment in line with past decade and has developed into an inter­ the new guidelines was carried out in Mexico. national Group, with operations in an increas­ • Business Practice Reviews were conducted ing number of countries on all continents. in Italy and Mexico. Accordingly, there is a considerable need to • A new global supplier standard for SCA’s assess SCA’s operations and partners using hygiene operations was developed during regulations and guidelines that describe the the year. company’s expectations. • Guidelines that explain and describe the implica­ • The demands for corporate social responsibil­ tions of the Code of Conduct were developed. ity are increasing. In 2001, discussions began • An education campaign to raise awareness regarding an international standard for social in the Group regarding the importance of infor­ responsibility and, in 2005, work started on the mation management was launched. ISO 26000 standard, which was completed in • A review of the management system for health 2010. The standard comprises guidelines and and safety was carried out. principles for how companies are to meet • A tool to gather and analyse all of SCA’s com­ these demands. munity involvement projects was developed, aiming at increasing transparency and return on investment. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 9 Sustainable strategy | Governance Sustainable governance The main purpose of all governance at SCA is to guarantee the Group’s commitments to all of its stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, lenders, the community and employees; commitments that are expressed in the company’s business objectives and strategies. Governance of sustainability work Committee. These committees draft proposals Environmental governance SCA’s Corporate Senior Management Team bears for policies and principles for governing the sus­ Water management network: The network the overall responsibility for the control of SCA’s tainability work, in addition to objectives and ­analyses the impact of the EU’s Water Framework business in the environmental and social area. action programmes at Group level. They also Directive on SCA’s operations. It also establishes In 2010, SCA established a new corporate coordinate and follow up the Group’s initiatives the Group’s future aspiration level for reductions staff unit in charge of sustainability, led by the and objectives in the environmental and social in emissions and water usage. Senior Vice President Sustainability, who reports area. The committees include members of all to the CEO and is a member of the Corporate business groups and representatives of Corpo­ FSC network: The network’s responsibility is to Senior M ­ anagement Team. The SVP Sustainabil­ rate Sustainability, Human Resources, Environ­ disseminate information on the subject through­ ity is also responsible for developing SCA’s sus­ ment, Communications and Public Affairs. out the organisation, and to coordinate the tainability strategy and programmes. Responsibility for implementation rests with Group’s position and activities in relation to FSC. In close collaboration with the Business Group the operational organisation. A number of Presidents, the approved strategy and objectives environ­mental networks and corporate social RMS network: Responsible for compiling infor­ are broken down into specific targets and activi­ responsibility task forces work horizontally across mation and making calculations and presenta­ ties to ensure compliance with the Group’s objec­ SCA’s different business groups to guarantee a tions relating to the use of resources and environ­ tives and business plans. consistent approach. Responsibility for the man­ mental data. The SVP Sustainability chairs the Environ­ agement of specific issues rests within the rele­ mental Committee and the Social Responsibility vant business group. Corporate Governance at SCA Nomination Annual General External Auditors ­Committee Meeting Remuneration Chairman of the Board Audit Committee ­Committee Board of Directors Internal audit President and CEO Executive Vice President Corporate Staffs Business Group ­Presidents SCA SCA SCA SCA SCA SCA Personal Tissue Americas Asia Packaging Forest GHC* Care Europe Pacific Europe Products Europe * Global Hygiene Category's (GHC ) task is to manage innovation, brand strategies and technology development for the Group’s hygiene operations. 10 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Governance | Sustainable strategy Other Group-wide networks with a distinct con­ forces ­propose issues of focus for SCA within Risk and risk management nection to SCA’s environmental work include: each of their respective areas, and are responsi­ SCA is exposed to a number of risks with the ble for the implementation of these. potential to exert a greater or lesser material ESAVE network: Coordinates the Group’s In addition to the above task forces, SCA has impact on the Group. The responsibility for longapproximately 1,300 projects that aim to reduce a group responsible for GRI reporting. term and overall management of strategic risks SCA’s energy consumption and environmental follows the company’s delegation scheme, from impact. Controlling and monitoring the Board to the President, and from the Presi­ In addition to the company’s auditors, the com­ dent to the Business Group Presidents. Energy network: Based on the Group’s strength, pany’s operations are subject to external reviews A description of the most significant risks that size and extensive energy consumption, the net­ and monitoring by, among others, the Swedish impact SCA’s ability to achieve established tar­ work focuses on identifying cost-efficient solu­ Financial Supervisory Authority and the Nasdaq gets is presented on pages 44–49 in the Annual tions and synergies in connection with energy OMX Stockholm. Report 2010, together with an account of how sourcing. Emissions ­trading is another important SCA’s own control systems include segrega­ these risks are managed. area. tion of duties in critical processes and defined management responsibilities with regard to inter­ Corporate Governance Report Governance of social responsibility nal control. There is also a separate Internal Audit The complete Corporate Governance Report is In 2009, SCA introduced a new organisation for function at SCA that works to continuously evalu­ available on SCA’s website www.sca.com and in governing its social agenda. Work related to ate and improve the effectiveness of SCA’s the 2010 Annual Report. social responsibility is based on SCA’s Code of ­governance processes, risk management and Conduct and is supervised by a steering group, internal control. SCA’s Internal Audit organisation which has been chaired by the SVP Sustainability contributes to the maintenance of high standards since 2010 and comprises representatives from of business practice and is involved in the moni­ the Human Resources’ management team. Activ­ toring of Code of Conduct compliance through ities are conducted by a number of task forces such activities as Business Practice Reviews (see consisting of representatives from all business page 42). As support in its work, the Internal Audit groups. These are divided up into the areas of unit has a number of steering documents and poli­ Health and Safety, Employee relations, Business cies. For example, competition legislation guide­ ethics, Human rights, Community relations, and lines are updated every third year and, in 2011, Communication and Data Privacy. The task anti-corruption guidelines will be ­developed. SCA’s sustainability governance CEO and Board of Directors SVP Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Committee Steering Committee CSR Reference Group SCA Group Networks SCA Group Networks SCA Sustainability Report 2010 11 Sustainable strategy | Ethics and core values Ethics and core values SCA’s undertakings A living Code of Conduct and rebuild awareness of its principles. During In many countries, SCA’s products are a natural 2010, the Code of Conduct was supplemented are based on the Group’s element of modern prosperity and help make eve­ with guidelines to explain and develop the impli­ ryday life simpler and safer for millions of people. cations of the Code. These guidelines will be common core values: SCA’s aim is to continuously renew and improve applied within the Group during 2011. SCA Respect, Excellence and its range of products and make them available monitors compliance with the Code of Conduct both commercially and geographically to larger through existing financial and HR reporting Responsibility. Based on groups of people. systems and by the introduction of new Key SCA has a long tradition of assuming environ­ Performance Indicators (KPIs) where necessary. these, SCA has developed mental and social accountability and taking SCA applies systematic methods for ensuring its Code of ­Conduct. responsibility for issues of trust in relation to the that employees understand and support the company’s stakeholders. This is summarised in Group’s core values. Equal care is taken when SCA’s core values of Respect, Excellence and choosing suppliers and other business partners. Responsibility. Tenders and quotes are obtained from several SCA has produced its Code of Conduct based suppliers and, where necessary, compared with on these fundamental values. The Code serves corresponding costs in other countries to ensure as a tool enabling operations to be conducted in that fairness, transparency and good governance accordance with ethical principles, applicable are upheld. legislation and regulations. The Code of Conduct SCA also makes every effort to identify differ­ is an integral part of the way the company does ent types of risks and develop methods for man­ business. aging them in an optimal manner. One example is The Code provides guidelines for SCA and its the strict application of the second level approval employees regarding health and safety, human principle, which means that certain decisions rights, business ethics, employee relations and must be approved by an immediate superior. community involvement. Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is a living document throughout the Group requires continuous efforts to reinforce The SCA Code of Conduct Health and Safety: Applicable national and international legislation Community Relations: SCA contributes both directly and indirectly to the always constitute the minimum requirements for SCA’s activities. In most societies in which it operates. The Group’s products are used by millions cases, SCA’s own policy exceeds the requirements of local legislation. of people on a daily basis and the Group’s organisation employs about 45,000 people. SCA strives to engage actively in the communities where Employee Relations: SCA strives to foster a non-discriminatory comit operates. pany culture in which all employees are treated fairly and without discrimination. Communication and Data Privacy: While ­taking into account the bounds of commercial confidentiality, SCA seeks to ensure open communication Business Practice: SCA seeks to compete fairly when pricing its products and respects the individual’s right to data privacy. and services and rejects all forms of corrupt business practice. Face-to-face and online Code of Conduct training support this commitment together Applicability: The Code of Conduct applies to all SCA employees in all with an e-mail hotline for employees to raise any concerns they may have countries in which the Group operates and is available in 20 languages at regarding violations. www.sca.com Respect for Human Rights: SCA works ­actively to ensure compliance with its human rights policy in all of the company’s businesses. 12 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholder dialogue | Sustainable strategy Are we doing the right things? SCA continuously strives to improve dialogue with its stakeholders. The Group has daily contact with customers, consumers, suppliers, investors, NGOs and official bodies and is receptive to their expectations and views. An open and continuous dialogue helps the Group gain an understanding of stakeholders’ expectations and raises employee commitment, thus improving the long-term conditions for a successful business. This dialogue is primarily conducted in the busi­ and local NGOs. However, dialogue with inves­ place at Group level. Many of the issues initiated ness groups, since they have contact with cus­ tors and international NGOs, the EU, etc. takes by stakeholders are addressed in this report. tomers, consumers, suppliers, local authorities Stakeholder group 2010 activities Key areas How do we address the issues (page number) Customers Customer surveys Carbon footprint CO2 target (26) Seminars Ecolabelling Sourcing target (32) Human rights compliance Nordic Ecolabelling on diapers (21) Fibre sourcing Human rights assessments (43) Code of Conduct implementation in joint ventures (42) FSC certification (32) New supplier standard (42) Consumers Consumer surveys Products’ impact on the environment, e.g. LCAs (31) Consumer research carbon footprint, ecolabelling Nordic Ecolabelling on diapers (21) Eco actions (14) Chemical management (39) Product safety (39) Employees Employee surveys Talent management Diversity survey (48) Training Performance management Employee surveys (14) Workforce planning Job portal (47) Compensation and benefits Anticorruption policy training (42) Corruption Code of Conduct training (42) Investors SRI questionnaires ESG integration into business strategy CO2 target (26) One-on-one meetings Energy efficiency ESAVE (29) Telebriefings Risk management Risk analysis (AR 44) Analyst interviews Business Practice Reviews (42) Roadshows Inclusion in sustainability funds and indexes (20) Field visits Lectures (14) Suppliers Supplier audits Raw material sourcing Sourcing target (32) Supplier questionnaires Supplier guidelines and standards (42) Supply chain assurance (42) NGOs Ongoing dialogue Forest management Nature conservation (35) CO2 emissions Dialogue with NGOs, such as WWF and the Swedish Society Energy utilisation for Nature Conservation (16) Water supply Society Participation in industry initiatives and SCA’s dialogue with society Dialogue with Sami communities, municipalities, etc. (26) standardisation bodies Community involvement Membership in organisations (14) Ongoing dialogue Activities to break taboos surrounding incontinence (50) Community involvement Sponsorship (50) SCA Sustainability Report 2010 13 Sustainable strategy | Stakeholder dialogue A selection of SCA’s stakeholder dialogues in 2010 Customers The Swedish Society of Financial Analysts Society Each year, TENA, SCA’s global incontinence arranged a course for financial analysts under the SCA often conducts discussions with affected brand, conducts a customer satisfaction survey. theme “Integrating CSR in traditional company parties on matters that impact the local commu­ The questions concern customer service and valuations.” SCA was invited to lecture on the nity. In 2010, SCA started to use geothermal how customers perceive the offering, and the subject “Integrating ESG (Environment, Social, steam from hot springs to product steam in its tis­ responses are used in the ongoing improvement Governance) in strategy.” sue plant in Kawerau, New Zealand. This was work. preceded by consultations with organisations In 2010, Tork, SCA’s global AFH tissue brand, Employees representing the Maori people, who feel a strong conducted a brand survey for Tork and compet­ All business groups conduct regular employee connection to the land and its natural resources. ing brands in Europe and the US in which cus­ surveys. In 2011, SCA will perform a Group-wide SCA is a member of a large number of associ­ tomers (buyers in end-customer companies) pro­ employee survey. ations that discuss issues linked to the Group’s vided their perspective on recognition and profile. Personal Care products initiated a project in business: SCA currently holds the Presidency of Each year, Tork also conducts a customer sat­ 2009 relating to the SCA culture and how it can EUROPEN (The European Organization for Pack­ isfaction/loyalty survey in one or two regions in be changed to generate higher growth. In early aging and the Environment) and is a representa­ Europe, focusing on how they perceive SCA as a 2010, 1,900 employees (73%) responded to a tive in ECR Europe (Efficient Consumer supplier in relation to the following parameters: web survey, which was supplemented with group Research). Other examples are CEPI (Confedera­ satisfaction, attractiveness and loyalty. In 2010, discussions and in-depth interviews with repre­ tion of European Paper Industries) through one such survey was performed in Sweden. sentatives from marketing, sales, management national associations including the Swedish For­ SCA Forest Products performed a customer and the plants. est Industries Federation, FSC International and survey among its publication paper customers. A full 93% of employees from SCA Skog par­ the Swedish branch of FSC, EDANA (European Questionnaires, which were translated into ten ticipated in an employee survey that is performed Disposables and Nonwovens Association), ETS languages, were sent to 530 recipients. The sur­ every two years. The survey resulted in action (European Tissue Symposium), CITPA (Interna­ vey showed that customers rate SCA higher than plans for the forthcoming two years. tional Confederation of Paper and Board Con­ its competitors in all areas. SCA received high During the year, SCA’s hygiene operations verters in Europe), FEFCO (European Federation marks with regard to complaints handling, swift introduced a new way of communicating with of Corrugated Board Manufacturers), IWA (Inter­ response to questions and environmental profile. employees using information monitors. The sys­ national Water Association), CGF (Consumer tem enables SCA’s values and culture to be com­ Goods Forum) and Eucomed (Medical Technol­ Consumers municated in an attractive format, mixing local ogy), the European branch organisation for incon­ SCA in China conducted a sustainability survey communication with a central message. This tinence products and other medical technology among Chinese consumers. The survey took the makes it also easier to reach employees with no products. SCA is also active through the appro­ form of in-depth interviews with consumers, but access to the Group’s intranet. The screens will priate trade associations in standardisation activi­ also included other stakeholders, such as journal­ be fitted in all European plants and offices and, ties in ISO (International Organization for Stand­ ists, customers and NGOs. Through the survey, when the installation is compete in 2011/2012, it ardization), and CEN (European Committee for SCA gained an understanding of the attitude of will reach 13,000 employees in 15 languages. Standardization). Chinese consumer groups to sustainability and obtained a basis upon which the Group can effec­ NGOs tively communicate the sustainability of its prod­ SCA continuously engages in a dialogue with uct offerings. such NGOs as the WWF and the Swedish Society During the year, SCA’s global incontinence for Nature Conservation (SSNC). For example, brand TENA launched Eco Actions at SCA Forest Products is a member of WWF’s www.TENA.com. Eco Actions is one way of Global Forest and Trade Network (agreement communicating SCA’s environmental work under negotiation) and SCA has entered a part­ and the corresponding concept was launched nership with WWF in Spain. on the websites of Libresse and Libero in 2009. In conjunction with the UN Climate Change Conference in Mexico, COP 16, SCA and 400 Investors other companies signed the The Cancun Com­ In 2010, SCA carried out a roadshow for SRI muniqué on Climate Change, initiated by the Uni­ (Social Responsible Investment) investors in Lon­ versity of Cambridge. As signatories to the Com­ don. SCA also meet with several SRI investors in muniqué, the companies underline their commit­ one-on-one meetings. ment to combating climate change. 14 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholder dialogue | Sustainable strategy Customer comments Stephen Thompstone, Buildbase (to the left) In collaboration with SCA, the national British builders merchants Buildbase, with 150 branches across the UK, has developed an offering to help its customers – small builders to national contrac­ tors – enhance the efficiency of their operations while also making a positive contribution to the environment. For each company that starts to use electronic invoicing, Buildbase will plant ten new trees on SCA’s FSC-certified forestland. “The electronic invoicing scheme has been very successful,” says ­Stephen Thompstone, Manag­ ing Director of Buildbase. As a direct result of participation by Buildbase’s customers in the scheme, SCA Skog planted about 11,000 trees during the summer close to Sundsvall, Sweden, in an area that has been named the Buildbase Lifecycle Forest. “It’s a fantastic start and there are many customers out there who could still join the scheme. Buildbase and its customers are delighted to be doing their bit for the environment in this way. Because green issues are becoming a much greater consideration in our day-to-day business activi­ ties, this is one way that we can make our own small contribution. For Buildbase, it is valuable to have a partner such as SCA with expertise and resources throughout the chain – from the forest to the products we deliver to our customers.” Paul Budge, managing director Bunzl UK and Ireland “SCA is one of our preferred suppliers because the company has a product range that fulfills many of our customer’s requirements. Toilet tissue is perhaps not the most romantic or sexy product that you come across, but it’s pretty essential to most people. Around the product being an essential, com­ moditised product, there’s a sustainability story that can be very attractive to our customers, particu­ larly as toilet tissue is a product that needs to be disposed of, that can fill landfills and that uses a lot of energy and raw materials, such as timber, in the manufacturing process. “There’s quite a sustainability story there, which SCA has helped us a lot with and I actually think it has helped SCA to differentiate itself from its competitors. Its credentials in terms of the environment and its sustainable forest management are unique. “Our own sustainability offering to our customers revolves around two things, our own impact because we deliver products – and that the products we deliver have the smallest possible environ­ mental footprint. SCA is a key partner, they sponsored the launch of our own environmental pro­ gramme and I think that worked very well. ” SCA Sustainability Report 2010 15 Sustainable strategy | Stakeholder dialogue NGO and investor comments Malin Sahlin, Forest Management Officer at the Swedish Society for should be spared. When environmental organisations and SCA have differ­ Nature Conservation ent opinions, this could be the result of varying points of reference. We do Harvest the forest or let it stand? This is often the point of contention when not have as a goal to conserve all species everywhere, but make an overall SCA and the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation clash with one another. assessment. Some fellings may be carried out at the expense of some spe­ The Swedish Society for Nature Conservation often criticises SCA’s har­ cies, but in such a case we perhaps have made the assessment that there is vesting plans and fellings that the environmental organisation believes have a sufficiency of the species in nearby areas or that there are areas nearby not been carried out properly. that are even more in need of protective care. “The Swedish model involving clear felling of natural forests with high “We are interested in what research reveals regarding all the forest that is nature values, scarifying and replanting with trees of the same species and already spared. What benefit does it provide and how do we gain the most age is not sustainable. The consideration taken by leaving tree groups and effect of the nature conservation that is carried out? Quite simply, an evalua­ snags on each logged area can never replace the natural forests that have tion is required of the Swedish model for managing forests.” been felled. We have a lot of trees in Sweden, but the forest is slowly disap­ pearing,” says Malin Sahlin, Forest Management Officer at the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation. “We are not against forestry, but we would like to see forest operations that apply more alternative methods than currently, methods that do not involve clear cutting but where certain trees are felled and the others are left standing. At least 20% of the forest should be fully spared and we must also begin to consider how to recreate forests. We have spoiled so much of the landscape that some species will not be able to survive otherwise. “SCA has made a major effort in recent years, including through employ­ ing nature conservation specialists in each forest management district, which is a positive step. We have a good talking relationship with the com­ pany and feel that it has become more responsive to our viewpoints. It is therefore depressing that we still find scandal fellings and forests designated for felling with very high nature values on SCA’s land.” Hans Djurberg, formerly Chief Forester at SCA’s Norrbotten forest dis­ trict, provides SCA’s view on the issue: “We view nature conservation from a Hans Djurberg, Lars Sundberg and Olle Lindqvist from SCA discuss a forest area outside landscape perspective. This is carried out by preparing so-called ecological Arjeplog, Sweden, with Malin Sahlin and Hans Sundström (far back) from the Swedish landscape plans in which we assess what areas can be felled and which Society for Nature Conservation. Carina Lundberg Markow, Head of Responsible Ownership at Folksam SCA is a good example of why Swedish companies are at the forefront of sustainability. By working for a long time in a structured and target-oriented manner with regard to the environment and social responsibility, SCA has consolidated its position as a model company. SCA’s clear targets for reducing carbon dioxide, certification of forest raw materials and water consumption also reflect the Group’s forward-looking approach. It will be very interesting to follow the implications of the distinct sustainability requirements that SCA imposes on its suppliers. SCA is well prepared to address future sustainability-related risks and opportunities since responsi­ bility in the Group is clearly defined at the highest level. 16 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholder dialogue | Sustainable strategy Materiality analysis In 2010, SCA conducted a materiality analysis to The participants were divided into external and was also attached to Product quality and safety investigate the sustainability criteria that the internal stakeholders and their responses were as well as Emissions to air and water in both Group stakeholders deem the most important. weighted and submitted for materiality analysis. surveys. The sustainability criteria included in the study Results in 2010 illustrate that internal and The greatest differences between the two were chosen in accordance with such governing external interests largely coincide. The major surveys were in Occupational health and safety, documents as the Global Reporting Initiative, differences are within Biodiversity and Climate which was considered significantly more impor­ Global Compact and SCA’s Code of Conduct. change, which external interests considered tant in 2010 than in 2008, and Environmental The study was a repeat of the materiality analysis were more important than did internal, as well as performance of products, which was weighted that SCA conducted in 2008 and the purpose was in Management/employee relations and Work­ heavier in 2008 than in 2010. to see if any changes had taken place in the val­ force training and development, which the inter­ The results from this study seem reasonable ues of the stakeholders. nal interests assigned higher priority than the and relevant and have provided SCA with support A total of 940 customers, suppliers, investors, external. in its work to prioritise the content of the sustain­ media, NGOs and SCA employees participated Human rights was the area valued highest by ability report in 2010 and in future sustainability in the study. Respondents were asked to assess both groups in 2010 and this area was also valued initiatives. the importance of various sustainability issues. highest in the 2008 survey. Significant importance Topic 1 Child labour, forced labour or other human rights issues 2 Customer service 3 Product quality and safety 4 Emissions to air and water Very important 1 5 Management/employee relations 3 6 Energy and raw material consumption 5 8 2 7 Use of hazardous chemicals in manufacturing 4 Significance to internal stakeholders 8 Occupational health and safety 9 Diversity and non-discrimination 13 9 12 7 11 6 10 Corruption and bribery 10 14 15 11 Environmental performance of products 16 18 17 12 Waste management 13 Workforce training and development 22 19 14 Economic performance 21 24 15 Transparency 20 26 23 16 Talent attraction and retention 27 Somewhat important 17 Climate change 25 29 28 18 Risk and crisis management 19 Certification – environmental, quality and 31 health & safety 30 20 Transport 32 21 Supply chain management 22 Adherance to competition legislation 23 Biodiversity 24 Community relations 25 Corporate governance 26 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Somewhat important Very important 27 Performance management systems e.g. EMS Significance to external stakeholders 28 Active stakeholder dialogue 29 Investment and procurement practices 30 Membership of international organisations A materiality analysis highlights the issues that stakeholders believe are important. In the analysis, stakeholders e.g. Global Compact were divided up into internal (employees) and external (customers, suppliers, investors, media and NGOs). 31 Public affairs and lobbying One conclusion is that the views of internal and external stakeholders are well matched. 32 Use of GRI indicators / GRI reporting Strategy Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Control and assurance Social responsibility SCA Sustainability Report 2010 17 Economic responsibility Long-term financial value generation Sustainability efforts are of key importance to SCA’s ability to attract customers, employees and investors. From an owner perspective, sustainability initiatives help to increase the value of the company by leveraging opportunities and managing risks from a financial, social and environmental perspective. SCA’s sustainability programmes strengthen the term sustainability initiatives increase the total years, the dividend has increased by an average company’s competitiveness in numerous ways. demand for the SCA share by attracting investors of 4.5% annually. The Board has proposed a divi­ Investments in efficient, eco-friendly technology with sustainability criteria. dend of SEK 4.00 (3.70) for 2010. reduce production costs and the company’s dis­ In 2010, the SCA B share rose 11% to SEK tinct profile in the field of sustainability contrib­ Generating value for shareholders 106.20. This corresponds to a market capitalisa­ utes to long-standing relationships with the SCA generates value for shareholders through tion of SEK 64bn (67). The Nasdaq OMX Stock­ Group’s customers and to building long-term dividends and share price appreciation. Normally, holm index increased 23% during the correspond­ confidence among the Group’s consumers. This about one-third of the operating cash flow, after ing period. distinct profile also enhances the perception of interest expenses and taxes, over a business Over a five-year period, the SCA share gener­ SCA as an attractive employer. Moreover, longcycle is used for dividends. During the past ten ated a higher total yield than its competitors. 18 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Shareholders | Economic responsibility Our economic agenda • L  ong-term competitiveness, delivering growth and profitability. • Create value for our stakeholders. • Deliver sustainable products based on resource-efficient, safe and environmentally compatible operations. • Solid, long-term business relationships. • Contribute to economic development in emerging markets. Largest shareholders Key figures % of votes % of shares 2010 2009 2008 AB Industrivärden 29.33 9.76 SEK EUR2) SEK EUR2) SEK EUR2) Handelsbanken* 13.81 5.22 Net sales, SEKm/EURm 109,142 11,450 110,857 10,466 110,449 11,532 SEB* 5.26 2.37 Operating profit 8,677 911 8,190 773 8,554 893 Skandia 3.68 1.02 Operating profit1) 9,608 1,008 9,648 910 8,554 893 Alecta 2.27 1.99 Operating margin, % 8 7 8 AMF – Insurance and Funds 1.17 2.02 Operating margin, %1) 9 9 8 Nordea 1.10 1.04 Profit before tax, SEKm/EURm 7,561 794 6,546 618 6,237 651 Second Swedish National Profit before tax, SEKm/EURm1) 8,492 891 8,004 755 6,237 651 Pension Fund 0.96 1.66 Profit for the year, SEKm/EURm 5,592 587 4,830 456 5,598 584 Third Swedish National Profit for the year, SEKm/EURm1) 6,281 659 5,906 557 5,598 584 Pension Fund 0.82 0.83 Earnings per share, SEK 7.90 6.78 7.94 Swedbank Robur funds 0.78 1.77 Earnings per share, SEK1) 8.89 8.32 7.94 * Including funds and foundations. Source: Euroclear Cash flow from current operations per share, SEK 10.53 16.36 5.42 Dividend, SEK 4.00 3) 3.70 3.50 Strategic investments incl. acquisitions, SEKm/EURm –2,920 –306 –3,082 –291 –4,873 –509 Equity, SEKm/EURm 67,821 7,538 67,906 6,577 67,252 6,147 Return on equity, % 8 7 8 Return on equity, %1) 8 7 9 Debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.51 0.60 0.70 Average number of employees 45,341 49,531 51,999 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. For 2)  exchange rates, see page 48 in the Annual Report. 3) Proposed dividend. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 19 Economic responsibility | Shareholders At year-end 2010, SCA had 81,772 registered SCA prioritises growth in its hygiene operations. methods, an area in which GRI is becoming shareholders. The largest owners are Indus­ For Personal Care products, the Group has set the foremost standard. trivärden AB, Handelsbanken and SEB. an organic growth target of 5–7%, while the SCA has reported its sustainability work in SCA’s net sales in 2010 amounted to SEK target for Tissue is 3–4% per year. SCA has accordance with GRI guidelines level A+ since 109,142m (110,857). Profit before tax improved established financial targets that specify that 2008. The report is reviewed by PwC. For further 6% to SEK 8,492m (8,004), excluding items the Group shall achieve a return on capital information, refer to the GRI index on pages affecting comparability. employed of 13%. 64–65. In 2010, there was a steady recovery in the global economy, which gradually improved Increased impact of non-financials Increased proportion of SRI investors demand. SCA increased volumes in all business In the past, sustainability reports were mainly of Sustainability assessments have become areas and increased its market shares for the interest to SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) increasingly important to investors in the SCA global brands TENA (incontinence care) and Tork analysts. However, the recent financial crisis has share. Major institutional investors (such as (AFH tissue). Combined with higher prices in Tis­ highlighted the weakness of applying traditional certain pension funds) often add environmental sue and Packaging and cost savings, this offset indicators alone and the necessity to introduce and social parameters to their risk analyses, while negative exchange rate effects and SEK 5.2bn in ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) perform­ a number of sustainability funds have a strategy increased raw material costs. Profitability for the ance indicators in assessments. of only investing in companies that are among the Packaging business improved sharply. Surveys conducted by SAM (Sustainable best from an environmental, social and economic SCA’s prioritised areas are costs and cash Asset Management), among others, show that perspective. The proportion of investors who flow, capital efficiency, innovation and growth. companies that integrate ESG in their business examine SCA from a sustainability perspective SCA’s proximity to customers and consumers, are more successful than other “conventional” amounted to slightly more than 23% at the time knowledge of local and regional market condi­ companies. This has sparked a growing interest of the latest survey (2009). This corresponds to tions combined with global experience, strong among financial analysts in sustainability factors, an increase of 18 percentage points since 2004. brands, efficient production and innovation are even if non-financial parameters, such as the SCA is included in 87 European sustainability crucial competitive factors. Sustainability is also a management’s ability, are also included in tradi­ funds, making it one of the most frequently occur­ prioritised area that constitutes an integral part of tional analyses. In a survey conducted by Ethical ring companies in these funds. operations and the Group’s strategy for growth Corporation, 90% of investors said that environ­ SCA is assessed annually by several ranking and value creation. mental and social factors are important in the val­ institutes. Since 2001, SCA has been listed on the All operations in mature markets, such as uation of a company. FTSE4Good, an index measuring earnings and Western Europe and North America, will continue One reason for the lack of interest among performance among companies that meet globally to strengthen their positions at the same time as traditional analysts in ESG factors is that they are recognised norms for corporate responsibility. SCA will grow in prioritised emerging markets, often not quantified and comparable. This is In 2010, SCA was named the number one such as Eastern Europe, Russia, Latin America, being changed through the development of key Swedish company in terms of carbon dioxide Southeast Asia and the Middle East. performance indicators (KPIs) and reporting reporting in the annual Carbon Disclosure Project Impact of non-financials on company valuation Percentage of SCA shares owned by investors Energy efficiency Income statement with sustainability screening GHG emissions Sales % Emissions to air / soil / water Cost of goods sold Raw materials Gross operating profit 25 Waste SG&A expenses 20 Water usage EBITDA Staff turnover Depreciation & amortisation 15 Training & qualification EBIT 10 Absenteeism rate Interest expense Fatalities & injuries 5 Pretax income Litigation risks 0 Income taxes 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Corruption Net income Source: European Business School Revenues from new products R&D expenses About 23% of SCA shareholders have evaluated SCA Capacity utilisation in terms of its sustainability performance, which is an increase of 18 percentage points since 2004. Derived from work by EFFAS, The European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. 20 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Shareholders | Economic responsibility (CDP) survey. The CDP project acts on behalf of Incontinence among the elderly is a common meet this development in the market. All timber 534 institutional investors – with USD 64 trillion in problem throughout the world. By training nurses delivered to SCA’s paper and pulp plants and assets under management – which use the survey in China, SCA wants to raise awareness of incon­ sawmills is FSC certified or fulfils FSC criteria for as an evaluation tool. tinence issues and thus play a part in building the controlled wood. In 2010, SCA’s deliveries of FSCSCA is also listed on Global Challenges, which Chinese incontinence market. By establishing a certified publication papers increased by 35% and is a global sustainability index developed by the strong market presence at an early stage, SCA deliveries of FSC-certified pulp remained at a level Hanover Stock Exchange, and the research com­ aims to be a leading player in the Chinese market of more than 50% of the total pulp deliveries. pany Oekom Research AG. SCA has achieved for incontinence care products. There has also been a marked increase in pass status in the Orange SeNSe Fund, which is a The launch of TENA in southern China took demand for FSC-certified tissue in recent years. fund of European companies with stringent sus­ place in 2009 and the brand is now available also Up to about ten years ago, FSC-certified tissue tainability criteria. SCA is also included in the in the eastern parts of the country. The launch products were largely unheard of, but today, they OMX GES Nordic Sustainability Index, launched was successful, particularly in the southern parts completely dominate the market in, for example, in 2008 by the Nasdaq OMX Exchange in collabo­ of the country, where the brand has developed the UK. In other words, the ability to deliver certi­ ration with GES, an ethics analysis company. into one of the leading names in such cities as fied products is entirely decisive for SCA’s com­ There was substantial interest in SCA by SRI Guangzhou and Shenzhen. petitiveness. (Socially Responsible Investment) parties in 2010. In 2010, SCA Forest Products consolidated its SCA regularly holds meetings and keeps in con­ Sustainability builds good business operations in renewable energy into a new busi­ tact with this group as part of its investor relations A large European retail customer tested the Tork ness unit, SCA Energy. It will encompass such work. Activities during the year included meetings Interfold system for napkins in ten stores. SCA existing business operations as biofuels and wind in London with SRI investors. guaranteed a 25% reduction in consumption power, and will also be in charge of developing with the new napkin dispensers. Consumption new business opportunities in the energy area. Sustainability programmes build relationships decreased by 80% and the retail chain decided and confidence to switch supplier to SCA. Innovation drives long-term profitability Customers and consumers increasingly demand The Wal-Mart retail chain is the world’s largest A global Group such as SCA must continue to that companies maintain a certain standard in the company. To continue its expansion, Wal-Mart explore new demand, cultivate new markets and sustainability area. However, from this minimum has developed small local stores that are open in attract new customers in the most cost-efficient level, there is considerable potential to develop locations where there is not the population to manner possible. A decisive component in this sustainability and convert it into a competitive support a large store. In Mexico, where local effort is innovation. advantage. SCA’s sustainability work builds on stores are used by nearly half of consumers, SCA has a long history of successful innova­ long-term relationships with several of the Wal-Mart has introduced Bodega Aurrera stores. tions. The company’s innovation activities are Group’s customers and builds confidence in the These offer consumers recognised brands at low pursued in line with a model adapted to match Group’s consumer brands. In certain instances, prices (just like in the superstores), but in smaller the requirements of the four business areas. In this is an entirely decisive factor in a customer’s premises and in smaller packs. Consumers who recent years, the focus has been on honing and selection of SCA as a supplier. shop at these stores often do not have the means streamlining the innovation-related processes. In 2010, SCA launched TENA Eco Actions; to purchase large quantities and SCA has thus a concept to communicate SCA’s environmental created 12-pack versions of its Saba feminine General innovation model initiatives and commitment. Eco Actions was panty liners exclusively for sale in Wal-Mart’s The SCA Group has three basic building blocks previously launched by the Libresse and Libero Bodega Aurrera stores. for innovation programmes: brands. Read more about Eco Actions at Magic Corner, an ingenious shelf-ready pack • Customer and consumer insight TENA.com, Libresse.com and Libero.com. developed by SCA in collaboration with Mars • Technology and offering During the year, all of Libero’s open diapers Western Europe, won the Deutscher Verpackungs­ • Business model were labelled with the Nordic Eco-label and about preis, the top prize at the German 2010 Packaging 90 of Tork’s products received the EU Eco-label. Awards, in the Displays and Promotional Packag­ Experience proves that an innovation becomes ing category. SCA developed the “magic corners” successful only when there is coherence between Long-term market building in China that gave the solution its name. Supporting corner customer and consumer insight, technology/ In China, SCA is pursuing a long-term educa­ posts automatically pop out during the manual offering and business model. This type of model tional project to increase knowledge regarding assembly of the tray. Consequently, the trays are is used in SCA’s most innovative areas of opera­ incontinence among the elderly. The project, easily stackable, and such is the sturdiness of the tions: Personal Care and Tissue. Similar models which is aimed at the Chinese healthcare sector, solution that recycled paper can be used exclu­ are used in Packaging and Forest Products. Inno­ was launched in 2009 and is being conducted at sively throughout the manufacturing process. vations can start anywhere in the Group or in hospitals in 12 Chinese cities, including Guang­ Environmentally certified forest products are cooperation with external partners in a network. zhou, Shanghai and Nanjing. At the end of 2010, in increasing demand by the Group’s customers almost 5,000 nurses had completed the educa­ and, as one of the world’s largest suppliers of tional programme. FSC-certified products, SCA is well positioned to SCA Sustainability Report 2010 21 Economic responsibility | Shareholders Innovation categories One example of this is SCA’s packaging opera­ reduced by 80% when the new lime kiln in com­ Innovation is a multi-faceted, complex configura­ tion, which conducts a comprehensive innovation missioned at the end of 2011. tion of activities that emerge in various forms. and product development programme to develop In 2010, SCA’s started up its newly built tissue SCA categorises its various innovations and their new solutions for its customers. mill in Mexico, which has an annual capacity of potential market impact on the basis of three Product development at SCA Packaging 60,000 tonnes based entirely on recovered fibre. categories: Europe is often conducted at the business The facility was designed to an extremely high • Upgrade group’s 16 Design Centre throughout Europe, environmental standard in terms of, for example, • New generation where the company’s packaging experts tailor water use. • Breakthrough various types of packaging solutions through inti­ mate customer cooperation. Each year, about Economic implications of climate change An upgrade is a modification of an existing offer­ 60,000 small and large development projects are One effect of climate change on SCA is the com­ ing, and is a necessary move in the bid to remain conducted. pany’s participation in the EU’s trading system for competitive and maintain high levels of satisfied In parallel with the customer-oriented devel­ emission rights. The system’s first phase was customers and consumers. Upgrade is the most opment activities, SCA Packaging Europe pur­ completed in 2007 and the second five-year common form of innovation across all companies. sues a long-term innovation programme that aims phase started in 2008. In the first phase, SCA had New generation innovations occur when a to create entirely new packaging concepts. One an annual emission rights surplus of about 10%. completely new offering is launched for an existing such example is new shelf-ready solutions, which The excess in Phase 2 is roughly the same size customer or consumer segment. A good exemple have been launched in recent years. and will generate a surplus of emissions rights of this is Tork Xpressnap, an Away From Home SCA Packaging Europe monitors several fac­ corresponding to approximately 200,000 tonnes tissue dispenser system that combines excellent tors in its innovation and development work: the of carbon dioxide emissions annually. design with functionality and environmental share of total sales that is attributable to products The financial value of an emission right (corre­ improvements. The incontinence care product that are one year old or less; how profitable prod­ sponding to one tonne of carbon dioxide) has TENA Flex is another good example of new gener­ ucts are and how many of the customer-wide remained relatively stable over the year and the ation innovation that features improved functional­ development projects result in orders. average price for 2010 was about EUR 14 per ity for the user, enhanced ergonomics for the care The outcome for 2010 confirms that innova­ tonne. Although SCA did not sell any emission provider and environmental improvements. tion and product development are decisive for the rights externally in 2010, it did carry out swaps of Breakthrough innovations – which emerge rel­ business group’s competitiveness and profitability. different types of emission rights (EUAs swapped atively seldom in most industries – are new New products account for about one-third of for CERs), generating revenue of EUR 0.9m. growth platforms that completely transform an sales and an even larger share of profit. The emission rights system also affects SCA entire industry, new customer or consumer seg­ Forest Product focuses on innovation in order through increased electricity prices. ments or provide an entirely new offering to exist­ to move its business up the value chain and The EU’s efforts to reduce emissions from fos­ ing customer segments. The launch of heavy deliver products and solutions with higher value sil fuels have led to a rise in demand for biofuel. incontinence care products in the 1970s is one and margins. This increases the price of wood raw material and such example. The new products partly replaced In total, SCA invested SEK 713m (738) in may, in the future, increase competition for impor­ catheters – which caused infections of the urinal research and development in 2010, correspond­ tant raw materials needed for SCA’s production canal and other problems for patients – and cre­ ing to 0.7% of total sales. processes. SCA’s own extensive production of ated an entirely new market segment. This inno­ biofuels constitutes a business opportunity and vation forms the platform for TENA’s entire busi­ Investments yield more efficient operations the Group’s forest holding also represents a com­ ness, from which SCA continuously launches new Over the past five years, SCA has made major petitive advantage. innovations, thus creating a position as the global investments that have generated considerable market leader in the incontinence area. TENA improvements in both efficiency and environmen­ Lady is an example of a breakthrough innovation tal performance. When investments are evalu­ in recent years, whereby an entirely new market ated, their economic as wells as environmental segment has been created by focusing on women effects are taken into account. During the 2006– via the retail trade and working to break taboos. 2010 period, investments totalled SEK 42bn. For the Tork brand, there are several examples of In the latter part of 2009, SCA decided to breakthrough innovations, for example, by adding invest SEK 500m in a new lime kiln at the pulp such related products as soap and alcogel to the plant in Östrand. The new kiln will be powered offering. using pellets from SCA BioNorr and will replace To reliably measure the innovation strength two oil-fired kilns. The investment in the new kiln and its financial impact in the four business areas, enables an annual increase in pulp production of SCA began monitoring a number of innovation10,000 tonnes. At the same time, Östrand’s car­ related performance indicators in 2010. bon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels will be 22 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholders | Economic responsibility Creating value for stakeholders Through its business operations, SCA helps to create economic prosperity in society and economic development among its stakeholders – both directly and indirectly. The financial value creation generated by SCA Europe, SCA’s primary market. The largest mar­ SCA’s cost distribution in 2010 allocated by benefits a long line of stakeholders: employees in kets in terms of sales are Germany, the UK and stakeholder the form of wages and other benefits, the state the US. SEKm and municipalities in the form of tax revenues, The Group’s growth in hygiene operations is Suppliers Purchase of goods and services 75,961 suppliers in the form of payments for delivered mainly in emerging markets, such as Asia, Latin Employees Salaries and social security costs 19,951 goods and services, customers and consumers in America and Eastern Europe/Russia. Sales in Shareholders Dividend 2,657 State Taxes 1,255 the form of high-quality products, and sharehold­ these markets rose 8% in local currencies in 2010. Lenders Interest paid 1,116 ers in the form of dividends and share apprecia­ Sales in all of SCA’s emerging markets account for tion. SCA’s involvement in community projects 18% of the company’s total sales, compared with contributes to local economies and the Group’s 7% in 2000. Net sales, SEKm operations in emerging markets help these In line with the Group’s growth strategy, SCA (10 largest countries) 2010 2009 regions to develop economically. acquired a Mexican manufacturer of baby dia­ Germany 15,066 15,661 pers, with the brands Dry Kids for the Mexican UK 9,455 10,015 Customers market and Tessy Babies for consumers in Cen­ US 9,018 9,222 France 8,446 9,045 SCA delivers high-quality products to its custom­ tral America. The acquisition strengthens SCA’s Sweden 8,001 7,051 ers – products that fulfil their needs and expecta­ presence in Latin America and establishes a base Italy 7,597 7,334 tions. Customers consist primarily of large com­ for expanding sales of baby diapers in Mexico Netherlands 5,005 5,526 panies, although consumers constitute the princi­ and Central America. Spain 4,896 5,198 pal end users of SCA products. In 2010, SCA also increased its product port­ Australia 3,241 2,992 Denmark 2,851 3,239 Net sales in 2010 amounted to SEK 109,142m folio in Malaysia through the launch of Libresse (110,857). Of this amount, 75% was generated in feminine care products. Created value by stakeholder 2010 Taxes paid 1% Interest paid to creditors 1% Dividend to shareholders 2% Employee social security costs 4% Remaining in the company 7%* Employee salaries 15% Suppliers 70% * Current expenditures, restructuring costs, strategic investments and acquisitions. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 23 Economic responsibility | Stakeholders Suppliers Employees agement is retained following an acquisition, SCA is a major customer for many of its suppliers, SCA has 45,341 employees to whom it pays since they are deemed to have the best knowl­ and supplier costs represent the single largest wages. As a principle, the Group pays competi­ edge of local conditions. At the same time, SCA is expenditure item for SCA, corresponding to 70% tive remuneration to its employees and this an international company that encourages its of sales. SCA strives to maintain transparent and approach is applied to all markets. SCA follows employees to test employment in other countries. long-term relationships with its suppliers to guar­ local wage structures, assuming that these terms Diversity and a variety of experience contribute to antee high quality as well as financial stability for are not below internationally established rules for the dynamics and development of the company. both parties. minimum salaries and reasonable compensation. In 2010, SCA purchased raw materials and In 2010, employee salaries totalled SEK Society services for a total of SEK 75,961m (74,327). SCA 15,654m (16,596), and social security costs By paying taxes in the countries in which it is is a large company and, as such, aims to achieve amounted to SEK 4,297m (4,874). active, SCA contributes to national economies economies of scale, particularly in terms of sourc­ The Group also contributes to pension plans. and to economic prosperity. In 2010, SCA paid ing. Many input goods, such as paper pulp, elec­ SCA has both defined-contribution and definedSEK 1,255m (1,003) in taxes globally. tricity and chemicals, are global commodities and benefit pension plans. The most significant SCA’s operations are currently under expan­ are largely purchased centrally. defined-benefit plans are based on the period of sion in a number of emerging markets. As the However, there are examples of the opposite. employment and employee salaries at, or just economies of these countries grow, so does Forest raw materials are goods that are almost prior to, retirement. The total net cost for pen­ SCA’s opportunity to help improve the general exclusively purchased locally. Nearly 100% of the sions in 2010 amounted to SEK 320m (651). For quality of life for an increasing number of people fresh fibre acquired and used in the Swedish mills further information, see Note 26 in the SCA 2010 with its essential everyday products. and packaging units is purchased from local sup­ Annual Report. There is a strong correlation between use of pliers. The paper mills in Austria and Germany SCA employees should be offered the oppor­ personal care products and GDP per capita. By also mostly use local suppliers. tunity to develop in terms of competence as well adapting the product offering and distribution to Price is often the factor determining where the as financially within the company. The Group low-income earners in these countries, SCA can purchase is made. Provided that environmental invests significant resources in competence establish a strong presence at an early stage in and social requirements are met, the least expen­ development to strengthen employees’ abilities to these markets. sive supplier is chosen. Bulky goods cost more build a career within SCA. The employees under­ to transport and tend to be purchased locally. went an average of 18 (14) hours of training. Salary costs, SEKm This strengthens the local community and pro­ SCA is the dominant employer in certain (10 largest countries) 2010 2009 vides substantial economic contributions to local regions, which places increased responsibility on Germany 2,823 3,133 suppliers and the local economy to which they the Group. For many employees in emerging mar­ Sweden 2,703 2,746 belong. kets, employment at SCA can be an important US 1,460 1,502 SCA trains and supports suppliers – for financial guarantee for them and their families. In France 1,275 1,008 Netherlands 1,024 1,173 example, in hygiene operations in such aspects 2010, SCA employed 12,845 people in Eastern UK 895 1,054 as quality, the environment and Code of Conduct Europe, Asia and Latin America, who received Italy 771 882 – and the forest contractors that work for the wages totalling SEK 1,382m. Austria 668 807 Group. SCA takes a positive view of local manage­ Denmark 498 673 ment in each country. As a rule, the existing man­ Australia 461 411 24 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholders | Economic responsibility SCA simplifies everyday life with personal care products in emerging markets For several years, SCA has worked to make its products more accessible efforts aimed at improving everyday life for women with low incomes. and improve everyday life for low-income earners. This is done, for The project aims to identify success factors to be able to establish a releinstance, by selling packs containing fewer products in small, local stores vant offering to these consumers and, with it, significant and lasting sales. (mom & pop stores) in countries like Mexico, Columbia and Costa Rica. SCA is currently conducting a pilot project in two countries – NicaraIn 2010, Hey Baby diapers were launched in the economy segment and gua and Peru – where the significance of parameters such as quality, price, Drypers diapers in single-packs were launched in Asia. In Russia, a pant functionality, brand, consumer advice, distribution, availability and proddiaper was launched in the economy segment to provide more consumers uct count per package are evaluated. SCA’s ambition is to expand the conaccess to the product and grow the segment. cept to more countries. Globally, there are major opportunities to generate growth by targeting large groups of women in emerging markets that currently use feminine care products to a very limited extent or not at all. SCA has initiated In Latin America and Asia, “mom & pop stores” account for more than half of consumer sales. These are small local service stores with behind-the-counter sales. Because the range in these stores is often very broad and the retail space limited, small product packs are a necessity. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 25 Environmental responsibility Climate and energy SCA pursues a comprehensive programme to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. This includes a major wind power initiative, investments in new production technology and supply chain assurance. Carbon dioxide emissions to be At year-end 2010, carbon dioxide emissions had while SCA will grant the use of land for the wind reduced by 20% declined by 4.2% compared with 2005, which is farms. This substantial investment in wind power SCA will reduce its emissions of carbon dioxide in line with plans. will reduce the Group’s carbon emissions while from fossil fuels and purchased electricity and also securing deliveries of electricity to Ortviken heat, in relation to production level, by 20% Large-scale investment in wind power mill, which is one of SCA’s most energy-intensive before 2020, using 2005 as a reference year. SCA and the Norwegian energy company operations. Statkraft are conducting a major joint investment The six wind farms were subject to environ­ Expanded responsibility in wind power. In 2007, the companies formed a mental assessments in 2010. The environmental The CO2 target means that SCA not only assumes joint venture – Statkraft SCA Vind AB (SSVAB) for assessment included evaluating the wind farms’ responsibility for its own use of fossil fuels, but wind power production in northern Sweden. impact on reindeer husbandry. SSVAB has also for how electricity purchased by the Group Plans include annual generation of 2.4 TWh of engaged in extensive dialogue with the Sami vil­ is generated. wind power electricity from six wind farms. Stat­ lages affected by the projects and has offered kraft will provide funding of about SEK 15bn, compensation for any negative effects that may 26 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Climate and energy | Environmental responsibility Our environmental agenda • R  educe carbon emissions from own use of fossil fuels and from purchased electricity and heat. • Control sources of all fresh fibre-based raw material. • Reduce water usage in areas with water scarcity. • Ensure high quality of wastewater. SCA’s activities for a better climate SCA contributes in many ways to reducing the total volume of carbon Increased share of renewable electrical power: SCA strives to increase the dioxide emissions from fossil fuels: share of renewable energy by, for example, investing heavily in wind power and by using the residual products from mills and forestry as fuel. Forestry: Growth in SCA’s forests exceeds the harvesting rate by more than 20%, meaning that a net amount of about 2.6 million tonnes of carMore efficient energy consumption: SCA works continuously to enhance bon dioxide is absorbed annually. the efficiency of its energy consumption. This takes the form of small-scale projects (ESAVE) and major energy investments. Biofuel: SCA is a major supplier of biofuels to Swedish municipalities, companies and households. In 2010, deliveries of forest-based biofuels Better products: Hygiene products are steadily improving from a user perwere 3.5 TWh. spective. Better products and the use of less material lead to lower conReduced use of fossil fuels: For the past number of years, SCA has been sumption and less waste and transport, and thus a smaller environmental pursuing a long-term programme to reduce the Group’s use of fossil fuels. footprint. Examples of this include the ultra-thin incontinence care prodToday, the Group’s use of biofuels accounts for 43% (43) of the Group’s ucts launched by SCA's TENA brand during the year. entire fuel consumption. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 27 Environmental responsibility | Climate and energy arise. However, the Sami village most affected by Germany, in autumn 2010. Following a thorough new business unit – SCA Energy. The new unit the projects has rejected this offer. evaluation of the environmental footprint, cost contains existing operations in the energy sector, At the end of 2010, the Environmental Court and practicality of potential energy sources, a including wind power, forest-based fuels and fuel approved licences and conditions for SSVAB with decision was taken to make an investment corre­ pellets, and is also responsible for developing regard to the six wind farms. For Björkhöjdensponding to SEK 550m in a new co-generation new business opportunities in the energy area. Björkvattnet, the largest of the wind farms, the plant powered by natural gas. The facility is Increased use of renewable energy could court radically reduced the number of wind tur­ scheduled to go on line in summer 2011. greatly contribute to reducing carbon emissions bines and SSVAB has appealed this decision to The new facility will reduce specific carbon in society and, as Europe’s largest private forest the Environmental Court of Appeal. The affected dioxide emissions by 10%. Energy production is owner, SCA has a substantial energy resource in Sami villages also appealed this license and the expected to reach 373 GWh compared with the its forests. Felling residuals have long been used licences for several of the other wind farms to the current figure of 200 GWh and the company to produce energy. In 2010, SCA supplied 3.5 Environmental Court of Appeal. The parties are expects to sell 200 GWh to the national grid on a TWh of forest-based fuels, of which 0.9 TWh now awaiting a decision on review dispensation in yearly basis. comprised processed fuel pellets and 2.6 TWh the Environmental Court of Appeal. A possible The new co-generation plant is expected to consisted of unprocessed forest-based fuels. reconsideration of the project could involve fur­ have a major positive effect on profitability at the Wind power production has grown in signifi­ ther delays. plant in Aschaffenburg due to improved power cance in recent years and 64 wind turbines are economy and better electricity exchange. currently in operation on SCA land. Consequently, Vision zero at the Östrand pulp mill annual sales of renewable energy now amount to SCA is increasingly using biofuel in its production. Geothermal energy in New Zealand about SEK 800m. One example of this is the Östrand pulp mill, Since August 2010, steam for drying is generated where SCA approved a SEK 500m investment in directly from geothermal steam at SCA’s tissue Research, development and innovations a new lime kiln at the end of 2009. The new kiln plant in Kawerau, New Zealand, thus reducing SCA’s biofuels programme also covers research will be powered with fuel pellets from SCA carbon dioxide emissions by 40%. In the past, and development, innovation and collaboration BioNorr and replace two oil-fired kilns. The the three paper machines were powered by natu­ with other players. One example of this is the investment in the new kiln enables pulp produc­ ral gas. Steam is an important ingredient in the expanding research operations relating to stump tion to be increased by 10,000 tonnes annually, process for manufacturing kitchen rolls, napkins clearing. Stumps have several advantages. The while Östrand’s carbon emissions will be cut by and toilet paper under the brands Tork, Purex, energy content is high and stumps – unlike other 80% when the new lime kiln is put into operation Deeko and Handee. felling residuals – can be stored. Clearing stumps at the end of 2011. also enables more rapid reforestation. New business unit focused on New power plant at the Aschaffenburg mill renewable energy Work on the construction of a new power plant At year-end 2010, SCA Forest Products consoli­ commenced at SCA’s liner mill in Aschaffenburg, dated all of its renewable energy operations in a Electricity consumption 2010 Fuel consumption 2010 From national grids, 73% Natural gas, 51.6% Own production, 27% Biofuel, 43.2% Oil/coal, 4.8% Electric boiler, 0.4% Electricity consumption 2010: 9,191 GWh Fuel consumption 2010: 78,647 TJ fuel The majority of SCA’s electricity, 73%, comes from A total of 51.6% of SCA’s fuel consumption comes from national grids, while 27% derives from electricity pronatural gas and 43.2% from biofuel. Oil and coal account duced in the Group’s co-generation plants. for a mere 4.1% and 0.7%, respectively. 28 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Climate and energy | Environmental responsibility Efficient operations In addition to investments in new technology and new facilities, SCA works in a target-­ oriented and persistent manner on a day-to-day basis to improve production from an energy and climate perspective. Strong development in energy program year. The Group will also measure the direct effect Climate-sound transport mix In recent years, SCA’s ESAVE energy-efficiency of each individual initiative in a more distinct man­ SCA works continuously to reduce carbon emis­ programme has demonstrated positive devel­ ner, for example, in terms of carbon emission sions resulting from the company’s transport opment. Since its launch in 2003, more than reductions. During 2010, 300 projects were imple­ operations, particularly those derived from the 1,300 projects have been carried out. The accu­ mented, resulting in an estimated avoided cost of company’s road haulage, which accounts for mulated saving effects since its initiation in about SEK 130m. about 25% of the total volume transported by the 2003 are estimated at 700 GWh of electricity company. Road haulage is often the only alterna­ and 1,400 GWh of heat on an annual basis. Efficient co-generation power tive for the first stage of transporting the raw In financial terms, this corresponds to approxi­ SCA uses co-generation power at a large number material from the forest to the mill or rail terminal, mately SEK 600m per year. of the Group’s pulp and paper mills. Co-genera­ and for the final journey from port or terminal to During 2010, SCA implemented a new target tion power is electrical power generated in facili­ the customer. Other means of transport mainly for the ESAVE programme. The expanded target ties where, in addition to electricity generation, comprise sea (about 70%) and rail (about 6%), details a total specific energy saving correspond­ heat is also utilised in the form of steam or hot which often have the lowest climate impact. ing to a 7.5%-reduction in energy consumption per water. This method is an efficient way of utilising product unit by 2012, using 2005 as a reference most of the energy content in the fuel. The ETT project (Modular system for timber haulage) is a Swedish project involving a trial of a timber truck that can carry four stacks instead of three, resulting in a reduction in diesel consumption, carbon emissions, road wear and transportation costs. More efficient transport reduces carbon dioxide emissions Transport accounts for a significant share of the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions and thus reduce carbon emissions. SCA and the haulage conemissions. SCA is conducting a long list of projects to enhance the effitractors will offset the remaining emissions through investments in susciency of goods transportation, thereby reducing the environmental tainable energy projects, such as wind farms in Turkey and Taiwan. impact. A number of examples are listed below: • The ETT project (Modular system for timber haulage) is managed by • In the Benelux region, SCA aims to become the first supplier of hygiene Skogforsk and involves a trial of a timber truck that can carry four stacks products to the retail trade to provide carbon-neutral goods transportainstead of three. This enables a 20–25% cut in diesel consumption and tion. The cooperation project Green Care Transport includes a select carbon emissions, while also reducing road wear and transportation costs. group of haulage contractors who work to reduce carbon dioxide emisThe trial of the ETT truck commenced in 2009 and will extend for three sions using targets, an action program and investments in renewable years. Over an 18-month period, the ETT truck transported 80,000 cubic energy projects. metres of timber, requiring 650 fewer truck loads compared with a conFor example, the programme encompasses optimisation of efficient ventional timber truck. This corresponds to a distance of 210,000 kiloengines, aerodynamics and driver training – all to promote lower fuel metres or 5.3 times around the globe. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 29 Environmental responsibility | Climate and energy More expensive shipping region and there is limited scope to transport (2013 and onward), which is expected to involve The UN Maritime Organisation IMO has set new, more goods, the new regulations will probably reduced allocations and thus higher prices. stricter limits for sulphur emissions from sea involve large volumes of goods being transported In 2010, SCA had a surplus of emission rights freight. Fuel used by vessels in international water by truck rather than by sea. due to earlier investments carried out by the com­ contains 3% sulphur or more and contributes sig­ Regardless of well-meaning environmental pany in energy-efficiency measures and improve­ nificantly to global sulphur emissions. In contami­ intentions, this will lead to significantly increased ments in the Group’s fuel mix in relation to the nated and sensitive sea areas, significantly emissions from road transportation and drasti­ ­reference year for allocations. stricter criteria apply. For the Baltic Sea, the North cally increased costs. SCA, together with the Rules and allocation principles to be applied Sea and the English Channel, the former limit was remainder of the industry and the shipping sector to the trading system during Phase 3 are currently 1.5% sulphur in the fuel. In 2010, this figure was in northern Europe, will argue for adjustments to being drafted. To avoid distorting international reduced to 1.0% and will be cut again in 2015 to the IMO restrictions and for the same rules to competition, certain industrial sectors will be allo­ 0.1%. There is a target for the rest of the world to apply to all shipping. cated emission rights free of charge. The aim of reduce sulphur content in the fuel to 3.5% by this measure is to discourage relocation of pro­ 2012, but many countries have rejected this Trading in emission rights duction outside the trading area, known as Car­ restriction. The market for carbon dioxide emission rights bon Leakage. The pulp and paper industry is The Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the English was impacted by the economic situation in 2009, expected to meet the criteria for free allocation. Channel are important sea lanes for SCA. Lowresulting in declining energy requirements and, A system for trading in emissions rights also sulphur fuels (0.1%) can essentially be compared consequently, lower emissions. The demand for exists in New Zealand and, although SCA is not with diesel of the highest environmental class and energy increased somewhat in 2010, albeit from a part of the programme, the company has been will result in a 50–75% increase in fuel costs in low level. Although the market is considered to allocated a number of NZ emission rights by way this region. The competitiveness of industry in have a slight surplus, prices maintained an aver­ of its classification as a company active in an emis­ northern Europe will thus be adversely impacted. age level of EUR 14 per tonne due to the option to sions-intensive trade-exposed (EITE) ­industry. Because rail transport is heavily congested in the transfer emission rights to Phase 3 of the system Inauguration of new SCA tissue plant in Mexico In February 2011, SCA celebrated the formal inauguration of its new tissue plant in Sahagún, north of Mexico City. With the latest technology and machinery, SCA’s new plant corresponds to the highest standards when it comes to environmental concerns, for example with regards to water usage. It will use recycled paper as its key raw material and has been designed with extensive energy conservation practices throughout the facility. The USD 210m investment houses a 60,000 tonne capacity paper machine and tissue converting hall, as well as a recycled fibre plant and distribution centre. Apart from regional SCA management, Mexican President Felipe Calderón attended the opening ceremony, as did the Hidalgo State Governor and the Mayor of Sahagún. “Our new facility is a strategically important investment. The plant, located near key markets in and around Mexico City, will enable SCA to enhance its product quality and expand its offering to consumers,” said The store rooms at SCA’s new facility in Mexico are specially designed to capture dayJaime Costa Lavín, President of SCA Mexico and Central America. light, thus eliminating the need for artificial lighting in the daytime. 30 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Climate and energy | Environmental responsibility Sustainable products SCA’s efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from the Group’s production facilities have reduced the carbon footprint from the Group’s products. To further enhance the environmental performance of products, SCA works actively in areas such as material selection and product development. A life cycle perspective to 3–5%, of which 90% is recycled. Some of the they are even put to good use in the final phase of Since the early 1990s, SCA has pursued a struc­ waste is delivered to a local company and is used their life cycle. tured way of working to develop environmentally to manufacture park benches. sound hygiene products. These environmental Sustainable solutions are innovative, safe Products efforts are based on a life cycle perspective that and environmentally adapted products and ser­ Hygiene products have continuously developed encompasses sourcing, production and develop­ vices. SCA’s innovations are based on insight into from a user perspective, at the same time as their ment, as well as the products that are ultimately the daily needs of consumers and customers. environmental footprint has been reduced. delivered to customers and consumers. The environmental impact of a single product Improved material and improved fit make them Activities are based on four key areas in the is evaluated using life cycle assessments (LCAs). drier and more comfortable. Better products and product life cycle: An LCA is used to evaluate environmental the use of less material lead to lower consump­ Active sourcing requires SCA to actively seek improvements and encompasses the environ­ tion and less waste, and thus a smaller environ­ material of high quality that is safe and environ­ mental impact from the product’s entire life cycle, mental footprint. More compact packaging and mentally sound. Manufacturing of raw materials from manufacturing of material and products, thinner products also result in environmental accounts for the bulk of the environmental impact their use, waste management, and transport improvements, since transportation is reduced. caused by personal care products. Accordingly, between the various stages. For example, the carbon footprint of Libero’s collaboration with suppliers is of the utmost The major value of LCAs is that they help to open diaper was reduced by 45% between 1987 importance and all suppliers must adhere to identify a product’s improvement potential, thus and 2009 and Libresse's thin towel by 29% SCA’s strict standards. Suppliers are reviewed on facilitating the best possible environmental between 1997 and 2009. The environmental a regular basis to assess quality, product safety, choice with respect to supplier selection, product results for European personal care products are environmental performance and social responsi­ development and continuous improvements communicated via Eco Actions on TENA.com, bility through recurring audits. throughout the value chain. Part of the result from Libero.com and Libresse.com. Clean production involves the efficient use of a life cycle assessment is the product’s carbon The chart below shows the carbon footprint of resources and continuous reductions in energy footprint, which is a measurement of emissions to some of SCA’s European personal care products and waste in the Group’s production sites. The air of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases 2008–2009. All results are third-party verified by pulp and paper mills also strives to reduce water throughout all stages in the product life cycle. the Swedish Environmental Research Institute usage. Using life cycle assessments, SCA gains know­ (IVL). The life cycle calculations for the below An example of environmental improvements is ledge of the environmental impact of products products will be updated in 2011. the 83% reduction in waste sent to landfill from over a period of time. Reduction of Carbon footprint, production of personal care products in Europe After-use handling Reducing waste after use Product 2008–2009, % between 2002 and 2010. The corresponding of the product is a vital issue and one in which All TENA products 3 to 17 TENA Flex 17 reduction was 63% in North America. For exam­ product development plays a key role. A good TENA Lady 13 ple, the plant in Gennep, the Netherlands, no example is SCA's open diaper. Since 1987, the Libero open diaper 12 longer sends any waste to landfill and the plant in weight has been reduced by 40%. Due to their Libero Pants 8 Drummondville, Canada, is nearing the target of energy content, hygiene products are also benefi­ Feminine thin towel 14 zero waste. Drummondville’s total waste amounts cial in the incineration process, which means that Feminine panty liners 6 Life cycle assessments are also conducted by the Packaging and Forest Products business areas. In 2010, the Swedish Magazine Publisher Associa­ tion (SMPA) commissioned the research company Innventia to conduct a life cycle assessment that Clean production Sustainable solutions compared the environmental footprint of a maga­ zine (printed on SCA publication paper) with the same content read on the Internet. The study addressed all stages in the life cycle, from the for­ est, and pulp and paper manufacturing to printing and recycling, and compared this to the corre­ sponding impact from the manufacture of a com­ puter, modem/broadband and so forth. The results showed that the footprint was small – and essen­ Active sourcing After use handling tially the same in both cases. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 31 Environmental responsibility | Forest Responsible use of wood SCA uses large volumes of fresh fibres in its production. All fresh fibre-based raw materials must derive from non-controversial sources. SCA therefore regularly subjects its suppliers to inspections. SCA is also a leader in the field of processing and the use of recovered fibre. Target: 100% control of fresh fibre raw An account of how SCA’s various operations SCA deliveries of FSC-certified publication papers ­materials address these issues is presented below. tonnes SCA should employ methods that ensure that no 300,000 wood fibre or fresh fibre-based material comes SCA Forest Products 250,000 from controversial sources*. The target not only SCA Forest Products has three mills for the pro­ 200,000 covers wood fibre from SCA’s own forests, but duction of publication papers, one mill for the pro­ 150,000 also includes purchased fibre, pulp and contain­ duction of pulp and nine sawmills. All of SCA’s for­ 100,000 erboard. est products can be purchased with FSC Chain of 50,000 Target follow-up: All business groups fulfilled Custody (CoC) certification. Demand for FSC-cer­ 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the Group target with the exception of SCA Pack­ tified SCA products has risen sharply in recent aging Europe, which has controlled the origin of years. In 2010, sales of FSC-certified publication Deliveries of FSC-certified paper rose by 35% in 2010. more than 85% of the fresh-fibre based material papers increased by 35% and amounted to more used in production. The business group expects than 250,000 tonnes. to fulfil the Group target for 2011. SCA’s own forestry operations are certified in SCA Tissue Europe accordance with FSC. The independent audit in The fresh fibre and fresh fibre-based pulp used in 2010 was completed successfully and only minor SCA Tissue Europe’s production accounts for deviations were noted. about 60% of the raw material consumption, while recovered fibre represents 40%. In 2009, Extensive control of wood fibre origin the business group introduced a new third-party All of SCA’s timber-consuming industries are FSC assessed system for supplier screening. The sys­ Chain of Custody certified, signifying that all tem includes the use of in-depth supplier ques­ wood used by SCA complies with the stipulations tionnaires, web-based information, external in the FSC’s standard for Controlled Wood. Con­ assessors and on-site audits. Accordingly, the sequently, the entire supply chain is third-party business group satisfies the SCA Group’s target monitored to ensure that no wood derives from in this respect. In 2010, one plant was FSC CoC controversial sources. certified and at present, 19 of the business group’s 24 tissue mills are CoC certified under Verification of external suppliers FSC or PEFC. In addition to wood, SCA purchases large quanti­ In recent years, SCA Tissue Europe has inten­ ties of fresh fibre-based input materials, such as sified its efforts to screen its pulp suppliers, pulp and containerboard. SCA verifies these input including annual audits of selected suppliers. The goods by assessing existing and potential suppli­ starting point for these audits is a review of sup­ ers. These activities include: plier responses to a questionnaire, followed by a • Questionnaires and documentation require­ due diligence procedure and visits to forests from ments. which the supplier sources its wood raw materi­ • Random spot checks on suppliers. als. The audits thus address a number of areas, • Independent audits. including purchasing routines, the origin of the raw material, certifications, the mills’ environmen­ *Controversial sources are defined as: • Illegally logged timber. • Timber from forests with a high conservation value. • Timber from areas where human rights or traditional rights of indigenous people are being violated. 32 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Forest | Environmental responsibility tal performance and technical specifications of Despite the combination of a large number of rial will be allowed to deliver material to SCA the pulp delivered. The audits always include a suppliers and a broad spectrum of various fresh Packaging Europe. The business group will thus presentation of SCA and the requirements that fibre-based containerboards, the business group comply with the SCA Group’s fresh fibre target. SCA’s customers impose. The purpose of this is has control over 85% of the fresh fibre-based to ensure that the suppliers have a solid under­ material used in production. SCA Asia Pacific standing of SCA’s far-reaching requirements. In 2009, a long-term programme was SCA has two facilities for producing tissue prod­ Through this process, SCA has reduced the launched with the aim of achieving full compli­ ucts and three facilities for personal care prod­ number of pulp suppliers from 54 in 2007 to 24 in ance with SCA’s target of controlling the origin of ucts in Australia, New Zealand and Malaysia. 2010 (55% reduction). all fresh fibre in production by year-end 2011. This Fresh fibre-based pulp is purchased from several programme encompasses three areas: FSC countries, including Australia, Chile, Canada and SCA Personal Care Europe Chain of Custody certification of the fresh fibreNew Zealand. All SCA Personal Care Europe’s pulp suppliers based paper mills in Munksund and Obbola, the All suppliers of pulp to the facilities in Australia are screened to assess their responsible use of establishment of a joint business group purchas­ and New Zealand are screened. By 2011 in New wood raw material. The reviews are based on the ing function and an updated supplier standard. Zealand, 30% of all pulp will be FSC certified and, global hygiene supplier standard. SCA’s Group FSC Chain of Custody certification of the mills from 2012, 80% of pulp deliveries will be from target is fulfilled for all absorbent personal care in Munksund and Obbola was successfully com­ FSC-certified suppliers. products. All fluff pulp suppliers are FSC Chain of pleted in 2010. The business group’s four recov­ The Box Hill tissue mill in Australia was suc­ Custody (CoC) certified and SCA’s facilities in ered fibre mills were also FSC CoC certified dur­ cessfully recertified during the year in accordance Olawa, Poland, and Falkenberg, Sweden, were ing the year. with the Australian Forestry Chain of Custody Chain of Custody certified in 2010. The introduction of a joint business group Standard, which is a standard recognised by sourcing function commenced during 2010 with PEFC International. The mill currently uses 80% SCA Packaging Europe full implementation scheduled for 2011, thus ena­ PEFC-certified fibre. On average, SCA Packaging Europe uses about bling the business group to have complete control In New Zealand, the paper mill in Kawerau and 75% recovered fibre and 25% fresh fibre in its of the selection of suppliers, the origin of contain­ the tissue and diaper converting facility in Te products. About half of the fresh fibre-based erboard, documentation and so forth. Rapa were certified in accordance with FSC material comes from suppliers in the SCA Group. Implementation of the new supplier standard Chain of Custody in 2010. The remaining 50% of the fresh fibre-based mate­ will be completed in 2011 and will entail that only The pulp purchased for SCA’s personal care rial comprises containerboard purchased from a suppliers that can document that no fresh fibre unit in Malaysia is controlled in line with the number of external European suppliers. from controversial sources is used in their mate­ Group’s standard for pulp sourcing. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 33 Environmental responsibility | Forest SCA Americas tonnes in 2009. Demand remained favourable in Nearly all the raw material used by the SCA 2010, but the production capacity restricts further ­Americas business group is based on recovered sales increases. During the year, Laakirchen fibre. The limited volumes of fresh fibre-based received an award from the European Rotogra­ pulp that are purchased are screened pursuant to vure Association (ERA) for its production of inno­ SCA’s prevailing standard. vative, eco-friendly paper without compromising on quality. Business group Share of controlled fresh fibre In 2010, SCA consumed approximately 4.2 SCA Forest Products 100% SCA Tissue Europe 100% million tonnes of recovered paper and 5.0 million SCA Personal Care Europe 100% tonnes of wood and sawmill chips in its produc­ SCA Packaging Europe 85% tion operations. The recovered fibres come from SCA Asia Pacific 100% paper recycling in cities throughout the world. In SCA Americas 100% Europe, SCA has its own organisation, SCA Recycling, for the purchase, collection and distri­ SCA leads development in area of bution of recovered fibres. The fibres collected recovered fibre are supplied to the Group’s European packaging SCA is one of the leading companies in the devel­ and tissue mills. SCA’s North American tissue opment of production based on recovered fibre production is based on 100% recovered fibre. and has established new production methods so that recovered fibre can also be used as a raw EU regulation against illegal logging material for high-quality publication paper. One During the autumn, the EU voted in favour of a example of this is SCA’s paper mill in Laakirchen, ban on illegally harvested timber, known as the Austria, which in 2009 launched a high-quality Timber Regulation. SCA has extensive experi­ publication paper containing more than 50% ence of addressing these issues and therefore recovered fibre. The new paper was developed in welcomes the new legislation as it supports the close cooperation with customers and has company’s position on ensuring that no fibre used become so successful that the mill in Laakirchen should originate from controversial sources. increased its annual capacity for recycled pulp production from 145,000 tonnes to 175,000 34 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Forest | Environmental responsibility Responsible forestry SCA is Europe’s largest private forest owner and has high ambitions to pursue profitable and responsible forestry activities while continuing to show consideration for nature. The Group’s forest management is certified in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) standard, which is the strictest international forest management standard. The forest is a unique resource and forestland not utilised for forestry purposes Verification of the Group’s own SCA owns 2.6 million hectares of forest, making it due to poor growth levels or other reasons. In forest management the largest private forest owner in Europe. Timber addition, this land provides vital habitats for a SCA’s forest management is, since 1999, certified from SCA’s own forest accounts for 50% of the large number of species. in accordance with FSC, which requires that SCA Group’s total wood consumption. Wood from must manage its own forests in accordance with other Swedish forests represents 32% of wood Sustainable harvesting levels strict principles. An independent FSC auditor consumption. The remaining volumes are For more than 50 years, SCA has conducted monitors SCA’s compliance with the standard on sourced from forest owners in Central Europe regular forest inventories, which are used as an annual basis. Each year, SCA carries out har­ (13%) and the Baltic States (4%). supporting data for calculating the forest’s longvesting operations at about 5,000 sites and, in About two million hectares are used for active term sustainable yield and planning the compa­ recent years, the Group has worked in a focused forestry. Of this area, SCA’s ecological landscape ny’s long-term forest management. These yield manner to ensure that no deviations occur in its plans exclude more than 5% from felling. In addi­ calculations extend more than 100 years into nature conservation activities. tion, more than 5% of the forest, in the form of the future. The success of this work was confirmed by trees, groups of trees and edge zones, is left The long-term harvesting plan for SCA’s the FSC audit in October 2010. Measures were untouched during felling to preserve the neces­ forests was updated in 2007. The inventories taken to address all of the deviations noted during sary conditions for biodiversity. One example of showed that the company’s current harvesting the audit in 2009 and all of the minor deviations this is the conservation of storm-resistant pines levels are sustainable. Yields can remain at noted in 2010 were due to updates to instructions to create the necessary nesting conditions for today’s levels for two decades, after which a and documentation related to the introduction of large birds of prey, such as golden eagles. The sustainable increase of about 20% is possible. the new Swedish FSC standard during the year. average age of pines containing golden eagles’ The level of growth in SCA’s forests currently As of 2010, SCA Skog has defined criteria for nests is 270 years old. Another example is that exceeds the harvesting rate by more than 20%, damage to soil and water caused in conjunction high stumps are left or recreated to provide longwhich is equal to a net growth of 1%. with harvesting work. Specific environmental tar­ term habitats for insects and birds. gets have been set for these criteria. Reviews The forests excluded from harvesting cost Extensive production of forest plants conducted indicate that these targets have not SCA approximately SEK 200m annually, since SCA engages in extensive production of forest yet been fully achieved and, accordingly, this area the timber that the Group does not harvest on its plants, producing about 100 million plants each will continued to be prioritised in 2011. own land must instead be purchased from other year. Some 35 million of these seedlings are SCA’s forest management activities are also suppliers. planted in SCA’s own forests, while the remaining certified in accordance with the ISO 14001 inter­ Approximately 600,000 hectares of SCA’s land 65 million are sold to other forest owners in Swe­ national environmental standard since 1998. is not actively used. This land comprises bogs den and – to a limited extent – Finland. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 35 Environmental responsibility | Forest Active forestry management counteracts climatic change Due to their capacity for absorbing carbon dioxide, forests have a unique ability to ­counteract climate change. The forest and forest raw materials can also have a positive effect on the climate by replacing raw materials and other materials that have a negative ­carbon footprint, such as concrete and oil. SCA’s forest absorbs 2.6 million tonnes of Biofuel can reduce the consumption of SCA’s emissions and absorption of carbon dioxide carbon dioxide fossil fuels from own forests 2010 Each year, seven million hectares of forest disap­ The primary reason for the increasing amount of M tonnes pear from the earth, corresponding to 0.2% of the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is the use of Emission 3 world’s total forestland. The amount of carbon fossil fuels. When fossil fuels are burned, “new” 2 dioxide that can be absorbed by trees and land carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere, 1 declines accordingly, thus making deforestation which contributes to the greenhouse effect. By 0 one of the strongest contributing factors to cli­ replacing some fossil fuels with biofuels, the –1 mate change. release of new carbon dioxide into the atmos­ –2 Active and responsible forestry management phere can be reduced. –3 Absorption generates major positive climate effects. By maintaining a high level of forest growth, an Stumps as biofuel The net uptake of carbon dioxide in SCA’s forests correincreasing amount of carbon dioxide is absorbed The ongoing trial based on the use of stumps as sponds to the carbon dioxide emissions generated by all of the Group’s production, about 2.6 million tonnes. by the growing trees each year. However, carbon biofuel continued in 2010. During the year, the uptake declines as the age of the stand increases, Swedish Forest Agency drafted guidelines for and the risk of damage to trees with subsequent stump clearing and the political signals are posi­ emissions is also greater, making active forest tive. It is thus SCA’s belief that stumps will com­ management necessary to optimise the climate prise a significant portion of the biofuel produced effect. Because forest products are nearly always by the Group in the future. more “energy efficient” than other materials, a reduction in harvesting leads to increased emis­ Peat harvesting sions in other sectors. SCA has vast peat resources and also conducts Growth in SCA’s forests is 20% higher than limited peat-harvesting operations. Drained peat the volume harvested, which means that a net bogs emit such climate gases as carbon dioxide amount of about 2.6 million tonnes of carbon and methane. Harvesting the peat in these lands dioxide is absorbed annually. This corresponds to and subsequently planting forest prevents contin­ the total amount of carbon emissions from fossil ued emissions, enables the production of a fuel fuel generated by all of the Group’s production that can replace fossil fuels and expands the area facilities. of forest that can bind carbon dioxide. If half of the earth’s forestland were managed in the same manner, the amount of fossil carbon dioxide absorbed in a growing forest would be sufficient to offset the use of fossil fuels. 36 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Water | Environmental responsibility Systematic work for better water usage Water usage is a prioritised issue at SCA. The Group uses large volumes of water in its ­production and continuously works to reduce water usage and restrict emissions to water. Follow up of the water target In 2010, there was a temporary increase in BOD In contrast to climate change, which is global, In 2005, SCA set two targets for its water usage partly due to technical problems in the new bio­ water is a local issue, making it pointless to over the following five-year period. Between 2005 logical treatment plant in Munksund. The problem reduce water use in areas with good access to and 2010, the Group aimed to: will be rectified in 2011. the resource. Initiatives to reduce water usage • reduce water usage by 15% and Largely all parts of SCA carried out activities should focus on facilities in areas with water • reduce the organic content of wastewater and/or investments to achieve the overall Group scarcity. by 30%. water target. The tables show the SCA plants that achieved the greatest reductions during At year-end 2010, the reduction was 12.0 and the target period (2005–2010). The figures cor­ 35.4%, respectively, compared with 2005. This respond to the total and specific (in relation to means that SCA did not fully achieve its target of production level) reduction in water usage and Reduction in water effluent/ktonne production reducing water usage by 15%. Some of SCA’s the organic content of the wasterwater, meas­ Mm3 effluent water/ktonne Site production 2005–2010 efforts to reduce water usage were made in plants ured as BOD. 1 Box Hill –56% in locations in which access to water is limited, 2 Pisa –51% which had resulted in a relatively low usage Water issue remains important 3 Kawerau –50% already in the base year 2005. This contributed SCA’s water targets for the 2005–2010 period 4 Munksund –43% 5 Stembert –40% to the target not being fully achieved. reached their conclusion in 2010 and work is 6 Svetogorsk –38% SCA surpassed its target of reducing the organic under way on the development of future water7 Friesland –34% content in wastewater by 30%. The achievement of related initiatives and targets. SCA believes that 8 Oakenholt –33% the target was mainly due to investments in more access to clean water is one of the most signifi­ 9 Prudhoe –31% efficient wastewater treatment. cant environmental issues. 10 Witzenhausen Packaging –22% Reduction in organic content (BOD) of effluent Reduction in organic content (BOD) of effluent Reduction in water effluent water (absolute numbers) water/kton of production (absolute numbers) Site BOD tonnes 2005–2010 Site tonne BOD/ktonne 2005–2010 Site Mm3 2005–2010 1 Mannheim –973 1 Flagstaff –86% 1 Munksund –6.52 2 Östrand –797 2 Lasso –76% 2 Kawerau –1.68 3 Munksund –682 3 Mannheim –75% 3 Pisa –1.25 4 Flagstaff –51 4 Lucca Packaging –72% 4 Svetogorsk –1.03 5 Lucca Packaging –42 5 Aschaffenburg –71% 5 Östrand –0.69 6 South Glens Falls –39 6 Östrand –66% 6 Box Hill –0.63 7 Lasso –30 7 Prudhoe –65% 7 Stembert –0.41 8 Ortviken –30 8 Barton –60% 8 Mannheim –0.40 9 Stembert –27 9 Stembert –53% 9 Kostheim –0.29 10 Aschaffenburg –21 10 Witzenhausen Packaging –38% 10 Prudhoe –0.23 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 37 Environmental responsibility | Water SCA mostly uses surface water can also be applied to different countries or The paper and pulp industry uses large quantities regions, thus enabling a comparison of water of water in its production. Water volumes are usage. SCA is sceptical of the value of a water mainly used to transport fibre, but are also used footprint at a product level, since access to water for cleaning, cooling and steam production. In varies so dramatically between different parts of 2010, SCA used 231 million cubic metres of fresh the world. What may be considered high con­ water (groundwater, surface water or water from sumption in one location may be regarded as the municipal water network). Effective water entirely negligible in another. Instead, SCA advo­ usage is largely dependent on two aspects: cates – in line with EU legislation in the field – that where the fresh water is drawn from and the qual­ the management of each water district be based ity of the wastewater. on their unique prerequisites. A key consideration with respect to water usage is the matter of surface water versus Political initiatives in large parts of the world groundwater. Surface water is the water found in Access to clean water is influenced by changes in lakes, watersheds, wetlands and coastal areas. the climate and emissions from industries and Ground water is formed when surface water society. To strengthen protection of our water­ seeps down through the soil and is stored. Drink­ courses, new political directives are thus being ing water is largely sourced from groundwater. As developed, for example, within the EU. a rule, the replenishment of groundwater reser­ The EU Water Framework Directive from 2000 voirs is a slow process and water in the reservoirs is under gradual implementation, and the goal is can be thousands of years old. to achieve “good” water status in all member Due to the inadequate availability of surface countries by 2015. The directive states that the water and its continuous deterioration in quality, management of specific water districts, such as dependence on groundwater will further increase lakes or rivers, should be based on their unique in the decades ahead. Considering the slow rate conditions. This concentrates the focus on the of replenishment of groundwater deposits, there prerequisites of each individual watercourse and is a risk that these resources will be depleted in cross-border cooperation. Expenses in the form many parts of the world. of mechanisms to check and control the manage­ SCA mainly uses surface water at its produc­ ment of a water district will be paid directly by tion facilities and only 13% of the Group’s total industry and municipalities. The price of water will water usage originates from groundwater. therefore rise significantly. The EU also recom­ mends that price be used as an incentive to Water footprint reduce water usage and emissions in member Water and water usage are becoming an increas­ states. ingly important part of the discussion surrounding Intensive political work is also underway in the global sustainability. Among other issues, the US, Australia and New Zealand to ensure access possibility of measuring the amount of water that to clean water. SCA is carefully monitoring the is used directly and indirectly to produce a spe­ issue globally and is participating actively in the cific product, such as a kilo of beef or one tonne development of new standards and the imple­ of paper, is being explored. This “water footprint” mentation of national legislation and ordinances by, for example, contributing expertise on how various production and treatment methods affect water usage, product quality and emissions to watercourses. 38 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Chemicals and product safety | Environmental responsibility Safe products and production The use of chemicals and the commitment to product safety are of vital importance to SCA, since the Group’s hygiene products come into direct contact with people’s skin and parts of the Group’s packaging range are used in the food industry. Chemicals This system describes the health and environ­ Since SCA’s product range is highly diversified, SCA works systematically to ensure that it only mental impacts of various chemicals and all other a variety of routines and processes relating to uses chemicals that are effective, hold a high level information that is relevant to ensure safe han­ product safety are in place across the different of safety and have a small environmental foot­ dling and use of chemicals. business groups. As a rule, however, these print. The use of chemicals is an area in which leg­ REACH also includes an ambitious system include safety assessments of raw materials and islation plays a decisive role for development. In overseeing the restriction and permits for use of performance chemicals, quality assurance, 2007, the EU’s new REACH (Registration, Evalua­ particularly hazardous chemicals. These restric­ hygiene standards, information to customers, and tion and Authorisation of Chemicals) legislation tions form the basis for SCA activities to limit processes for dealing with complaints and product became effective. REACH covers issues related ­hazardous chemicals in its operations and prod­ recalls. Procedures related to product safety are to occupational health and safety, product safety ucts in Europe. In addition to these, the Group well established and involve marketing, sourcing, and the environment, and requires producers and also applies other restrictions relevant to the R&D and quality. The organisation that launches users to demonstrate that the chemicals they use respective product category and manufacturing the product in the market is responsible for prod­ are safe. process, for example, for certain chemicals in uct safety. In 2010, registration of the most hazardous food packaging and hygiene products intended chemicals and chemicals manufactured in vol­ for skin contact. umes exceeding 1,000 tonnes was completed. Chemical laws and regulations are now also This work is the responsibility of chemical pro­ being modernised in other parts of the world and ducers, meaning SCA’s suppliers. The next step regulatory systems similar to REACH are being in the comprehensive registration work will also implemented in many countries, for example encompass chemicals manufactured in smaller China. In the US, work is under way to replace the volumes. Toxic Substances Control Act with a new law that In conjunction with the registration of chemi­ will better fulfil current demands by society relat­ cals, all information relating to each individual ing to chemical safety. substance is updated in the form of new and extended Safety Data Sheets (SDSs). All new Product safety information will be examined and implemented in Safe products are of the utmost importance for SCA’s system at a local level. customers and consumers, as well as for SCA. The implementation of REACH requires an The Group works systematically with product effective system for the management of informa­ safety to guarantee that its products meet all the tion related to chemicals and the Group’s webrequirements imposed by applicable legislation, based chemical management system is an impor­ ­customers and voluntary agreements in trade tant tool in SCA’s work in the area of chemicals. associations. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 39 Social responsibility | SCA's Code of Conduct Social responsibility SCA’s Code of Conduct Since the company was founded in 1929, social responsibility has been an integral part of SCA’s development and expansion. Today, this work is based on the Group’s Code of Conduct, which represents the basis for SCA’s approach to issues concerning health and safety, relations with employees, human rights, business practices and community involvement. The SCA Code of Conduct was approved by SCA’s The Code of Conduct states how the company's Group’s standards and internal set of rules and Board of Directors in 2004. The Code is based on operations shall be run and how employees are regulations are used to ensure that the operations SCA’s core values of respect, excellence and expected to behave. Employees receive training are run according to SCA’s objectives. responsibility, as well as such international agree­ in the Code of Conduct on a regular basis and the ments as the UN Universal Declaration of Human Code is also distributed to all new employees. Updated guidelines Rights, ILO Core Conventions and OECD Guide­ The Code has been translated into 20 languages During 2010, SCA developed guidelines for the lines for Multinational Enterprises. The Code pro­ and is available in printed form and on the Group’s application of the Code of Conduct. The purpose vides guidelines in the areas of health and safety, intranet. is to communicate in a clearer and more detailed business practices, human rights (including child At a minimum, SCA must comply with applica­ manner the expectations that SCA has of its and forced labour), relations with employees, com­ ble legislation and regulations in the countries in employees and what employees can expect munity relations, information security, privacy of data which it operates. In cases where local legislation of SCA. and reporting of non-compliance with the Code. does not meet SCA’s level of ambition, the 40 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 SCA's Code of Conduct | Social responsibility Our social agenda • S trong focus on health and safety. • Ensure human rights compliance. • Prevent corruption and bribes. • Assessment of suppliers. • Recruit, retain and develop employees with the right skills. Code of Conduct compliance Health and safety: During 2010, efforts to Business practices: Business Practice Reviews SCA’s Code of Conduct and policies must be strengthen safety focused specifically on acci­ were conducted in Italy and Mexico. (Read more complied within all Group operations and SCA dents caused by slips, trips and falls, while health on page 42.) will monitor compliance through regular controls work focused on anti-smoking measures. SCA and global reporting systems, where key indica­ also conducted a review of management systems Human rights: The process for evaluating human tors (internal and GRI-related) are reported by all for health and safety. (Read more on page 44.) rights was updated with guidelines for local business groups (refer to GRI index on pages audits, self-evaluation protocols and standard­ 64–65). In countries where the risk of corruption is Relation to employees: During the year, it was ised reports. In December 2010, the first evalua­ deemed to be elevated, SCA’s operations will be decided to conduct a Group-wide employee sur­ tion according to the new guidelines was con­ evaluated by the Group’s internal audit function. vey in 2011. Employee surveys are already per­ ducted at SCA’s facility in Mexico. (Read more on formed in the business groups but not at Group page 43.) Driving the social agenda level. The Code of Conduct is well-established in the In collaboration with the European Works organisation and represents the starting point for Council (EWC), work commenced to identify best the development of the social agenda. During practice of how to advance the relationship 2010, SCA continued its work to further between employer and employee. These good strengthen its efforts in social responsibility, examples will be compiled in a database with the focusing on the following areas: aim of disseminating the information. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 41 Social responsibility | SCA's Code of Conduct Community relations: During the year, a GroupBusiness ethics In 2010, SCA’s operations in Italy and Mexico wide tool was introduced to collect and analyse SCA aims to maintain the highest ethical business were reviewed under this method. The reviews all SCA’s community-relations projects. The pur­ practices and to adhere to applicable legislation provided good understanding of compliance with pose is to highlight how social initiatives add to and rules and regulations to consistently build regard to conflicts of interest, global SCA policies the business operations and to gain an overview confidence in the Group’s operations and integ­ and internal control rules, the principle that deci­ of, and coordinate, the activities that are carried rity. The Code of Conduct clearly states that cor­ sions concerning certain HR issues must be out, thus enabling the Group to obtain greater rupt business conduct will not be tolerated. The approved by the decision-maker’s manager, the benefit and effect from the initiatives. (Read more Code of Conduct is made available to all employ­ division of powers and so forth. No observations on pages 50–51.) ees, with face-to-face and online training pro­ were made in connection with reviews of any of vided at regular intervals, and to all new employ­ these operations. Communication and information security ees. To date, about 97% of employees have SCA will also continue to carry out reviews in During 2010, SCA initiated a training campaign received education in or received information countries where it considers that the general risk in the Group to raise awareness of the importance about SCA’s guidelines to combat corruption of unethical conduct is significant. In 2010, SCA of information management and data security. through training in the Code of Conduct. also developed methods for self-assessments Deficiencies in information management in relation Although SCA’s Code of Conduct and efforts throughout the Group. to such aspects as customer-related information, to ensure ethical business practices encompass pricing information and intellectual capital can all parts of the Group’s own operations, the com­ Higher quality in evaluation work negatively impact SCA, both financially and in pany also works actively to ensure that the Code In 2010, ten SCA employees underwent training terms of its reputation. of Conduct influences the entire value chain, in evaluation of social responsibility, organised by An e-learning tool was developed to teach including suppliers and partners. One example is the external evaluation specialist SGS. Partici­ SCA employees the importance of and how to the hygiene operation’s updated supplier stand­ pants came from SCA’s procurement function, manage information. At the end of 2010, 100 of ard that includes the Code of Conduct. Human Resources, Corporate Sustainability and SCA’s most senior managers and personnel at Internal Audit and all received certification. headquarters completed the training course and, Business Practice Reviews In 2011, the sourcing function will commence in 2011, it will be introduced in all business In 2008, SCA developed a new methodology to work to evaluate potentially high-risk suppliers. In groups. assess its operations’ compliance with business the future, Human Resources, Corporate Sustain­ practices, known as Business Practice Reviews. ability and Internal Audit, with support from the Violations of the Code of Conduct These were based on the requirements concern­ legal department, will carry out Code of Conduct During 2010, a total of eight cases of violation of ing business practices outlined in the Code of assessments (including human rights issues) at the Code of Conduct were reported: one case of Conduct, internal control regulations and global SCA’s facilities. Where necessary, evaluations will corruption in the US, two cases of discrimination SCA policies. be performed in cooperation with a third party. and three cases of theft in Europe, and one case SCA has identified countries that account SCA’s current and future suppliers and the of corruption and one case of Internet misuse in for about 20% of the Group’s sales as countries Group’s own plants will, in 2011, be requested to Asia. In all cases, the employment of the staff with an elevated risk of corruption. The Group’s register with the evaluation company Sedex. members involved was terminated. analyses are based on such information as Sedex provides standardised forms for selfSCA views all forms of corruption very seri­ Transparency International’s corruption index. assessments. ously and consistently takes suitable measures To date, about two-thirds of SCA’s operations when such events are uncovered. In one case of in these countries have been reviewed in terms Supply Chain Assurance corruption in 2010, the employee had launched a of how SCA’s units adhere to the Code of Con­ Suppliers play a significant role in SCA’s value competing business on the Internet. The employ­ duct. Further reviews are planned for 2011. chain and it is thus important to ensure that they ment contract of this employee was terminated The reviews are performed by SCA’s internal comply with the Code of Conduct. The Code of and a legal process is ongoing. The second case audit function, which reports directly to SCA’s Conduct contains guidelines for how SCA involved embezzlement and this employee’s con­ Board of Directors, via the Audit Committee. The employees are expected to act in their dealings tract was also terminated. reviews comprise two parts: part one involves with the Group’s suppliers, from selection and One case of discrimination involved sexual interviews with employees in sales, sourcing negotiation to payment. SCA’s status as a major harassment and the offending employee was dis­ and HR departments, as well as with members customer to suppliers throughout the world pre­ missed. The second case of discrimination of corporate management teams. The aim of sents opportunities to influence the social and involved a disagreement between an employee the interviews is to gain insight into the behaviour environmental footprint of its suppliers. SCA’s and manager concerning working hours and the of local SCA units and other companies in the management of it supply chain is also of interest employee felt discriminated against. The parties same market. to many of the Group’s customers. came to an agreement resulting in termination of The second part of the review involves exam­ In 2010, a new global supplier standard was the employment. ining the method used in the local implementation developed for SCA’s hygiene business based on of SCA’s Code of Conduct and how the Code is the earlier supplier standard. The standard is pri­ followed up, in addition to an assessment of the marily aimed at suppliers of raw materials and company’s procurement processes. commercial goods and addresses the issues of 42 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 SCA's Code of Conduct | Social responsibility quality, product safety, environment, chemicals companies adhere to the Code of Conduct. In added relating to how they will be executed, doc­ and the Code of Conduct. All new suppliers are practice, this rule does not involve any difficulties, umented and reported. Furthermore, the assess­ screened before being approved. since SCA’s partners share SCA approach to busi­ ments were supplemented with questionnaires to Compliance with SCA’s values and ethical ness ethics. Issues relating to compliance with the enable self-assessment. principals is a key element of the supplier stand­ Code of Conduct are regularly addressed at Board The selection is based on risk analyses of the ard. SCA imposes strict requirements on socially meetings in these jointly owned companies. human rights status in the countries in which SCA responsible working conditions in its own opera­ has a presence and the analyses are supported tions and expects the same of its suppliers. Human rights by Amnesty International’s list of countries with It is estimated that about 79% of contracts Respect for human rights is inscribed in SCA’s an elevated risk of human rights violations. The with major suppliers include criteria on human Code of Conduct and constitutes an integral part assessments encompass such areas as child rights. No contracts with major suppliers were of the Group’s global operation. SCA does not labour, compulsory labour, health and safety, declined or terminated due to human rights viola­ tolerate any violations of human rights, either working hours and discrimination. tions during 2010. within its own organisation or among the Group’s The first assessment that was performed in suppliers and partners. line with the updated process took place at one of Code of Conduct implementation in jointly Between 2005 and 2007, SCA performed 28 SCA’s facilities in Mexico in December 2010. The owned companies Code of Conduct assessments (including human assessment was conducted by the external audit SCA jointly owns companies with various partners rights) in 26 wholly owned and two jointly owned company SGS. Although no major deficiencies in many countries. All are managed by a local SCA facilities in 12 countries. were identified, a number of minor observations Board comprising representatives of SCA and its In 2010, the earlier assessments were were made concerning inadequate fire safety. partners. Although SCA does not hold the sole reviewed. The procedure for how future assess­ These deficiencies were corrected and the right to make decisions in these companies, it ments will be performed was subsequently fur­ actions verified. A further three to four assess­ does endeavour to ensure that the jointly owned ther developed and updated guidelines were ments are planned for 2011. Effective forest management on fair terms Each year, SCA plants some 35 million seedlings in its own forests and about 12 million plants on behalf of private forest owners. Cleaning activities are conducted on about 24,000 hectares of the company’s own land. The work is performed by about 80 specialised contractors with about 1,000 employees during a hectic snow-free season. SCA’s forest management contractors are Swedish companies, often with strong local links. However, many of their seasonal workers come from other countries. SCA’s definition of cost-effective high-quality forest management includes explicit requirements regarding compliance of contractors with the prevailing standards in the Swedish labour market. To ensure that these are followed, the company has established close cooperation with the Swedish union of forestry, wood and graphical workers (GS). Prior to every forest management season, SCA and GS perform a joint evaluation of the forest contractors covering the following ­requirements: • F-tax card • Company insurances • Membership of the Federation of Swedish Forestry and Agricultural Employers (SLA) or local collective agreement with GS • Payment of Swedish employee tax • Equipment and accommodation of a good standard • Affiliation to occupational health services • Systematic work environment activities • Competency Each year, SCA plants 35 million seedlings in its forests. SCA ensures that working conditions for seasonal workers are in line with the norms in the Swedish labour market. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 43 Social responsibility | Health and safety Health and safety The provision of a work environment in which all employees have the opportunity to generate value in a safe and healthy manner is a fundamental requirement for SCA and necessary if the company is to be perceived as an attractive employer. SCA continuously pursues health and safety dents, achieve compliance with its health and ducted a campaign to raise awareness among activities that aim to reduce the risk of accidents safety goals, improve safety awareness and employees and implemented several specific and reinforce safety awareness, thereby also reduce downtime at SCA sites. measures, including ensuing that all hoses are increasing productivity. Efforts in the area are In 2010, the various management systems rolled up on reels, that oil spills are immediately based on national legislation, international regula­ and standards used in the Group were studied. cleaned up and that leaks are sealed as soon as tions, industry standards and, in particular, SCA’s The result showed that OHSAS 18001 is the pre­ they are discovered. own Health and Safety Policy, which goes beyond dominant standard and most SCA facilities com­ The business group’s sawmills are conducting the stipulations of national legislation in a number ply will all or parts of this standard. In 2011, this a comprehensive investment programme to of countries. The policy applies to all SCA employ­ study will be used to assess the need to establish increase safety around machinery by construct­ ees and sites. 94% of the total workforce is repre­ a Group-wide standard. ing fences and railings to prevent falls and con­ sented in various health and safety committees. tact with dangerous moving parts. New employees must complete a safety Focus on slips, trips and falls and action The second focus area in 2010 consisted of induction programme and training in fire safety against smoking actions against smoking. The aim is to dissemi­ and first aid is organised on an annual basis. In 2010, SCA focused in particular of two Groupnate knowledge on the risks associated with wide areas: slip, trips and falls, and actions smoking and offer support to all employees who Study of the Group’s management system against smoking. wished to quit smoking. SCA utilises the concept of a management sys­ Slips, trips and falls are among the most com­ tem for working with occupational health and mon reasons for employee accidents, causing Efficient information sharing safety issues. Onsite, the management systems about 20% of all accidents in the Group. In 2010, In 2010, SCA launched a web-based information include comprehensive safety awareness train­ all business groups prepared action plans to mini­ sharing system to efficiently disseminate informa­ ing, targets, risk identification, continuous moni­ mise and ultimately eliminate slips, trips and falls tion on accidents and incidents across business toring of performance, and employee representa­ at the Group. The first evaluation of the measures groups. The system includes incident description, tion on joint health and safety committees. will be performed in 2011. preventive actions taken, recommendations to These management systems provide a frame­ For example, SCA Forest Products launched a other SCA sites and contact for further information. work that enables SCA to identify and address long-term programme during the year to reduce health and safety risks, reduce the risk of acci­ slips, trips and falls. Ortviken paper mill con­ 44 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Health and safety | Social responsibility Risk analysis The number of accidents is measured using Lost Implementation of SCA’s Policy on Continuous monitoring of safety performance Time Accidents (LTA), which is the total number of Blood Borne Viruses using key safety indicators is an important part of accidents that causes an employee to miss his or The SCA Group policy on Blood-borne viruses SCA’s commitment to employee health and safety her next regularly scheduled work day/shift. LTA (BBVs) was formulated in 2009. In 2010, SCA and forms the basis of the Group’s risk identifica­ in relation to number of employees or number of Packaging Europe introduced the policy at its tion and continuous improvement. Dangerous hours worked results in the relative indicators facilities. Because the facilities are located in incidents and minor accidents that do not result Incident Rate (IR) and Frequency Rate (FR), several different countries, the application and in absence from work are also tracked and this respectively. The number of Days Lost due to implementation of the policy was adapted to take information forms the basis for decisions on pre­ Accidents (DLA) is a measurement of the impact into account the cultural and legal environment ventive measures. of accidents, while DLA in relation to LTA is an in the respective countries. It included such activ­ indication of the Accident Severity Rate (ASR). ities as training of management at country and Safety performance In 2010, the Group Incident Rate indicated an local levels and trans­lating information material SCA continuously measures and reports on the 7% increase, while the Accident Severity Rate fell into local languages and making it available on following key performance indicators for all oper­ by 14%. the Group intranet. Employees trained in first aid ations, with the aim of reducing the number and On May 25, 2010, a fatal accident occurred in underwent further training to identify and manage severity of accidents in the workplace: the SCA Packaging Buggenhout site in Belgium. risk situations in a safe and correct manner. • Number of Lost Time Accidents (LTA) Detailed investigations have been carried out and • Days Lost due to Accidents (DLA) the investigation by local authorities is still ongo­ Programmes to raise employee awareness • Accident Severity Rate (ASR) ing. Reviews, internal audits and preventive SCA’s business groups regularly implement vari­ • Incidence Rate (IR) actions on the same/similar type of installations in ous programmes to raise employee awareness • Frequency Rate (FR) the Packaging Group have been performed and in relation to various health and safety issues. In • Fatalities appropriate information has been made available addition to the initiatives against smoking and throughout SCA. to prevent slips, trips and falls, several other pro­ grammes were carried out in 2010 to raise aware­ ness of health and safety issues. Incident Rate (IR) Accident Severity Rate (ASR) Safety statistics 2010 Lost Time Accidents 569 2.0 30 Days Lost 13,810 25 Accident Severity Rate 24.3 1.5 20 Incident Rate (incidents/100 employees) 1.5 1.0 15 Frequency Rate (incidents/million hours worked) 8.3 10 Fatalities 1 0.5 5 More safety statistics on page 62. 0.0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 45 Social responsibility | Health and safety In 2010, SCA Tissue Europe continued to intro­ achieve 1,000,000, 750,000 and 500,000 acci­ who are treating the employees in the highest risk duce a system known as BOS (Be Aware Of dent-free hours, respectively. In 2010, the plant in category. Safety) to increase the awareness and correct Kostheim was awarded a gold medal. SCA Americas’ health programme was one of behaviour for safety. The method consists of the reasons that the company received an award five steps: Health activities among employees from the HSBN (Healthy Sustainable Business 1. Define focus areas and topics SCA Americas has conducted an employee Network) during the year. In addition to its health 2. Check the situation health programme since 2008 because good and safety activities, SCA’s was recognised for its 3. Provide immediate feedback health benefits employees and the company. In involvement in the local community, sustainability 4. Document and correct improper conduct 2010, SCA’s health surveys helped to discover initiatives – such as the solar panel and wind 5. Analyse data and develop action plans to raise serious health risks for employees, for example, power project at SCA’s North American tissue safety awareness 50 employees in the US found out that they suffer service center – participation in Earth Day and from diabetes and require treatment. If left energy-saving measures. To highlight successful safety work, a new recog­ untreated, the disease could lead to blindness, nition system was introduced. For a plant to be renal failure, heart trouble, etc. SCA has engaged awarded a gold, silver or bronze medal, it must the services of a number of doctors and nurses Safety excellence in Italy Located just a few kilometres apart in the Italian region of Marche, SCA Packaging Europe has two facilities that have been recognised as being examples of excellence in safety. The two plants cooperate closely, since corrugated board sheets produced by one become the raw material for the other. A total of 85 people work at the two plants. On 31 October 2010, the Serra de’ Conti facility celebrated more than 11 years without a Lost Time Accident, while Agugliano celebrated six years. Both facilities are examples of how safety has become a natural part of everyday activities. Employees are not only concerned about their own personal safety, but also about the safety of their team. These high safety standards have been achieved and maintained thanks to strong teamwork and a focus on employee attitude and conduct. Plant management has enforced and prioritised safety procedures, ensuring a safe working environment for all employees and for external visitors to the plants. Employess receive regular training to ensure that they maintain a high level of safety awareness. In October, SCA Packaging Europe’s employees in Serra de’ Conti in Italy celebrated 11 years without an accident at the facility. 46 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Employee relations | Social responsibility Employee relations SCA’s long-term competitiveness is highly dependent on it being perceived as an attractive employer with the ability to recruit, retain and develop the right employees with the right skills. SCA conducts continuous activities to develop its employees and maintain open and honest communication. SCA focuses on nurturing and developing its Training and development To further strengthen leadership in the Group, employees, maximising their potential by honing At SCA, training and development of employees SCA will launch more tools in 2011 with the aim of employee abilities through training and educa­ is assigned high priority. There are a number of developing the Group’s leaders, including a new tion, respecting individual integrity and human centrally and locally run development pro­ leadership training programme. rights, offering fair pay and advancement oppor­ grammes available for various employee catego­ tunities, and maintaining a safe and healthy work­ ries throughout the organisation, as well as A global performance management place with open and honest communication. opportunities for employees to attend specialised review system In 2010, efforts were aimed at creating rational courses as the need arises. During 2010, SCA implemented a new Groupprocesses and practices to establish uniform HR The Leadership Academy is an example of a wide performance management review system work to further strengthen SCA as a company. global leadership programme that is geared that will serve as a congruent language to define toward mid-level managers who have a number and clarify the conduct that is required at SCA. Employee recruitment of years’ experience. The aim of the programme The establishment of a uniform performance To achieve its operational and strategic goals, is to develop SCA’s leadership, build up expertise review process strengthens the culture of open­ SCA must apply effective methods to recruit at SCA and to provide the participants with a net­ ness and transparency that already characterises competent people and ensure in-house talent is work that crosses business group borders. In the Group. well distributed throughout its businesses. 2009, to further emphasise the latter of these The new performance management review In 2010, SCA continued the development of aims, it was decided that the programme would system has been implemented in all business The Job Portal, which was launched in 2009 on always include participants from several different groups, entailing that all employees shall have at the Group's intranet and www.sca.com. The por­ business groups. Since the Leadership Acade­ least two performance reviews per year. These tal contains all available jobs in SCA and offers my’s inception in 2004, about 350 managers have will now be conducted in accordance with a important benefits: it establishes an open market completed the programme. Group-wide model regardless of where they take for jobs within SCA with equal conditions for all, The average number of training hours for all and include setting clearly-stated targets and encourages diversity in the organisation and pro­ employees in 2010 was 18 (14) hours. expectations, and providing and receiving feed­ vides a greater number of employees with develop­ back so that employees appreciate their contribu­ ment opportunities and the possibility to drive their Leadership management tion to SCA’s business results. In 2010, 68% of own career. The Job Portal also promotes a more SCA has best-in-class ambitions with respect to employees participated in performance reviews. efficient recruitment process. leadership and has developed a global leadership In 2012, the new review system will be supple­ By analysing the data collected via the portal, platform based on the Group’s core values and mented with a computer tool to streamline the it is also easier to evaluate the recruitment work. strategies. It is a common framework that work and further highlight the importance of con­ In this manner, fact-based documentation is gen­ describes what is expected of SCA leaders and is ducting employee development in a uniform man­ erated for continuous improvement of the recruit­ designed to meet short and long-term needs for ner across the Group. ment process. current and future leaders. The platform was A total of 45 countries have joined the portal developed in 2009 and was integrated into daily and 1,086 positions were filled through the job leadership activities in 2010. portal in 2010. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 47 Social responsibility | Employee relations Succession planning To maintain this diversity, one of the Group’s these cases was investigated in accordance with SCA needs a steady supply of employees ready basic requirements is to ensure that all employ­ SCA procedures and local legislation. For further and able to step up and assume greater responsi­ ees are treated fairly and with respect – regard­ information, refer to Violations of the Code of bilities – management positions that encompass less of age, gender, ethnicity, religious belief or Conduct on page 42. expanded authority and scope. To that end, each any other personal characteristic. SCA strives to business group has a succession plan that is achieve a non-discriminatory workplace based Management diversity survey revised on an annual basis. Similarly at Group on respect and trust and takes a serious view of To obtain an accurate overview of the company’s level, a corresponding process encompasses any incidence of discrimination. management content, SCA conducts an annual SCA’s top 300 managers and is led by the CEO. diversity survey of its top managers. In 2010, 42 Incidence of discrimination (41) nationalities were represented among the Diversity strengthens competitive edge Diversity and non-discrimination in the workplace 1,000 most senior executives, of whom 20% (20) SCA comprises approximately 45,000 people in are cornerstones of the SCA Code of Conduct. were women. Among the 300 most senior execu­ 61 countries. About 26% of these are women and SCA has a system in place for reporting and tives, 24 (27) nationalities were represented and approximately 16% hold an academic degree or investigating discrimination incidents and applies 16% (13) of this group were women. similar. In competitive terms, diversity helps SCA procedures to avoid similar incidents in the future. by adding insight into customer requirements and In 2010, a total of two incidents of discrimina­ demands throughout the global marketplace. tion were reported to the SCA Group. Each of SCA’s top management diversity SCA’s top management diversity Employees survey, top 300 managers 2010 survey, top 1,000 managers 2010 Total Number of employees 45,341 Swedish, 34% Swedish, 28% Temporary employees 1,485 German, 13% German, 12% Part-time employees 1,652 British, 11% American, 9% Employees leaving the company 4,269 American, 8% British, 9% Employee turnover 9% Dutch, 7% Dutch, 6% French, 4% French, 5% Australian, 4% Italian, 4% Italian, 3% Australian, 3% Mexican, 3% Mexican, 3% Other, 13% Other, 21% In total 24 nationalities In total 42 nationalities SCA’s top 300 managers by gender 2010 SCA’s top 1,000 managers by gender 2010 Employee age distribution SCA Group 2010 Men, 84% Men, 80% –20 år, 2% Women, 16% Women, 20% 21–30 år, 18% 31–40 år, 28% 41–50 år, 30% 51–60 år, 19% 61– år, 3% 48 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Employee relations | Social responsibility Restructuring and reorganisation part-time pensions, and a premium was paid to ers’ Union (which in this context represents all the In 2010, the heaviest impact of restructuring and those employees who successfully found a new Swedish trade unions) and SCA’s European reorganisation activities was felt in SCA’s Euro­ job before their employment contracts expired. Works Councils. pean operations. SCA is committed to providing In Linselles, France, the closure of a diaper The agreement is based on the Code of Con­ effective support to all employees affected by plant was initiated, affecting 280 employees in duct and expresses SCA’s willingness to promote organisational changes. The first step in the 2010. The plant is one of the main employers in cooperation and social responsibility within its restructuring procedure is early and transparent the region and SCA is taking extensive measures worldwide operations and to act as a responsible information to the affected personnel. SCA also to help employees in their search for new employ­ employer. Areas covered by the agreement are notifies the European Works Council and other ment. This includes assistance from a staffing reviewed bi-annually in a joint meeting between employee representatives in accordance with agency, personal job coaching and financial the signatories. SCA policy, national legislation and collective incentives to those who find work before the end The last review conducted in January 2009 agreements. Employees are informed about the of their termination period. concluded that no violations of the agreement reasons and then regularly about the changes had occurred. The next review will take place in that are proposed and how these will be imple­ Freedom of association and collective March 2011, when the parties will meet to update mented. The average notice period in the SCA bargaining the agreement. At the beginning of 2011, no indi­ Group in connection with organisational changes SCA recognises the right of employees to freely cations had been received that any violations had is 4.8 weeks. associate and all SCA employees are free to join occurred. In connection with structural changes, SCA trade unions. However, the level of trade union seeks to prepare a social plan that addresses the activity and the existence of formal collective bar­ needs of the group and the individual. Typically, gaining arrangements vary from country to coun­ such social programmes contain employment try. On average, about 70% of employees at SCA search assistance combined with financial sup­ sites were covered by collective bargaining port and assistance with further education. They agreements in 2010. may also include severance pay and provisions In many markets, SCA conducts formal that address the search for alternate employ­ employee consultation processes. One of the ment. Services available include individual career largest representative groups is the SCA Euro­ counselling, job searches, workshops and admin­ pean Works Council (EWC), which represents istrative support. It is common that local employ­ about 30,000 SCA employees. Through regular ers are also contacted. SCA also assists new meetings, SCA maintains continuous dialogue employers by providing training to increase SCA with employee representatives. Items on the employees' competence in their new place of agenda include the Group’s development, earn­ work. Early retirement schemes are also offered. ings, health & safety and organisational changes. In 2010, SCA Packaging Europe continued an While formal trade union agreements covered efficiency improvement programme that resulted 57–78% of health and safety topics, such as safe in the closure of two plants in Italy and one plant in working environment and personal protective each of the following countries: the Netherlands, equipment, the figure for the Group as a whole is Denmark and Germany. The closures, combined higher. with other efficiency measures in the business group, resulted in a reduction in the workforce of Global framework agreement 800 employees. To the greatest degree possible, In April 2004, SCA signed a global framework SCA has assisted the affected employees in their agreement with the International Federation of search for a new job within or outside SCA. Over a Chemical, Energy, Mine and General Workers’ six-month period, employees received support to Union (ICEM, representing more than 20 million develop new skills, some employees were offered members worldwide), the Swedish Paper Work­ SCA Sustainability Report 2010 49 Social responsibility | Community involvement Community involvement SCA is involved in a range of issues at international, national and local levels. In issues that have close links with SCA’s business, such as women’s health and the taboos related to incontinence, the Group often has long-term commitments. In many regions where SCA is active, the company is a large – and sometimes the dominant – employer that actively contributes to local development. Social partnerships and sponsorship should add Russian cities, effectively reaching out to 175,000 TENA supports hospitals in Kenya by providing value to the business. To gain a general under­ girls in more than 3,000 schools. them with incontinence care products, and by standing of the Group’s community initiatives, supporting training in incontinence issues and a web-based system was introduced in 2010 to A duty to speak out related healthcare. register all projects and their costs. The new sys­ About 5 to 7% of the world’s adult population suf­ tem makes it possible to identify various patterns fer from incontinence. Despite the extent of the Supporting the fight against cancer and themes in activities and to effectively dis­ problem, few talk about incontinence. As the Each year, SCA participates in a variety of activi­ seminate experience and the lessons learnt world’s largest supplier of incontinence care ties and initiatives to raise awareness of various through the entire Group. It also provides a basis products through the TENA brand, SCA has forms of cancer and help in their early detection. for recommendations regarding the focus of worked for many years to break the taboos that SCA is a major supporter of cancer research projects.­ surround this condition. and cancer organisations in Australasia. Since This work is highly diverse. SCA supports the 2007, SCA has joined forces with Australia’s Can­ Various types of commitment Global Forum on Incontinence, a conference that cer Council to support its annual Daffodil Day In 2010, SCA’s costs for social initiatives amounted attracts participants from across the globe. Read event, donating over AUD 400,000 for the cause to SEK 35m. Although most projects are carried more about this in the fact box on page 51. to date. In addition, SCA has been a sponsor of out in the hygiene area, sports sponsorship 2010 was the first year that TENA sponsored a The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund (OCRF) since accounted for a significant share of costs. festival in Estonia in which more than 4,000 people 2006, and committed AUD 100,000 in 2010 SCA’s commitment takes many different – 60 years of age and older – participated. The towards research into an early detection test for forms. It could, for example, involve direct finan­ programme contained a range of activities, ovarian cancer. cial contributions, product campaigns in which a including lectures, performances and handcraft, In the UK, TENA sponsors the The Prostate certain portion of the sales generated by a prod­ and the day was rounded off with a large dance Cancer Charity to raise awareness of prostate uct is donated, product donations, training or party. The aim of the festival is to generate aware­ cancer and the incontinence problems that arise partnerships with organisations and companies. ness of incontinence issues and break taboos. in conjunction with treatment of the disease. New projects can be launched and pursued in all In France, TENA sponsored the La Parisienne Sponsorship covers a range of activities, including parts of the Group using the guidance of the women’s race to call attention to the problem. donation of a share of sales of TENA products. sponsorship policy that was drafted in 2009. The event took place over three days and 20,000 women participated in the race. In conjunction Importance of good hygiene Educating young women with the run, a press conference was held at which Insight into the importance of good personal SCA’s feminine care products provide the com­ the latest research was presented. The partici­ hygiene for health and well-being remains highly pany with a natural link to the issues of personal pants received free advice from physiotherapists inadequate in many countries. To raise awareness hygiene and women’s health. Consequently, SCA and gynaecologists during the competition days. and the level of knowledge, SCA is pursuing a is involved in a range of efforts to improve the In Russia, TENA sponsored a health programme range of activities. everyday lives of women around the world. on TV to raise awareness and also arranged the In Russia, 1,000 children were taught the cor­ One example of SCA’s far-reaching commit­ “Help her” educational programme through arti­ rect way to wash their hands and to generally ments is the Libresse School in Russia. SCA has cles in Russian women’s magazines, a dedicated take care of their personal hygiene at an SCAsponsored this educational programme for teen­ website and via a social media campaign. sponsored hygiene exhibition titled “The place age girls at their schools since 2006. Specially In Kenya, it is common for girls to get married where even the king had to walk” at the State His­ trained psychologists speak to the young women between the ages of 12 and 14, which often tory Museum on Red Square in Moscow. about physiological and emotional changes dur­ means that they give birth to their first child at an SCA has entered into a three-year partnership ing puberty, and educate them about menstrua­ age when their body is not sufficiently mature to with the NGO Oxfam Novib with the aim of tion and hygiene protection. cope with this stress. It is not uncommon that improving the hygiene situation in Sudan and Launched in Moscow, the Libresse School injuries in connection with childbirth result in the Niger. In south Sudan, SCA is supporting the Programme has since spread to 14 other major girls suffering from urine and faecal incontinence. installation of latrines and handwashing facilities 50 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Community involvement | Social responsibility in schools, and is granting scholarships and sani­ ing the total amount of the donation to just over SCA has endeavoured to ease the situation for tary products to young girls, enabling them to USD 35,000. A further USD 50,000 was donated those affected. attend school. In Niger, SCA supports young by SCA. Donations were made to the Red Cross In the US, SCA Tork donated wiper products women suffering from incontinence due to giving and Direct Relief International. Aside from finan­ for a value of USD 200,000 to disaster relief birth at a very young age. SCA provides annual cial aid, SCA also contributed hygiene products. efforts in the wake of the oil spill in the Mexican sponsorship totalling EUR 250,000 to the project. In summer 2010, Mexico was hit by Hurricane Gulf. The products are usually used in industrial Alex. Among those affected were SCA employ­ environments to absorb large spills and grease, Relief assistance in conjunction with natural ees, who suddenly had no access to basis neces­ and, in the clean-up work, they were used disasters sities, such as water and electricity, in their onboard vessels to sanitise equipment and clean Following the earthquake disaster in Haiti in Jan­ homes. SCA in Mexico organised temporary deck machinery and tools. uary 2010, several initiatives were taken by SCA accommodation for those who required such to provide relief to those affected. Employees of assistance. By providing emergency aid in the SCA Americas donated about USD 17,000, which form of food and clothes, and through financial was matched by SCA Americas, thereby increas­ assistance from employees and the company, Global Forum on Incontinence attracted record number of visitors The third Global Forum on Incontinence attracted a record number of participants from across the globe. Incontinence issues – from many perspectives – were the subject of lively discussions by the 370 participants from 34 countries. The Global Forum on Incontinence (GFI) takes place every second year and the venue in 2010 was Prague, in the Czech Republic. SCA supports the GFI and subjects discussed at the event included preventive measures, care, costs for society and incontinence as a general health problem. “It’s not about saving lives, but about health and, in particular, quality of life. We must draw more attention to the social aspect of incontinence,” said Dr. Stanislav Panova from the Czech Department of Health, who held the opening speech at the conference. Participants agreed that the subject of incontinence should be higher on the agenda in the healthcare sector, schools and in the media, and that ­politicians and legislators should become more involved in the matter in light of global population aging. Read more on www.globalforumonincontinence.com Klaus-Peter Jüneman, Professor of the Department of Urology and Paediatrics at the University in Kiel, Germany; Dawn Harper, General Practitioner based in Gloucestershire, UK; and Diane K Newman, Co-Director of the PENN Center for Continence and Pelvic Health at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, US, participated in the debate at the 2010 Global Forum on Incontinence. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 51 Control and assurance | RMS Control and assurance RMS SCA operates an extensive system of gathering and presenting data for individual production facilities and entire business groups. The Resource Management System (RMS) allows SCA to analyse data describing how the company uses energy, water, transport and raw materials, and to monitor waste and emission levels. The RMS data is used for internal control and monitoring, external benchmarking and as a tool for evaluating acquisitions and major investments. This year’s RMS data includes one new tissue mill. 52 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 RMS | Control and assurance Distribution of water supply Distribution of transport usage Surface water, 84% Ship, 69.5% Ground water, 13% Truck, 24.7% Community water, 3% Rail, 5.8% Distribution of electricity supply Distribution of fuel supply Internal hydro power, 0.2% Biofuel, 43.2 Co-generation, 26.9% Oil, 4.1% Grid supply, 72.9% Electric boiler, 0.4% N-gas+LPG, 51.6% Coal, 0.7% SCA operates an extensive system of gathering Raw materials Distribution of raw materials and presenting data for individual production A typical SCA product is made from various types facilities and entire business groups. The of wood fibre. It also contains small amounts of % Resource Management System (RMS) allows inorganic and fossil organic materials. 100 SCA to analyse data describing how the ­company Renewable raw materials (fresh fibre and uses energy, water, transport and raw materials, re­cycled fibre) account for the largest share of 80 and to monitor waste and emission levels. the material used in an average SCA product. 60 The RMS data is used for internal control and Inorganic materials (kaolin clay and calcium monitoring, external benchmarking and as a carbonate) are used as filler and coating pigment 40 tool for evaluating acquisitions and major invest­ in certain types of paper in order to satisfy cus­ ments. This year’s RMS data includes one new tomer quality requirements. Synthetic materials 20 tissue mill. are used in highly absorbent hygiene products 0 to improve quality and function as well as in pack­ Ti lp Ca re Resources aging with superior protective qualities. Pu be on rs ) al m Pe uff (F l r Ti ss ue d This section describes SCA’s use of raw materi­ SCA is one of Europe’s largest collectors and rru ga te ar d Co erbo sain ape r nt Co ion t p als, water, energy and transport in 2010. users of recycled fibre. The diagram to the right Pu bli ca Fresh wood fibre Inorganic material shows the raw material distribution of SCA’s Recycled fibres Organic fossil products. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 53 Control and assurance | RMS Water Transport and the reduction is distributed among SCA’s SCA’s water supply is presented under the head­ Raw materials are transported to SCA’s produc­ main products. ing Raw Material Supply. The figures stated are tion plants and finished products are delivered to Three chemical compounds are measured totals for surface water, groundwater and munici­ SCA’s customers. SCA uses external suppliers for and reported in relation to air emissions: NOX, pal water systems. SCA’s total water intake is most of its transportation needs. SCA’s use of SO2 and fossil CO2. 231 Mm3. transportation is equivalent to 34.5 billion tonneThe stated CO2 figures may differ somewhat kilometres. Sea freight accounts for the greatest from those reported to local authorities under the Energy portion of SCA’s transport and the remainder con­ EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). This is Energy use includes purchased energy (heating, sists of road and rail. Transportation of SCA’s raw because the countries participating in ETS use electricity and fuel) supplied to production units, materials and products uses the equivalent of different limits and definitions for their calcula­ energy generated from wood, liquor, bark, sludge 12,471 TJ of fuel and electricity. tions, while SCA calculates and presents RMS and waste paper, and electricity generated on data according to a separate set of rules. A global site. A large portion of the energy used by SCA Emissions company such as SCA, with operations on sev­ comes from the incineration of wood residuals The company’s total emissions are determined by eral continents, needs a single set of rules for cal­ and from on-site co-generation of electricity. The fuel consumption, which in turn is determined by culating data to enable uniform reporting and energy data figures stated therefore include both the level of production. Changes in production vol­ monitoring of emission levels. a fuel component and an electricity component. umes over the past few years, measured in tonnes Carbon dioxide emissions from SCA’s fossil Any excess electricity produced at an SCA and cubic metres, are shown in the tables that pre­ fuel consumption corresponded to 2,588 ktonnes facility that is not used internally is supplied to the sent Group emissions in 2008, 2009 and 2010. and purchased electricity to 1,789 ktonnes during national grid. In 2010, SCA delivered 437 GWh of the year. electricity to the national grid. Emissions to air SCA supplies secondary heat derived from Air emissions comprise emissions from all com­ Air emissions from transport ­effluent hot water to district heating systems, bustion units at SCA’s production sites, including A large portion of SCA’s air emissions is gener­ mainly in Sweden. This is a good way of saving fossil fuel and biofuel emissions and emissions ated by transport, rather than the company’s pro­ energy and in 2010, SCA delivered heat to district from purchased thermal energy. When energy duction activities. Transport emissions are not heating systems equivalent to 25,963 m3 of fuel oil. (primarily thermal energy and/or electricity) is included in the tables “Raw materials, energy, and supplied to an external facility, air emissions are emissions” on page 56, but are presented in the reduced in relation to the energy amount delivered diagrams below. Water effluents P, N Emissions from transport, CO2 Air emissions, NOX tonnes ktonnes tonnes 700 1,000 6,000 600 5,000 800 500 4,000 400 600 3,000 300 400 2,000 200 200 1,000 100 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 P N Water effluents COD, BOD and suspended solids Air emissions, SO2 Air emissions, CO2 fossil tonnes tonnes ktonnes 40,000 2,000 3,000 2,500 30,000 1,500 2,000 20,000 1,000 1,500 1,000 10,000 500 500 0 0 0 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 COD BOD Susp solids 54 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental data | Control and assurance Environmental data Emissions to water SCA’s effluent water is divided into cooling water Terminology and process water. Cooling water has simply been heated and is not contaminated in any way. The notes below define the terminology used in the Discharges The total volume of discharged process water is Group’s environ­mental data tables in the context of SCA. NOX as NO2 the nitrogen oxides NO and NO2, calcuProduction is the sum of all main products delivered from 122 Mm3. This water is treated using methods lated as NO2 derived from combustion. Where NOX is not each site. SCA off-site integration is not included. similar to those employed at municipal wastewa­ measured, a standard value of 100 mg/MJ fuel is used. ter treatment facilities. The figures for 2010 refer SO2 total sulphur calculated as SO2 from processes and Raw Material Supply combustion at the site. Where SO2 is not measured, the to process water emissions. Wood/sawmill chips the sum of wood delivered to input sulphur in the fuel is calculated. The emissions to water stated in the tables each site. Dust particles in the flue gas created during com­bustion. comprise COD, BOD, suspended solids, AOX, Purchased pulp the sum of pulp supplied to a site. CO2 fossil the carbon dioxide derived from combustion P and N. Methods of measuring differ in some Inorganic material covers inorganic fillers and coating of fossil fuels. It is calculated from the carbon content of respects. All SCA production of bleached chemi­ each fuel. materials supplied to a site calculated at 100% dry subcal pulp employs Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) pro­ stances (ds). CO2 biogenic the carbon dioxide derived from combuscesses. The stated AOX data refers to treatment Organic fossil material covers crude-oil-based materition of biofuel. It is calculated from the carbon content of incoming raw water. als, such as super-absorbents and adhesives calculated of wood. at 100% dry substances. COD the chemical oxygen demand substance measSolid waste Water represents the sum of surface water, ground ured in the effluent water leaving the site. The solid waste reported by SCA is waste that is water and tap water for processes and cooling pur­poses. BOD the biochemical oxygen demand substance measWhere input water is not measured, it has been calcuured over seven days in Swedish mills and five days in sent to landfill, recycled waste and hazardous lated as equalling the effluent water. the rest of Europe, in accordance with national legislative waste. Recycled waste refers to materials that systems. can be used as raw materials in other industries, Energy Suspended solids particles that are not dissolved in the such as the cement, brick-making and construc­ effluent water. Internal hydropower electricity produced in wholly tion industries. The main types of recycled waste owned local hydro power stations. AOX the amount of chlorine-bound organic substances. are ash, sludge, organic waste and plastics. Co-generation combined production of electricity and P the total of phosphorus in the effluent water. ­Hazardous waste is primarily waste oil as well as thermal energy. Co-generation has a high total efficiency. N the total of nitrogen in the effluent water. organic solvents, batteries and strip lights. Grid supply the electricity supplied from the national grid. Effluent water water discharged to water courses after treatment. Biofuel renewable fuel from wood and process residues. Landfill solid waste material sent to a landfill. Fossil fuel coal, fuel oil and natural gas supplied to the site, exclusive of fuel for transport. Recovery solid waste material recovered in an external process. Distribution of solid waste Electric boiler electricity supplied for thermal heat (production), for boilers and heat pumps, measured at the site Hazardous waste material disposed of by authorised ktonnes and converted into GJ. contractors, as defined by national laws. 1,500 Of which co-gen that part of the total fuel supply allo1,200 cated to the electricity produced by the CHP schemes. 900 600 300 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Landfill Recovery Emissions from transport, NOX and SO2 tonnes 15,000 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 NOX SO2 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 55 Control and assurance | Environmental data Raw materials, energy and discharges Forest Products Packaging Tissue Products Personal Care SCA Group Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Production Paper and pulp ktonnes 2,430 2,365 4,014 4,018 2,504 2,462 8,948 8,845 Personal Care products ktonnes 536 525 536 525 Timber and solid-wood products 1,000m3 2,040 1,686 2,040 1,686 1. Raw materials Wood/sawmill chips* ktonnes 3,876 3,550 692 638 408 394 0 0 4,976 4,581 Purchased pulp* ktonnes 106 112 0 0 1,029 1,043 332 329 1,467 1,484 Purchased paper ktonnes 0 0 0 0 46 53 0 0 46 53 Containerboard* ktonnes 0 0 2,084 2,275 0 0 0 0 2,084 2,275 Recovered paper ktonnes 933 908 1,668 1,491 1,645 1,618 0 0 4,245 4,017 Inorganic material ktonnes 362 348 13 10 0 0 0 0 376 358 Organic fossil material ktonnes 13 12 21 22 5 2 247 250 286 286 Water Mm3 93 92 48 45 90 88 1 0 231 226 2. Energy Electricity Internal hydropower GWhe 14 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 17 Co-generation GWhe 1,258 1,260 716 705 502 449 0 0 2,477 2,414 Grid supply GWhe 2,467 2,350 749 721 3,076 3,090 408 403 6,699 6,564 Total GWhe 3,739 3,627 1,465 1,426 3,578 3,539 408 403 9,191 8,996 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 17,122 16,906 12,635 11,662 4,237 4,481 0 0 33,994 33,049 Fossil fuel TJfuel 10,455 10,613 9,902 10,461 23,764 22,529 248 204 44,370 43,808 Electric boiler/hood TJfuel 88 194 25 74 170 170 0 0 283 438 Total TJfuel 27,665 27,714 22,562 22,197 28,171 27,179 248 204 78,647 77,294 of which co-gen. TJfuel 8,942 7,307 3,826 3,796 3,386 2,565 0 0 16,154 13,668 3. Discharges To air NOX as NO2 tonnes 1,425 1,483 1,500 1,574 1,762 1,876 25 20 4,712 4,954 SO2 tonnes 453 450 273 435 855 450 0 0 1,581 1,335 Dust tonnes 185 214 97 123 297 173 0 0 579 509 CO2 fossil ktonnes 626 627 587 648 1,360 1,298 14 12 2,588 2,586 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 159 155 171 168 1,311 1,281 147 141 1,789 1,744 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 1,749 1,679 1,303 1,206 525 562 0 0 3,577 3,447 To water COD tonnes 11,634 10,422 11,162 8,600 8,224 8,696 0 0 31,020 27,718 BOD tonnes 717 723 2,737 2,295 1,380 1,278 0 0 4,835 4,295 Suspended solids tonnes 585 371 3,701 2,467 1,171 1,267 0 0 5,458 4,105 AOX tonnes 9 10 6 5 3 4 0 0 19 19 P tonnes 25 24 38 40 21 27 0 0 84 91 N tonnes 229 204 230 205 254 251 0 0 713 660 Effluent water Mm3 39 39 21 24 62 62 0 0 122 124 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 16,092 15,446 14,286 17,445 339,328 391,560 2,283 2,050 371,989 426,501 Recovery tonnes 311,716 367,113 154,892 155,588 642,495 551,366 54,240 56,457 1,163,342 1,130,523 Hazardous tonnes 48,067 28,580 1,039 1,106 869 816 80 22 50,055 30,524 * Partly internal deliveries. In a few cases, the 2009 data differs from the data presented in the 2009 Sustainability Report. This is primarily a result of updated figures for tissue opera­ tions in Europe and South America. 56 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental data | Control and assurance Facts about the plants – Personal Care Total Gennep Hoogezand Gemerskà Hôrka Drummondville Bowling Green Te Rapa Personal Care Mölnlycke Falkenberg Springvale Calia Ecatepec Rionegro Linselles Selangor The Netherlands The Netherlands Slovakia Canada US 15 plants Olawa Sweden Sweden France Poland Malaysia Australia New Zealand Colombia Mexico Colombia 2010 Grades Production ktonnes 4 75 28 89 92 33 28 34 31 54 5 3 21 23 16 536 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Co-generation GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Grid supply GWhe 5 49 23 40 82 26 32 26 25 40 10 2 15 21 13 408 Total GWhe 5 49 23 40 82 26 32 26 25 40 10 2 15 21 13 408 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fossil fuel TJfuel 14 0 39 34 100 19 28 4 8 2 0 0 1 0 1 248 Electric boiler TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total TJfuel 14 0 39 34 100 19 28 4 8 2 0 0 1 0 1 248 of which co-gen. TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Discharges To air NO x as NO2 tonnes 1.4 0 3.9 3.4 10.0 1.9 2.8 0.4 0.8 0.2 0 0 0 0 0 25 SO2 tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Dust tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CO2 fossil ktonnes 0.9 0 2.2 1.9 5.6 1.1 1.6 0.2 0.4 0.1 0 0 0.1 0 0 14 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 0.3 2.3 1.9 15.6 32.3 16.9 7.1 4.8 14.2 25.9 9.6 0.5 2.3 11.6 1.9 147 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0 0 To water COD tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 BOD tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Suspended solids tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AOX tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 P tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 N tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Effluent water Mm3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 194 105 319 371 4 667 N/A 133 360 130 2,283 Recovery tonnes 182 7,030 3,376 6,032 10,515 4,101 7,321 3,406 3,184 1,890 637 250 319 3,532 2,466 54,240 Hazardous tonnes 0 0.2 0 0 0 0 8 8 8 0 0 N/A 53 1 2 80 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 57 Control and assurance | Environmental data Facts about the plants – Tissue Mannheim tissue Mannheim pulp Mannheim Total Friesland Witzenhausen Jönköping Chesterfield Oakenholt Manchester Drammen Prudhoe Stembert Kostheim Neuss Ortmann Germany Edet Germany The Netherlands Orleans Germany Le Theil Sweden Sweden Norway UK UK UK UK Belgium Germany Germany Germany France France Austria 2010 ti,gp, Grades ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti,gp bsi pp,bsi ti ti ti ti,nw ti ti ti ti Production ktonnes 98 14 17 85 26 53 46 69 284 199 309 96 104 28 6 60 25 129 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Co-generation GWhe 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 200 51 251 26 0 0 0 0 0 84 Grid supply GWhe 133 19 25 137 35 49 102 77 239 60 299 98 140 31 10 63 75 60 Total GWhe 142 19 25 137 35 49 102 77 439 111 550 124 140 31 10 63 75 144 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 515 57 0 0 0 0 0 0 110 3,555 3,665 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fossil fuel TJfuel 185 57 96 1,022 255 468 663 488 3,440 674 4,114 926 678 197 38 332 388 1,382 Electric boiler TJfuel 113 0 58 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total TJfuel 813 114 154 1,022 255 468 663 488 3,550 4,228 7,778 926 678 197 38 332 388 1,382 of which co-gen. TJfuel 41 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 886 224 1,110 101 0 0 0 0 0 473 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 54 9 6 20 6 28 17 19 64 507 570 9 28 20 1 20 39 67 SO2 tonnes 0.4 2 0 1 3 2 0 0 13 269 281 0.3 0.2 0 0 0.2 0 0 Dust tonnes 0 0.1 0 2 0 0 0 1 0.4 38 38 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 CO2 fossil ktonnes 12 4 6 57 14 26 37 27 131 101 232 52 38 11 2 19 22 77 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 8 1 0.3 69 18 25 52 19 97 24 121 40 57 12 4 5 6 13 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 60 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 138 322 461 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 To water COD tonnes 425 107 154 97 E/T 37 E/T 66 247 4,330 4,577 143 85 E/T E/T 29 E/T 227 BOD tonnes 107 32 N/A 5 E/T 4 E/T 26 66 251 318 9 6 E/T E/T 8 E/T 21 Suspended solids tonnes 77 23 26 15 E/T 7 E/T 2 42 161 203 3 4 E/T E/T 2 E/T 19 AOX tonnes 1 0.2 0 0 E/T 0 E/T 0.1 1 0 1 0.2 0 E/T E/T 0 E/T 0.2 P tonnes 1.0 0.1 0.4 0.1 E/T 0 E/T 0.1 1.7 6.4 8.0 0.9 0.3 E/T E/T 0 E/T 0.5 N tonnes 14.7 3.0 4.6 1 E/T 0 E/T 1.2 14.7 56.1 71 5.7 10.4 E/T E/T 0.8 E/T 8.0 Effluent water Mm3 3.74 0.37 0.88 2.07 0.47 0.30 0.99 0.69 3.26 12.46 15.72 1.36 0.83 0.03 0.19 0.42 0.68 3.43 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 46 2 33,733 6,828 2,106 0 601 125 367 0 367 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 Recovery tonnes 60,342 20,370 231 82,686 38,767 2,226 7,081 3,145 29,648 40,207 69,855 80,387 3,816 416 2,412 4,165 1,819 110,808 Hazardous tonnes 7 3 2 4 0 6 45 58 187 0 187 117 64 9 2 34 0 24 ti = tissue paper reels and/or uc = uncoated fine paper tissue consumer products rc = recycled pulp nw = non-woven mp = market pulp gp = grease-proof paper E/T = external treatment pp = packaging paper N/A = data not available bsi = bleached sulphite pulp 58 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental data | Control and assurance Total South Glens Falls Tissue Products Svetogorsk Kawerau Mediona Altopascio Menasha Ecatepec Monterrey Uruapan Cajicá Medellin Box Hill US Lasso 36 mills Sovetsk Lucca 1 Collodi Barton Flagstaff New Zealand Valls Russia Italy Mexico Pisa Spain Spain Russia Italy Italy US US US Mexico Mexico Ecuador Chile Colombia Colombia Australia ti, ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti uc, mp ti ti ti ti ti ti 138 32 18 40 121 38 25 156 46 185 75 64 57 75 24 52 29 40 58 63 2,504 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 68 0 33 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 0 0 0 0 0 0 502 146 2.9 34 46 37 35 5 276 57 310 104 64 85 61 33 81 58 54 127 80 3,076 146 29 34 46 105 35 38 276 57 310 104 64 85 92 33 81 58 54 127 80 3,578 144 31 45 108 35 39 251 57 306 103 66 87 90 31 83 63 48 132 79 3,522 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,237 802 240 285 324 1,363 273 410 1,286 384 1,644 689 534 498 1,038 212 517 232 503 827 415 23,764 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 170 802 240 285 324 1363 273 410 1,286 384 1,644 689 534 498 1,038 212 517 232 503 827 415 28,171 0 0 0 0 790 0 289 0 0 0 0 0 0 581 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,386 80 24 30 31 139 36 40 36 1 68 16 15 16 104 17 49 7 22 75 46 1,762 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.1 0 0 33 1 0.4 528 0.4 0 855 0 0 1 4 0.2 0.4 0.2 4 1 38 0 1 1 0 3 5 0.4 186 7 0 297 45 13 16 18 76 15 23 72 21 92 39 30 28 60 16 34 13 42 46 23 1,360 51 10 11 15 15 14 2 154 32 173 58 34 46 33 0 23 9 8 155 17 1,311 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 525 17 0 49 E/T E/T E/T E/T 658 392 N/A N/A E/T E/T 138 363 88 94 480 E/T E/T 8,224 N/A 0 10 E/T E/T E/T E/T 52 6 61 199 E/T E/T 36 133 39 30 280 E/T E/T 1,380 1 0 24 E/T E/T E/T E/T 114 43 72 138 E/T E/T 34 76 23 130 136 E/T E/T 1,171 0.1 0 0 E/T E/T E/T E/T 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 0 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 3 0.2 0 0.6 E/T E/T E/T E/T 6.7 1.3 0 0 E/T E/T 0.3 0.1 0 0.7 0 E/T E/T 21 0.5 0 3.5 E/T E/T E/T E/T 42.6 0.6 80.5 0 E/T E/T 1.6 0.3 0 4.6 0 E/T E/T 254 0.23 0 0.51 1.70 0.23 0.17 0.16 7.72 0.2 8.08 2.89 1.17 0.02 0.93 0.63 1.18 0.68 0.60 0.69 2.02 62 766 67 29,286 8,480 157 172 0.5 147,455 676 19,117 0 752 89 3,973 18,570 47,897 14,036 2,198 602 1,215 339,328 7,696 2,529 249 69 1,175 407 575 11 27,154 1 2,565 0 915 65,299 336 5,970 21,998 16,533 172 312 642,495 82 24 0 0 29 3 22 23 3 28 2 20 8 43 3 0 8 9 0 0 869 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 59 Control and assurance | Environmental data Facts about the plants – Packaging Total De Hoop Corrugated board Containerboard Aschaffenburg Witzenhausen EPS Europe Packaging Munksund 62 plants 13 plants Obbola The Netherlands Germany Germany 6 mills Europe Lucca Sweden Sweden Italy 2010 Grades kl, wtl kl, tl tl, fl fl tl, fl tl, fl,wtl fl Production ktonnes 340 396 334 368 339 343 2,121 1,880 13 4,014 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Co-generation GWhe 189 113 120 150 137 1 711 6 0 716 Grid supply GWhe 126 199 11 1 6 168 510 224 15 749 Total GWhe 314 312 131 151 143 169 1,221 229 15 1,465 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 5,604 3,933 0 298 2,657 53 12,547 49 40 12,635 Fossil fuel TJfuel 361 543 2,478 2,698 249 1,411 7 741 1,955 206 9,902 Electric boiler TJfuel 25 0 0 0 0 0 25 0 0 25 Total TJfuel 5,990 4,477 2,478 2,997 2,906 1,465 20,313 2,004 246 22,562 of which co-gen. TJfuel 794 477 660 1,243 576 43 3,794 32 0 3,826 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 398 277 104 318 163 28 1,288 193 19 1,500 SO2 tonnes 72 54 0 2 5 0 133 112 28 273 Dust tonnes 44 33 0 0.3 3 0.2 81 16 0 97 CO2 fossil ktonnes 29 43 139 151 15 79 456 119 12 587 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 6 10 4 0.4 2 68 91 76 5 171 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 583 418 0 28 263 3 1,295 5 4 1,303 To water COD tonnes 4,483 5,458 263 212 188 281 10,885 275 1 11,162 BOD tonnes 1,639 966 10 15 11 15 2,656 82 0 2,737 Suspended solids tonnes 980 2,528 26 27 10 55 3,626 76 0 3,701 AOX tonnes 3 3 0 0.3 0.2 0 6 0 0 6 P tonnes 7.2 24.9 1.0 0.7 0.6 3.8 38.1 0 0 38 N tonnes 34.7 132.1 7.0 7.0 5.2 43.7 229.7 0 0 230 Effluent water Mm3 8.99 5.87 1.75 1.37 1.17 1.66 20.82 0.42 0.04 21 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 2,364 227 17 34 0 8,133 10,775 3,229 282 14,286 Recovery tonnes 12,795 31,546 22,406 36,356 22,125 25,070 150,298 3,983 610 154,892 Hazardous tonnes 269 44 27 39 38 81 498 539 2 1,039 kl = kraftliner wtl = white-top liner tl = testliner fl = fluting E/T = external treatment N/A = data not available 60 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental data | Control and assurance Facts about the plants – Forest Products Total Pulp and paper Forest operations Forest Products Laakirchen Aylesford Ortviken Östrand Austria 4 mills 8 mills Sweden Sweden UK 2010 solid-wood Grades np, lwc bk, ctmp sc np products Production ktonnes 876 499 521 376 2,272 158 2,430 1,000 m3 2,040 2,040 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 14 0 14 0 14 Co-generation GWhe 55 439 428 336 1,258 0 1,258 Grid supply GWhe 2,007 57 192 18 2,275 192 2,467 Total GWhe 2,062 496 635 354 3,547 192 3,739 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 2,505 12,872 0 368 15,745 1,377 17,122 Fossil fuel TJfuel 542 1,122 4,289 4,260 10,212 243 10,455 Electric boiler TJfuel 51 0 0 0 51 37 88 Total TJfuel 3,097 13,994 4,289 4,628 26,008 1,657 27,665 of which co-gen. TJfuel 242 1,850 2,230 4,621 8,942 0 8,942 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 196 641 222 239 1,298 127 1,425 SO2 tonnes 55 380 0 4 439 14 453 Dust tonnes 36 52 0 6 94 91 185 CO2 fossil ktonnes 40 88 240 239 606 20 626 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 97 3 41 9 150 9 159 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 250 1,324 0 35 1,609 140 1,749 To water COD tonnes 3,805 5,792 1,058 899 11,553 81 11,634 BOD tonnes 130 452 53 27 662 55 717 Suspended solids tonnes 291 148 47 94 580 5 585 AOX tonnes 4 5 0 0 9 0 9 P tonnes 3.3 16.0 3.3 2.4 25 0 25 N tonnes 77.3 124.0 4.3 22.5 228 1 229 Effluent water Mm3 12.62 13.35 7.39 5.27 39 0.1 39 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 376 52 0 11,292 11,720 4,372 16,092 Recovery tonnes 40,398 53,913 170,342 46,175 310,829 887 311,716 Hazardous tonnes 275 575 92 46,624 47,566 502 48,067 np = newsprint sc = SC paper lwc = LWC paper ctmp = chemical thermomechanical pulp bk = bleached kraft pulp N/A = data not available SCA Sustainability Report 2010 61 Control and assurance | Social data Social data 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Number of employees 45,3411) 49,531 51,999 50,433 51,022 of whom female, % 26 27 29 25 25 Employees leaving the company 4,269 5,768 7,511 6,852 7,397 Employees joining the company 4,262 3,832 6,255 7,202 6,327 Age distribution, % –20 years 2 2 3 2 2 21–30 years 18 20 20 19 23 31–40 years 28 29 29 30 29 41–50 years 30 29 29 29 28 51–60 years 19 18 17 18 16 60– years 3 2 2 2 2 Employee turnover, % 9 2) 12 14 – – Academic degree or similar 16 15 13 15 13 Competence development, cost per employee 18 14 9 3) – – Diversity: Nationalities, top 300 managers 24 27 28 31 26 Nationalities, top 1,000 managers 42 41 39 44 38 Female managers of top 300 managers , % 16 13 12 10 9 Female managers of top 1,000 managers, % 20 20 19 16 14 Women, of total number of Board members and senior executives, % 14 18 14 14 14 Health and safety Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 569 564 685 770 762 Days Lost (DLA) 13,810 15,947 16,181 15,812 17,428 Accident Severity Rate (ASR), % 24.3 28.3 23.7 20.5 22.3 Incident Rate, % 1.5 1.4 1.6 1.8 1.8 Frequency Rate (FR), % 8.3 7.3 8.5 9.5 9.8 Fatalities 1 2 0 34) 1 Sick leave, Swedish companies, % In total 3 3 4 4 5 Men 3 3 4 4 4 Women 4 4 5 6 6 Of which 60 consecutive days or more 44 45 45 48 58 Code of Conduct Business Practice Reviews Italy, Mexico Russia 4 countries, N/A N/A Eastern Europe Human Rights assessments Mexico – – China, China, Singapore, Colombia, Malaysia, Malaysia, Costa Rica, Mexico Greece, and Poland Spain, the Czech Republic and Hungary 1) The personnel reduction of 4,200 persons is attributable to the divestment of the Asian packaging operations. 2) Excl. the divestment of the Asian packaging operations. 3) Training hours for 2008 and 2009 are reported in accordance with different systems. 4) Two SCA employees and one entrepreneur. 62 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 About this report | Control and assurance About this report – sources and transparency This report describes SCA’s sustainability initia­ Data collection All business groups report information to ABS, tives from an environmental, social and economic Data provided that relates to environment, health including salaries, pensions, absence due to ill­ perspective. SCA publishes a sustainability report and safety at SCA’s plants and mills refers to the ness, education levels, skills development costs each year. For the third consecutive year, SCA 2010 calendar year. These figures include the SCA and other information related to employees. The has prepared its report in accordance with the Group, wholly owned subsidiaries and subsidiar­ social GRI indicators are reported through the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines, ies in which SCA owns at least 50% of the com­ ABS system. level A. pany. If SCA’s ownership of a plant or mill is 50% The Sustainability Report and the Annual or more, the entire facility is included. Newly Report should be viewed as a single unit in which acquired businesses are integrated when they information may be provided in either report or, have been part of the Group for one calendar year. where appropriate, in both. Corporate govern­ The results of the Group’s CO2 target and ance is an example of a subject that is referred to water target are adjusted each year in relation to briefly in the sustainability report but a more production levels. Other data is reported in abso­ detailed description is provided in the Annual lute figures. No significant changes have been Report’s corporate governance section. made since the preceding year. The content of the Sustainability Report The information is primarily compiled from focuses predominantly on issues that SCA and SCA’s RMS system (described in more detail on its stakeholders regard as important for the com­ page 52) and the Group’s accounting system, ABS. pany and its environment. The RMS covers more than 170 production When adjustments have been made com­ sites, covering virtually the whole company's envi­ pared with earlier reports, a note is appended ronmental impact and resource utilisation from directly beside the text or table. production. Each unit reports the following data to the system: GRI • raw material consumption During 2010, SCA collected data on 30 social • incoming and outgoing shipments performance indicators recommended by the GRI • production volumes Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI indi­ • energy consumption broken down by hydro­ cators cover SCA manufacturing operations and electric power, co-generation and power from most office locations, but do not include central­ the grid ised corporate functions or employees of joint • fuel consumption broken down by biofuels, ventures. fossil fuels and electric boilers The entire sustainability report has been • air emissions, including data on fossil and bio­ reviewed by PwC. In the past, only parts of the genic carbon dioxide social and environmental data were reviewed. • water emissions More detailed information about SCA’s work on • solid waste envi­ronmental and social issues is available at The data is reported both internally and externally www.sca.com at the mill level, business group level and for the Group as a whole. SCA Sustainability Report 2010 63 Control and assurance | GRI Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index SCA’s Sustainability Report for 2010 follows Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (version G3). The following index shows where information can be found: this Sustainability Report Commitments to external initiatives (SR), Annual Report (AR), or SCA’s Group website (sca.com), which contains the cor4.11 Explanations of if and how the precautionary principle is applied sca.com responding GRI index with direct links. The table includes all core indicators and the supp4.12 A ssociation to external voluntary codes, principles lementary indicators that are applicable to SCA’s operations. or other initiatives sca.com The GRI Guidelines are the most widely accepted and used standard for sustainability 4.13 Membership in organisations SR 14 reporting, with more than 1,700 companies around the world applying the guidelines. This is the third report in which SCA applies GRI guidelines. SCA is reporting on the A+ level as Stakeholder engagement defined by GRI, which has been confirmed by PwC. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups SR 13–17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of important stakeholders SR 13–17 PROFILE 4.16 Approach to stakeholder relations SR 13–17 1. Strategy & analysis 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 1.1 CEO’s comments SR 2–3 dialogues with stakeholders SR 13–17 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 44–49 5. Economic performance indicators 2. Organisational profile Disclosure on management approach AR 7–8 + 36, SR 18–22 2.1 Name of the organisation AR 97 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services AR 18, 21, 25, 29, 33 Economic performance 2.3 Operational structure of the org. SR 10–11 + AR 10 EC1 Direct economic value and distribution SR 23 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters SR back cover EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation due 2.5 Countries where the organisation is active AR 73 to climate changes SR 22 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 4–5 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit SR 24 + AR 87 plan obligations (note 26) 2.7 Markets AR 21, 25, 29, 33 EC4 Financial assistance received from government AR 66 2.8 Size of the organization SR inside cover + AR inside cover Market presence 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 11 EC5 Range of ratios for standard entry level wage 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period SR inside cover compared to local minimum wage SR 24 + sca.com EC6 Purchases from local suppliers SR 24 3. Report parameters EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR 48 + sca.com Report profile Indirect economic impact 3.1 Reporting period SR 63 + AR 62 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report SR 63 for public purposes SR 50–51 + sca.com 3.3 Reporting cycle (12 months, 24 months, etc.) SR 63 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report SR back cover the extent of impacts SR 23–24, 50–53 Report scope & boundaries 6. Environmental performance indicators 3.5 Process for defining report content SR 17, 63 3.6 Boundary of the report SR 63 Disclosure on management approach SR 4–8, 10–11 + sca.com 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SR 63 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc SR 63 Materials 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles SR 52–55 + 63 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 34,53,56 3.10 Comparability with previous reports SR 63 EN2 Recycled input materials SR 34,53,56 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. SR 52–53, 63 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SR 28,53,56 GRI content index EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR 28,53,56 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and in the report SR 64–65 efficiency improvement SR 29 3.13 Policy and current practice in regard to external verification of the report SR 67 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal SR 37,53,56 4. Governance, commitments & engagement Biodiversity Governance EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of biodiversity value SR 35 + sca.com 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation SR 10–11 EN12 Factors that affect biodiversity sca.com 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organisation AR 37 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members AR 38 Emissions, effluents & waste 4.4 Methods for shareholders and employees to propose EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 54, 56 recommendations, etc. to the board AR 37 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 54 4.5 Remuneration to senior executives AR 71 (note 6) + sca.com EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions SR 6, 26–31 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board sca.com EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting compounds sca.com 4.7 Processes for determining the competence of board members sca.com EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions SR 54–56 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. SR 12 EN21 Emissions to water SR 54, 56 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work SR 11 + sca.com EN22 Waste SR 55–56 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance AR 39 + sca.com EN23 Significant spills sca.com 64 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 GRI Index | Control and assurance Products & services Society EN26 Actions to reduce environmental impacts of products and services SR 26–39 Community EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reused SR 53 + sca.com SO1 Programmes for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities SR 40 + sca.com Compliance Corruption EN28 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with applicable laws sca.com SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption SR 42 SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption Transport policies and procedures SR 42 EN29 Environmental impact from transport SR 54–55 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR 42 Public policy 7. Social performance indicators SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying SR 30 + sca.com Disclosure of management approach SR 4–5, 10–11 + sca.com SO6 Total value of financial contributions to political parties, etc. sca.com Employment Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour sca.com Employees LA1 Total workforce by function, employment type and region SR inside cover, 48 + Compliance AR 73 SO8 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws sca.com LA2 Rate of employee turnover SR 48, 62 + sca.com Product responsibility Labour/management relations LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees sca.com Customer health & safety LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts bargaining agreements SR 49 of products and services are assessed SR 39 + sca.com LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes SR 49 + sca.com Product & service labelling Health & safety PR3 Product labelling and information sca.com LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health Marketing communications and safety ­committees SR 44 PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, codes for marketing communications sca.com work related ­fatalities SR 45, 62 LA8 Programs to assist workforce regarding serious diseases SR 45–46 + sca.com Compliance LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations with trade unions SR 49 ­concerning the use of products and services sca.com Training & education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 48 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning sca.com LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews SR 48 Diversity & equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce SR inside cover + SR 48, AR 42–43, 73 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women sca.com Human rights Investment & procurement practices HR1 Consideration of human rights in regard to investments SR 4 + sca.com HR2 Human rights in the supplier chain SR 43 HR3 Training and education in human rights SR 42 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SR 42 Freedom of association & collective bargaining HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken sca.com Child labour HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labour and actions taken sca.com Forced & compulsory labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken sca.com Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken SR 14, 28 + sca.com SCA Sustainability Report 2010 65 Control and assurance | Global Compact Report Global Compact Report SCA became a member of the United Nations UNGC and GRI cross reference table corporate citizenship initiative, Global Compact, The following table shows how performance in in July 2008, joining a network of more than 8,700 relation to each UN Global Compact principle can businesses and other participants from more than be reported via a number of Global Reporting Ini­ 130 countries in promoting ten core principles in tiative (GRI) standard performance indicators. the areas of human rights, labour, environment This is based on guidance documents published and anti-corruption. by the UN Global Compact. As a part of this commitment, SCA will report on the company’s corporate responsibility activi­ ties and performance in an annual Communica­ tion on Progress (COP), using the Sustainability Report as a vehicle for this communication. The UNGC principles GRI indicators Sustainability Report provides a number of exam­ ples of ongoing activities, as well as key perfor­ Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of mance indicators clearly showing that SCA sup­ internationally proclaimed human rights HR1–9, EC5, LA6–9, 13–14, SO5, PR1–2, 8 ports the ten Global Compact principles in its 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in everyday business. human rights abuses HR1–9, SO5 The SCA Code of Conduct is an important Labour internal document, guiding and aligning 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining LA4–5, HR1–3, 5, SO5 employee behaviour with the Global Compact 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced principles. Regular reviews of business practices and compulsory labour HR1–3, 7, SO5 are conducted throughout the organisation to 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour HR1–3, 6, SO5 ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation LA2, 13–14, HR1–4, EC7, SO5 Measurements of performance related to the Global Compact principles are given throughout Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to the report using indicators suggested by the environmental challenges EC2, EN18, 26, 30, SO5 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever possi­ 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 ble. In particular, GRI performance indicators 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion relating to human rights, labour and anti-corrup­ of environmentally friendly technologies EN2, 5–7, 10, 18, 26–27, 30, SO5 tion principles are presented in the Social Anti-corruption Responsibility section, and environmental perfor­ 10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, mance indicators reported through the RMS sys­ including extortion and bribery SO2–6 tem are presented in the Control and Assurance section. A complete GRI index is available on www.sca.com 66 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Assurance Report | Control and assurance Auditors’ report on limited review of sustainability report To the readers of the Svenska Cellulosa tified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express f. analytical procedures of the information stated Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) Sustainability Report an audit opinion. in the Sustainability Report, We have been engaged by the management of The criteria on which our review is based are g. reconciliation of financial information with the Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) to the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guide­ company’s Annual Report for the financial year review the SCA Sustainability Report for the year lines G3, published by the Global Reporting Initia­ 2010, 2010. The Board of Directors and Executive Man­ tive (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainabil­ h. assessment of the company’s declared appli­ agement team are responsible for the company’s ity Report, as well as the accounting and calcula­ cation level according to the GRI guidelines, activities regarding environment, health & safety, tion principles that the company has developed i. assessment of the overall impression of the social responsibility, and sustainable develop­ and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable Sustainability Report, and its format, taking ment, and for the preparation and presentation of for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. into consideration the consistency of the the sustainability report in accordance with appli­ Our review has, based on an assessment of stated information with applicable criteria, cable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a materiality and risk, included e.g. the following j. reconciliation of the reviewed information with conclusion on the sustainability report based on procedures: the sustainability information in the company’s our review. a. update of our knowledge and understanding of Annual Report for the financial year 2010. SCA’s organization and activities, The scope of the review b. assessment of the outcome of the company’s Conclusion We have performed our review in accordance stakeholder dialogue, Based on our review, nothing has come to our with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports c. interviews with management at group level and attention that causes us to believe that the infor­ issued by Far. A review consists of making inquir­ at selected business units in order to assess if mation in the SCA Sustainability Report has not, ies, primarily of persons responsible for the prep­ the qualitative and quantitative information in all material respects, been prepared in accord­ aration of the Sustainability Report, and applying stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, ance with the above stated criteria. analytical and other review procedures. A review accurate and sufficient, is substantially less in scope than an audit con­ d. examination of internal and external docu­ ducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on ments in order to assess if the information Auditing and Quality Control and other generally stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The pro­ accurate and sufficient, cedures performed consequently do not enable e. evaluation of the design of systems and pro­ us to obtain assurance that we would become cesses used to obtain, manage and validate aware of all significant matters that might be iden­ sustainability information, Stockholm, 22 February 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Anders Lundin Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert member of FAR SRS SCA Sustainability Report 2010 67 Control and assurance | Glossary Glossary Anaerobic treatment Anaerobic wastewater treatment COD, Chemical oxygen demand Water emission factor EDANA International association serving the nonwovens uses biological agents in an oxygen-free environment to which describes the amount of oxygen consumed when and related hygiene industries. EDANA exists to create the remove impurities from wastewater. dissolved matter in effluent water oxidises. High COD foundation for sustainable growth of the nonwovens and values can indicate a risk of depletion of the normal oxygen associated hygiene industries through active promotion, AOX, Absorbable organic halogens Expresses the content in the water environment. education and dialogue. Website: www.edana.org and amount of chlorine-bound organic substances. Some of www.hapco.edana.org these substances accumulate in fish and fish-eating b AOX. CO2, Carbon dioxide A gaseous compound emitted naturally through geological activity during the EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme created by ASR (Accident Severity Rate) The severity of accidents decomposition process and through human activity. European Council Regulation. defined as the number of days lost due to accidents (DLA) Industry and transport and heating/cooling are currently the in relation to the number of lost time accidents (LTA). Refer Environmental Management System The part of the largest emitters of CO2. also to FR, IR and Lost Time Accidents (LTA). overall management system which includes the structure, Carbon trading The trading of carbon emissions credits practices, procedures and resources for the systematic Bribery Is the giving or receiving of any undue reward by or by companies or, at a different level, by countries, within a implementation of the organisation’s own environmental to any person to influence their behaviour in a manner global limitation scheme, (designed to achieve global policy. contrary to the principles of honesty and integrity. emissions reductions using market mechanisms. EPD, Environmental Product Declaration Quantified Business partner A client, customer, or a supplier of the Carbon sink As they grow, forests transform gaseous environmental data for a product with pre-set categories of company. Any company that conducts business in carbon into solid form, thereby absorbing CO2 whilst parameters based on the ISO 14040 series of standards association with SCA may be regarded as a business simultaneously producing oxygen. Forests, agricultural land but not excluding additional environmental information. partner. and the world’s oceans are considered to be “carbon sinks” ESAVE Structured energy-saving programme introduced Child Labour Refers to the employment of workers who by current science. by SCA in its energy intensive manufacturing units in 2002. do not meet the applicable national minimum legal age Chain-of-Custody The traceability of the origins of a Its aim is to substantially reduce the consumption of energy requirement. product through all its transformations from raw material to in production units. The Code of Conduct Is a formal statement of the values finished product. In the SCA context, Chain-of-Custody ETS, Emission Trading Scheme (or System) and business practices of a company. A code is a certification links SCA’s products with its FSC-certified Greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme for the statement of minimum standards, together with a pledge by forests. cost-effective reduction of such emissions in the European the company to observe them and to require its CHP See Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power. union, made in the context of the Kyoto Protocol. contractors, subcontractors and suppliers, to observe Installations operating in the paper and board industry, in them. Chemical pulp Pulp from wood fibres processed the energy sector, iron and steel production and the mineral chemically, normally by cooking. Compulsory Labour This includes work done in a industry apply ETS as of 1 January 2005 in two initial situation where the workers have to lodge a monetary Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp, CTMP A high yield phases; from 2005 to 2007 and from 2008 to 2012. CO2 deposit or identity papers with their employer. pulp (about 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained emissions are subject to permits and fines (if emissions are by heating and then grinding chemically pre-treated spruce above the cap set for the operation). The “allowance” Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Managing a chips in refining machinery. means the entitlement to emit 1 tonne of carbon dioxide. company’s business processes in a way that creates economic value while also respecting people and Climate Change Also defined as global warming. Human ETS, European Tissue Symposium Organisation based communities and minimising environmental impact. activity contributes to the warming of the global in Brussels made up of European Tissue producers, environment and its resulting effects, which range from engaged in a dialogue with the European Commission, the BAT, Best Available Technology Officially used higher temperatures to eccentric weather patterns and Council of Europe and other international organisations. terminology to describe the state-of-the-art technology that melting of the ice caps. ETS has been involved in the development of the recently industry should use in the field of activity concerned (see published Council of Europe Guidelines For Tissue Paper IPPC directive and BREF). Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power, CHP Kitchen Towels and Napkins. Combined production of electricity and thermal energy. ­CoBOD, Biochemical oxygen demand Water emission generation has a high total efficiency. Fluting The rippled middle layer in corrugated board factor which describes the amount of oxygen consumed packaging. during biodegradation of dissolved organic matter in Containerboard Paper specially manufactured for the effluent water, without describing the specific substances production of corrugated board. (See liner and fluting). Forced Labour This includes indentured, debt bondage present. High BOD values indicate depletion of the normal or involuntary labour of any kind. Corrugated board Two outer layers of paper with an oxygen content of the water environment. It is measured intermediate layer of fluting. (See liner and fluting). Freedom of Association Refers to the right of employees over seven days in SCA’s Swedish mills and five days in the to lawfully join associations of their own choosing, rest of Europe, in accordance with national legislative Council of Europe Not to be confused with the European peacefully associate, organise or bargain collectively. systems. Commission and its Council of Ministers, grouping the heads of state of the European Union. The Council of FR, Frequency Rate The number of accidents/incidents BREF Best Available Technology Reference Document. Europe, based in Strasbourg, comprises 46 Western and per million hours worked. It is an indicator of Safety This document identifies BAT (Best Available Technology) Eastern Europe countries. It was set up to defend human statistics in industry (also see LTA and Incidence Rate). for the 32 sectors selected by the EU, including the pulp rights, parliamentary democracy and the rule of law, and paper industry. All pulp and paper mills with a capacity Fresh wood fibre Also referred to as virgin fibre. First develop continent-wide agreements to standardise social exceeding 20 tonnes/day should follow the IPPC directive generation use of raw material derived from wood. and legal practices and promote a European identity with (see IPPC) shared values. FSC, Forest Stewardship Council An international Biodiversity A term describing the multitude of life-forms organisation promoting responsible forest management. Dow Jones Sustainability Index The share index of and species (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. An FSC has developed principles for forest management used companies that are considered leaders in the area of ecosystem is a biological community living in a particular for certifying the management of forest holdings, and a sustainable development and that conduct their businesses physical environment. system of tracing, verifying and labelling timber and wood accordingly. products based on FSC-certified forests. SCA is an active Benchmarking Method of comparing performance and supporter of FSC. productivity of manufacturing units. Used extensively by SCA in all its families of operation: paper mills, fluff production units, packaging integrated box plants, combustion plants, etc. 68 SCA Sustainability Report 2010 Glossary | Control and assurance Green energy In the case of SCA, energy produced by Liner The surface layer of corrugated board. Available in RMS SCA’s Resource Management System: a means of burning recovered waste products, such as bark, sawdust, various grades, such as kraftliner (based on fresh wood collecting and collating all environmental data and resource plastic rejects, production sludge or other materials. fibre) and testliner or fluting (based on recycled fibre). utilisation within the SCA Group. GWh Gigawatt hours, Unit of energy measurement Liquor Substance(s) Used in or resulting from chemical Recovered fibre Paper-making fibre derived from a (electricity and heat). 1GWh=1 million kWh. pulp production. White liquor is the cooking liquor (sodium secondary source, such as used paper and board, used for hydroxide and sodium sulphide). Black liquor is the waste recycling. HAPCO Hygiene Absorbent Products Manufacturers liquor from the completed production cycle. Most of it is Committee; a group member of EDANA, of which SCA is Renewable All materials which can be re-grown or re-used as fuel and burnt in the recovery boiler. Green liquor an active member; Website: www.hapco.edana.org. produced without depletion of natural resources. is an aqueous solution, the residue of burning the black Human Rights Are based on the recognition of the liquor. SC paper, Super Calendared publication paper with a inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all high-gloss surface and with a high content of mechanical LTA, Lost Time Accidents Accidents that cause the members of the human family, and are the foundation of and/or recycled pulp. Mainly used for catalogues, absence of an employee from work for X number of days. freedom, justice, and peace in the world. They are defined magazines and advertising materials. One of the main safety indicators in industry. See also FR in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948). (Frequency rate) and Incidence Rate (IR). SRI, Socially-responsible investment a method of Incidence Rate, IR Number of incidents per 100 selecting stocks for investment using criteria related to a MBT, Mechanical-biological treatment Hybrid employees. Also see LTAs and Frequency Rate. company’s environmental, social and ethical performance. technology combining mechanical sorting of waste and International Labour Organization, ILO The biological treatment to produce biogas. A further Sludge Residue from the production of paper; consists of International Labour Organization is a United Nations processing stage can convert the residual material into inert materials, mainly small fibre debris, filler and other inert Agency, which establishes Conventions on Labour refuse-derived fuel. materials. It used to be sent to landfill. Nowadays used as standards that are binding for member states when ratified. ‘new’ raw material and incinerated with energy recovery. Mechanical pulp Debarked wood that is ground or There are over 150 ILO Conventions, eight of which are chipped for mechanical refining to separate the fibres that Solid-wood products Wood sawn into various “Core Conventions” since they embody fundamental form pulp. dimensions and sizes for furniture, joinery and construction human rights and set minimum labour standards. use. Monitoring Is the process of regularly collecting IPP, Integrated Product Policy In a communication information to check performance against certain criteria. Stakeholders Groups of people with whom an published in June 2003, the EC states that “its primary aim organisation has active relationships, and with whom is to reduce the environmental impacts of products MSW, Municipal Solid Waste An important fraction effective dialogue is necessary to the functioning of the through-out their life cycle, harnessing where possible a (15%) of the total solid waste. Disposable diapers and business. Shareholders, authorities, customers, employees market driven approach within which competitive concerns incontinence products are part of the MSW. and NGOs are all stakeholders in SCA’s business activities. are integrated”. The IPP encourages “green” products, N, Nitrogen A chemical element, also present in wood, “green” public procurement and eco-labelling. Sustainable Development Bringing into decision­-making that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess N in water processes the three interlinked factors – economic growth IPPC The European Union’s Integrated Pollution and can cause major increases in the amount of algae, which and social and environmental care – which enable society to Prevention Control directive (96/61/EC). can lead to oxygen deficiency when the algae decompose. meet the needs of the present without compromising the ISO 14001 The standard published by the International Newsprint Paper for newspapers produced from needs of future generations. Also referred to as the “triple Standards Organization, specifying the requirements of an mechanical pulp based on fresh fibre or recovered fibre. bottom line”. environmental management system. All SCA European mills Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Are TCF, Totally Chlorine Free Paper pulp which is bleached are certified ISO 14001. national, international, and community-based groups that without using chlorine in any form. Kraftliner Packaging paper made of fresh wood, as raise awareness about social, environmental, community TMP, Thermo Mechanical Pulp A high-yield pulp (about opposed to testliner and fluting (recycled). and human rights issues. 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained by heating Kyoto Protocol United Nations framework convention Old Corrugated Container, OCC Used corrugated board spruce chips and then grinding them in refiners. on climate change. Voluntary agreement between collected for recycling. TJ, Terajoule a unit used to measure energy (fuel). industrialised nations, ratified by Europe and the object of Opacity Degree to which something is opaque. European directive 2003/87/EC, to reduce by 2012 the Testliner Packaging paper made from recycled fibre. levels of man-made CO2 below the level reached in 1990. P, Phosphorus A chemical element, also present in wood, Tissue Creped soft paper which is the basis for hygiene that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess P in water Leach/Leachate The percolation of liquids through the products such as napkins, toilet paper and towels, and can cause nutrient enrichment. earth. The leaching natural process can pollute towelling products for institutions, hotels, etc. underground water or surface water, which is situated PSR, Product Specific Requirement (also see EPD, TWh, TeraWatt hour Unit of energy measurement. below a retention basin of wastewater, or a landfill, which is ­Environmental Product Declaration) List of requirements 1 TWh=10 Million KWh biologically active, for example. enabling SCA to label its products in an accurate and informative way, avoiding unverifiable labelling. Waste To SCA, waste comprises only materials leaving our LWC paper, Light Weight Coated Paper is a coated production units that cannot be used for any further useful paper with a high mechanical pulp content. Used for highRAP, Regulatory Affairs Platform The network keeps purpose. Recovered paper and fibre are excluded, since quality magazines and advertising materials with and updates the list of SCA representatives in organisations they form part of SCA’s main raw materials. demanding colour-printing requirements. at EU and national levels. It is in charge of communicating and defending SCA positions to lawmakers directly and Life Cycle Assessment, LCA A method of assessing the through industry organisations. environmental impact of a product, taking account of its entire lifespan from raw material extraction to waste REACH, Regulation, Evaluation, Authorization and disposal. The process is described in the ISO14040 series. Restriction of Chemicals European regulation SPINE is the common database enabling comparison (1,907/2,000/EC) which address the production and (safe) between product elements. use of chemical substances and their potential impact on both human health and the environment. Some 30,000 chemicals will have to be registered after testing with the central European Chemical Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki. Companies will have to obtain authorisation to use hazardous chemicals. SVENSKA CELLULOSA AKTIEBOLAGET SCA (publ) PO Box 200, SE-101 23 STOCKHOLM, Sweden. Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 63 Tel +46 8 788 51 00, fax +46 8 788 53 80 Corp. Reg. No.: 556012-6293 www.sca.com Operations GHC (GLOBAL HYGIENE SCA TISSUE EUROPE AND SCA Packaging Europe CATEGORY) SCA PERSONAL CARE EUROPE Culliganlaan 1D SE-405 03 GOTHENBURG München Airport Center (MAC) BE-1831 DIEGEM Sweden Postfach 241540 Belgium Visiting address: DE-85336 MÜNCHEN-FLUGHAFEN Tel +32 2 718 3711 Bäckstensgatan 5, Mölndal Germany Fax +32 2 715 4815 Tel +46 31 746 00 00 Visiting address: Terminalstrasse Mitte 18 Tel +49 89 9 70 06-0 Fax +49 89 9 70 06-204 SCA Forest Products SCA Americas SCA Asia Pacific SE-851 88 SUNDSVALL Cira Centre Unit 516, 159 Madang Road Sweden Suite 2600 Xintiandi, Luwan District Visiting address: Skepparplatsen 1 2929 Arch Street SHANGHAI 200020 Tel +46 60 19 30 00, 19 40 00 PHILADELPHIA, PA 19104 China Fax +46 60 19 33 21 US Tel +86 21 6135 7288 Tel +1 610 499 3700 Fax +86 21 6135 7264 Fax +1 610 499 3402 Contact persons Kersti Strandqvist Senior Vice President, Corporate Sustainability E-mail: kersti.strandqvist@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 52 24 Environment: Social Responsibility: Patrik Isaksson Katarina Arbin Vice President, Environmental Affairs Director, CSR Programmes E-mail: patrik.isaksson@sca.com E-mail: katarina.arbin@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 51 04 Tel: +46 8 788 52 94 This report is produced by SCA in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Cover illustration: Kjell Ström. Photo: Håkan Lindgren, Juliana Yondt and Per-Anders Sjöquist. Print: Elanders in Falköping 2011. C ECOL AB The emission of green house gases from the production of DI NO EL this printed product including paper, other materials, and R 341 123 transports has been offset by investment in the corresponding amount of certified reduction units from the CDM project PR IN ER Gayatri Agro Industrial Power Limited. TE D MA TT
