Annual report 2010 2 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Contents Contents 3 Key figures 4 Letter to shareholders 5 Board of Directors’ report 5 Summary 5 Business overview 6 Report for 2010 10 Company, people and community 17 D  eclaration by the Board of Directors and President & CFO 18 Annual accounts 19 Aker Solutions group 67 Aker Solutions ASA 75 Auditor’s report 76 Share and shareholder information 76 Share and shareholder information 80 Analytical information 81 Corporate governance 81 Corporate governance 88 Board of directors 90 Executive chairman and President 90 Business management 92 Corporate centre functions 93 Company information Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 3 This is Aker Solutions Key figures 2010 (Continuing operations only) Orders and results 2010 2009 Order backlog 31 December NOK mill 50 775 52 740 Order intake NOK mill 46 341 49 048 Operating revenues NOK mill 46 267 49 856 EBITDA NOK mill 3 778 4 095 EBITDA-margin Percent 8.2% 8.2% Net profit NOK mill 1 658 2 186 Cash flow Cash flow from operational activities NOK mill 2 131 4 245 Balance sheet Borrowings NOK mill 8 224 7 515 Equity ratio Percent 25.9% 22.8% Return on equity Percent 17.3% 25.5% Return on captial employed 1 Percent 12.1% 14.4% Share Share price 31 December NOK 99.25 75.45 Dividend per share2 NOK 2.75 2.60 Basic earnings per share (NOK) NOK 5.96 7.86 Diluted earnings per share (NOK) NOK 5.95 7.85 Employees Employees 31 December Full time equivalents 19 444 19 415 HSE Lost time incident frequency Per million worked hours 0.83 0.90 Total recordable incident frequency Per million worked hours 2.62 2.68 Sick leave rate Percent of worked hours 2.04 2.18 1) Including discontinued operations 2) Proposed dividends for 2010 4 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 This is Aker Solutions Letter to shareholders There are certain milestones that define a these transactions were completed in the speed, and at the same time further clarify The above mentioned four priorities are company like Aker Solutions. I believe the first quarter of 2011, our net debt was zero, the profile and mandate of the new r­ eflected in the new corporate centre with three-way split of Kværner, from which Aker providing a strong foundation for further ­President and CEO of the company. Chief Operating Officer, Chief Technology Solutions emerged back in 2004, was such growth. I have appointed a new leadership team Officer and Chief Strategic Marketing a moment. I believe that 2010 will also go Secondly, as we enter into 2011, we which I will work with in this interim period. ­introduced as new functions within Aker down in history as one of the more signifi­prepare for a two-fold future. In May this The composition of the team reflects our Solutions. My expectation is that with this cant years in the history of our company. year, shareholders will be invited to decide ambitions both to keep leadership close to new organisation we will be better posiOne reason for this is that we have manon a transfer of our large scale engineering, business and to further internationalise tioned to inspire and to drive the functional aged the aftermath of the 2008-09 financial procurement and construction (EPC) Aker Solutions. The new leadership team priorities across the business units and turmoil quite well. Although revenues ­project business to a new company. includes eight business leaders who will hence, further improve the performance of ­declined somewhat, order backlog and The relocated EPC company will have a report directly to me. Aker Solutions. profits were relatively stable, despite ex­ strong position in the North Sea field Also a part of the leadership team are Furthermore, with the structural periencing unfortunate quality and perfordevelop­ment market and key positions in six function heads from the corporate changes and the operational improvement mance issues that diluted our returns. selected international target markets for ­centre that have the responsibility for initiatives outlined above, we believe Aker ­Reducing such costs is naturally a paraonshore and offshore EPC projects. The ­shaping and safeguarding our activities Solutions and the new EPC company are mount objective of our continual improvenewly structured Aker Solutions will within key functional areas. The corporate well prepared to face the challenges and ment work in Aker Solutions. ­continue to provide engineering solutions, centre includes several new functions, opportunities that lie ahead. Our earnings before interest, tax, depreproduct solutions and field life solutions to which we believe will be particularly imporIt is our intention to see both Aker ciation and amortisation (EBITDA) were the upstream oil and gas industry. tant in driving through our strategy. ­Solutions and the new EPC company grow. NOK 4.3 billion for the year 2010 and the The separation will take place through a The world needs more oil and gas, and our net profit was NOK 2.0 billion. Our financial de-merger and all Aker Solutions owners The following four topics are on the top of people and teams have the technology, position is strong and is reflected in the will receive shares in the new company. our operational improvement agenda: competence and experience required to board’s proposal to pay NOK 2.75 per Investors can thereafter adjust their shareproduce hydrocarbons in a safe and share in dividend, in line with our dividend holding according to their preferred investCustomer focus: Build strong and lasting ­environmentally careful way. policy. ment profile. Aker ASA, which through Aker relationships to individual customers and We believe the fundamentals are in The numbers from 2010 are now history. Holding is the leading shareholder in Aker develop regional and country strategies. place, for a lot of hard work that still Of more importance are the steps we have Solutions, has stated that it will maintain its Quality and performance: Chase opera­remains. decided to take for the future; steps which shareholding in both companies after the tional excellence (HSE, project manageaim to create a more focused Aker demerger. ment, cost efficiency), reduce quality costs ­Solutions, with a more simplified and transPreparations for these changes are well and continue to strengthen performance parent structure. We are building an organiunderway and include the establishment of culture. Øyvind Eriksen sation which I believe will accelerate growth new organisations and leadership teams for People: Retain and attract the best and Executive Chairman and put emphasis on our company values. both companies. most competent people and ensure high First of all, we have divested substantial In this transition period, it is with great quality programs for people and leadership parts of our non-oil and gas related busipleasure that I have accepted the board’s development. nesses and we are reallocating our financial challenge to continue as executive chairTechnology: Focus existing technology and organisational resources. During 2010 man, and as part of this role also function processes and initiatives in the operating we announced several divestments with a as CEO. This will allow us to continue the businesses and identify and co-ordinate combined value of NOK 7 billion. When implementation of our strategy at full research and development initiatives. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 5 Board of directors’ report Board of directors’ report Summary for the oil and gas industry. The new EPC The company expects that annual average At the end of 2010 the group had 19 444 Aker Solutions has emerged from the 2008company, provisionally named Aker growth in the years 2011-2015 could be in employes in continued businesses and 09 financial turmoil on a strong note. ­Contractors, will have a strong position in the 9-15 percent range, partly as a result of ­activities in more than 25 countries. Its ­Revenues declined in 2010 but profits the North Sea field development market growing markets, growing market shares head office is in Norway, at Fornebu ­remained at similar levels as the previous with key positions in selected international and revenues from businesses acquired in ­outside Oslo. The parent company, Aker year. Earnings before interest, tax and target regions. Both companies were prethe period. Solutions ASA, is listed on the Oslo Stock ­depreciation (EBITDA) for the year was sented at the company’s capital markets Exchange. NOK 4.3 billion, including businesses day in December. They are described in Business overview ­accounted for as discontinued operations. further detail below. Principal operations Markets In 2010 order intake was NOK 51.9 Although operations have improved in Aker Solutions provides engineering Demand for Aker Solutions’ technology, ­billion, on the same level as in 2009. Order many parts of the business, a more detailed ­solutions, product solutions, field life products and services is driven by the backlog at the end of 2010 was NOK 55.4 analysis reveals opportunities for further ­solutions and executes large and complex world’s increasing consumption of oil and billion including discontinued operations, improvement and increased profits. The field development projects for the oil and gas for transportation, energy production marginally down from the end of 2009. continued losses in the drilling riser busigas industry. and industrial purposes. ­Bidding activity increased through 2010, ness and weak financial performance on a In 2010 the group had four reporting Market prospects are regarded as good. signalling that the company’s main markets power project in the United States are segments: Energy Development & Services The world’s energy consumption is are on the rebound. ­important reminders in this respect. (ED&S), Subsea, Products & Technologies ­expected to continue to grow. Combined In 2010 Aker Solutions concluded a The board and management have identi(P&T) and Process & Construction (P&C). with declining reserves and reduced oil and comprehensive strategy process. In line fied several areas of improvement and Each of these business areas is described gas production in many parts of the world, with the direction set out by the board and ­actions are under way. The following areas below in the “Presentation of the 2010 this is expected to generate a persistent management to focus and streamline the will be specifically addressed: customer ­accounts” section. need for new developments. business, Aker Solutions agreed to the sale relations, quality in project execution, The P&C business area was involved in For many years, the North-West of parts of the Process & Construction ­technology and finally, organisational engineering and construction services, ­European continental shelf has been the (P&C) business area, and the sale of the ­development and recruitment and retention ­primarily in the mining and metals, energy world’s primary geographical market for marine specialist subsidiary Aker Marine of personnel. and environmental and downstream oil, gas offshore oil and gas activities. Historically, Contractors (AMC). In terms of organisation, a new and and petrochemicals industry segments. In this was also Aker Solutions’ home market The board also resolved to propose to more transparent operating business strucDecember an agreement was reached to and a breeding ground for new technolothe general meeting, that the large project ture was complemented by a corporate divest a significant part of this business. gies and solutions. EPC (engineering, procurement and centre charged with responsibility and The transaction was completed in February This region continues to play a key role ­construction) business within the Energy means to chase operational improvements 2011. for Aker Solutions, although the composiDevelop­ment & Services business area is and synergies throughout the company. Following the sale of the P&C tion of this market is shifting. With the launched into a new company, separate Aker Solutions expects that the restrucbusinesses­and restructuring of the oil and ­maturing of the oil and gas fields in the from the rest of Aker Solutions. This sepaturing will unleash energy and drive in each gas business, a new reporting structure ­region, demand has grown for technologies ration is due to be completed in the second of the new, streamlined businesses and was implemented with effect from March and solutions required for increased oil and half of 2011. ultimately contribute to accelerated growth. 2011. gas recovery, satellite field developments Two focused, well trimmed organisations The market fundamentals for Aker The Aker Solutions group is organised in and maintenance and modifications will emerge, both positioned for growth. ­Solutions are good, but the board would a number of separate legal entities. Aker ­required to extend the lifespan of existing Aker Solutions provides product solutions, like to point out that any assessment of Solutions is used as the common tradefield infrastructure. engineering solutions and field life solutions ­future conditions are subject to uncertainty. mark for most of these entities. Over the past 15-20 years, other 6 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Board of directors’ report ­ eographical markets have become ing Strategic target areas i­nclude deepwater drilling technologies, For more than 20 years, the company creasingly important. International oil comIn a thorough strategy process in 2010, the subsea oil and gas production systems, has worked hard to improve health, safety panies have shifted the focus of their board observed that Aker Solutions enjoys well services, mooring and offloading and environmental (HSE) performance. In ­exploration activities to new frontier areas. a prominent position in many of these geo­systems, well-stream processing technolothe industries which Aker Solutions work, National oil companies supported by graphical markets and industry segments. gies, as well as life-of-field solutions excellence in HSE is considered to be a goverments with ambitious development The company’s portfolio of services through its maintenance, modification and licence to operate. Consequently this area plans are playing an important role in many ­includes engineering competence, operations business. Aker Solutions will has had – and will continue to have a regions. ­products, technologies and integrated also offer front end engineering design and ­special place in the company’s culture. Today Brazil represents the most rapidly ­solutions. concept studies as stand-alone services to Now corresponding efforts will be made to growing single market in the offshore Its long tenure in the oil service industry oil companies and construction companies. advance and strengthen the other five ­industry. Other countries with recent strong has left it with distinctive relations and These changes and the corresponding ­values. growth and high national ambitions are ­experience which are embedded in individchanges to the business segment compofound in West Africa, South and South East uals and in organisational structures. The sition and operating model will result in a Report for 2010 Asia, around the Caspian Sea and in the company also enjoys a growing installed more transparent company. It will be able Highlights Arctic region. base of products and solutions that repreto offer greater flexibility to customers and Operational highlights and milestones for One common denominator for these sents opportunity for service and repeat be well placed to capture opportunities for 2010 are described in the business area frontier regions is the fact that remaining oil sales. growth. review later in this report. The main and gas reserves are increasingly difficult to The strategy work also revealed areas The relatively large and complex busi­strategic and structural highlights for 2010 produce from. New fields are often located where the company clearly has room for ness areas known from before have been were as follows. in deep waters, tough climate and remote improvement. In its concluding strategy reorganised into new and more focused areas. Exploration and production in such meeting, the board pointed to the following segments: Engineering Solutions, Product Launching Aker Contractors regions typically involve development of three priorities: Firstly: focus the business; Solutions and Field Life Solutions. Product The new company provisionally named new technology, deployment of groundsecondly: reorganise for greater transparSolutions consists of the following four Aker Contractors will be a focused EPC breaking products and large and complex ency and better positioning in growing sub-segments: Subsea, Drilling Technolo(engineering, procurement and construcprojects. ­markets; and thirdly: chase operational gies, Mooring & Loading Systems and tion) company with a strong position in the The oil price influences oil companies’ ­improvements. As a result, Aker Solutions ­Process Systems. Field Life Solutions North Sea field development market, key priorities for, and choices between, new will begin 2011 with strengthened focus on ­consists of Well Intervention Services, positions in selected international target developments, upgrades to existing faciliquality in project execution, technology, ­Oilfield Service & Marine Assets and regions, and offerings of distinct offshore ties and commitments to improving customer relations and people and teams. ­Maintenance, Modifications & Operations. products within a global market. The new ­recovery from producing fields. Oil prices A more focused portfolio was achieved The new business structure was comcompany will continue to target offshore thereby affect activity in Aker Solutions’ by divestment of parts of the P&C business plemented by a corporate centre charged and onshore EPC field development main markets. The group’s share of new area and the marine operation business with responsibility and means to chase ­projects with the ambition to maintain its deliveries compared with lifecycle services agreed in 2010. The formation of an inter­operational improvements throughout the strong position in the North Sea and further may accordingly vary over time in line with national EPC contract company will further company and achieve synergies in key grow its international presence. oil price trends. streamline operations. These transactions ­areas across the businesses such as Assuming approval from the general Aker Solutions’ success depends on the are further described below. Over time, the ­competence sharing, lessons learned, meeting, the new company will be estabtrust the company inspires in its customers. company will further scale down its finantechnology and customer relations. lished through a demerger. Until this transThe most important success factor for cial exposure in ships and marine The starting point for reinforcement of action is concluded Aker Contractors will achieving that trust is to deliver quality ­equipment. operational quality and performance will be operate as an increasingly self-contained products and projects predictably accordThe future Aker Solutions will provide the company’s six core values: Customer entity with separate board and manageing to agreed milestones. engineering solutions, product solutions drive, People and teams, Open and direct ment. and field life solutions for the upstream oil dialogue, Hands-on management, This new structure will offer customers and gas industry. Its range of offerings ­Delivering results and HSE mindset. more flexibility in alternative delivery Aker Solutions annual report 2010 7 Board of directors’ report m ­ odels for offshore greenfield oil and gas (now AMC Connector) installation vessel of March 2011. The team consists of the preciation and amortisation continuing developments. Aker Contractors will posiwill be transferred to Ezra. heads of eight sub-segments and six o ­ perations (EBITDA) amounted to NOK tion itself for large EPC contracts which The transaction was completed in March ­corporate centre managers and is headed 3 778 million (NOK 4 095 million), a typically would involve delivery of complete 2011. AMC is valued at USD 250 million. Of by the executive chairman. ­decrease of 7.7 percent from 2009. The platforms and integrated solutions. this, USD 50 million was settled in cash, The team composition reflects the new EBITDA margin in 2010 was 8.2 percent USD 100 million in shares in Ezra Holdings corporate structure and the corporate (same as in 2009). Sale of P&C Ltd, equivalent to approximately seven ­strategic priorities described above. Chief The decrease in operating revenues and As mentioned above, Aker Solutions ­percent ownership, and USD 50 million in a operating officer, chief technology officer EBITDA is partly due to fairly low activity ­decided to divest most of its onshore nonconvertible bond with maturity after 36 and chief strategic marketing are new within some of Aker Solutions’ operations oil and gas related process and construcmonths. The final USD 50 million plus inter­functions in the corporate leadership team. and partly due to phasing of projects. tion businesses. Parallel paths were exest will be settled in cash on and sub­ Three of the team members are non-­ ­However, due to good execution on some plored with a spin-off and listing of the sequent to delivery of Aker Connector, Norwegian citizens. Two are women. important projects, the EBITDA margin ­entity with a new brand as the base case. which is expected to take place in fourth Each member of the 2011 corporate ­increased somewhat. At the end of 2010 an agreement was quarter 2011. leadership team are presented on page 90 Depreciation, impairment charges and reached to transfer most of Aker Solutions’ of this report. Members of the 2010 amortisation from continuing operations process and construction businesses to New office projects ­executive team are listed on page 41. totalled NOK 871 million (NOK 897 million). Jacobs Engineering Group. The agreed Aker Solutions has been involved in the The identification and appointment of Consolidated earnings before interest transaction value is NOK 5.5 billion (USD development of two major office buildings President & CEO for Aker Solutions and the and taxes from continuing operations 913 million). The consideration was settled for the company in Norway. In December new company Aker Contractors is ongoing. (EBIT) were NOK 2 907 million (NOK 3 198 in cash at completion in February 2011. 2010, majority ownership of the building in million). Net financial expenses amounted For Aker Solutions, the transaction had Oslo was transferred to other investors and Presentation of the accounts to NOK 552 million (NOK 229 million). a positive net cash effect of approximately a letter of intent to sell the Stavanger Aker Solutions presents its accounts in The group hedges currency risk for all NOK 3.8 billion (USD 634 million), and a ­property was signed. ­accordance with the International Financial project exposures in accordance with wellcash to treasury effect of approximately The two transactions are expected to Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by established practice. Although this provides NOK 4.2 billion (USD 701 million). Net gain give a cash effect of approximately NOK the EU. Unless otherwise specified, figures a full currency hedge, parts of the hedging is estimated to be approximately NOK 2.4 500 million each which will be recognised in brackets present comparative data for (about 20 percent) do not meet the requirebillion (USD 400 million). in 2012 when the buildings are completed. the corresponding accounting period or ments for hedge accounting specified in The transaction did not include the US The Oslo transaction was completed in balance sheet date for the previous year. IFRS. This means that fluctuations in the EPC centre in Houston, and the Union 2010. The sale of the Stavanger property is In Aker Solutions’ consolidated financial value of the associated hedging instru­Construction business located in the US expected to be concluded in first half of statements, the P&C businesses that have ments are recognised with full effect as and Canada. They will be part of the new 2011. Aker Solutions will retain an ownerbeen transferred to Jacobs are classified as ­financial items in the accounts. The Aker Contractors company described ship interest of 25 percent in both discontinued operations. In 2010 these ­accounting effect appears as an expense of above. ­properties. businesses had operating revenues of NOK NOK 84 million (income of NOK 161 million) 4 500 million (NOK 4 221 million) and in a separate line under financial items. The Sale of AMC Management changes EBITDA of NOK 522 million (NOK 273 underlying projects hedged by the unqualiIn October 2010 an agreement was made In June 2010 President & CEO Simen ­million). Furthermore, AMC is classified as fied hedging instruments have had a to sell Aker Marine Contractors (AMC), a Lieungh left the company. Since then, Chief disposal group held for sale. ­positive accounting effect of NOK 23 subsidiary within the Subsea business area, Financial Officer Leif H Borge has been ­million (negative effect of NOK 81 million), to the Singapore listed company Ezra President of Aker Solutions ASA, while Income statement which is recognised as an ordinary operat­Holdings Ltd (Ezra) in exchange for equity ­Øyvind Eriksen in his capacity as executive Consolidated operating revenues for 2010 ing expense. instruments in Ezra and other considerachairman has taken on the role of CEO for for continuing operations declined by 7.2 Associated companies and joint tion. Furthermore 50 percent of Aker the group. percent to NOK 46 267 million (NOK 49 856 ­ventures reported a loss of NOK 32 million ­Solutions’ ownership in the Aker Connector A new leadership team was effective as million). Earnings before interest, tax, de(gain of NOK 112 million). The 2009 figure 8 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Board of directors’ report includes a gain of NOK 109 million on the 2013, and two of NOK 1 913 million and mainly due to reclassification of goodwill to Sakhalin I, Kashagan and Hebron. In addisale of the holding in ODIM ASA. NOK 187 million maturing in 2014. The held for sale related to the expected transtion, some new North Sea developments Tax expense was NOK 697 million (NOK bond loans have floating interest rates with actions of AMC and P&C. also contributed to a good workload 783 million). This corresponded to an effecthe exception of the NOK 150 million loan Net interest-bearing liabilities totalled through the year. tive tax rate of 29.6 percent (26.4 percent). maturing in 2013 and of NOK 1 913 million NOK 4 180 million (NOK 3 705 million) as of Operating revenues totalled NOK 20 876 Consolidated net profit from continuing maturing in 2014, which have a fixed rate. 31 December 2010. million (NOK 19 827 million). EBITDA was operations in 2010 was NOK 1 658 million Parts of the loans with floating rates Book equity including non-controlling NOK 2 040 million (NOK 1 116 million). The (NOK 2 186 million). Profit from discon­ have been converted to fixed rates through interests totalled NOK 10 354 million (NOK EBITDA margin was 9.8 percent, improving tinued operations net of income tax was interest swap agreements, and parts of the 9 123 million) as of 31 December 2010. from 5.6 percent in 2009. The improvement NOK 352 million (NOK 145 million), and net loans with fixed rates have been converted Non-controlling interests amounted to NOK partly reflected contract formats in the profit for 2010 was NOK 2 010 million (NOK to floating rates. 44 percent of the total 189 million (NOK 147 million). The group’s ­order backlog and improvements in opera2 331 million). This represented basic earnbond loans accordingly have fixed rates. equity ratio was 25.9 percent (22.8 percent) tions. The order backlog as of 31 ings per share of NOK 7.27 (NOK 8.40). The average remaining term to maturity for of the total balance sheet as of 31 Decem­December 2010 was NOK 26 265 million Basic earnings per share for continuing these loans is just under three years. ber 2010. (NOK 25 396 million). ­operations were NOK 5.96 (NOK 7.86). In addition, a syndicated bank facility of Consolidated capital adequacy and Maintaining a strong position in the EUR 750 million (corresponding to NOK ­liquidity are good, and help to ensure that North Sea market and further increasing its Cash flow 5 864 million) was established in October the group is well equipped to meet the international competitiveness were two key Consolidated cash flows from operating 2006, maturing in October 2012. NOK challenges and opportunities faced over targets for the ED&S business area in 2010. activities depend on a number of factors, 2 800 million of this facility had been drawn the next few years. Several significant contracts related to new including progress with and delivery of down as of 31 December 2010. field developments and field life extensions ­projects, changes in working capital and A credit facility of NOK 2 000 million was Segment reviews were awarded, supporting this ambition. pre-payments from customers. Net cash established by the group in December 2008 From 2011 Aker Solutions will present its The business area reported high activity flow from operations was NOK 2 131 with a term of 18 months and an option to accounts with three reporting segments: on the operations in Kazakhstan and ­million (NOK 4 245 million). extend this period by a further 18 months. Product Solutions, Engineering Solutions ­Russia throughout 2010 and delivery of the Net cash flow from investment activities The company exercised the extension and Field Life Solutions. Product Solutions groundbreaking Gjøa semi-submersible in 2010 was negative NOK 2 109 million ­option in 2010 and the credit facility has a include the following sub-segments: from the Stord yard. Within studies and (NOK 3 927 million, of which around NOK ­final maturity in December 2011. No draw­Subsea, Drilling Technologies, Process FEEDs, tendering activity has been high 1 400 million related to the acquisitions ings had been made on this facility as of 31 Systems and Mooring & Loading Systems with several contract wins. ­carried out in April 2009). Net cash flow December 2010. while Field Life Solutions include the In order to build flexible, cost-effective from financing activities was negative NOK A term loan of NOK 750 million with a ­sub-segments Maintenance, Modifications delivery models, a joint venture was estab121 million (NOK 278 million), with maturity of five years was established with & Operations (MMO), Well Intervention lished with the Kazakh industrial group ­dividends for the previous year of NOK 700 an international bank during the fourth ­Services and Oilfield Services & Marine ­KazKiproNefteTrans and the cooperation million (NOK 431 million). quarter of 2009 to strengthen the group’s ­Assets. with COOEC’s Quingdao yard in China has financial platform even further. This loan In the review of 2010 accounts below, been further developed. Balance sheet and liquidity matures in October 2014. reporting follows the old business area From March 2011, ED&S was separated Consolidated interest-bearing debt Fixed interest agreements entered into structure which was effective until March into three business segments: Engineering, amounted to NOK 8.2 billion (NOK 7.5 for 2011 on that date covered 46 percent of 2011. MMO (a sub-segment within Aker ­billion) as of 31 December 2010. the total debt. ­Solutions’ reporting segment Field Life Long-term debt consists of five bond Consolidated non-current assets totalled Energy Development & Services ­Solutions) and Aker Contractors (the EPC loans in the Norwegian market. These loans NOK 15.9 billion (NOK 16.1 billion) as of 31 The business area experienced high activity business) which will be established as a included one of NOK 572 million maturing December 2010, of which goodwill in the North Sea maintenance, separately listed company on the Oslo in 2011, two of NOK 150 million and NOK amounted to NOK 6.2 billion (NOK 7.4 modifications­and operations market and Stock Exchange. 300 million respectively which mature in ­billion). The reduction in goodwill in 2010 is on several international projects including Aker Solutions annual report 2010 9 Board of directors’ report Subsea The divestment of Aker Marine ten drilling equipment packages are EBITDA was the delay and cost increases The business area performed relatively well ­ ontractors was announced in October C ­scheduled for delivery in 2011. The activity on the Longview power project. This was in a demanding market. Total operating 2010. The transaction was completed in within process systems, deck machinery due to, among other factors, force majeure ­revenues in 2010 were NOK 11 844 million March 2011 as previously described. and mooring equipment has been high events, changes to the project, and third (NOK 12 972 million). EBITDA was NOK From March 2011 the business area was throughout the year. The installed base of party actions in furnishing engineering 1 170 million (NOK 1 399 million) and split in three sub-segments: Subsea, Well products continues to grow and provides a ­services, equipment and materials, all of EBITDA margin decreased from 10.8 Intervention Services and Oilfield Services strong basis for continued growth in which have directly and adversely ­impacted ­percent in 2009 to 9.9 percent. The EBITDA & Marine Assets. The first is a part of the ­lifecycle services. Aker Solutions’ project work. As a consewas negatively affected by low capacity reporting segment Product Solutions while In August, a new iPort technology centre quence of this, Aker Solutions decided to ­utilisation for the installation vessels and no the last two are part of the reporting was opened in Stavanger, combining reverse previously reported profits on this well intervention work for the vessel Skandi ­segment Field Life Solutions. ­simulators, technological facilities and project in third quarter 2010. Additional Aker. Record high well services activity ­services under one roof. In Brazil, a new losses were recognised in fourth quarter level in the North Sea and increased Products & Technologies drilling lifecycle services centre was 2010. ­activity within lifecycle services affected the Products & Technologies experienced opened in Rio das Ostras, bringing to the A major natural gas fired power plant, results positively. The order backlog at the lower activity during 2010 compared to Brazilian market the first 240° dome based the Halton Hills Generating Facility for end of 2010 was NOK 15 356 million (NOK 2009. The decline was mainly due to a drilling equipment simulator. This visualisa­TransCanada Energy Ltd. was completed in 12 395 million). ­general slowdown in drilling rig new builds, tion and simulator technology has proven Canada. The single biggest contract Key contract awards in 2010 included ­resulting in a lack of new contracts for to be a powerful tool to increase efficiency awarded during the year was the design, the USD 300 million Iara & Guara contract complete drilling packages in 2009 and into in design and operation of offshore supply, installation, construction and offshore Brazil, and the NOK 3.4 billion 2010. ­products and solutions. ­commissioning for a Biomass renewable contract to deliver a subsea gas compresOperating revenues decreased by 19.8 From March 2011 the business area was energy plant for RWE in Scotland. sion station to Statoil’s Åsgard field in the percent from the year before and came to split in three sub-segments: Drilling In December, a transfer of the majority North Sea. NOK 10 206 million (NOK 12 729 million). ­Technologies, Process Systems and of the operations in the Process & Execution of key projects has been a EBITDA for 2010 was NOK 859 million ­Mooring & Loading Systems, which will all ­Construction business area to Jacobs strong focus throughout the year. Success(NOK 1 304 million), and profitability be part of the reporting segment Product ­Engineering Group Inc was agreed. The ful deliveries have been made to Dong ­decreased to an EBITDA margin of 8.4 Solutions. transaction was closed in February 2011. ­Energy’s two fast-track projects, Trym and ­percent (10.2 percent). The transfer does not include the US EPC Oselvar. In August, first oil was produced Profit in the business area was adversely Process & Construction centre in Houston and the Union from Statoil’s demanding Morvin HP/HT affected by performance issues in the In 2010 Process & Construction enjoyed ­Construction business located in the US field, through a subsea production system ­drilling riser business. Mitigating actions high activity within the mining and metals, and Canada, which will all be part of the from Aker Solutions. The groundbreaking were initiated and the issues are expected and energy and environmental segments new Aker Contractors company. Ormen Lange subsea gas compression to be resolved in the first half of 2011. while other segments within onshore oil, ­pilot project also progressed well, with The order backlog as of 31 December gas and process still experienced slow Going concern start-up of system testing commencing as 2010 was NOK 7 360 million (NOK 9 632 markets. Based on the group’s financial results and planned in Q4 2010. million). The main contracts awarded Operating revenues fell by 8.7 percent to position, the board affirms that the annual The investment programme has ­during the year were two complete drilling NOK 8 703 million (NOK 9 534 million). accounts for 2010 have been prepared on ­continued in 2010. During 2010 Aker equipment packages to Daewoo and one EBITDA was NOK 213 million (NOK 484 the assumption that the company is a ­Solutions has increased capacity by for an undisclosed customer, in addition to million). The EBITDA margin fell to 2.4 ­going concern. ­investments in subsea infrastructure, driven several smaller contracts within process ­percent (5.1 percent). The order backlog particularly by developments in the North technologies and offshore and marine stood at NOK 6 594 million at year end Sea and off Brazil, South-East Asia and West equipment. 2010 (NOK 9 037 million). These numbers Africa. The group expects to continue this Four complete drilling equipment include discontinued operations. investment programme in the years to come. ­packages were delivered during 2010 and The main reason for the decrease in 10 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Board of directors’ report Parent company accounts and ­ ages but the conclusion did not have a which there are 20, provide direction on Financial risk includes currency, interest allocation of net profit ­material effect on the financial statements acceptable performance and guide rate, counterparty and liquidity risk. The The parent company, Aker Solutions ASA of Aker Solutions. ­decision-making in all parts of the corporate treasury function is responsible had a net profit of NOK 3 153 million for In March 2011, Aker Solutions ­company. The policy framework provides for managing financial market risk and the 2010 (NOK 1 052 million). Pursuant to the ­completed the transfer of ownership of the delegated authority and authorisations group’s exposure to financial markets. Aker company’s dividend policy, the board prosubsidiary Aker Marine Contractors (AMC) of the chief executive officer and the Solutions has defined procedures and poses that an ordinary dividend of NOK to Singapore listed Ezra Holdings Ltd. In ­organisation. ­routines for managing the group’s financial 2.75 per share be paid. The board thereby the transaction, AMC is valued at USD 250 Among its members, the board of Aker market exposure. proposes the following allocation of net million, as previously described. Solutions has appointed an audit profit: ­committee. In 2010 this committee was ■■ Currency risk: operating units in Aker Company, people and community chaired by Ida Helliesen. Other members of Solutions identify their own foreign Dividend NOK 741 million Corporate governance and risk the committee at the end of 2010 were Atle currency exposure and mitigate this via Other equity NOK 2 412 million management Teigland and Lone Fønss Schrøder. Fønss corporate treasury when contracts are Total allocated NOK 3 153 million Corporate governance in Aker Solutions is Schrøder replaced Øyvind Eriksen on the awarded. Such cover is provided in the performed within the framework of several audit committe when he assumed the role operating unit’s functional currency. All Unrestricted equity after the proposed different legal regulations and principles. as executive chairman in June 2010. major contracts are furthermore hedged ­dividend payment amounts to NOK 5 874 The respective national legal regulations in the external market and documented million. will always prevail at our different locations Risk management to qualify for hedge accounting. More around the world. The intention of the governance framework than 80 percent of project related Dividend As Aker Solutions exercises ultimate is to minimise risk through guiding currency risk exposure either qualify The parent company’s dividend policy governance and control from its head ­behaviour and decisions in the direction for hedge accounting or are embedded ­involves an intention to pay shareholders ­quarters in Norway, and is listed on Oslo that is most appropriate for the company. derivatives. an annual dividend of 30-50 percent of net Stock Exchange, Norwegian legislation is The management in Aker Solutions has put profit. The dividend will be paid in cash naturally a significant framework in terms of in place business processes, management ■■ Interest rate risk: it has been decided and/or through share buy-backs. company and securities legislation, meetings and organisational structures to that 30–50 percent of the group’s gross The board will propose a total dividend ­financial reporting and other corporate ensure that the governing framework is debt will have fixed interest rates with of NOK 2.75 per share for 2010 to the ­issues. ­being adhered to. durations related to the outstanding ­annual general meeting. Shareholders will Aker Solutions has therefore adopted Aker Solutions manages risks based on debt at any given time. then have received about 38 percent of net the Norwegian code of practice for four main areas.These are the strategic and Floating and fixed interest rate loans profit in the form of share buy-backs and ­corporate governance. A special statement financial risks, reputation risks, risks related are combined with interest rate swaps. dividend for the fiscal year. on the way Aker Solutions observes the to mergers and acquisitions and the risks 46 percent of the borrowings had fixed code of practice issued by the Norwegian related to the operations and project interest rate at the balance date. Events after the balance sheet date Corporate Governance Board can be found ­execution. In February 2011, Aker Solutions on page 81 of this annual report. ■■ Counterparty risk: assessments ­completed the sale of parts of its Process The corporate governance in Aker Strategic risks arise from pursuing the are made of major contractual & Construction business area to Jacobs, as ­Solutions is the traditional model where the wrong markets, segments, services and counterparties and sub-contractors. previously described. shareholders through the annual general products or customers. These are Risk is reduced through bank and parent The transaction value was approximeeting appoint the board of directors to ­managed through the annual strategy company guarantees and/or structuring mately NOK 5.5 billion and the consideraact as their representatives in governing ­process. In this process the board of of payment terms. Where bank risk and tion was settled in cash at completion. the company. ­directors ensures that the overall direction, the placement risk for surplus liquidity In February 2011, the rulings related to The board of directors sets the strategic markets and customers are reflected in the are concerned, specific maximum levels the 2003 contract with Hitachi America Ltd. direction, the overall governance structure, strategies. have been set for the group’s exposure were presented. Hitachi was awarded damvalues and main policies. The policies, of to each financial institution. A special Aker Solutions annual report 2010 11 Board of directors’ report debtor list is signed annually by the The board receives monthly reports on the quent reporting of possible improvement Corporate Legal supports all the abovegroup’s CFO. company’s performance and the status of measures. mentioned functions in their management its most important individual projects. of risk, in part through permanent member■■ Liquidity risk: the group’s policy is to Project and Operational Support provides ship of the Corporate Risk and Investment maintain satisfactory liquidity at the Risk management at corporate level support for project assessments in the Committees, and is also responsible for corporate level. This liquidity buffer Control of risks and compliance with ­tendering and execution phases, and chairs contractual and legal follow-up of projects, is expressed as the sum of undrawn ­policies represent key activities of the the corporate risk committee which reviews partners, contracts and disputes. bank credit facilities and available cash ­corporate functions. As part of the strategy all major tenders prior to bid approval and and bank deposits. Working capital process in 2010, the strenght of this evaluates project performance. Risk management in operating entities will vary over time, depending on the ­corporate role was further emphasised and Each operating unit is responsible for composition of revenues in the various strengthened. Corporate Treasury is responsible for ­ensuring compliance with corporate segments – and good liquidity is important. Each corporate function has a global ­financial market risk and the group’s ­procedures and systems and with all other responsibility for following up policies and ­exposure to financial markets, and is a applicable regulations and legal requireReputation risks could typically be both associated framework for its respective ­permanent member of the Corporate ments. The corporate staff and the hard to identify and assess as they can area. This applies regardless of the ­Investment Committee. Any acquisition, ­operating units collaborate closely to ­appear in many forms and situations. Albeit ­approach adopted for organising the disposal or capex investment that require ­identify, monitor, report on and manage risk elusive and intangible in its nature it can ­business, and is pursued in part through a approval from CEO or CFO is reviewed by for the whole group. This ensures nevertheless have the most severe impact close dialogue with the company’s this committee prior to final approval. ­compliance with requirements from the on a business. Aker Solutions has chosen ­corporate risk and investment committees board of directors and with internal and to focus reputation risk on assessments of and through monthly meetings related to Corporate Insurance handles the purchase external frame conditions and regulations. the risks related to countries with special financial and operational reporting by the of the group’s insurance programme and The Project Execution Model (PEM™) is challenges, frameworks for managing risks business areas. Each corporate function provides insurance-related support for a key element in the operating units’ and making decisions and the processes will also follow up its area of responsibility ­projects, as well as operating as the ­operating system. The PEM™ is the for ensuring compliance with policies. outside these formal processes through group’s captive underwriter. ­methodology followed when executing direct dialogue with the businesses. ­projects. All risk management processes Merger and acquisition risks can arise from Corporate Tax manages Aker Solutions’ tax and controls shall be described in the decisions to invest in other companies. The corporate functions which are most affairs, delegates responsibilities for ­respective operating system of the busiTypically the risks are related to the pricing relevant to risk managment are as follows: ­compliance with the tax policy and follow ness unit. The process descriptions in the of an acquisition, buying a company that up execution of the tax policy in the PEM™ vary according to the type of busidoes not fit well with the existing portfolio Enterprise Risk coordinates risk manage­business. Taxes include, but are not limited ness or project being performed but the or a company with hidden problems. Risks ment outside the traditional project and to, corporate and personal income taxes, general requirements of the PEM™ are the in this category are managed through a financial areas, and monitors and mitigates value added taxes (VAT), sales taxes, same across the company. special corporate investment committee. risks by way of ensuring coordination of the ­customs, duties, payroll taxes, employment The PEM™ has defined phases for compliance program and overall business taxes and stamp duties. ­projects. The main phases are Feasibility & Operations and project execution risks are ethics standards. Concept, Tender & Kick-off, System often more specific and related to potential Corporate Business Development ensures ­Definition, Detailing & Fabrication, incidents or challenges in a project or other Internal Compliance ensures that the units that all merger and acquisitions, major ­Assembly & Erection and System Complebusiness operations. These are typically have established and implemented the ­restructurings, real estate transactions and tion. In each of these phases there are dedirectly managed by the operating businecessary systems and routines for strategic partnerships are managed fined milestones that the project needs­to nesses and followed up by corporate ­ensuring compliance with both financial ­effectively. A key control for Business pass and between all the phases there are through the fixed monthly and quarterly and operational procedures and systems ­Development is the Corporate Investment gates. review structure and the corporate risk within the group, and conducts regular ­Committee. In order for a project to move from one committee ­visits to and checks of units with consegate to another a gate review is executed. 12 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Board of directors’ report This follows a set of defined controls and Aker Solutions has also implemented a the country risk management process. for dialogue and collaboration with other templates, all of which must be passed and Control Self Assessment (CSA) which is Following this review, the restricted enterprises, voluntary organisations, unions completed. Risk review is a key control in compulsory for operating entities. In this countries list was expanded in 2010 to and governmental authorities on a range of the gate review. The gate ­review is approcess, the operating units assess the ­include Myanmar (Burma), Iran, North crucial issues. proved by the project manager and all docquality and relevance of the established ­Korea, Sudan and Western Sahara Aker ASA’s frame agreement with umentation shall be stored for future refercontrol activities. The timing of the CSA is ­(Morocco). These are countries where Aker ­Norway’s United Federation of Trade ence. determined by the Corporate CFO. FurtherSolutions will not e ­ ngage in any new ­Unions and the International Metalworkers All projects in Aker Solutions have a more, each of the business units is required ­business or investment activities. Federation commits Aker Solutions to ­register where identified risks and oppor­ to conduct an annual evaluation of its Targeted training programmes help to working towards good labour relations and tunities are categorised and assessed in ­internal financial reporting control systems. strengthen understanding of, and ensure to respecting human and workers’ rights in terms of impact and probability. Most Finally, Internal Compliance may also compliance with Aker Solutions’ rules. The the communities in which it operates. ­projects use the standard template in the decide to conduct reviews of individual code of conduct is available on the group’s Aker Solutions has extended its risk dashboard tool, known as the Risk and ­operating units’ compliance with systems website. ­successful partnership with the Norwegian Opportunity Register, while some have and procedures. In 2010 such reviews were In 2010, particular attention has been Red Cross to the end of 2011. This collabo­developed their own registers. conducted in 8 units. given to business ethics and the code of ration incorporates financial support, All these risk registers are live docuconduct for operations abroad. An impor­exchanges of knowledge and voluntary ments that support follow-up of all risks in Corporate responsibility tant part of Aker Solutions’ strategy is to contributions. the project as well as the improvement Aker Solutions influences the economic grow its business and presence in targeted ­opportunities. It is the responsibility of the position, environment and lives of people markets outside of Norway. Although the Health, safety and the environment manager for any project to manage the and their communities in many parts of the operational conditions and challenges will Concern for health, safety and the environrisks in the project and to update the risk world. This position carries great responsidiffer from one market to another, there is ment (HSE) is one of Aker Solutions’ core register. Depending on the size of the bility and calls for solid governance and only one standard for Aker Solutions’ values. It has been a top management­project, and the complexity, a project may risk management within all areas of opera­conduct of business world wide; full driven guiding principle in the business for also have a separate Risk Manager. tion. Environmental, social responsibility ­compliance with applicable laws and many years. The fundamental principle and Risks in the operating entities are and governance issues are deeply embed­internal policies. This is a prerequisite for all attitude is that all incidents can be ­reported to the CEO in monthly operating ded in the activity of operating entities as our operations. Having in mind the ­prevented. On that basis, Aker Solutions reviews. These reviews form the main interwell as the functional resources. ­challenges that some businesses and works continuously to prevent incidents nal management control procedures and The company’s history and values, as ­projects might be faced with from time to which could cause harm to personnel or to reporting line across Aker Solutions. The well as international norms such as the UN time, there has been a targeted effort to material or non-material assets. report consists of a written report and a Global Compact, the Global Reporting Iniassist the businesses with, inter alia, subsequent review meeting with the CEO, tiative and the OECD guidelines, form the awareness training, reviews of agreements Driven by care CFO and other functional staff as required. basis of Aker Solutions’ corporate responand potential partners, the performance of The Just Care™ concept was introduced The operating entities are required to sibility (CR) principles and of the way it reintegrity due diligence, the auditing of as a common symbol for the group’s HSE perform regular audits of their projects and ports in this area. ­cooperation partners books and records culture and work in 2005. A key element is operations to ensure they follow the estabA comprehensive set of policies and and the set-up of business structures in that each person accepts personal responlished processes and procedures. Every compliance procedures are in place to ennew markets. During 2010, the corporate sibility for HSE, based on care for people year management of the unit reviews its sure that the entities operate according to functions and the operating businesses and the environment. Through Just Care™, operating system to ensure its integrity and sound principles in this respect. In 2010 have been re-organised in a manner that the HSE message reaches the individual relevance to operations. This review focus has continued to be high on ethics, will allow for a continuation and even closer employee more effectively. Managers as ­includes assessment of opportunities for whistle-blowing and combat of financial follow-up of this work in the years to come. role models and a strong commitment to improvement and the need for changes to crime. Furthermore, the company has conAker Solutions became a member of the communication and training create the operating system, strategy and ducted a thorough review of all third party UN’s Global Compact in 2008. Both glob­attitudes which integrate HSE in everyday ­objectives. representation agreements and updated ally and locally, this opens up opportunities work. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 13 Board of directors’ report A common HSE culture 32 000 employees, contract staff and percent the year before. Sick leave has At the end of 2010, 20 out of 50 operatEducation occupies a central place in Aker s­ ubcontractor personnel have participated r­ emained stable at a low level after a clear ing units were certified to the ISO 14001 Solutions’ HSE programme. Since it was in presentations of Just Rules. By making decline in 2003-2006. However, it should environmental standard. An eLearning introduced in 2005, the tailored HSE the most important preventative measures be noted that differences in local regula­programme with a particular focus on the leader­ship programme has been completed mandatory, clear and simple, Just Rules tions complicate a direct comparison of environment was introduced during 2008, by more than 2 700 leaders. 200 particiessentially contributes to preventing sick leave between different countries. and 15 000 employees have so far pated in 2010. This programme equips ­serious incidents. Although low in comparison with ­completed it. managers with the competence required to ­national average, company statistics show The above mentioned HSE leadership become better role models and to drive Achievements that sick leave in Aker Solutions’ development initiatives, eLearning and the HSE improvements. Despite continuous efforts to avoid serious ­Norwegian operations is relatively higher management system incorporate clear To reach out to all employees in an incidents, Aker Solutions regrettably than in other areas of the group, with an components which focus attention on the ­efficient way, the group has also developed ­suffered 19 serious personal injuries in average 4.1 percent in 2010. environment. Collectively, these contribute eLearning programmes for key areas within 2010, compared to 23 in 2009 and 18 in Special initiatives have been introduced to continuous improvements in environHSE. These include the Just Care™ culture 2008. No fatalities occurred in 2010. in 2010 with a focus on exercise and mental awareness and attitudes among and HSE as a core value, as well as more Of these 19 injuries, five involved work­nutrition. The company’s sponsorship of managers and other employees. specific topics on mastering stress and ing at height, two occurred during lifting the 2011 FIS Nordic World Ski ChampionThis inspires the organisation to achieve protecting the environment. More than operations, two from falling objects, three ship and ­participation in the Aker Aktiv further gains in environmental performance 77 000 eLearning sessions have been from energy isolation, three from tripping ­programme is part of this. in Aker Solutions’ own activities, and to ­completed since these programmes were and four from operating hand tools. assist customers in making environmental introduced in 2007. The total recordable injury frequency Environment improvements through the products (TRIF) per million working hours fell from The board takes the view that Aker ­developed by the group. Clear expectations 2.7 in 2009 to 2.6 in 2010. The lost-time ­Solutions’ activities pose only a limited Examples can be found in such areas as A common HSE operating system for the injury frequency (LTIF) per million working ­direct burden on the environment. No carbon capture, drilling rigs with a strong whole company sets standards for the hours declined from 0.9 in 2009 to 0.8. ­significant unintentional discharges or environmental performance in arctic condimost important elements in HSE manageThese figures also include Aker Solutions’ emissions to the surrounding environment tions, treatment of volatile organic ment and leadership. Regular audits unsub-contractors. were recorded in 2010. ­compounds, treatment of sulphur and cover possible gaps in relation to expectaAll serious incidents and near misses are Total energy consumption by the ­ammonia discharges, installation equiptions, and the necessary counter-measures investigated and the lessons from them ­business in 2010 (figures for 2009 in ment and support structures for wind are identified and initiated. This system implemented with the aim of preventing ­brackets), based on recorded use of oil, ­turbines, as well as the next generation of also functions as a framework for cross-­ similar incidents in the future. gas and electricity, amounted to 473 950 bio fuels. organisational sharing and learning. In 2010 the company’s umbilicals manu(588 206) megawatt-hours. Carbon facturing facilities in Mobile, US and Moss, ­emissions related to this usage are People and teams Learning from incidents Norway both celebrated five years without ­estimated at 109 573 (136 797) tonnes. The Keeping a workforce of highly skilled and On the basis of an analysis of incidents in lost time incidents and received companymethodology used derives from the Greenmotivated employees and leaders is a key recent years and exchange of experience in wide recognition for their results. Also in house Gas Protocol – GHG, and Global success factor for Aker Solutions. The the industry, Aker Solutions developed a 2010 Aker Solutions was named the winner Reporting Initiative – GRI. company continuously strives to increase new component in its HSE programme in of the prestigious Malaysian National Waste recorded in connection with the attractiveness, recruit new talent and 2008. Entitled Just Rules, this is a set of ­Occupational Safety & Health Award in the business totalled 42 171 (45 744) tonnes, of ­develop the competence of people and simple but specific safety regulations for heavy industry manufacturing category. which 86 percent was recycled. Reporting teams. For most operating entities in Aker particular work operations which are processes for environmental parameters Solutions, lack of skilled personnel is judged on the basis of experience to pose Sick leave have been improved, and the figures above ­regarded as a potential challenge and higher risks. Sick leave amounted to 2.0 percent of total are being reported since 2008 with greater therefore systematically addressed. Since the implementation more than working hours in 2010, compared with 2.2 accuracy than before. The attention paid by Aker Solutions to 14 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Board of directors’ report employee and leadership development is force reduced by 678, as a result of order clearly described in policies and by agreeOf the 815 participants in a cultural regarded as an important competitive intake and activities. ment, for instance in a three-party frame awareness programme, 212 are women. ­advantage. Aker Academy serves as the Aker Solutions has two main categories agreement with national and international Women account for 41 percent of the internal arena for know-how building and of employees: skilled workers and trade unions. This agreement, which was ­participants in the international trainee employee development throughout the ­operators (27.8 percent) and white collar extended for a new two-year period in p­ rogramme. group. It offers programmes in important staff (72.2 percent). 2010, covers general employment terms Three of Aker Solutions’ six shareholderprofessional subject areas such as leaderOf the employees, 50.3 percent worked and employee relations, with specific focus elected directors are women. All directors ship (at various levels), project execution, in Norway, 16.6 percent in the Americas, on non-discrimination. elected by and amongst employees are commercial management and HSE. 16.2 percent in the Asia Pacific region, 15.9 Each entity is encouraged to seek a men. This is in accordance with legal In addition, there are online and remote percent in Europe outside Norway and 1.0 work pattern which suits both employees ­requirements, since women account for “eLearning” programmes, with a total of percent in Africa and the Middle East. and the company, and which ensures a less than 20 percent of the overall work24 000 active users in more than 30 counWorkforce turnover in 2010 averaged 8.9 good balance between work and private force. tries. More than 118 000 eLearning courses percent, an increase of 2.2 percent from life. Examples of work patterns include The corporate management team had have been completed by Aker Solutions’ the year before. flexible working hours, remote or home one female member as of 31 December people since 2005. More than 59 000 applicants from over working and compressed working weeks. 2010. Ten percent of employees in senior The group’s global eLearning portal 30 countries were registered in the group’s These benefits are regarded as important management positions are women. Aver­offers more than 30 tailored programmes recruitment system during the year. A total elements in ensuring equal opportunities. age pay in the group is somewhat higher covering areas including project execution, of 2 128 new employees were recruited Equal opportunity for people of both for men than for women. This reflects the HSE (described above), corporate responfrom this base, with women accounting for genders is a basic principle in Aker fact that, on average, male employees sibility, cultural awareness and more 21.3 percent. ­Solutions. For several reasons, mainly ­continue to have greater pay seniority than ­company-specific, operational topics. In 2010 the third class of Aker Solutions’ ­related to history and industry tradition, women. ­Special courses are available in English international trainee programme completed male employees continue to be in majority which is the company’s corporate their final assignments. All ten trainees within the company. Of the total employees Performance culture and employee rewards ­language. were offered permanent employment in the 80.7 percent were men. The group’s remuneration policy specifies The commitment to eLearning gives all company. Since 2006 25 employees have Requirements are set for diversity in that the same pay will be given for the employees access to a cost-effective and been part of the programme. Recruitment ­recruitment and people development. Of same work, and that good performance will accessible range of courses. In addition to for class four is under way. A record the total 2 128 new employees in 2010, be rewarded. Key factors in determining boosting professional expertise in key ­number of 989 applications were sub­ 21.3 percent were women. The pay are the scope and level of responsi­ ­areas, these courses make a strong contrimitted. Up to 15 will be offered to partici­corresponding number for 2009 was 24 bility, job requirements, levels of expertise bution to building a common corporate pate in the 24 month programme which percent. and commitment, results achieved, and ­culture, as well as providing opportunities starts in August 2011. Management development programmes local pay levels. for mandatory certification in specific make an important contribution to getting Aker Solutions is working to increase the ­areas. Diversity and equal opportunity women into senior posts. 26 percent of correspondence between performance and Corporate programmes offered across With operations in most parts of the world participants in the company’s management pay. Objectives are set and performance is the group are supplemented by courses and activities that typically involve development programmes in 2010 were measured on both team and individual organised by local units, while delivered ­employees from several operating entities women. A special executive management ­levels, and for both behaviour and comunder the umbrella of the Aker Academy. and geographical regions, Aker Solutions is training programme completed in 2010 had mercial dimensions. Objectives are deterenriched by people from many cultures, six women participants of a total 27 (22 mined on the basis of strategies and bud­ Organisation and recruitment religions and ethnic groups. Equal opportupercent). Two female managers have also gets for each unit. As of 31 December 2010, the overall worknity for everyone is an established principle participated in McKinsey’s Centred LeaderAt least once a year, manager and force comprised 24 814 people, including for the group. No differences should exist ship Programme, an external management ­employees evaluate the results achieved. 19 444 employed directly and 5 370 on between genders or ethnic groups. and networking scheme for senior female This performance dialogue provides the contract. During the year the overall workThis commitment to equal opportunity is executives. basis for recognition, rewards and career Aker Solutions annual report 2010 15 Board of directors’ report opportunities, and gives direction for 341 million), of which NOK 157 million has Campos Basin, where performance tant product elements which enabled the ­potential individual performance improvebeen expensed because the criteria for ­verification testing will be initiated in co-­ c ­ ompany to take a lead in several of the ments. capitalisation was not met (NOK 164 operation with field operator Petrobras. segments in which it is competing. Performance based pay is regarded as ­million). In addition the group received Within the MMO business the R&D ­Solutions and products for the Brazilian an attractive part of the total remuneration ­contributions from customers and public ­projects have focused on integrated operapre-salt fields and solutions for deepwater paid to employees. Different variable pay funding worth NOK 110 million for R&D tions and strategic development of technisubsea well intervention were just some of programmes are in place for different types (NOK 22 million) related to specific procal integrity management services (TIMS), the 2010 achievements. of positions. Annual variable pay is given to jects. enhanced structural integrity maintenance Within power, processing and boosting, employees on the basis of the commercial Aker Solutions strives to maintain inprograms (SIMP) and implementation of Aker Solutions are working together with results achieved by the relevant business vestment levels in R&D through the busiadvanced non-destructive testing (NDT) major customers and suppliers to qualify unit or project. Managers earn variable pay ness cycles. For this reason the 2010 R&D inspection technologies. and commercialise concepts for subsea on the basis of the commercial results for spend was only slightly reduced from 2009 These technologies and services will gas compression and ultra-deepwater the units they influence and the extent to levels despite lower overall revenue for the further strengthen our position and ­subsea boosting. In subsea gas compreswhich they comply with the group’s values. group and fewer projects awarded by cuscapabili­ties within this area and helps us sion, major milestones were reached in Variable pay for senior executives is tomers through the year compared to 2009 improve regularity and predictability vital for 2010 through successful system integration spread over several years to encourage levels. However, the customer contribution our clients and authorities. MMO partici­ testing of the Ormen Lange subsea gas long-term achievement of results and a to product development increased signifipation in joint industry projects and internal compression pilot station and through the lasting employee relationship. Further cantly. development programmes have strengthaward of the Åsgard subsea gas com­ ­details of the remuneration of senior execuThe technology development in Aker ened our position in areas such as compupression project. tives are provided in Note 10 Salaries, Solutions is market driven and cost tational fluid dynamics (Comflow) and The landmark Åsgard project builds on wages and social security costs to the ­effective. It is often pursued in close coopwithin analysis of extreme stresses and the technology leap achieved through the ­consolidated financial statements. eration with business partners and ­fatigue in the tensileand pressure armour Ormen Lange subsea gas compression ­customers worldwide. Our skilled engineerlayers of flexible pipes in 2010. ­pilot, where challenges within real time Research and development ing teams around the world are focused on Methods and technologies for the ­condition monitoring and process control, Aker Solutions has a long standing culture understanding the local and global market ­decommissioning market have been develall electric controls, cooling, power distrifor innovation and technology developchallenges and translate these into cost oped as a spin-off of performed removal bution, and customising and packaging of ment. This is founded on a broad and effective technical solutions with focus on projects. The decommissioning market is topside technologies for subsea environstrong engineering community with handsquality and safety. Aker Solutions’ long growing with 350 platforms to be removed ment have been overcome. on experience from project driven engistanding track record and experience from within the next 30 years on the Norwegian Aker Solutions is a leading player in neering and project management through developing and qualifying solutions for the and UK sector. Further improvement of the steel tube umbilicals. To be able to address ­procurement, construction, commissioning North Sea will continue to be exploited and jacket removal technology has been the increasingly more complex and harsh and operations. further to that developed and exported into i­ nitiated. ­fluids, the company is focusing on qualifyThe ability to continuously develop and global markets. Within Subsea, Aker Solutions contining new materials and composites. Work qualify new technology to meet our In 2010 the process systems business ued to strengthen its production systems has also been done to further develop and ­customers’ needs and secure our competiengineered and fabricated the first full ­product portfolio. New and further qualify direct electric heating (DEH) cables tive advantage is fundamental to the group stream multistage cyclonic separation ­developed products and solutions were for risers, pipelines and other applications. and it will continue to be further strength­system using three different types of hydro-­ commercialised within power, processing The first of the company’s deepwater ened going forward. cyclones and compact degassing. With a and boosting. subsea equipment installation vessels was In 2010, the company’s IP position was capacity of 40 000 barrels of liquid per day, Cost effective installation and operationdelivered to Petrobras in early 2010. The further developed through new patent the system is designed for de-oiling of friendly solutions for gas fields, deepwater second of these vessels – which features a ­filings and granted applications. Total heavy oil with very high water production applications and complex fluids were priortotal solution for installation, completion ­research and development (R&D) investlevels. In 2011 this CySep system will be itised in 2010. During the year, Aker and well intervention – was also completed ments in 2010 was NOK 329 million (NOK ­installed on an offshore heavy oil field in the ­Solutions succeeded in qualifying imporand delivered for operation in 2010. 16 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Board of directors’ report Last year, some of the most significant The modular derrick drilling machine of the 25 most liquid shares listed on the meeting’s decision until the next ordinary technology achievements for Aker (MDDM’s) 1000 AC™ was developed in Oslo Stock Exchange. This index rose by general meeting, but no longer than 30 ­Solutions in the field of drilling technologies close collaboration with drilling contractor 18 percent over the same period. No June 2012. New terms will then be set for were the opening of the iPort centre in Transocean and was designed as what is changes occurred in the proportion of the the buy-back programme. The board was ­Stavanger and the spotlight on new techdescribed as a radically improved derrick shares owned by the principal shareholder not mandated in 2010 to increase the share nology awards at Offshore Technology drilling machine that provides enhanced in 2010. Further information on the share capital. Conference (OTC) where Aker Solutions safety, extreme performance efficiency, and and shareholders can be found on page 76 received a prestigious innovation award for drilling uptime. of this annual report. Acknowledgements the top drive MH MDDM 1000 AC™. The companies put considerable effort The board extends its thanks to the The iPort centre in Stavanger was in­ into identifying the current and future limi­ In connection with the share purchase ­management and workforce for the augurated during the Offshore Northern tations of available top drives and the programme for employees (see page 78), ­commitment displayed in 2010. The quality Seas (ONS) conference in Stavanger in ­related design and components. The result the board was mandated by the annual and expertise built up in Aker Solutions will ­August. The main engine behind the iPort of this is the modular derrick drilling general meeting on 8 April 2010 to buy make important contributions to enhancing products is a 3D simulator software tech­machine called MDDM 1000 AC™. back shares up to a total nominal value of the group’s competitive advantage in a nology that is used for training, planning Aker Solutions also commercialised NOK 54 800 000, corresponding to ten ­demanding market. and testing purposes in relation to drilling other new drilling products in 2010, such as ­percent of the issued shares. The mandate projects. The simulator makes quality a new iron roughneck and a new pipe deck applies until the next general meeting, ­assurance of rigs and equipment much pipe handler. which is due to take place on 6 May 2011. easier. Having access to complex informaAs of 31 December 2010, Aker Solutions tion, in the form of images, simplifies Share and share capital had bought back 680 000 of its own shares ­project planning and execution, clarifies During 2010, the price of the company’s with a value of NOK 56.7 million correcommunication, and reduces risk and cost shares rose by 31.5 percent. The closing sponding to 0.2 percent of the issued total. in addition to having simulators as working price as of 31 December was NOK 99.25. The board will propose an extension of tools. Aker Solutions is included in he OBX index the mandate from the date of the general Fornebu, 9 March 2011 Board of Directors and President & CFO of Aker Solutions ASA Øyvind Eriksen Lone Fønns Schrøder Kjell Inge Røkke Vibeke Hammer Madsen Mikael Lilius Ida Helliesen Chairman Atle Teigland Åsmund Knutsen Arild Håvik Arve Toft Leif Hejø Borge President & CFO Aker Solutions annual report 2010 17 Board of directors’ report Declaration by the Board of Directors and President & CFO The Board and the President & CFO have today considered and approved the annual ­report and financial statements for the Aker Solutions group and its parent company Aker Solutions ASA for the 2010 calendar year ended on 31 December 2010. The Board has based this declaration on reports and statements from the group’s ­Executive Chairman and President & CFO, on the results of the group’s activities, and on other information that is essential to assess the group’s position. To the best of our knowledge: ■■ The 2010 financial statements for the group and parent company have been prepared in accordance with all applicable accounting standards ■■ The information provided in the financial statements gives a true and fair portrayal of the group and parent company’s assets, liabilities, profit and overall financial position as of 31 December 2010 ■■ The annual report provides a true and fair overview of: – the development, profit and financial position of the group and parent company – the most significant risks and uncertainties facing the group and the parent company Fornebu, 9 March 2011 Board of Directors and President & CFO of Aker Solutions ASA Øyvind Eriksen Lone Fønns Schrøder Kjell Inge Røkke Vibeke Hammer Madsen Mikael Lilius Ida Helliesen Chairman Atle Teigland Åsmund Knutsen Arild Håvik Arve Toft Leif Hejø Borge President & CFO 18 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts Financial statements and notes Aker Solutions group Aker Solutions ASA Consolidated income statement 1.1 – 31.12  19 Note 18 Construction contracts 47 Income statement 1.1 – 31.12 67 Consolidated statement of Note 19 Trade and other payables 47 Balance sheet 1.1 – 31.12 67 comprehensive income 1.1 – 31.12 20 Note 20 Provisions 47 Statement of cash flow 1.1 – 31.12 68 Consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 21 Note 21 Derivative financial instruments 48 Notes to the financial statements 68 Note 22 Property, plant and equipment 50 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 1.1 – 31.12 22 Note 1 Accounting principles 68 Note 23 Intangible assets 51 Consolidated statement of cash flow 1.1 – 31.12 23 Note 2 Operating expenses 69 Note 24 Interest-bearing receivables 52 Notes to the financial statements 24 Note 3 Net financial items 69 Note 25 Investments in associated companies and Note 1 Corporate information 24 jointly controlled entities 52 Note 4 Tax 69 Note 2 Basis for preparation 24 Note 26 Jointly controlled operations  54 Note 5 Investments in group companies 70 Note 3 Accounting principles 24 Note 27 Investments in other companies 54 Note 6 Shareholders’ equity 70 Note 4 Accounting estimates and judgements 28 Note 28 Borrowings 55 Note 7 Receivables and borrowings from group companies 71 Note 5 Financial risk management and exposures 29 Note 29 Other non-current liabilities 58 Note 8 Other non-current interest-bearing receivables 71 Note 6 Business combinations and acquisition of nonNote 30 Employee benefits pension 58 controlling interests 33 Note 9 Other current receivables and current liabilities 71 Note 31 Capital and reserves 61 Note 7 Disposal groups and discontinued operations 33 Note 10 Borrowings 72 Note 32 Earnings per share 61 Note 8 Related parties 35 Note 11 Guarantees 74 Note 33 Financial instruments 62 Note 9 Operating segments 36 Note 12 Financial risk management and Note 34 Contingent events 63 financial instruments 74 Note 10 Salaries, wages and social security costs 39 Note 35 Number of employees (unaudited) 64 Note 13 Related parties 74 Note 11 Operating leases 42 Note 36 Group companies as of 31 December 2010 64 Note 14 Shareholders 74 Note 12 Other operating expenses 43 Note 37: Subsequent events 66 Note 13 Finance income and expenses 43 Note 14 Tax 44 Note 15 Net capital employed 46 Note 16 Trade and other receivables 46 Auditor’s report 75 Note 17 Inventories 46 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 19 Annual accounts – group Aker Solutions group Consolidated income statement 1.1 – 31.12 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK Note 2010 2009 Operating revenue 46 109 49 527 Earnings per share 32 Other income 158 329 Basic earnings per share 7.27 8.40 Total revenue and other income 9 46 267 49 856 Diluted earnings per share 7.25 8.39 Materials, goods and services (24 876) (27 949) Earnings per share continuing operations Salaries, wages and social security costs 10 (12 606) (12 511) Basic earnings per share 5.96 7.86 Other operating expenses 11, 12 (5 007) (5 301) Diluted earnings per share 5.95 7.85 Total operating expenses (42 489) (45 761) Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment 3 778 4 095 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 22, 23 (871) (897) Operating profit 2 907 3 198 Finance income 13 101 63 Finance expenses 13 (537) (565) Profit (loss) from associated companies and jointly controlled entities 25 (32) 112 Profit (loss) on foreign currency forward contracts 13 (84) 161 Profit before tax 2 355 2 969 Income tax expense 14 (697) (783) Profit from continuing operations 1 658 2 186 Profit from discontinued operations (net of income tax) 7 352 145 Profit for the period 2 010 2 331 Profit for the period attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 1 957 2 260 Non-controlling interests 53 71 Profit for the period 2 010 2 331 20 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Aker Solutions group Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1.1 – 31.12 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Profit for the period 2 010 2 331 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges, effective portion of changes in fair value (102) (761) Cash flow hedges, reclassification to income statement 46 397 Cash flow hedges, deferred tax 16 102 Total cash flow hedges (40) (262) Net gain on hedge of net investment in foreign operations, net of tax 68 Translation differences equity-accounted investees (2) (17) Translation differences foreign operations (73) (972) Other comprehensive income, net of tax (47) (1 234) Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 1 963 1 080 Attributable to: Equity holders of Aker Solutions ASA 1 903 1 027 Non-controlling interests 60 53 Total comprehensive income for the period 1 963 1 080 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 21 Annual accounts – group Aker Solutions group Consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets Equity Property, plant and equipment 22 7 494 6 531 Issued capital 548 548 Deferred tax assets 14 487 389 Treasury shares (9) (9) Intangible assets 23 6 783 7 915 Other capital paid in 1 534 1 534 Employee benefit assets 30 95 167 Reserves (763) (709) Non-current interest-bearing receivables 24 225 184 Retained earnings 8 855 7 612 Other non-current operating assets 221 338 Total equity attributable to the equity holders in Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities 25 424 423 Aker Solutions ASA 10 165 8 976 Investments in other companies 27 157 135 Non-controlling interests 189 147 Total non-current assets 15 886 16 082 Total equity 10 354 9 123 Current assets Non-current liabilities Current tax assets 14 238 97 Non-current borrowings 28 7 508 7 335 Inventories 17 1 686 1 417 Employee benefits obligations 30 647 910 Trade and other receivables 16 14 870 18 332 Deferred tax liabilities 14 829 692 Derivative financial instruments 21 386 372 Other non-current liabilities 29 753 891 Current interest-bearing receivables 24 621 440 Total non-current liabilities 9 737 9 828 Cash and cash equivalents 3 198 3 186 Assets classified as held for sale 7 3 136 Current liabilities Total current assets 24 135 23 844 Current borrowings 28 716 180 Current tax liabilities 14 115 211 Total assets 40 021 39 926 Provisions 20 1 039 869 Trade and other payables 19 16 278 19 370 Derivative financial instruments 21 243 345 Liabilities classified as held for sale 7 1 539 Total current liabilities 19 930 20 975 Total liabilities 29 667 30 803 Total liabilities and equity 40 021 39 926 Fornebu, 9 March 2011 Board of Directors and President & CFO of Aker Solutions ASA Øyvind Eriksen Lone Fønns Schrøder Kjell Inge Røkke Vibeke Hammer Madsen Mikael Lilius Ida Helliesen Chairman Atle Teigland Åsmund Knutsen Arild Håvik Arve Toft Leif Hejø Borge President & CFO 22 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Aker Solutions group Consolidated statement of changes in equity 1.1 – 31.12 Currency Total parent NonNumber of Share Treasury Other capital Retained Hedging ­translation ­company ­equity controlling Total Amounts in NOK million shares capital shares paid in earnings reserve2 reserve2 holders interests equity Equity as of 1 January 2009 274 000 000 548 (10) 1 534 5 868 410 100 8 450 156 8 606 Profit for the period 2 260 2 260 71 2 331 Other comprehensive income (262) (971) (1 233) (18) (1 251) Total comprehensive income 2 260 (262) (971) 1 027 53 1 080 Business combination (14) 14 Transactions with equity holders Dividend (431) (431) (20) (451) Treasury shares acquired (1) (19) (20) (20) Employee share purchase programme1 2 44 46 46 Change in non-controlling interests (96) (96) (42) (138) Total transactions with equity holders 1 (502) (501) (62) (563) Equity as of 31 December 2009 274 000 000 548 (9) 1 534 7 612 162 (871) 8 976 147 9 123 Profit for the period 1 957 1 957 53 2 010 Other comprehensive income (40) (14) (54) 7 (47) Total comprehensive income 1 957 (40) (14) 1 903 60 1 963 Transactions with equity holders Dividend (700) (700) (14) (714) Treasury shares acquired (1) (56) (57) (57) Employee share purchase programme1 1 55 56 56 Change in non-controlling interests (13) (13) (4) (17) Total transactions with equity holders (714) (714) (18) (732) Equity as of 31 December 2010 274 000 000 548 (9) 1 534 8 855 122 (885) 10 165 189 10 354 1) See note 10 Salaries, wages and social security costs. 2) See note 32 Capital and reserves. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 23 Annual accounts – group Aker Solutions group Consolidated statement of cash flow 1.1 – 31.12 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from financing activities Profit for the period continuing operations 1 658 2 186 Proceeds from borrowings 799 3 341 Profit for the period discontinued operations 7 352 145 Repayment of borrowings (200) (3 116) Profit for the period 2 010 2 331 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (13) (78) Proceeds from non-controlling interests 8 Adjusted for: Repurchase of treasury shares 31 (57) (20) Income tax expense 14 826 877 Proceeds from employees share purchase programme 31 56 46 Net interest cost 460 411 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (14) (20) (Profit) loss on foreign currency forward contracts 13 84 (161) Dividends to shareholders in Aker Solutions 31 (700) (431) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 22, 23 889 910 Net cash from financing activities (121) (278) (Profit) loss on disposals and non-cash effects1 (156) (332) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and bank deposits 111 (682) (Profit) loss from associated companies and jointly Net increase (decrease) in cash and bank deposits 12 (642) ­controlled entities 31 (114) Interest paid (454) (308) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 3 186 3 828 Interest received 70 27 Income taxes paid (997) (1 008) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period2 3 198 3 186 Changes in other net operating assets (632) 1 612 Of which is restricted cash3 723 380 Net cash from operating activities 9 2 131 4 245 1) Includes gain or loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment and gain on acquisitions related to remeasurement of previously held interests. 2) Additional undrawn committed non-current bank revolving credit facilities amounted to NOK 5.1 billion, and is together with cash Cash flow from investing activities and cash equivalents giving a total liquidity buffer of NOK 8.3 billion. Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (101) (1 117) 3) Restricted cash includes inter alia cash in joint ventures where both partners must agree before use outside the joint venture, and NOK 381 million regarding sale of office building at Fornebu which was released in January 2011. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 22 (2 467) (2 201) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 742 40 Proceeds from sale of associates 24 622 Other investments (82) (1 184) Payment related to increase in interest-bearing receivables (225) (87) Net cash from investing activities (2 109) (3 927) 24 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Aker Solutions group Notes to the financial statements Note 1 Corporate information ■■ The defined benefit asset is recognised as the ment states that, in a hedge of a net investment in and are recognised initially at cost. The group’s net total of the plan assets, plus unrecognised a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments investment includes goodwill identified on acquisipast service cost and unrecognised actuarial may be held by any entity or entities within the tion, net of any accumulated impairment losses. Aker Solutions ASA (the company) is a limited lialosses, less unrecognised actuarial gains group, including the foreign operation itself, as long bility company incorporated and domiciled at and the present value of the defined benefit as the designation, documentation and effectiveThe consolidated financial statements include the Fornebu in Bærum, Norway. The consolidated obligation. ness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net group’s share of the income and expenses and financial statements of Aker Solutions ASA incorinvestment hedge are satisfied. IFRIC 16 is impleother comprehensive income, after adjustments to porate the financial statements of the company Functional and presentation currency mented, but does not have a significant effect on align the accounting policies with those of the and its subsidiaries (referred to collectively as “the These consolidated financial statements are prethe consolidated financial statements. group, from the date that significant influence or group” and separately as group companies) and sented in NOK, which is Aker Solutions ASA’s funcjoint control commences until the date that signifithe group’s interest in associates and jointly contional currency. All financial information presented cant influence or joint control ceases. The purpose trolled entities. in NOK has been rounded to the nearest of the investment determines where the investment million (NOK million), except when otherwise indiNote 3 Accounting principles is presented in the income statement. When entiAker Solutions provides engineering solutions, cated. ties are formed to share risk in executing a project product solutions, field life solutions and executes Summary of significant accounting policies or are closely related to Aker Solutions operating large and complex field development projects for Use of estimates and judgements The principal accounting policies applied in the activities, the share of the profit or loss is reported the oil and gas industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformpreparation of these consolidated financial stateas part of Other income in operating profit. Share ity with IFRS requires management to make judgements are set out below. These policies have been of the profit or loss on financial investments is The company is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange ments, estimates and assumptions that affect the consistently applied to all the years presented, reported as part of Financial items. under the ticker AKSO. application of policies and reported amounts of unless otherwise stated. assets and liabilities, income and expenses. When the group’s share of losses exceeds its interAlthough management believes these assumptions Consolidation est in an equity-accounted investee, the carrying Note 2 Basis for preparation to be reasonable, given historical experience, Subsidiaries amount of that interest, including any long-term actual amounts and results could differ from these Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the cominvestments, is reduced to zero, and further losses Statement of compliance estimates. The items involving a higher degree of pany. Control exists when the company has the are not recognised except to the extent that the The consolidated financial statements have been judgement or complexity, and items where power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial group incurred legal or constructive obligations or prepared in accordance with International Financial assumptions and estimates are material to the conand operating policies of an entity so as to obtain has made payments on behalf of the investee. Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved by the solidated financial statements are disclosed in note benefits from its activities. When assessing control, European Union, their interpretations adopted by 4 Accounting estimates and judgements. voting rights that are exercisable or convertible are Jointly controlled operations the International Accounting Standards Board taken into account. The financial statements of Jointly controlled operations involve the use of (IASB) and the additional requirements of the NorThe estimates and underlying assumptions are subsidiaries are included in the consolidated finanassets and other resources of the venturers rather wegian Accounting Act as of 31 December 2010. reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to cial statements from the date that control comthan the establishment of a corporation, partneraccounting estimates are recognised in the period mences until the date that control ceases. ship or other entity. Each venturer uses its own The consolidated financial statements were in which the estimate is revised and in any future assets and incurs liabilities which represents its approved by the Board of Directors and President periods affected. Investments in associates and jointly controlled own obligations under the agreement. The agree& CFO as shown on the dated and signed balance entities ment also determines how the revenues are shared sheet. The consolidated financial statements will Changes in accounting policies Associates are those entities in which the group among the venturers. be authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 6 The group has not made any changes in accounthas significant influence, but not control, over the May 2011. Until the latter date the Board of Direcing policies in 2010. financial and operating policies. Significant influTransactions eliminated on consolidation tors have the authority to amend the financial ence is presumed to exist when the group holds Intra-group balances and transactions, and any statements. The group early adopted IFRS 3 Business Combibetween 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of unrealised gains and losses or income and nations (2008) and IAS 27 Consolidation and Sepaanother entity. Joint ventures are those entities expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are Basis of measurement rate Financial Statements (2008) for all business over whose activities the group has joint control, eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial The consolidated financial statements have been combinations occurring in the financial year startestablished by contractual agreement and requiring statements. Unrealised gains arising from transacprepared on the historical cost basis except ing 1 January 2009. The impacts of these adopunanimous consent of the venturers for strategic, tions with associates and jointly controlled entities for the following material items in the statement of tions were provided in the annual report for 2009. financial and operating decisions. are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest financial position: in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the ■■ Derivative financial instruments are measured IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a net investment in a foreign Investments in associates and jointly controlled same way as unrealised gains, but only to the at fair value operation’ was effective 1 July 2009. This amendentities are accounted for using the equity method extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 25 Annual accounts – group Non-current assets and disposal groups ferences arising on translation are recognised in Fair value hedges Revenue recognition held for sale the income statement. Non-monetary assets and The change in fair value of the hedging instrument Construction contracts Non-current assets and disposal groups are classiliabilities measured in terms of historical cost in a is recognised in the consolidated income stateEngineering and construction contract revenues fied as held for sale when their carrying amounts foreign currency are translated using the exchange ment. The change in fair value of the hedged item are recognised using the percentage of completion will be recovered principally through a sale transrate on the date of the transaction. Non-monetary attributable to the risk hedged is recorded as part method, based primarily on contract costs incurred action rather than through continuing use. This assets and liabilities denominated in foreign curof the carrying value of the hedged item. When an to date compared to estimated total contract condition is regarded as met only when the sale is rencies that are stated at fair value are translated to unrecognised firm commitment is designated as a costs. When the final outcome of a contract cannot highly probable and the asset or disposal group is the functional currency at the exchange rates on hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in be reliably estimated, contract revenue is recogavailable for immediate sale in its present condithe date the fair value was determined. fair value of the firm commitment attributable to the nised only to the extent of costs incurred that are tion. Management must be committed to the sale, hedged risk is recognised as an asset or liability expected to be recoverable. The revenue recogwhich should be expected to qualify for recognition Investments in foreign operations with corresponding gain or loss recognised in the nised in one period will be the revenues attributaas a completed sale within one year from the date Items included in the financial statements of each income statement. ble to the period’s progress and the progress to of classification. of the group’s entities are measured using the curdate effect of any changes to the estimated final rency of the primary economic environment in Cash flow hedges outcome. Losses on contracts are fully recognised Non-current assets and disposal groups classified which the entity operates. The results and financial The effective portion of changes in the fair value of when identified. as held for sale are measured at the lower of their position of all the group entities that have a funcderivatives that are designated and qualifying as carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. tional currency different from the group’s presentacash flow hedges is recognised in comprehensive Contract revenues include variation orders and Property, plant and equipment and intangible tion currency are translated into the presentation income as a hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating incentive bonuses when it is probable that they will assets once classified as held for sale are not currency as follows: to the ineffective portion of derivative hedging instruresult in revenue that can be measured reliably. depreciated or amortised, but are considered in the ■■ Assets and liabilities, including goodwill and ments is recognised immediately in the income Disputed amounts and claims are recognised when overall impairment testing of the disposal group. fair value adjustments, for each balance sheet statement within net financial items. Amounts accuit is probable the customer will accept the claim presented are translated at the closing rate on mulated in hedge reserves are reclassified to the and the amount can be measured reliably. Contract No reclassifications are made for years prior to the the date of that balance sheet. income statement in the periods when the hedged costs include costs that relate directly to the speyear a business is first classified as a held for sale. ■■ Income and expenses for each income item is recognised in the income statement. cific contract and allocated costs that are attributstatement are translated at average exchange able to general contract activity. Costs that cannot Discontinued operations rates for the year, calculated on the basis of 12 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the group be attributed to contract activity are expensed. A discontinued operation is a component of the monthly rates. revokes the hedging relationship, or when the Bidding costs are capitalised when it is probable group’s business that represents a separate major hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, that the company will obtain the contract. All other line of business or geographical area of operations Exchange differences arising from the translation or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge bidding costs are expensed as incurred. that has been disposed of or is held for sale or of the net investment in foreign operations, and of accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in distribution, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively related hedges, are included in comprehensive comprehensive income as a hedge reserve at that See note 4 Accounting estimates and judgements with a view to resale. Classification as a discontinincome as a translation reserve. These translation time remains in the hedge reserve and is recogfor further description of recognition of construcued operation occurs upon disposal or when the differences are reclassified to the income statenised in income statement when the forecast transtion contract revenue. operation meets the criteria to be classified as held ment upon disposal of the related operations or action is ultimately recognised in the income statefor sale, if earlier. when settlement is likely to occur in the near ment. When a forecast transaction is no longer Goods sold and services rendered future. expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in In the consolidated income statement income and was deferred in the hedge reserve is recognised the income statement when the significant risks expenses from discontinued operations are Exchange differences arising on a non-current immediately in the income statement. and rewards of ownership have been transferred to reported separately from income and expenses monetary item where settlement in the near future the buyer, which is usually when goods are from continuing operations, down to the level of is not probable forms part of the net investment in Net investment hedge shipped to customers. Revenue from services renprofit after taxes. When an operation is classified that entity. Such exchange differences are recogGains or losses arising from the hedging instrudered is recognised in the income statement in as a discontinued operation, the comparative nised in comprehensive income. ments relating to the effective portions of the net proportion to the stage of completion of the transincome statement is re-presented as if the operainvestment hedges are recognised in comprehenaction at the balance sheet date or is invoiced tion had been discontinued from the start of the Hedging activities sive income as translation reserves. These translabased on hours performed at agreed rates. The comparative year. Derivatives are either: tion reserves are reclassified to the income statestage of completion is normally assessed based on ■■ Hedges of the fair value of assets or liabilities ment upon disposal of the hedged net investthe proportion of costs incurred for work perForeign currency (fair value hedge) ments, offsetting the translation differences from formed to date compared to the estimated total Foreign currency transactions and balances ■■ Hedges of a particular risk associated with a these net investments. Any ineffective portion is contract costs. No revenue is recognised if there is Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at recognised liability or a highly probable forecast recognised immediately in the income statement significant uncertainty regarding recovery of conthe exchange rate at the date of the transaction. transaction (cash flow hedge) within net financial items. sideration due. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in ■■ Hedges of a net investment in a foreign foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are operation (net investment hedge). Gains and losses accumulated in equity are Other income translated to the functional currency at the included in the income statement when the foreign Gains and losses resulting from acquisitions and exchange rate on that date. Foreign exchange difoperation is partially disposed of or sold. disposal of businesses which do not represent 26 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group discontinued operations are included in other funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange taxable profits will be available against which they Recoverable amount income within operating profit. Such gains may gains and losses, and gains and losses on derivacan be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at The recoverable amount of the group’s investresult from the remeasurement of a previously held tives not subject to hedge accounting recognised each reporting date and are reduced to the extent ments in held-to-maturity securities and receivainterest in the acquired entity. Changes in the fair in the income statement (see Hedging activities). that it is no longer probable that the related tax bles carried at amortised cost are calculated as the value of the deferred consideration from acquisiInterest income is recognised in the income statebenefit will be realised. present value of estimated future cash flows, distion of a subsidiary or non-controlling interest for ment as it accrues, using the effective interest counted at the original effective interest rate (i.e., transactions after 1 January 2009 will be recogmethod. Trade and other receivables the effective interest rate computed at initial recognised in other income as gains or losses. Such Trade and other receivables are carried at the originition of these financial assets). Receivables with a changes will continue to be adjusted against goodIncome tax nal invoice amount, less an allowance made for short duration are not discounted. will for transactions completed prior to 1 January Income tax on the income statement for the year doubtful receivables. Provision is made when there 2009. comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is is objective evidence that the group will be unable The recoverable amount of other assets is the recognised in the income statement except to the to recover balances in full. Balances are written off greater of their net selling price and value in use. In Share of profit from associated companies and extent that it relates to items recognised directly in when the probability of recovery is assessed as assessing value in use, the estimated future cash jointly controlled operations, to the extent that equity or in comprehensive income. being remote. Trade receivables are thus valued at flows are discounted to their present value using a these investments are related to the group’s operamortised cost using the effective interest rate pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market ating activities, are included in Other income within Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivmethod. The interest rate element is disregarded if assessments of the time value of money and the operating profit, as well as gains and losses related able on the taxable income or loss for the year, it is insignificant, which is the case for the majority risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does to the sale of operating assets. using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at of the group’s trade receivables. not generate largely independent cash inflows, the the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payrecoverable amount is determined for the cashExpenses able in respect of previous years. Current tax payConstruction work in progress generating unit to which the asset belongs. Construction contracts able also includes any tax liability arising from the Construction work in progress represents the value Expenses attributable to construction contracts are declaration of dividends, recognised at the same of construction work performed less payments by Impairment loss recognition recorded as they are incurred and are often used time as the liability to pay the related dividend. customers. The value of construction work perAn impairment loss is recognised whenever the as a basis for determining progress on the conformed is measured at revenue recognised to date. carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating tracts (expenses incurred to date as a ratio of total Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary Payments by customers are deducted from the unit exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairexpected contract expenses). See note 4 Accountdifferences between the carrying amounts of value of the same contract or, to the extent they ment loss on available-for-sale assets is recoging estimates and judgements for further descripassets and liabilities for financial reporting and the exceed this value, disclosed as advances from nised in equity. Other impairment losses are recogtion of recognition of construction contract costs. amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax customers. nised in the income statement. is not recognised for: Operating lease payments ■■ Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes Inventories An impairment loss recognised in respect of cashPayments made under operating leases are recog■■ The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net generating units is allocated first to reduce the nised in the income statement on a straight-line affect neither accounting nor taxable profit realisable value. Net realisable value is the esticarrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cashbasis over the term of the lease when there are ■■ Differences relating to investments in mated selling price in the ordinary course of busigenerating units (group of units) and then, to variations in the contractual lease payments due. subsidiaries to the extent that they will not ness, less the estimated costs of completion and reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in reverse in the foreseeable future. selling expenses. the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. Share purchase programme for employees Aker Solutions employees participate in a share Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are The cost of inventories is based on the first-in firstReversals of impairment purchase programme whereby an employee can expected to be applied to temporary differences out principle and includes expenditures incurred in An impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed. An buy Aker Solutions shares at a discount. An when they reverse, based on the laws that have acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their impairment loss on other assets is reversed if there employee who is still employed by the group and been enacted or substantively enacted by the existing location and condition. In the case of manhas been a change in the estimates used to deterstill holds the shares in September, one and a half reporting date. ufactured inventories and work in progress, cost mine the recoverable amount. year after the close of each annual savins proincludes an appropriate share of overheads based gramme, will receive one bonus share for each two Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there on normal operating capacity. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent shares bought under the programme. The cost of is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the contribution towards the purchase of the liabilities and assets, and they relate to income Impairment the carrying amount that would have been detershares is expensed as salary costs immediately. taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same The carrying amounts of the group’s assets, other mined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no The value of the bonus shares is expensed over taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they than inventories, deferred tax assets and derivatives impairment loss had been recognised. the vesting period based on the fair value of each intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to award, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be determine whether there is any indication of impairProvisions realised simultaneously. ment. For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite A provision is recognised in the balance sheet Financial income and expense useful life and intangible assets that are not yet when the group has a present obligation as a result Financial income and expense comprises interest A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax available for use, the recoverable amount is estiof a past event and it is probable that the group will payable on borrowings calculated using the effeclosses, tax credits and deductible temporary differmated annually. If indication of impairment exists, be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is tive interest rate method, interest receivable on ences, to the extent that it is probable that future the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. material, provisions are determined by discounting Aker Solutions annual report 2010 27 Annual accounts – group the expected future cash flows at a market based any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Gooduct or process is technically and commercially feapre-tax rate that reflects current market assessthe item being hedged (see Hedging activities). will on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures sible as well as being a separable asset. Capitalments of the time value of money and, where is included in the investment balance and is tested ised costs include the cost of materials, external appropriate, the liability-specific risks. Property, plant and equipment for impairment as part of the overall balance. contractors, direct labour and capitalised interest Owned assets Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated on qualifying assets arising after 1 January 2009. Warranties Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost impairment losses (see Impairment). Gains and Other development expenditures are recognised in A provision for warranties is recognised when the less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses on the disposal of an entity or an interest in the income statement as an expense as incurred. underlying products or services are sold. The prolosses. The cost of self-constructed assets an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill Capitalised development expenditures are stated vision is based on historical warranty data and a includes the cost of materials, direct labour, the relating to the ownership interest sold. Where the at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairweighting of all possible outcomes against their cost for interest on qualifying assets effective from fair value of net assets acquired exceeds considerment losses. associated probabilities. 1 January 2009, and, where relevant, the estimated ation paid, the resulting gain arising on an acquisicosts of dismantling and removing the items and tion is recognised directly in the income statement. Other intangible assets Onerous contracts restoring the site on which they are located, and an Other intangible assets that are acquired by the A provision for onerous contracts is recognised appropriate proportion of production overheads. The acquisition of a company is based upon its group are stated at cost less accumulated amortiwhen the expected benefits to be derived by the strategic fit and anticipated profitability of that sation and impairment losses. group from a contract are lower than the unavoidWhere components of property, plant and equipcompany over a long period of time. Goodwill is able cost of meeting the obligations under the conment have different useful lives, they are accounted assumed to have an indefinite useful life because Subsequent expenditures tract. for as separate components. there is no foreseeable limit to the period over Subsequent expenditures on capitalised intangible which the asset is expected to generate net cash assets are capitalised only when they increase the Derivative financial instruments Leased assets inflows for the entity. future economic benefits embodied in the specific The group uses derivative financial instruments to Leases where the group assumes substantially all asset to which they relate. All other expenditures hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interthe risks and rewards of ownership are classified Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for are expensed as incurred. est rate risks arising from operational, financial and as finance leases. Assets acquired by way of the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is investment activities. The group also has embedfinance leases are stated at an amount equal to the made to those cash-generating units or groups of Amortisation ded foreign exchange derivatives which have been lower of the asset’s fair value or the present value cash-generating units that are expected to benefit Amortisation is charged to the income statement separated from their ordinary commercial conof the minimum lease payments at inception of the from the business combination in which goodwill on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful tracts. The embedded derivatives and the hedging lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairarose. lives of intangible assets unless such lives are derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accountment losses. indefinite. Intangible assets are amortised from the ing are accounted for as trading instruments. When the group disposes of an operation within a date they are available for use. Subsequent costs CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill An embedded derivative is any contract embedded The group capitalises the cost of a replacement has been allocated, then a portion of the goodwill Employee benefits in a host contract which meets the definition of a part or a component of property, plant and equipis included in the carrying amount of the Defined contribution plans derivative. In Aker Solutions this normally occurs ment when that cost is incurred if it is probable that operation when determining the gain or loss on Obligations for contributions to defined contribuwhen a commercial contract is agreed to be setthe future economic benefits embodied with the disposal. The portion of the goodwill tion pension plans are recognised as an expense in tled in a foreign currency. Under certain conditions item will flow to the group and the cost of the item allocated is measured based on the relative values the income statement as incurred. the embedded derivative must be separated from can be measured reliably. All other costs are of the operation disposed of and the its host contract and the derivative is then to be expensed as incurred. portion of the CGU retained at the date of partial Defined benefit plans recognised and measured as any other derivative disposal, unless it can be demonstrated The group’s net obligation in respect of defined in the financial statements. Normally this is when a Depreciation that another method better reflects the goodwill benefit pension plans is calculated separately for settlement is denominated in a currency different Depreciation is normally recognised on a straightassociated with the operation disposed of. The each plan by estimating the amount of future benfrom any of the major contract parties’ own funcline basis over the estimated useful lives of propsame principle is used for allocation of goodwill efit that employees have earned in return for their tional currency. Typically this happens with delivererty, plant and equipment. The production unit when the group reorganises its businesses. service in the current and prior periods; that benefit ies to countries that do not have an international method is used for depreciation in limited circumis discounted to determine its present value, and convertible currency, but also in other countries stances when appropriate. Research and development the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The where some clients may wish to use foreign curExpenditures on research activities undertaken discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date rency settlements as part of their own hedging Intangible assets with the prospect of obtaining new scientific or on government bonds or high-quality corporate strategy. Goodwill technical knowledge and understanding is recogbonds with maturities consistent with the terms of All business combinations are accounted for using nised in the income statement as an expense as the obligations. The calculation is performed by a Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the acquisition method. Goodwill represents the incurred. qualified actuary using the projected unit credit the date a derivative contract is entered into and excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair method. are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. value of the group’s share of the net identifiable Expenditures on development activities, whereby The gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised assets of acquired businesses or interest in associresearch findings are applied to a plan or design When the benefits of a plan to employees are immediately in the income statement. Where derivates or joint ventures that are businesses at the for the production of new or substantially improved increased, the portion of the increased benefit atives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of products and processes, is capitalised if the prodrelating to past service by employees is recognised 28 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group as an expense in the income statement on a difference between cost and redemption value Note 4 Accounting estimates and Progress measurement based on costs has an straight-line basis over the average period until the being recognised in the income statement over the inherent risk related to the cost estimate as judgements benefits become vested. To the extent that the period of the borrowings on an effective interest described above. In situations where cost is not benefits vest immediately, an expense is recogbasis. seen to properly reflect actual progress, alternative nised immediately in the income statement. Estimates and judgements are continually reviewed measures such as hours or plan progress are used Share capital and are based on historical experiences and to achieve more precise revenue recognition. The To the extent that any subsequent cumulative Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Repurexpectations of future events. The resulting estimation uncertainty during the early stages of a unrecognised actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 chase of share capital is recognised as a reduction accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom contract is mitigated by a policy of normally not percent of the greater of the present value of the in equity and is classified as treasury shares. accurately match actual results, but are based on recognising revenue in excess of costs on large defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan the best estimate at the time. Estimates and projects before the contract reaches 20 percent assets, that portion is recognised in the income New standards and interpretations not yet assumptions that have a significant risk of causing completion. statement over the expected average remaining adopted material adjustments to the carrying amounts of working lives of the employees participating in the Standards issued but not yet effective up to the assets and liabilities within the next financial year In the group’s view, the following project is subject plan. Otherwise, the actuarial gain or loss is not date of issuance of the group’s financial stateare discussed below. to estimation uncertainty, the outcome of which recognised. ments are listed below. This listing is of standards could have a material impact on the consolidated and interpretations issued, which the group reaRevenue recognition financial statements: When the actual calculation results in a benefit to sonably expects to be applicable at a future date. The percentage-of-completion method is used to the group, the recognised asset is limited to the The group intends to adopt those standards when account for construction contracts. This method Longview net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and they become effective. requires estimates of the final revenue and costs of The Longview project was awarded to Aker Conpast service costs and the present value of any the contract, as well as measurement of progress struction, Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Aker Solufuture refunds from the plan or reductions in future Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure is appliachieved to date as a proportion of the total work tions ASA, in January 2007, in a consortium with contributions to the plan. cable effective 1 January 2011. The impact for the to be performed. Siemens Energy, Inc. The consortium contracts group is currently under evaluation, but is not total combined value is approximately USD 1.1 Share-based payment transactions expected to have a significant effect on the consolThe main uncertainty when assessing contract billion with Aker Construction’s individual contract For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability idated financial statements. revenue is related to recoverable amounts from valued at approximately USD 654 million. Compleequal to the portion of the goods or services variation orders, claims and incentive payments tion of the project is currently scheduled to occur received is recognised at the current fair value IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and which are recognised when, in the group’s judgemid 2011. The project is delayed and costs have determined at each balance sheet date. measurement as issued reflects the first phase of ment, it is probable that they will result in revenue increased due to, among other factors, force the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and and are measurable. This assessment is adjusted majeure events, changes to the project, and third Financial instruments applies to classification and measurement of finanupon management’s evaluation of liquidated damparty actions in furnishing engineering services, Financial instruments in the Aker Solutions group cial assets as defined in IAS 39. The standard is ages to be imposed by customers typically relating equipment and materials, all of which have directly consists of cash and cash equivalents, investeffective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 to contractual delivery terms. In many projects and adversely impacted Aker Solutions’ project ments in other companies, derivative financial January 2013. In subsequent phases, the IASB will there are frequent changes in scope of work resultwork. instruments, non-current interest-bearing receivaaddress classification and measurement of finaning in a number of variation orders. Normally the bles, trade and other receivables/payables and cial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition. contracts with customers include procedures for Drilling Riser portfolio non-current borrowings. The categorisation and The completion of this project is expected in early presentation of and agreement of variation orders. The Drilling Riser business, which is fairly new method for measurement of these items is 2011. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will At any point in time, there will be unapproved varibusiness for Aker Solutions, has been loss-making described in note 33 Financial Instruments. have an effect on the classification and measureation orders and claims included in the project due to quality problems and execution delays. The ment of the Group’s financial assets. The group will revenue where recovery is assessed as probable production has improved, but in fourth quarter new Cash and cash equivalents quantify the effect in conjunction with the other and other criteria are met. Even though managequality issues appeared on some risers systems Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive ment has extensive experience in assessing the that have been delivered, and NOK 328 million was demand deposits held at banks and other shortpicture. outcome of such negotiations, uncertainties exist. booked in fourth quarter in losses. Around 250 term highly liquid investments with original maturity million of the losses are provisions for repair and of three months or less. Restricted cash is mainly Cost to complete depends on productivity factors potential liquidated damages. The remaining drillcash tied up in projects through joint ventures with and the cost of inputs. Weather conditions, the ing riser backlog consists of 13 systems, of which external parties. The amounts fluctuate with the performance of subcontractors and others with an 10 to be delivered in the first half of 2011. projects’ life cycle and are usually released when impact on schedules, commodity prices and curthe project is delivered or close to delivery. rency rates can all affect cost estimates. ExperiWarranties ence, systematic use of the project execution A provision is made for expected warranty expenInterest-bearing borrowings model and focus on core competencies reduces ditures. The warranty period is normally two years. Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially but do not eliminate the risk that estimates may Based on experience, the provision is often set at at fair value less attributable transaction costs. change significantly. A risk contingency is included one percent of the contract value, but can also be Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing in project cost based on the risk register that is a higher or lower amount following a specific borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any prepared for every project. ­evaluation of the actual circumstances for each Aker Solutions annual report 2010 29 Annual accounts – group contract. Both the general one percent provision tax jurisdictions where Aker Solutions operates. use of the corridor approach, where changes are options. The group’s Treasury department manand the evaluation of project specific circumValuation of deferred tax assets is dependent on amortised over many years. Further information ages internal exposures by entering into forward stances are based on experience from earlier promanagement’s assessment of future recoverability about the pension obligations and the assumptions contracts or currency options with the financial jects. Factors that could affect the estimated warof the deferred benefit. Expected recoverability used are included in note 30 Employee benefits market place. The Aker Solutions group has a large ranty cost include the group’s quality initiatives and may result from expected taxable income in the pension. number of contracts involving foreign currency project execution model. Reference is made to near future, planned transactions or planned tax exposures and the currency risk policy has been note 20 Provisions for further information about optimising measures. Economic conditions may well-established for many years. provisions for warranty expenditures on delivered change and lead to a different conclusion regardprojects. ing recoverability, and such change may affect the Note 5 Financial risk management and For segment reporting purposes, each business results for each reporting period. Tax authorities in exposures unit designates all currency hedge contracts with Property, plant and equipment and intangible different jurisdictions may challenge calculation of Corporate Treasury as cash flow hedges. External assets taxes payable from prior periods. Such processes Financial risks foreign exchange contracts are designated at the At every balance sheet date, the group considers may lead to changes to prior periods’ taxable The group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: group level as hedges of currency risk on a gross whether there are indications of impairment on the income, resulting in changes to income tax currency risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit basis, and more than 80 percent of these hedges book values of long-term assets. If such indicaexpense in the period of change. During the period risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. The market risks are done back-to-back and either they qualify for tions exist, a valuation is performed to assess when tax authorities may challenge the taxable affects the group’s income or the value of financial hedge accounting or they are embedded derivawhether or not the asset should be written down income, management is required to make estiinstruments held. The objective of financial risk tives. When hedges do not qualify for hedge for impairment. Such valuations will often have to mates of the probability and size of possible tax management is to manage and control financial accounting in the external reporting, a correction is be based on estimates of future results for a numadjustments. Such estimates may change as addirisk exposures and thereby increase the predictaperformed at group level and is included in the ber of cash flow generating units. References are tional information becomes known. Further details bility and minimise potential adverse effects on the “unallocated” part of the segment reporting. See made to note 22 Property, plant and equipment about income taxes are included in note 14 Income group’s financial performance. The Aker Solutions note 21 Derivative financial instruments for inforand note 23 Intangible assets. tax. group uses derivative financial instruments to mation regarding the accounting treatment of hedge certain risk exposures and seeks to apply hedging and embedded derivatives. Goodwill Fair value measurement of contingent and hedge accounting in order to reduce the volatility in In accordance with the stated accounting policy, deferred consideration the income statement. Currency exposure from foreign currency investthe group tests annually whether goodwill has sufContingent and deferred consideration, resulting ments are hedged when this has been specifically fered any impairment or more frequently if impairfrom business combinations, is valued at fair value Risk management is present in every project and is decided by management. During 2010 the group ment indicators are identified. The recoverable at the acquisition date as part of the business the responsibility of the project managers in coophad one hedge of net investment in US entities of amounts of cash-generating units have been detercombination. Where the deferred and contingent eration with the central treasury department (CorUSD 310 million (terminated in November) and as mined based on value-in-use calculations. These consideration meets the definition of a derivative porate Treasury) to identify, evaluate and hedge per December 2010 the group has one hedge of calculations require the use of estimates and are and, thus, a financial liability, it is subsequently financial risks under policies approved by the net investments in an EUR entity of EUR 29 million. consistent with the market valuation of the group. remeasured to fair value at each reporting date. Board of Directors. The group has well-established Further details about goodwill and impairment The determination of the fair value is based on principles for overall risk management, as well as The principal and interest amounts of the group’s reviews are included in note 23 Intangible assets. discounted cash flows. The key assumptions take policies for the use of derivatives and financial non-current borrowings are denominated in curreninto consideration the probability of meeting each investments. There have been no changes in these cies that match the cash flows generated by the Income taxes performance target and the discount factor. policies during the year. All figures below include group companies holding the loans, primarily NOK, The group is subject to income taxes in numerous discontinued operations. but also GBP and USD. This provides an economic jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required to Pension benefits hedge without entering into any derivatives. determine the worldwide provision for income The present value of the pension obligations Currency risk taxes. There are many transactions and calculadepends on a number of factors determined on the The group operates internationally and is exposed tions for which the ultimate tax determination is basis of actuarial assumptions. These assumptions to currency risk on commercial transactions, recuncertain during the ordinary course of business. include financial factors such as the discount rate, ognised assets and liabilities and net investments Provisions for anticipated tax audit issues are expected salary growth, inflation and return on in foreign operations. Commercial transactions and based on estimates of eventual additional taxes. assets as well as demographical factors concernrecognised assets and liabilities are subject to curIncome tax expense is calculated based on ing mortality, employee turnover, disability and rency risk when payments are denominated in a reported income in the different legal entities. early retirement. Assumptions about all these faccurrency other than the respective functional curDeferred income tax expense is calculated based tors are based on the situation at the time the rency of the group company. The group’s exposure on the differences between the assets’ carrying assessment is made. However, it is reasonably to currency risk is primarily to USD, EUR and GBP value for financial reporting purposes and their certain that such factors will change over the very but is also exposed to several other currencies on respective tax basis that are considered temporary long periods for which pension calculations are a smaller scale. in nature. The total amount of income tax expense made. Any changes in these assumptions will and allocation between current and deferred affect the calculated pension obligations. The The Aker Solutions policy requires group compaincome tax requires management’s interpretation effect on the accounts of such changes is, hownies to hedge their entire currency risk exposure in of complex tax laws and regulations in the many ever, spread over relatively long time periods by the any project using forward contracts and currency 30 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group The group’s exposure to the main foreign currencies 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million Profit before tax Equity1 Profit before tax Equity1 2010 2009 Amounts in million USD EUR GBP USD EUR GBP USD 1 (130) 2 (106) EUR 70 56 38 45 Bank (264) (84) (41) (376) (52) (57) GBP 71 133 1 Intercompany loans 218 (13) 32 197 43 36 1) The effects to equity that follow directly from the effects to profit and loss are not included. Balance sheet exposure (46) (97) (9) (179) (9) (21) Estimated forecast receipts from customers 2 545 162 86 1 932 113 98 A 10 percent strengthening of the NOK against the above currencies at 31 December would have had Estimated forecast payments to vendors (369) (312) (163) (539) (266) (202) the equal but opposite effect on the above amounts, on the basis that all other variables remain conCash flow exposure 2 176 (150) (77) 1 393 (153) (104) stant. The sensitivity analysis does not include effects on the consolidated result and equity from changed exchange rates used for consolidation of foreign subsidiaries. Forward exchange contracts (2 129) 243 85 (1 212) 154 124 Net exposure 1 (4) (1) 2 (8) (1) The primary currency-related risk is the risk of reduced competitiveness abroad in the case of a strengthened NOK. This risk relates to future commercial contracts and is not included in the sensitivity analysis above. Estimated forecasted receipts and payments in the table above are calculated based on the group’s hedge transactions through the Corporate Treasury department. These are considered to be the best Translation exposure estimate of the currency exposure given that all currency exposure is hedged, in accordance with the Translation exposure occurs when foreign operations are translated for inclusion in the financial stategroup’s policy. The net exposure is managed by the Corporate Treasury department that is allowed to ments of the Aker Solutions group. hold positions within an approved trading mandate. This mandate is closely monitored and reported on a daily basis to the management. The group has several investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the group’s foreign operations is A foreign currency sensitivity analysis indicates that changes in the foreign currency rates have only normally only hedged to the extent of agreed future payments. minor effects on equity and profit and loss. A 10 percent weakening of the NOK against the currencies listed below at 31 December would have increased (decreased) equity and profit and loss by the Significant exchange rates applied for group consolidation amounts shown. The selected rate of 10 percent reflects the recent years’ changes in currency rates. Average rate Closing rate Changes in currency rates change the values of hedging derivatives. Hedges that qualify for hedgeCurrency 2010 2009 2010 2009 accounting are reported in the profit and loss according to the progress of projects. The deferred value of the hedging derivative is reported as equity reserve. Any changes to currency rates will therefore affect equity. USD 6.074 6.306 5.851 5.778 EUR 8.049 8.797 7.819 8.304 The value of hedging instruments that do not qualify for hedge-accounting can not be deferred from profit and loss. Changes in profit and loss are based on changes in fair values of the hedges that do not BRL 3.443 3.145 3.526 3.321 qualify for hedge-accounting and any ineffectiveness in hedges that are hedge-accounted. The analysis GBP 9.377 9.750 9.073 9.292 includes only project-related items and assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. Calculations are based on amounts and foreign currency exchange rates as of 31 December. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009. Although hedge accounting is not applied to all foreign exchange contracts, these contracts are still “economically” hedged. The effect on profit and loss under financial items in the following table, will have an opposite effect on future operating income or expense as progress on projects increases. Equity in the following table is the hedge reserve that follows from the cash flow hedges. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 31 Annual accounts – group The next table illustrates Aker Solutions exposure to translation risk. If the Norwegian currency had A decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates during 2010 would have had the equal but opposite depreciated 10 percent during 2010, the consolidated statement would be affected with the changes in effect on the above amounts, on the basis that all other variables remain constant. the table. The sensitivity analysis is only a translation sensitivity and does not reflect changes in ­competetiveness, derivatives or other effects from currency fluctuations. The table includes Price risk ­dis­continued ­operations. The group is exposed to fluctuations in market prices both in the investment portfolio and in the operating businesses related to individual contracts. Amounts in NOK million 10% depreciation of NOK Change The investment portfolio is limited and does not include shareholdings in listed companies. Revenue EBITDA Equity Revenue EBITDA Equity Revenue EBITDA Equity The businesses may be exposed to changes in market price for raw materials, equipment and development in wages. This is managed in the bid process by locking in committed prices from vendors as USD 10 382 (316) 2 326 11 420 (348) 2 559 1 038 (32) 233 basis for offers to customers or through escalation clauses with customers. EUR 2 130 356 1 626 2 343 392 1 789 213 36 163 GBP 5 774 528 2 607 6 352 581 2 868 577 53 261 Credit risk BRL 1 632 28 152 1 795 31 167 163 3 15 Credit risk is the risk of financial losses to the group if customer or counterparty to financial investments/instruments fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from investment secuCAD 1 334 69 690 1 468 76 759 133 7 69 rities and group receivables. Investment securities and derivatives are only traded against approved NOK 25 514 3 010 1 422 25 514 3 010 1 422 banks. All approved banks are participants in the Aker Solutions loan syndicate and have the highest Other 4 001 624 1 341 4 401 686 1 475 400 62 134 rating at Moody’s and S&P. Credit risk related to investment securities and derivatives is therefore conTotal 50 767 4 300 10 165 53 292 4 429 11 040 2 525 129 874 sidered to be insignificant. Assessment of credit risk related to customers and subcontractors is an important requirement in the Interest rate risk bid phase and throughout the contract period. Such assessments are based on credit ratings, income The group’s interest rate risk arises from non-current borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates statement and balance sheet reviews and using credit assessment tools available (e.g. Dun & Bradexpose the group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the group to street and Credit Watch). Sales to customers are settled in cash. fair value interest rate risk. However, as these borrowings are measured at amortised cost, interest rate variations do not effect profit and loss. Group policy is to maintain approximately 30-50 percent of its Based on estimates of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables, the group establishes a borrowings in fixed rate instruments using interest rate swaps to achieve this when necessary. provision for impairment. Provision for loss on debtors are based on individual assessments. Provisions for loss on receivables are low (NOK 115 million in 2010, NOK 201 million in 2009), and higher than the As the group has no significant interest-bearing operating assets, operating income and operating cash historical losses (NOK 5 million in 2010 and NOK 21 million in 2009). Revenues are mainly related to flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. At year end, 48 percent of NOK large and long-term projects closely followed up in terms of payments up front and in accordance with 3 122 million in bonds was fixed for the duration of the bonds through interest rate swaps. In addition agreed milestones. Normally, lack of payments are due to disagreements related to project deliveries we have entered into a NOK 1 300 million fixed rate swap as hedge for drawings on the Revolving and are solved together with the client or escalated to the local authority, see note 34 Contingent Credit Facilities and a NOK 375 million floating rate swap for a NOK 750 million term loan. events. The customers are mainly large and highly reputable oil companies with a low credit risk, which reduces the credit risk significantly. Based on the above the group’s credit risk is considered to be An increase of 100 basis points in interest rates during 2010 would have increased (decreased) equity insignificant. and profit and loss by the amounts shown in the table below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum expobasis as for 2009. sure to credit risk at the reporting date equals the book value of each category of financial assets, see 2010 2009 carrying amounts in note 33 Financial instruments. The group does not hold collateral as security. Profit Profit Amounts in NOK million before tax Equity1 before tax Equity1 Aker Solutions ASA provides parent company guarantees to group companies. For further information, see note 11 Guarantees in the Aker Solutions ASA’s accounts. Cash and cash equivalents 24 29 Interest rate swap 44 35 66 41 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2 1 Current interest-bearing receivables 6 5 Borrowings (55) (70) Cash flow sensitivity (net) 21 35 31 41 1) Not including tax effect on hedge reserve or effects to equity that follow directly from the effects to profit and loss. 32 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities. The group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity reserves to meet its liabilities when due. Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash, the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Corporate Treasury maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines, see note 28 Borrowings. Management monitors rolling weekly and monthly forecasts of the group’s liquidity reserve on the basis of expected cash flow. For information regarding capital expenditures and net operating assets, see note 9 Segment information. Financial liabilities and the period in which they are mature 2010 Total undiscounted Amounts in NOK million Note Book value cash flow1, 2 6 mths and less 6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-5 years More than 5 years Borrowings 28 (8 224) (9 767) (352) (762) (3 836) (4 804) (13) Other non-current liabilities 29 (753) (645) (16) (26) (210) (339) (54) Net derivative financial instruments 21 143 143 150 (28) 28 (7) Trade and other payables 19 (16 278) (16 278) (16 262) (16) Total (25 112) (26 547) (16 480) (816) (4 034) (5 150) (67) 2009 Total undiscounted Amounts in NOK million Note Book value cash flow1, 2 6 mths and less 6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-5 years More than 5 years Borrowings 28 (7 515) (8 959) (277) (194) (1 077) (7 394) (17) Other non-current liabilities 29 (891) (1 031) (14) (24) (444) (407) (142) Net derivative financial instruments 21 27 (3) (18) 40 (9) (16) Trade and other payables 19 (19 370) (19 370) (18 982) (63) (325) Total (27 749) (29 363) (19 291) (241) (1 855) (7 817) (159) 1) Nominal currency value including interest. 2) Cash from the sale of the Process & Construction operations was used to repay all of the EUR 750 million revolving credit as per February 2011. See note 37 Subsequent events for information about the sale. The group policy for the purpose of optimising availability and flexibility of cash within the group is to operate a centrally managed cash pooling arrangement. Such arrangements are either organised with a bank as a service provider, or as a part of the operation of the internal treasury function. An important condition for the participants (business units) in such cash pooling arrangements is that the group as an owner of such pools is financially viable and is able to prove its capability to service its obligations concerning repayment of any net deposits made by business units. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 33 Annual accounts – group Capital management Note 6 Business combinations and acquisition of non-controlling interests The group’s objective for managing capital is to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders while maintainBusiness combinations in 2010 ing an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. Derrick In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid In May 2010, Aker Solutions entered into an asset purchase agreement with Derrick GmbH & Co. KG to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. From for the purchase of a small workshop, including six employees. The acquired business refines and time to time, the group purchases its own shares in the market; the timing of these purchases is modifies Derrick products to meet European standards, maintains its rental pool and provides services. dependent on market prices. The acquired business has been set up as a German branch of Step Offshore AS. The purchase price was NOK 28 million. There were no changes in the group’s approach to capital management during the year. Acquisition of non-controlling interest in 2010 In the first quarter of 2007 Aker Solutions announced a buy-back of treasury shares, and in connection with the Annual General Meeting it was decided to cancel parts of the treasury shares. There were addiFirst Interactive AS tional share buy-backs in 2008, 2009 and 2010 and sales related to the share purchase programme for In February 2008, Aker Solutions acquired 60.2 percent of the shares in the company First Interactive employees. At year end, the group holds 1.68 percent of outstanding shares. The consolidated stateAS. The company is a provider of an IT simulation system that enables the oil companies to simulate ment of changes to equity provides further details. installations and operations. In August 2010, Aker Solutions acquired the remaining 39.8 percent of the shares and voting interests in First Interactive AS to increase the group’s operational control. The group monitors capital on the basis of a gearing ratio (gross debt/EBITDA) and interest coverage ratio (EBITDA/net finance cost). The ratios are calculated from gross debt, including all interest-bearing NOK 14 million cash was paid to the selling shareholders at the acquisition date. An additional considliabilities as shown in note 33 Financial instruments, EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation eration will be due in 2015. The final consideration will be based on the accumulated EBITDA for 2011 and amortisation) and finance cost. The reported ratios are well within the requirements in the loan to 2014 and is estimated to NOK 8 million, which represents the fair value at the acquisition date. The agreements. transaction resulted in a reduction of non-controlling interests of NOK 13 million. Guarantee obligations The group has provided the following guarantees on behalf of wholly owned subsidiaries as of 31 December 2010 (all obligations are per date of issue): Note 7 Disposal groups and discontinued operations ■■ Parent company guarantees to group companies: NOK 80.7 billion (NOK 37.3 billion in 2009) Aker Marine Contractors Held for sale ■■ Indemnity guarantees for fulfilment of lease obligations: NOK 260 million (same as in 2009) On 22 October 2010, Aker Solutions entered into an agreement to sell its subsidiary Aker Marine ■■ Counter guarantees for bank/surety bonds: NOK 7.1 billion (NOK 7.3 billion in 2009) ­Contractors (AMC) to Singapore based Ezra Holdings Ltd (Ezra). In addition, 50 percent of Aker ­Solutions’ ownership in the Aker Connector installation vessel, which will be completed in early 2012, For guarantee obligations on behalf of the jointly controlled entity Aker DOF Deepwater AS see note 25 will be transferred to Ezra upon delivery of the vessel. The transaction was completed on 1 March 2011, Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities. see note 37 Subsequent events. Gearing and interest coverage ratios As of 31 December 2010, AMC is classified as disposal group held for sale, including allocated goodwill of NOK 270 million. AMC, which is part of Subsea business area, is not considered a separate major line of business so it has not been accounted for as discontinued operations. Aker Connector installaAmounts in NOK million 2010 2009 tion vessel under construction is not classified as held for sale, as it does not meet the held for sale criteria since it is not ready for sale in its current condition. Gearing ratio Process & Construction businesses Discontinued operations Gross debt 8 224 7 515 On 22 December 2010, Aker Solutions entered into a share purchase agreement whereby it has agreed EBITDA 4 300 4 368 to transfer principal operations within its Process and Construction business area to Jacobs Gross debt/EBITDA1 1.9 1.7 Engineering­Group Inc., one of the world’s largest and most diverse providers of professional technical services. The transfer does not include the US EPC centre in Houston, nor the Union Construction ­businesses located in the US and Canada. The transaction was completed on 1 February 2011, see Interest coverage note 37 Subsequent events. EBITDA 4 300 4 368 Net finance cost 453 470 As of 31 December 2010, the P&C businesses that will be sold to Jacobs are classified as a disposal group held for sale, including allocated goodwill of NOK 1 020 million, and accounted for as EBITDA/Net finance cost 9.5 9.3 ­discontinued operations. 1) Gearing ratio adjusted for restructuring costs is 1.9 in 2010 (1.6 in 2009). 34 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Discontinued operations Disposal groups classified as held for sale as of 31 December 2010 Income statement Assets and liabilities Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million AMC P&C businesses Total Revenue 4 500 4 221 Intangibles 270 1 020 1 290 Operating expenses (3 995) (3 962) Deferred tax assets 22 46 68 Financial items (24) (20) Properties, plant and equipment 148 156 304 Profit before tax 481 239 Other non-current assets 1 58 59 Tax (129) (94) Total current assets 550 865 1 415 Net profit from discontinued operations1 352 145 Assets held for sale 991 2 145 3 136 1) Net profit is all attributable to equity holders of Aker Solutions. Non-current liabilities 12 109 121 Current liabilities 300 1 118 1 418 Earnings per share Liabilities held for sale 312 1 227 1 539 Amounts in NOK 2010 2009 Other comprehensive income Basic earnings per share (NOK) from discontinued operations 1.31 0.54 Translation differences 13 (132) (119) Diluted earnings per share (NOK) from discontinued operations 1.30 0.54 The disposal groups held for sale also had receivables and liabilities to other Aker Solutions entities. These assets and liabilities have been eliminated in the group’s consolidated financial statements. Cash flow Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Operating cash flow 331 67 Investing cash flow (6) (51) Financing cash flow (255) (174) Net cash inflow (outflow) 70 (158) Aker Solutions annual report 2010 35 Annual accounts – group Note 8 Related parties Associated companies and joint ventures Aker Solutions operates in a market where it is common to establish associated companies and joint ventures to deliver large and complex projects to customers. In such arrangements two or more sup­ The group has several related party relationships between parents, associates and joint ventures (note pliers have responsibility for parts of a project. Aker Solutions holds stakes in several associated com25 Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities and note 26 Jointly controlled panies and joint ventures related to significant projects in the portfolio. operations) and with its directors and executive officers and directors (note 10 Salaries, wages and social security costs). Aker DOF Deepwater AS A loan of NOK 218 million (NOK 140 million in 2009) is given to the jointly controlled entity Aker DOF The largest shareholder Aker Holding AS is controlled by Aker ASA (60 percent) which in turn is conDeepwater (NIBOR 12 months + 1.5 percent). See note 25 Investments in associated companies and trolled by Kjell Inge Røkke through The Resource Group AS. All entities which Kjell Inge Røkke controls jointly controlled entities for information about guarantees provided on behalf of Aker DOF Deepwater. (Aker) or has significant influence in are considered related parties to Aker Solutions. These entities are below referred to as entities controlled by Aker in this note. Entities controlled by Aker Aker Clean Carbon AS All transactions with related parties have been based on arm’s length terms. Below is a summary of Aker Solutions has a 50 percent shareholding in Aker Clean Carbon, and the company is jointly transactions and loan balances between Aker Solutions and related parties. ­controlled by Aker Solutions and Aker. Aker Clean Carbon is in the process to build part of the carbon capture facility at Mongstad near Bergen in Norway in a joint venture with Aker Solutions. 2010 Entities controlled Associated Aker Drilling ASA Amounts in NOK million by Aker1 companies Joint ventures2 Total In 2005, Aker Drilling and Aker Solutions entered into a contract for the turn-key delivery of two sixth-­ generation deepwater drilling semi-submersibles. The drilling rigs are equipped with Aker Solutions Dual RamRig™ drilling equipment. Total contract value amounts to NOK 9.1 billion including agreed Operating revenues 437 78 186 701 variation orders. The two H-6e drilling rigs, Aker Spitsbergen and Aker Barents, were substantially Operating costs (1) (1) delayed due to technical challenges. The rigs are operating successfully with advanced technical Net financial items 9 9 ­solutions and the general gurantee period of 24 months is running until 1 January 2012. In the summer 2010 guarantee work was done on Aker Spitsbergen. A provision has been made for expected similar Net interest-bearing items 218 (40) 178 guarantee work on Aker B ­ arents. Other assets 302 302 Other liabilities (1) (1) Intellectual Property Holding AS Aker Solutions has an agreement with Intellectual Property Holding which holds all rights, titles and interests in and to registered trademarks and domain names containing “Aker”. According to the agree2009 ment, Aker Solutions has acquired the right to use the “Aker” name in combination with “Solutions”. Entities controlled Associated Amounts in NOK million by Aker1 companies Joint ventures2 Total Oslo Asset Management Aker Insurance received investment management services from Oslo Asset Management (previously Aker Asset Management). The annual fee is based on average total capital. Operating revenues 320 55 220 595 Operating costs (7) (7) Aker Pensjonskasse Net financial items (25) (25) Aker Pensjonskasse was established by Aker ASA to manage the Aker Solutions retirement plan for Net interest-bearing items 176 (36) 140 employees, retirees and related companies. The total paid-in equity was NOK 128 million at the end of Other assets 477 477 2010 (NOK 103 million in 2009). Premium paid to Aker Pensjonskasse amounts to NOK 101 million in 2010 (NOK 99 million in 2009). Aker Solutions holds 93.4 percent of the shares in the Aker Pensjon1) Includes the jointly controlled entity Aker Clean Carbon. skasse. 2) Includes transaction and balances to external parties in the joint ventures (amounts that are not eliminated in the consolidation). Aker ASA Aker Subsea Inc and Aker Kvaerner Wilfab Inc, which are subsidiaries of Aker Solutions, are sponsoring employers of the US pension plan Kvaerner Consolidated Retirement Plan. The principal sponsor for the plan is Kvaerner U.S. Inc, a subsidiary of TH Global plc. Aker has provided a guarantee to the plan in the event that Aker Solutions becomes liable for more than one third of the underfunded element of the plan. Aker Shiplease AS In 2009 Aker and Aker Solutions entered into a 10 year bareboat charter contract for vessel Aker ­Wayfarer. Aker Wayfarer is an offshore construction vessel designed for ultra-deepwater with state of the art equipment. The vessel was delivered in October 2010. Total contract value is NOK 2.4 billion. A lease prepayment was paid in 2009 is included in other non-current operating assets in the balance sheet of NOK 207 million. 36 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group The Resource Group TRG AS Subsea On the 24 November Aker Solutions AS sold its 50 percent shareholding in Aker Encore AS to The Subsea is a global provider across the value chain of subsea and sub-surface technologies, solutions Resource Group TRG AS for a total cash consideration of NOK 17 million. and services. Subsea offerings cover all phases of the life of fields, from concept screening and design through manufacturing, installation and commissioning to operational support and maintenance serIndustrial transactions in 2009 vices. Subsea’s ability as a provider of subsea production systems is backed by an extensive portfolio On 1 April 2009, Aker Solutions acquired several shareholdings from companies in the Aker group in of additional capabilities such as well services, marine operations and geological services. order to further strengthen its position in the offshore and energy sectors. The acquisitions establish broader foundation for continued industrial development at the interface between energy, the environProducts & Technologies ment and maritime activities in industries with solid long-term growth potential. The transactions carried Products & Technologies (P&T) is a leading global provider of specialised products and services to the out resulted in Aker Solutions AS acquiring or increasing its ownership interest in the following busiupstream oil and gas industry, based on proprietary technology and know-how. Key deliverables nesses: include advanced drilling equipment, systems and risers, upstream processing technology and mooring systems, as well as loading and offloading technology. Aker Oilfield Services AS Aker Solutions increased the ownership in Aker Oilfield Services from 32.3 to 100 percent. 46 percent of Process & Construction the shares were acquired from Aker Capital AS for a consideration of NOK 595 million. Process & Construction (P&C) is a global provider of onshore engineering and construction services to the natural resources and energy markets. P&C supplies niche process expertise with high-technology Midsund Bruk AS content and know-how for projects across chemicals, polymers, syngas and refining, mining and metAker Solutions acquired 100 percent of the shares in Midsund Bruk from Aker Capital AS for a the total als, onshore liquefied natural gas (LNG) receiving terminals, power generation, biofuels, carbon capture, consideration of NOK 88 million. acid plants, nuclear plants, and water treatment. Aker DOF Deepwater AS In December 2010, Aker Solutions entered into a share purchase agreement whereby it has agreed to Aker Solutions acquired 50 percent of the shares in Aker DOF Deepwater from Aker Capital AS for NOK transfer principal operations within its Process and Construction business area to Jacobs Engineering 190 million. The remaining 50 percent is owned by DOF. The investment is accounted for as a jointly Group Inc. The transfer does not include the US EPC centre in Houston, nor the Union Construction controlled entity. businesses located in the US and Canada. As of 31 December 2010, businesses to be sold are classified as disposal group held for sale and discontinued operations, see note 7 Disposal groups and disODIM ASA continued operations. Aker Solutions acquired 33 percent of the shares in ODIM from Aker ASA (10.8 percent) and Aker Invest II KS (22.2 percent). The total consideration amounted to NOK 513 million. The shares were subseFollowing the sale of P&C businesses and restructuring of the oil and gas business, a new reporting quently sold in June 2009. structure will be implemented with effect from March 2011. Reporting of operating segments in 2010 follows the 2010 business area structure because the financial information has not yet been organised Aker Clean Carbon AS to reflect the new structure and is currenctly not being reviewed by the chief operating decisionmaker. Aker Solutions’ shareholding in Aker Clean Carbon was increased from 30 to 50 percent through an equity issue of NOK 43 million. The investment is accounted for as a jointly controlled entity. Measurement of segment performance Performance is measured by segment operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (EBITDA) and operating profit (EBIT), as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the group’s CEO. Segment profit, together with key financial information as described Note 9 Operating segments below, gives the CEO relevant information in evaluating the results of the operating segments and is relevant in evaluating the results of the segments relative to other entities operating within these indusAker Solutions has in 2010 had four reportable segments which are the strategic business units of the tries. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. group. The strategic business units offer different products and services, and are managed separately because they operate in different market segments and have different strategies for their projects, prodThere are varying levels of integration between ED&S, Subsea and P&T, which all deliver products and ucts and services. The group’s CEO reviews each of the operating segments with the segment manageservices to customers within the oil and gas industry globally and where the group’s expertise and ment on a monthly basis. The review is based on monthly reporting from the subsidiaries in the operatproducts can be exploited in interaction with each other. P&C has also used the group’s processes and ing segments. expertise when delivering their products and services to the process, metal and energy-sectors. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as described in note 2 Basis of preparaThe following summary describes the operations in each of Aker Solutions’ reportable segments: tion and note 3 Accounting principles, except for hedge accounting. When contract revenues and contract costs are denominated in a foreign currency, the subsidiary hedges the exposure against CorpoEnergy Development & Services rate Treasury and hedge accounting is applied independently of whether the hedge qualify for hedge Energy Development & Services (ED&S) develops new oil and gas production facilities offshore and on accounting in accordance with IFRS. The correction of the non-qualifying hedges to secure that the land, as well as life cycle services for the operational phase of such installations. The business area consolidated financial statement is in accordance with IFRS is made as an adjustment at corporate delivers the full value chain from studies, front-end design and detailed engineering, through procurelevel. This means that the group’s segment reporting reflect all hedges as qualifying even though they ment, project management, fabrication and hook-up, to installation, maintenance and modifications. may not qualify in accordance with IFRS. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 37 Annual accounts – group 2010 Operating segments Total operating Discontinued Amounts in NOK million Note ED&S Subsea P&T P&C segments Other Elim. operations Total External revenue and other income Construction contracts 14 346 7 031 6 783 6 608 34 768 (3 419) 31 349 Services revenue 5 443 4 247 2 163 1 929 13 782 111 (950) 12 943 Products 376 1 014 44 1 434 (44) 1 390 Other 575 97 (2) 670 2 672 Total external revenue and other income 20 364 11 751 9 958 8 581 50 654 113 (4 413) 46 354 Inter-segment revenue 512 93 248 122 975 2 942 (3 917) (87) (87) Total operating revenue and other income 20 876 11 844 10 206 8 703 51 629 3 055 (3 917) (4 500) 46 267 EBITDA 2 040 1 170 859 213 4 282 18 (522) 3 778 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 22, 23 (134) (517) (129) (30) (810) (78) 17 (871) EBIT 1 906 653 730 183 3 472 (60) (505) 2 907 Order intake (unaudited) 21 688 14 827 7 855 8 298 52 668 2 994 (3 785) (5 536) 46 341 Order backlog (unaudited) 26 265 15 356 7 360 6 594 55 575 (153) (4 647) 50 775 Own employees (unaudited) 35 9 297 5 779 3 034 2 951 21 061 909 (2 526) 19 444 Total operating Disposal groups Note ED&S Subsea P&T P&C segments Other Elim. held for sale Total Assets Current operating assets 4 565 5 539 4 806 3 536 18 446 445 (565) (1 384) 16 942 Non-current operating assets 3 408 8 794 1 845 1 369 15 416 830 (1 653) 14 593 Operating assets 7 973 14 333 6 651 4 905 33 862 1 275 (565) (3 037) 31 535 Tax-related assets 725 Investment in associates 424 Investments in other companies 157 Cash and interest-bearing receivables 4 044 Assets held for sale 3 136 Total assets 40 021 Liabilities Current operating liabilities (6 300) (4 981) (3 979) (3 530) (18 790) (737) 565 1 402 (17 560) Non-current operating liabilities (314) (95) (132) (57) (598) (118) 69 (647) Operating liabilities (6 614) (5 076) (4 111) (3 587) (19 388) (855) 565 1 471 (18 207) Tax-related liabilities (944) Net interest-bearing borrowings (8 224) Other liabilities (753) Liabilities held for sale (1 539) Total liabilities (29 667) Net current operating assets 15 (1 735) 558 827 6 (344) (292) 18 (618) Net capital employed 15 1 851 10 385 2 817 2 230 17 283 1 977 (2 089) 17 171 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 2 723 32 793 (1 290) 2 258 (127) 2 131 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 22 (48) (1 659) (205) (24) (1 936) (531) (2 467) 38 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group 2009 Operating segments Total operating Discontinued Amounts in NOK million Note ED&S Subsea P&T P&C segments Other Elim. operations Total External revenue and other income Construction contracts 10 702 8 126 8 874 7 579 35 281 (67) (2 712) 32 502 Services revenue 7 330 4 226 2 110 1 861 15 527 186 (1 312) 14 401 Products 329 1 097 32 1 458 (32) 1 426 Other 1 275 159 202 1 1 637 55 (1) 1 691 Total external revenue and other income 19 307 12 840 12 283 9 473 53 903 174 (4 057) 50 020 Inter-segment revenue 520 132 446 61 1 159 3 215 (4 374) (164) (164) Total operating revenue and other income 19 827 12 972 12 729 9 534 55 062 3 389 (4 374) (4 221) 49 856 EBITDA 1 116 1 399 1 304 484 4 303 65 (273) 4 095 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 22, 23 (176) (450) (171) (23) (820) (90) 13 (897) EBIT 940 949 1 133 461 3 483 (25) (260) 3 198 Order intake (unaudited) 26 887 12 568 6 621 6 913 52 989 3 437 (4 426) (2 952) 49 048 Order backlog (unaudited) 25 396 12 395 9 632 9 037 56 460 15 (199) (3 536) 52 740 Own employees (unaudited) 35 9 535 5 276 3 027 3 343 21 181 952 (2 718) 19 415 Total operating Note ED&S Subsea P&T P&C segments Other Elim. Total Assets Current operating assets 5 685 6 845 5 497 2 925 20 952 (179) (652) 20 121 Non-current operating assets 3 554 7 577 1 764 1 357 14 252 699 14 951 Operating assets 9 239 14 422 7 261 4 282 35 204 520 (652) 35 072 Tax-related assets 486 Investment in associates 423 Investments in other companies 135 Cash and interest-bearing receivables 3 810 Total assets 39 926 Liabilities Current operating liabilities (5 927) (6 594) (4 471) (4 014) (21 006) (230) 652 (20 584) Non-current operating liabilities (511) (89) (129) (51) (780) (130) (910) Operating liabilities (6 438) (6 683) (4 600) (4 065) (21 786) (360) 652 (21 494) Tax-related liabilities (903) Net interest-bearing borrowings (7 515) Other liabilities (891) Total liabilities (30 803) Net current operating assets 15 (242) 251 1 026 (1 089) (54) (409) (463) Net capital employed 15 3 081 8 457 2 838 1 213 15 589 1 258 16 847 Material non cash items Other income (gain from business combinations)1 159 170 329 329 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 1 670 1 698 55 (131) 3 292 953 4 245 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 22 141 1 851 127 40 2 159 42 2 201 1) Gain on remeasurement of previously held interests in Wirth GMBH and Aker Oilfield Services AS Aker Solutions annual report 2010 39 Annual accounts – group Major customers Note 10 Salaries, wages and social security costs Revenue from one customer of the segments ED&S and Subsea represents approximately NOK 10.2 billion (NOK 10.2 billion in 2009) of the group’s total revenue. Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Geographical information Geographical segment revenue is presented on the geographical location of customers. Non-current segment assets and capital expenditures are based on the geographical location of the assets. Salaries and wages including holiday allowance 10 474 10 169 Social security tax/National insurance contribution 1 388 1 323 Operating Non-current Capital Pension cost 30 352 648 revenues segment assets expenditure Other employee costs 392 371 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Salaries, wages and social security costs 12 606 12 511 Loans to employees are shown in note 24 Interest-bearing receivables. No guarantees are granted to Norway 17 099 20 586 10 935 9 985 1 869 1 536 any employee. Europe 6 103 7 658 3 032 3 220 249 273 North America 6 954 7 181 125 1 166 165 115 Share purchase programme for employees Asia 11 308 11 168 771 825 70 184 Approximately 3 500 employees participate in a share purchase programme where each employee ­purchases Aker Solutions shares for NOK 1 250 per month at market price. The employee pays NOK Other 4 803 3 263 441 330 114 93 1 125, while the company contributes the remaining NOK 125. Employees who are still employed by Total 46 267 49 856 15 304 15 526 2 467 2 201 the company in September 2012 will receive one bonus share for every two shares bought under the programme and retained at that time. At the end of 2010 a total of 522 041 shares had been bought under programme 2 for a total of NOK 45.875 million. This can potentially give rise to 261 021 bonus shares in September 2012. Programme 2 was started in March 2010 and will end in February 2011. For programme 1 started in March 2009 and ended February 2010, a total of 1 016 738 shares were bought and can potentially give rise to 508 369 bonus shares in September 2011. During 2010, a total of 650 301 shares (888 478 shares in 2009) have been bought under the programmes. Invitations have been issued for a new programme 3 for the period from March 2011 to February 2012 with bonus shares to be issued in September 2013. The company’s contribution to the purchase of the shares as well as the value of the bonus shares are expensed as salary expenses. Directors and nomination committee’s annual fees The board fees for 2010 were NOK 5 150 000, including NOK 400 000 transferred to the labour union covering occupational activities in the group. The board fee for Øyvind Eriksen includes fee for his role as Executive Chairman after Simen Lieungh stepped down from his position as President & CEO in June 2010. Fees to the reward committee were NOK 75 000 (corresponding to 2009). No fees were paid to the audit committee in 2010. The Board of Directors did not receive any other payments in 2010 or 2009. The members of the Board of Directors have no agreements that entitle them to any extraordinary remuneration. Fees paid to the nomination committee in 2010 for the previous year amounted to NOK 120 000, NOK 30 000 per member (NOK 90 000 in 2009). 40 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Board of directors1 The audit committee Aker Solutions has an audit committee comprising three of the directors, which held eight meetings in 2010 2010. Until 15 June 2010, the audit committee comprised Ida Helliesen (Chairperson), Øyvind Eriksen and Atle Teigland. As of 15 June 2010, the audit committee comprises Ida Helliesen (Chairperson), Lone Board Extraordinary meeting board meeting Reward Fønns Schrøder and Atle Teigland. Amounts in NOK attendance attendance committee Board fees The nomination committee The Aker Solutions ASA nomination committee comprised the following individuals as of 31 December Øyvind Eriksen2 13 of 13 4 of 4 25 000 2 900 000 2010: Leif-Arne Langøy (Chairman), Gerhard Heiberg, Kjeld Rimberg and Mette Wikborg. Lone Fønss Schrøder 13 of 13 4 of 4 250 000 Ida Helliesen 13 of 13 4 of 4 250 000 The reward committee Vibeke Hammer Madsen 12 of 13 4 of 4 25 000 250 000 The reward committee has three members elected by and among the Board of Directors. As of 31 Mikael Lilius 11 of 13 3 of 4 250 000 December 2010 the members of the reward committee are Øyvind Eriksen (Chairman), Vibeke Hammer Kjell Inge Røkke2 10 of 13 3 of 4 25 000 250 000 Madsen and Kjell Inge Røkke. Atle Teigland3 13 of 13 4 of 4 150 000 The reward committee ensures that the company’s reward policy serves the interest of the shareholders Åsmund Knutsen3 12 of 13 3 of 4 150 000 and that the company has internally consistent and externally competitive remuneration of executives. Arild Håvik3 12 of 13 4 of 4 150 000 Arve Toft3 11 of 13 4 of 4 150 000 Guidelines for remuneration to the President & CEO and the members of the executive ­ anagement team m 2009 The main purpose of the executive reward programme is to encourage a strong and sustainable perforBoard Extraordinary mance-based culture, which supports growth in shareholder value. The total remuneration to execumeeting board meeting Reward tives consists of a market based salary, a few standard employee benefits and a variable pay proAmounts in NOK attendance attendance committee Board fees gramme. Øyvind Eriksen2, 4 7 of 7 10 of 10 300 000 The President & CEO and the executive management team participate in the standard pension and Martinus Brandal2, 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 100 000 insurance schemes applicable to all employees. The company practice standard employment contracts Bjørn Flatgård4 2 of 2 2 of 2 25 000 125 000 and standard terms and conditions regarding notice period and severance pay for the President & CEO and the members of the executive management team. The company does not offer share option proLone Fønss Schrøder4 6 of 7 9 of 10 125 000 grammes to any managers or employees. Heidi M Petersen4 1 of 2 2 of 2 62 500 Ida Helliesen4 6 of 6 7 of 7 145 833 The objective of the variable pay programme is to contribute to the company achieving good financial Vibeke Hammer Madsen 9 of 9 11 of 12 25 000 250 000 results and management according to the company’s values and business ethics. Leif-Arne Langøy2, 4 2 of 2 1 of 2 25 000 104 167 Mikael Lilius4 5 of 6 6 of 7 145 833 The variable pay programme is based on the achievement of financial and personal performance tarSiri Fürst4 2 of 2 1 of 2 62 500 gets, leadership performance in accordance with the company’s values and the development of the Kjell Inge Røkke2, 4 6 of 7 9 of 10 187 500 company’s share price compared to the development of the general stock index at Oslo stock Atle Teigland3 9 of 9 12 of 12 150 000 exchange. The programme represents a potential for an additional variable pay up to the value of 94.5 percent of base salary. Earnings are paid over three years. The first half of the variable pay is paid the Åsmund Knutsen3 9 of 9 12 of 12 150 000 following year. The remaining amount is paid two years later with the addition of a retention element Ingebrigt Forus3, 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 37 500 provided the executive is still employed by the company. The maximum payment in any calendar year Arild Håvik3, 4 6 of 7 9 of 10 112 500 is one annual base salary. The actual reward for the executive management team for 2010 was accordArve Toft3 9 of 9 12 of 12 150 000 ing to the guidelines of the company. The variable pay in 2010 relates to amounts earned in 2009 and 1) Members of the Board of Directors are elected for two years at the general meeting. 2007. In addition to the ordinary variable pay programme, a discretionary variable pay was introduced 2) According to policy in Aker, fees to directors employed in Aker companies will be paid to the Aker companies, not to the to the executive management team in 2010 with payment in February 2011. The accrued amount for directors in person. The same policy is implemented for fees for the reward committee. Therefore, board fees and reward the discretionary variable pay is NOK 9.4 million as of 31 December 2010. comittee fees for Øyvind Eriksen were paid to Aker ASA. Board fees and reward comittee fees for Kjell Inge Røkke were paid to The Resource Group. The board fee for Øyvind Eriksen includes fee for his role as Executive Chairman after Simen Lieungh stepped down from his position as President & CEO in June 2010. The board fee will be approved by the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2011. 3) According to agreement with and initiative from the employees, NOK 100 000 (NOK 100 000 in 2009) is transferred to the labour union covering occupational activities in the group, for each board member elected from the employees. 4) As of April 2009, Øyvind Eriksen replaced Martinus Brandal as Chairman of the Board. As of April 2009 Heidi M Petersen, Bjørn Flatgård, Siri Fürst and Ingebrigt Forus resigned as Directors of the Board. As of the same date Kjell Inge Røkke, Lone Fønns Schrøder and Arild Håvik entered as Directors of the Board. As of June 2009, Leif-Arne Langøy resigned as Director of the Board. As of the same date, Ida Helliesen and Mikael Lilius entered as Directors of the Board. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 41 Annual accounts – group Remuneration to members of the executive management team Total taxable remuneration of the executive management team for 2010 was NOK 36.1 million (NOK 25.9 million in 2009). In addition, Aker Solutions also incurred NOK 792 518 in 2010 (NOK 780 572 in 2009) in pension costs for the executive management team. 2010 Pension benefit earned/ Amounts in NOK Base salary1 Variable pay2 Other benefits3 Total taxable remuneration cost to company4 Simen Lieungh5,6 1 January 16 June 2 470 596 2 938 675 8 157 5 417 428 93 004 Leif Hejø Borge 1 January 31 December 3 304 174 464 813 23 846 3 792 833 60 565 Niels Didrich Buch 1 January 31 December 2 048 676 753 831 23 845 2 826 352 108 691 Geir Arne Drangeid 1 March 31 December 1 484 359 4 404 1 488 763 49 544 Mads Andersen 1 January 31 December 2 641 946 1 892 018 23 730 4 557 694 101 856 Karl Erik Kjelstad 1 January 31 December 2 969 123 1 307 048 5 285 4 281 456 59 608 Per Harald Kongelf 1 January 31 December 2 329 490 1 765 141 24 308 4 118 939 109 714 Gary Mandel 1 January 31 December 3 284 003 1 645 224 4 929 227 62 926 Jarle Tautra 1 January 12 October 2 364 424 1 764 040 25 003 4 153 467 121 507 Tore Sjursen 12 October 31 December 529 630 1 688 531 318 25 103 Total 23 426 421 12 530 790 140 266 36 097 477 792 518 2009 Pension benefit earned/ Amounts in NOK Base salary1 Variable pay2 Other benefits3 Total taxable remuneration cost to company4 Simen Lieungh5 1 January 31 December 4 340 937 1 506 943 24 102 5 871 982 147 136 Leif Hejø Borge 1 January 31 December 2 599 744 122 923 23 767 2 746 434 57 925 Niels Didrich Buch 1 January 31 December 1 914 607 135 556 23 767 2 073 929 94 912 Mads Andersen 1 January 31 December 2 423 577 1 714 036 23 767 4 161 380 88 746 Karl Erik Kjelstad 1 July 31 December 1 366 731 2 552 1 369 283 28 544 Per Harald Kongelf 1 January 31 December 1 993 060 737 398 24 214 2 754 672 99 476 Gary Mandel 1 February 31 December 2 929 230 2 929 230 124 764 Jarle Tautra 1 January 31 December 2 599 590 1 414 340 20 170 4 034 100 139 069 Total 20 167 476 5 631 196 142 339 25 941 011 780 572 1) Includes paid holiday allowances. 2) The variable pay in 2010 are amounts earned in 2009 and 2007 in addition to holiday allowance on variable pay paid in 2009. 3) Other benefits include insurance agreements, which is membership in the standard employee scheme and an additional executive group life and disability insurance with a maximum cover of NOK 4 323 050. 4) Pension benefits include the standard employee pension scheme, a pension compensation scheme related to the transfer from a benefit scheme to a pension contribution scheme and a disability pension scheme. 5) Includes management pension rights where contributions stopped in 2002. The schemes were wound up following the merger between Kvaerner and Aker Maritime. 6) In addition to the base salary, Simen Lieungh was paid NOK 2 250 498 in the six months notice period and holiday allowances of NOK 487 927 for 2010 was paid in January 2011. Simen Lieungh will be paid a 14 months severance pay from 1 January 2011 to 29 February 2012 totalling NOK 5 251 168. 42 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group With the exception of Geir Arne Drangeid who has 3 months of agreed period of notice, and Tore Note 11 Operating leases Sjursen who does not have severance pay, all members of the executive management team has six months of agreed period of notice and six months severance pay. All members also have standard Leases as lessee employee defined contribution plan as described in note 30 with the exception of Gary Mandel who has a standard US employee defined contribution plan. Total non-cancellable operating lease commitments1 There are no loans granted to members of the executive management team. Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Share-based payments Including the members of the executive management team, a total of 52 managers are entitled to ­variable pay under the programme described on the previous page. The total accrual for variable pay Contracts due within one year 982 662 programme is NOK 128.5 million as of 31 December 2010 (NOK 40.5 million in 2009). The developContracts running from one to five years 2 978 2 168 ment of the company’s share price is an element of the variable pay programme. Contracts running for more than five years 2 794 1 182 Total 6 754 4 012 Share-based element of variable pay 1) Operating lease commitments do not include commitments related to disposal groups held for sale. Amounts in NOK 2010 2009 Minimum sublease payment to be received in the future amount to NOK 28 million (NOK 371 million in 2009), and relates mainly to sublease of buildings. Paid in the year Expensed in the year 9 668 144 1 396 635 Lease and sublease payments recognised in the income statement Accrued at the end of the year 11 064 779 1 396 635 2010 Directors’ and executive management team’s shareholding The following number of shares were owned by the directors and the members of the executive management team (and their related parties) as of 31 December 2010. Plant, equipment Amounts in NOK million Buildings Vessels and machinery Other Total Shares Minimum lease payments 627 638 224 40 1 529 Atle Teigland, Director 1 981 Contingent payments 1 1 Åsmund Knutsen, Director 3 286 Sublease income (55) (55) Arild Håvik, Director 381 Total 573 638 224 40 1 475 Arve Toft, Director 381 2009 Leif Hejø Borge, executive vice president & CFO 20 381 Plant, equipment Niels Didrich Buch, executive vice president 381 Amounts in NOK million Buildings Vessels and machinery Other Total Mads Andersen, executive vice president 12 776 Karl Erik Kjelstad, executive vice president 2 500 Minimum lease payments 659 355 191 46 1 251 Gary Mandel, executive vice president 1 601 Contingent payments 1 1 Tore Sjursen, executive vice president 252 Sublease income (54) (54) Total 606 355 191 46 1 198 The overview includes only direct ownership of Aker Solutions shares and does not include Kjell Inge Røkke’s indirect ownership through his ownership in Aker ASA. Operating lease costs for buildings relates to rental on a large number of locations worldwide. Aker Solutions has a twelve year leasing agreement with Norwegian Property for headquarters, Aker Hus, at Fornebu, Bærum expiring in 2019 . Aker Solutions also has entered into a twelve year lease agreement with Fornebu Gate 2 AS for a new office building at Fornebu. This agreement will start when the building is completed (estimated 2012). Aker Solutions annual report 2010 43 Annual accounts – group Vessel lease costs relates to BOA Sub C and BOA Deep C which are operated by Aker Marine ContracNote 13 Finance income and expenses tors and Skandi Aker, Skandi Santos and Wayfarer which are operating by Aker Oilfield Services. Recognised in profit and loss Other plant and machinery costs primarily include leasing of IT equipment, cars and inventory. Leasing of IT equipment is based on a three year agreement with Hewlett Packard International Bank PLC. Inventory and ICT equipment are leased from SG Finans. There is no option to purchase the equipment Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 and it cannot be sublet. None of the leases include significant contingent rent. Net change in fair value of non-qualifying hedge instruments (84) 161 Leases as lessor Interest income on bank deposits measured at amortised cost 91 32 Net foreign exchange gain 14 Total non-cancellable operating lease payments receivable Ineffective portion of changes in fair value of hedging instruments (1) Other finance income (4) 32 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Finance income 101 63 Contracts due within one year 254 Contracts running from one to five years 805 Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (554) (531) Contracts running for more than five years Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at fair value1 (32) (68) Capitalisation of borrowing costs2 49 61 Total 1 059 Net foreign exchange loss (27) Finance expenses (537) (565) Operating lease income relates to the vessel Skandi Santos which is on a five year charter agreement that started in March 2010. NOK 212 million was recognised as lease income in 2010. Net finance expenses recognised in profit and loss (520) (341) 1) Interest on deferred and contingent payments, see note 29 Other non-current liabilities. 2) See note 22 Property, plant and equipment. Note 12 Other operating expenses Some foreign exchange hedge transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS, primarly Other operating expenses amount to NOK 5.0 billion in 2010 (NOK 5.3 billion in 2009). The expenses because a large number of internal hedge transactions are grouped and netted before external hedge include audit fees, operating lease costs (note 11 Operating leases) and other expenses mainly related transactions are established. The non-qualifying hedge instruments are mainly foreign exchange forto premises, electricity, maintenance, travelling, IT-equipment and insurance fees. ward contracts. The corresponding contracts (hedged items) to the hedging derivatives are calculated to have an equal, but opposite effect, and both the derivatives and the hedged items are reported as Fees to KPMG1 financial results. The net amount therefore reflects the difference in timing between the non-qualifying hedging instrument and the future transaction (hedged item). The exposure from foreign currency Other assurance Tax Other embedded derivatives is hedged, but cannot qualify for hedge accounting and is therefore included in Audit services services services ‘Net foreign exchange gain/loss’. Hedge accounting and embedded derivatives are explained in note 21 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Derivative financial instruments. See note 33 Financial instruments for information of the finance income and expense generating items. Aker Solutions ASA 3 4 Subsidiaries 27 33 7 3 9 9 4 3 Total 30 37 7 3 9 9 4 3 1) Fee to auditors include audit fee in discontinued operations. 44 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 14 Tax Effective tax rate The table below reconciles the reported income tax expense to the expected income tax expense according to the corporate income tax rate of 28 percent in Norway. Income tax expense Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Profit before tax, continuing operations 2 355 2 969 Current tax expense Profit before tax, discontinued operations 481 239 Current year 948 1 027 Adjustments for prior years (214) (140) Profit before tax, total 2 836 3 208 Expected income taxes (28 percent) of profit before tax 794 898 Total current tax expense 734 887 Tax effects of: Deferred tax expense Prior year adjustments (current and deferred tax)1 (42) (121) Origination and reversal of temporary differences 98 12 Effect of items booked against equity (7) Benefit of recognised tax loss carry-forwards and timing differences originated in previous periods (6) (22) Permanent differences2 6 (95) Total deferred tax expense 92 (10) Effect of unrecognised timing differences and tax loss 76 105 Change in tax rates (9) 23 Total tax expense 826 877 Differences in tax rates from 28 percent (30) 15 Other3 38 52 Attributable to continuing operations 697 783 Attributable to discontinued operations 129 94 Income tax expense, continuning and discontinued operations 826 877 Effective tax rate 29% 27% Tax effect of differences 32 (21) 1) Amount in 2009 relates mainly to US where recognised tax liabilities in prior years have been derecognised due to various clarifications related to actual tax liabilities. 2) Amount in 2009 includes acquisition gains related to remeasurement of previously held interests at fair value and gain from sale of shares in ODIM. 3) Relates mainly to withholding tax. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 45 Annual accounts – group Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Tax loss carry-forwards Europe North South Asia Assets (Liabilities) Net Amounts in NOK million Norway other America America Pacific Other Total Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 20111 5 5 Property, plant and equipment (14) (5) (107) (120) (121) (125) 2016 and later 298 603 443 1 344 Pensions 97 84 49 101 146 185 Indefinite 2 252 96 11 2 359 Projects under construction (236) (490) (1 319) (1 438) (1 555) (1 928) Total tax loss carry-forwards 2 252 394 608 454 3 708 Tax loss carry-forwards 160 337 711 1 044 871 1 381 Unrecognised tax loss carryOther 548 463 (205) (279) 343 184 forwards2 1 298 32 434 765 Total 555 389 (871) (692) (316) (303) 1) There are no tax loss carry-forwards that expires in the period 2012 until 2015. 2) Mainly expiry date more than 5 years. Attributable to continuing operations 487 (829) (342) Geographical overview of tax positions Attributable to disposal groups held for sale 68 (42) 26 2010 Current tax Deferred tax Total tax Net deferred Net payable Change in net recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Amounts in NOK million expense expense expense tax liability tax liability Property, Projects Tax loss plant and under concarryAmounts in NOK million equipment Pensions struction forwards Other Total Norway 65 207 271 (593) (13) Europe 181 (1) 179 (91) (33) North America (114) (17) (131) 251 159 Balance as of 1 January 2009 (144) 137 (1 786) 1 375 106 (312) South America 113 (46) 70 79 (23) Recognised in profit and loss 58 48 (141) 35 12 12 Asia1 491 (49) 442 35 48 Recognised in equity 6 6 Other countries (2) (2) (5) 3 (1) Additions through business combinations (58) (6) (6) 87 17 Total 734 92 826 (316) 137 Currency translation differences 19 5 (23) (27) (26) Balance as of 31 December 2009 (125) 185 (1 928) 1 381 184 (303) 2009 Prior year adjustments Current tax Deferred tax Total tax Net deferred Net payable (current and deferred tax)1 (40) (39) 378 (507) 115 (93) Amounts in NOK million expense expense expense tax liability tax liability Recognised in equity (2) (1) 2 2 1 Additions through business Norway 2 48 50 (492) 14 c ­ ombinations 2 (3) 26 25 Europe 274 2 276 (88) (93) Disposal of subsidiaries 41 2 43 North America 123 (55) 68 230 (55) Currency translation differences 1 (4) (3) 16 10 South America 74 11 85 32 44 Balance as of 31 December 2010 (123) 146 (1 555) 872 343 (317) Asia1 410 (16) 394 15 (23) Other countries 4 4 (1) Total 887 (10) 877 (303) (114) 1) Tax related to Aker Solutions’ activity in Kazakhstan is reported under Asia. 46 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 15 Net capital employed Note 16 Trade and other receivables Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Inventories 17 1 686 1 417 Trade receivables1, 2, 3 5 941 6 791 Trade and other receivables 16 14 870 18 332 Less provision for impairment of receivables (115) (201) Provisions 20 (1 039) (869) Trade receivables, net 5 826 6 590 Trade and other payables 19 (16 278) (19 370) Advances to suppliers 440 732 Derivative financial instruments, net 21 143 27 Work in progress 18 4 753 6 456 Net current operating assets (618) (463) Other receivables1 3 851 4 554 Employee benefit assets 30 95 167 Total 14 870 18 332 Other non-current operating assets 221 338 1) Trade receivables include NOK 205 million due after one year (NOK 297 million in 2009). Book value of trade and other Intangible assets 23 6 783 7 915 receivables is approximately equal to fair value. Property, plant and equipment 22 7 494 6 531 2) Trade receivables are financial instruments and an impairment loss of NOK 23 million (NOK 21 million in 2009) was recognised in cost of sales. Employee benefits obligations 30 (647) (910) 3) Receivables from related parties at the end of 2010 is NOK 95 million (NOK 160 million in 2009). Interest-bearing receivables 24 846 624 Investments 25, 27 581 558 Aging of trade receivables Cash excl. cash pool arrangement 2 416 2 087 Total 17 171 16 847 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Current 3 942 4 172 Past due 0-30 days 715 1 023 Past due 31-90 days 334 479 Past due 91 days to one year 745 820 Past due more than one year 205 297 Total 5 941 6 791 Note 17 Inventories Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Stock of raw materials 936 1 007 Goods under production 360 Finished goods 390 410 Total 1 686 1 417 Inventories carried at fair value less cost to sell 61 303 Write-down of inventories in the period 12 28 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 47 Annual accounts – group Note 18 Construction contracts Note 19 Trade and other payables Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Value of work performed on uncompleted contracts 79 358 97 751 Trade creditors1, 2 2 945 3 891 Invoiced 74 605 91 295 Advances from customers 4 315 5 575 Work in progress to be invoiced 4 753 6 456 Accrued operating and financial costs 6 003 7 790 Trade receivables, net 16 5 826 6 590 Other current liabilities3 3 015 2 114 Recoverable on construction contracts 10 579 13 046 Total 16 278 19 370 1) Trade creditors include NOK 16 million due after one year (NOK 325 million in 2009). Book value of trade creditors and other Advances from customers 19 4 315 5 575 current liabilities is approximately equal to fair value. 2) Trade creditors include NOK 2 million to related parties at the end of 2010 (0 in 2009). Largest projects in progress at year end 2010 (unaudited) 3) Other current liabilities includes NOK 451 million related to deferred and contingent considerations assumed in business combinations. See note 29 Other non-current liabilities for further description. Project Business segment Customer Estimated delivery Skarv ED&S BP 2011 Note 20 Provisions Statfjord Latelife ED&S Statoil 2011 Oseberg B Drilling upgrade ED&S Statoil 2013 Amounts in NOK million Warranties Other Total Kollsnes ED&S Statoil 2011 Mongstad Test Centre ED&S Aker Clean Carbon 2011 Balance as of 1 January 2010 573 296 869 Kashagan HUC ED&S Agip 2011 Provisions made during the year 406 236 642 Sakhalin 1 ED&S Exxon 2012 Provisions used during the year (177) (91) (268) Gudrun Jacket ED&S Statoil 2011 Provisions reversed during the year (73) (43) (116) Ekofisk 2/4L Jacket ED&S ConocoPhillips 2012 Currency translation differences 5 12 17 MMO frame agreement ED&S Statoil 2014 Reclassification to liabilities held for sale (62) (43) (105) Nordsee Ost ED&S Essent wind 2012 Balance as of 31 December 2010 672 367 1 039 Clair Ridge ED&S BP 2013 Sleipner SPORT ED&S Statoil 2013 Expected timing of payment TMT2 P&T Daewoo 2011 Non-current 382 48 430 Songa Eclipse P&T Jurong 2011 Current 290 319 609 CNOOC P&T CNOOC 2011 Odebrecht 3 P&T Daewoo 2012 672 367 1 039 Petroserve 2 P&T Daewoo 2012 Warranties Gorgon P&T Chevron 2015 The provision for warranties relates mainly to the possibility that Aker Solutions, based on contractual Spectra P&T Spectra 2011 agreements, needs to perform guarantee work related to products and services delivered to customers. Trym/Oselvar Subsea Dong 2011 See note 4 Accounting estimates and judgements for further description. Ormen Lange SCS Pilot Subsea Statoil 2011 Other Goliat Subsea ENI 2014 Other includes mainly provisions for loss contracts. Provisions for loss contract are deducted from the Åsgard Compression Subsea Statoil 2014 value of the same contracts in work in progress or, to the extent they exceed this value, disclosed as 45 Trees Subsea Petrobras 2012 provisions. Iara/Guara Subsea Petrobras 2013 Longview Power Project P&C Longview Power 2011 Gulf LNG P&C Gulf LNG Energy 2011 48 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 21 Derivative financial instruments The Aker Solutions group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposures. In addition, there are embedded foreign exchange forward derivatives separated from ordinary commercial contracts. Further information regarding risk management policies in the group is available in note 5 Financial risk management and exposures. The table below presents the fair value of the derivative financial instruments and a maturity analysis of the derivative’s undiscounted cashflows. Given the Aker Solutions group hedging policy and the assumption that the projects are cash neutral, this table also indicates when the cash flows related to project expenses are expected to impact profit and loss. The majority of project revenues are recognised in accordance with IAS 11 using the percentage of completion method. This may result in different timing of cash flows related to project revenues and revenue recognition. 2010 Assets at Liabilities at Net Total undiscounted Amounts in NOK million fair value fair value fair value cash flow1 6 mths or less 6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-5 years2 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash flow hedges 57 (92) (35) (77) 3 (27) (30) (23) Fair value hedges 134 134 134 134 Embedded derivatives included in ordinary commercial contracts (163) 8 (155) (245) (112) (56) (65) (12) Not hedge accounted 289 (121) 168 243 122 45 62 14 Interest rate swaps Option contracts 8 (7) 1 1 1 Cash flow and fair value hedges 61 (31) 30 30 (6) (10) 46 Total 386 (243) 143 86 142 (48) 13 (21) 2009 Assets at fair Liabilities at fair Total undiscounted Amounts in NOK million value value Net fair value cash flow1 6 mths or less 6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-5 years2 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash flow hedges 140 (58) 82 66 53 11 2 Fair value hedges 41 (19) 22 27 30 (2) (1) Embedded derivatives included in ordinary commercial contracts 11 (4) 7 (105) (28) (36) (26) (15) Not hedge accounted 173 (230) (57) 38 (69) 70 23 14 Interest rate swaps Option contracts 1 (2) (1) (1) (1) Cash flow and fair value hedges 2 (28) (26) (28) (3) (3) (7) (15) Not hedge accounted 4 (4) Total 372 (345) 27 (3) (18) 40 (9) (16) 1) Undiscounted cash flows are translated to NOK using the exchange rates on the balance sheet date. 2) No derivative financial instruments mature after 5 years. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 49 Annual accounts – group Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets or liabilities. The full fair value of a hedgThe purpose of the hedging instrument is to secure a situation where the hedged item and the hedging ing derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item instrument together represent a predetermined value independent of fluctuations of exchange rates. is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than Revenue and expense on the underlying construction contracts are recognised in the income statement 12 months. If the hedged item is related to projects, such as work in progress or trade receivables, the in accordance with progress. Consequently, NOK negative 31 million of the value of the forward conhedging derivative is always classified as a current asset or liability. tracts have already affected the income statement indirectly as revenues and expenses are recognised based on updated forecasts and progress. The NOK negative 4 million that are currently recorded Foreign exchange derivatives directly in the hedging reserve, will be reclassified to income statement over approximately the next Corporate Treasury hedge the group’s future transactions in foreign currencies with external banks. three years. Approximately 80 percent of the exposure to foreign exchange variations in future cash flows are related to a few large projects. The currency exposure in these projects have been hedged back-to-back in Interest rate swaps order to meet the requirements for hedge accounting. They are either subject to hedge accounting or As of 31 December 2010, Aker Solutions has one bond of NOK 150 million with a fixed interest rate of ­ separated embedded derivatives. All other hedges are not designated as IAS 39 hedges and will have 6 percent and one bond of NOK 1 913 million with a fixed interest rate of 8.7 percent. At year end, there an effect on profit or loss. Most hedges qualifying for hedge accounting are classified as cash flow were interest rate swaps with floating interest with a notional value of NOK 1 100 hedging the fixed hedges (hedges of highly probable future revenues and/or expenses). Some hedges that will clearly interest bonds. In addition, Aker Solutions has three bonds totalling NOK 1 056 million at floating qualify as hedges of firm commitments are classified as fair value hedges. ­interest rates and NOK 400 million are swapped to fixed interest. NOK 1 300 million of drawings under committed facilities are swapped to 12 months fixed rate from 15 January 2010. A credit facility of NOK Embedded derivatives are foreign exchange derivatives separated from construction contracts. The 750 million with floating interest was established in 2009 where NOK 375 million are swapped to fixed main reason for separation is that the agreed payment is in a currency different from any of the major interest. Floating interest is mainly tied to NIBOR and LIBOR. contract parties’ own functional currency. The embedded derivatives represent currency exposures, which is hedged against external banks. Since the embedded derivatives are measured and classified Hedge accounting is applied using the cash flow hedge accounting model which means that gains and in the same way as their hedging derivatives, they will have an almost equal, opposite effect to profit losses on interest rate swap from floating to fixed interest rates as of 31 December 2010 are recognised and loss. In the table above, the derivatives hedging the embedded derivatives are included in Forward in the hedging reserve in equity and will be continuously released to the income statement until the foreign exchange contracts not hedge accounted. bank borrowings are repaid. Fair value hedge accounting is applied for hedging of the fixed interest bonds, see note 28 Borrowings. The hedged transactions in foreign currency that are subject to cash flow hedge accounting are highly probable future transactions expected to occur at various dates during the next one to four years, The fair value amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2010 were depending on progress in the projects. Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are NOK 30 million (negative NOK 26 million in 2009). recognised in comprehensive income and reported as hedging reserve in equity until it will be recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect the income statement. This is generally within 12 months from the balance sheet date unless the gain or loss is over the life of the asset. The following table shows the unsettled cash flow hedges’ impact on profit and loss and equity (not adjusted for tax). 2010 Fair value of all Recognised in Deferred in equity Amounts in NOK million hedging instruments profit and loss (the hedging reserve) Interest rate swaps1 (22) (22) Forward exchange contracts (35) (31) (4) Total (57) (31) (26) 2009 Fair value of all Recognised in Deferred in equity Amounts in NOK million hedging instruments profit and loss (the hedging reserve) Interest rate swaps1 (11) (11) Forward exchange contracts 82 40 42 Total 71 40 31 1) The value of the interest swaps is attributable to changes in the interest swap curve for Norwegian kroner during the period from inception of the hedge to the balance sheet date. 50 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 22 Property, plant and equipment Additions Approximately 28 percent of additions in 2010 are related to the investment programme in Aker Oilfield Services AS (50 percent in 2009) and 20 percent in the buildings at Fornebu and Hinna. Machinery, Buildings equipment Under Commitments Amounts in NOK million and sites and software construction Total By the end of December 2010 Aker Solutions has entered into contractual commitments for the ­acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to NOK 876 million, mainly related to the investment programme in K2 Hotellbygg AS, Jattåvågen AS and Aker Oilfield Services AS. The Historical cost ­commitments will to a large extent become payable in 2011. Balance as of 1 January 2009 1 951 5 285 671 7 907 Additions through business combinations1 333 71 524 928 Disposals Additions2 130 847 1 224 2 201 In December 2010 Aker Solutions sold shares in a building project related to the construction of a new building at Fornebu to K2 Eiendom AS. As Aker Solutions is responsible for the completion of the Disposals (64) (170) (55) (289) ­facilities within specific timeframes and budgets, the accounting gain will be booked in 2012 when the Currency translation differences (115) (281) (27) (423) buildings are completed. The deferred income related to the 25 percent ownership in K2 Eiendom AS Balance as of 31 December 2009 2 235 5 752 2 337 10 324 has been deducted directly from the investment, see note 25 Investments in associated companies and Additions through business combinations 8 8 jointly controlled entities. The remaning deferred income is recognised in Other non-current liabilities, see note 29 Other non-current liabilities. Additions2 228 1 553 686 2 467 Disposals (313) (193) (133) (639) Depreciation Currency translation differences 38 (11) 6 33 Assets are mainly depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected economic lives as follows: Reclassification to assets held for sale (162) (220) (133) (515) Machinery, equipment and software 3 15 years Balance as of 31 December 2010 2 026 6 889 2 763 11 678 Buildings 8 30 years Sites No depreciation Accumulated depreciation Balance as of 1 January 2009 (806) (2 491) (3 297) Estimates for residual values are reviewed annually. Depreciation for the year3 (82) (721) (803) Impairment loss (48) (48) Security Disposals 98 129 227 See note 28 Borrowings for information about bank borrowings which are secured by property, plant and equipment. Currency translation differences 10 118 128 Balance as of 31 December 2009 (780) (3 013) (3 793) Depreciation for the year3 (107) (723) (830) Impairment loss (2) (2) Disposals 104 141 245 Currency translation differences (9) (5) (14) Reclassification to assets held for sale 42 168 210 Balance as of 31 December 2010 (750) (3 434) (4 184) Book value as of 31 December 2009 1 455 2 739 2 337 6 531 as of 31 December 2010 1 276 3 455 2 763 7 494 Of which financial leases as of 31 December 2009 4 199 203 as of 31 December 2010 160 160 1) Additions through business combinations relate mainly to the acquisition of Aker Oilfield Services AS, Aker Wirth GmbH, Midsund Bruk AS and Fornebu Gate 2 AS in 2009. 2) NOK 49 million of borrowing costs have been capitalised in 2010 and are included in the amount (NOK 61 million in 2009). 3) NOK 16 million relates to discontinued operations (NOK 13 million in 2009). Aker Solutions annual report 2010 51 Annual accounts – group Note 23 Intangible assets Goodwill The increase in goodwill in 2009 is caused by the acquisitions of Aker Oilfield Services AS, Aker Wirth GmbH and Midsund Bruk AS. Intangible assets excl. The adjustment in 2010 relates mainly to increase of goodwill related to the acquisition of Aker Qserv Amounts in NOK million goodwill Goodwill Total Ltd in 2008 due to a change in the estimated deferred and contingent consideration. Allocation of goodwill by operating segments Balance as of 1 January 2009 160 6 959 7 119 Additions 177 177 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Additions through business combinations1 220 1 260 1 480 Adjustment (338) (338) Disposals (112) (112) Energy Development & Services 2 318 2 317 Amortisation for the year (38) (38) Subsea 2 776 2 687 Impairment loss (21) (21) Products & Technologies 1 119 1 157 Currency translation differences (24) (328) (352) Process & Construction 1 125 1 123 Other 132 136 Balance as of 31 December 2009 495 7 420 7 915 Additions 172 172 Total 7 470 7 420 Adjustment 95 95 Reclassification to assets held for sale (1 289) Amortisation for the year (57) (57) Total continuing operations 6 181 7 420 Currency translation differences (6) (45) (51) Reclassification to assets held for sale (2) (1 289) (1 291) Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill Balance as of 31 December 2010 602 6 181 6 783 Goodwill originates from a number of acquisitions. Management monitors goodwill impairment at the business segment level which is also considered the cash-generating unit (CGU) due to the level of inte1) The increase in other intangible assets in 2009 of NOK 220 million relates mainly to customer contracts (NOK 160 million) and gration within the CGUs. patents and trademarks (NOK 45 million). Recoverable amounts are based on value in use calculations. The calculations use cash flow projecResearch and development costs tions based on the future cash flow, budgets and strategic forecasts for the periods 2011-2013 and an NOK 172 million have been capitalised in 2010 related to development activities. In addition, research annual growth of 2.5 percent for subsequent periods. and development costs of NOK 157 million have been expensed during the year because the criteria for capitalisation was not met (NOK 164 million in 2009). In addition, research and development costs paid by customers totalled NOK 110 million in 2010 (NOK 22 million in 2009). WACC assumptions for impairment testing Post tax WACC Pre tax WACC Energy Development & Services 10.4% 13.4% Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised over the expected economic life, ranging between Subsea 10.4% 12.9% 5-10 years. Products & Technologies 10.4% 13.2% Process & Construction 9.2% 13.3% For all business areas, the recoverable amounts are higher than the carrying amounts and consequently the analysis indicates that no impairment is required. Cash flow estimates are sensitive to the ability to maintain volume and margin assumptions. As a sensitivity analysis, recoverable amount has been calculated using discount rates up to 16 percent after tax, without effect on the conclusions. Also, sensitivity analysis of other estimates with a reasonable change in assumptions does not give grounds for impairment charges. 52 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 24 Interest-bearing receivables Note 25 Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Current interest-bearing receivables Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method. Current interest-bearing receivables were NOK 621 million (NOK 440 million in 2009). Aker Insurance AS had a portfolio of obligations, certificates and shares as of 31 December 2010 amounting to NOK Associated companies and jointly controlled entities are defined as related parties to Aker Solutions. 420 million (NOK 424 million in 2009) and Aker Powergas Pvt Ltd had investments in a mutual fund of See note 8 Related parties for overview of transactions and balances between Aker Solutions and the NOK 198 million (NOK 13 million in 2009). associated companies and joint ventures. Non-current interest-bearing receivables Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 2010 Additions/ Currency Loans to employees1 5 6 Book value as Disposals/ Profit and other Book value as Amounts in NOK million of 1.1.2010 Payments (loss)5 adjustments of 31.12.2010 Loans to related parties2 218 176 Other 2 2 Aker Clean Carbon AS1 49 52 (23) 78 Total 225 184 Aker DOF Deepwater 190 (8) 182 1) Average interest rate for loans to employees was 2.46 percent in 2010 (3.58 percent in 2009). Aker Caspian BV 82 18 (11) 89 2) Aker DOF Deepwater AS and Caspian Sea Solutions BV (Aker DOF Deepwater AS and Aker Clean Carbon AS in 2009), see note K2 Eiendom AS2 55 (55) 8 Related parties. Other companies 102 (42) 17 (2) 75 See note 5 Financial risk management and exposures for information regarding credit risk management Total 423 83 (25) (57) 424 in the Aker Solutions group. 2009 Additions/ Currency Book value as Disposals/ Profit and other Book value as Amounts in NOK million of 1.1.2009 Payments (loss)5 adjustments of 31.12.2009 Aker Oilfield Services AS3 260 (256) (4) Aker Clean Carbon AS1 19 43 (13) 49 Aker DOF Deepwater 190 190 ODIM ASA4 (109) 109 Other companies 165 15 22 (18) 184 Total 444 (117) 114 (18) 423 1) Associate until 1 April 2009, thereafter jointly controlled entity. 2) In December 2010 Aker Solutions sold the office part of its new building at Fornebu to K2 Eiendom AS and at the same time acquired 25 percent ownership in the company. The investment has been reduced by the gain related to the 25 percent ownership. See note 22 Property, plant and equipment for further description of the transaction. 3) Subsidiary from 1 April 2009. 4) 33 percent of ODIM ASA was acquired on 1 April 2009 and sold on 29 June 2009. Profit after tax includes dividends of NOK 15 million paid out in May 2009 and sales gain of NOK 94 million. 5) NOK 7 million is recognised in Other income in 2010. NOK 2 million in 2009 relates to discontinued operations. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 53 Annual accounts – group Summary of financial information for significant associated companies and jointly controlled entities (100 percent basis) 2010 Percentage of Percentage Amounts in NOK million Business office voting rights held Assets Liabilities Equity Revenues Net profit (loss) Aker Clean Carbon AS1 Oslo, Norway 50.0% 50.0% 223 86 137 263 (45) Aker DOF Deepwater AS1 Storebø, Norway 50.0% 50.0% 887 733 154 37 90 Aker Caspian BV1 Zoetermeer, Netherlands 50.0% 50.0% 207 33 174 (18) K2 Eiendom AS2 Oslo, Norway 25.0% 25.0% 733 532 201 (2) Power Maintenance and Constructors, LLC2 Hammond, USA 49.0% 49.0% 70 28 41 569 1 Nippon Pusnes Co Ltd2, 3 Tokyo, Japan 28.0% 28.0% 244 161 84 617 28 K-WAC Ltd1 Brentford, UK 33.0% 30.0% 166 84 82 516 44 2009 Percentage of Percentage Amounts in NOK million Business office voting rights held Assets Liabilities Equity Revenues Net profit (loss) Aker Clean Carbon AS1 Oslo, Norway 50.0% 50.0% 205 124 81 210 (36) Aker DOF Deepwater AS1 Storebø, Norway 50.0% 50.0% 393 329 64 4 4 Power Maintenance and Constructors, LLC2 Hammond, USA 49.0% 49.0% 71 31 40 848 1 Nippon Pusnes Co Ltd2, 3 Tokyo, Japan 28.0% 28.0% 199 155 44 149 8 K-WAC Ltd1 Brentford, UK 33.0% 30.0% 345 271 74 660 56 1) Jointly controlled entity. Assets and liabilities are mainly non-current. 2) Associated company. 3) Reporting date is 31 March. Guarantee obligations Aker Solutions ASA has issued payment guarantees to STX Singapore Offshore Pte Ltd for 50 percent of all amounts payable by Aker DOF Deepwater AS under the contract to construct four vessels. Aker Solutions remaining commitments amount to NOK 450 million as of 31 December 2010 provided Aker DOF Deepwater enters into long-term financing agreements of 70 percent of contract value. In addition, Aker Solutions ASA has issued financial guarantees in favor of Eksportfinans/BNP Paribas under ECA loans granted Aker DOF Deepwater AS related to financing of two vessels. Liability is capped at 50 ­percent of drawn amount (USD 46.5 million as of 31 December 2010). 54 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 26 Jointly controlled operations Note 27 Investments in other companies The group has interests in several jointly controlled operations whose principal activities are construcAmounts in NOK million 2010 2009 tion contracts. The group’s share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly controlled operations are included in the consolidated financial statements. The material agreements and entities are listed below. Balance as of 1 January 135 123 Additions 22 12 Jointly controlled operations are defined as related parties to Aker Solutions. See note 8 Related parties for overview of transactions and balances between Aker Solutions and jointly controlled operations. Balance as of 31 December 157 135 Investments in other companies mainly relate to investments in Aker Pensjonskasse. The investment is Percentage share 2010 2009 held at book value as fair value cannot be reliably measured. ASC-ERSAI Consortium 50% 50% AET-Varisal 50% 50% KAC Kiewit and Aker Contractors 50% Halton Hills Power Partners Joint Venture 50% 50% AK/IHI Gulf 50% 50% Cameron LNG (Sempra) 50% 50% JV Yansab 50% 50% ASO/IHI 50% 50% Aker Kvaerner Clough Murray & Robertsen Joint Venture1 61% AKTIV Joint Venture1 40% Anglian Water 4 Joint Venture1 50% KAT Nuclear1 45% 1) Reclassified as as disposal groups and discontinued operations in 2010, see note 7 Disposal groups and discontinued operations. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 55 Annual accounts – group Note 28 Borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured at amortised cost. For more information about the the group’s exposure to interest rates, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 5 Financial risk management and exposures. 2010 Nominal Fixed Amounts in million Currency currency value Book value Interest rate4 interest margin Interest coupon Maturity date Interest terms ISIN NO 0010341324 NOK 572 572 2.51% 1.05% 3.56% 01.12.2011 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010341332 NOK 300 299 2.51% 1.35% 3.86% 01.12.2013 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010342587 NOK 150 150 6.00% 6.00% 01.12.2013 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050461.6 NOK 1 913 1 988 8.70% 8.70% 26.06.2014 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050460.8 NOK 187 185 2.62% 4.75% 7.37% 26.06.2014 Floating, 3 months Total bonds1 3 194 Revolving credit facility EUR 750 2 792 2.40% 0.73% 3.13% 25.10.2012 LIBOR + Margin2 Revolving credit facility NOK 2 000 2.00% 19.12.2011 LIBOR + Margin3 Total credit facility 2 792 Term loan NOK 750 755 2.58% 2.00% 4.58% 01.10.2014 NIBOR, 3 months Brazilian Development Bank EXIM loan BRL 155 548 4.50% 08.10.2012 Fixed Brazilian Development Bank EXIM loan BRL 233 817 4.50% 23.12.2013 Fixed Other loans 118 Total borrowings 8 224 Current borrowings 716 Non-current borrowings 7 508 Total 8 224 56 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group 2009 Nominal Fixed Amounts in million Currency currency value Book value Interest rate4 interest margin Interest coupon Maturity date Interest terms ISIN NO 0010341324 NOK 572 570 2.01% 1.05% 3.06% 01.12.2011 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010341332 NOK 300 297 2.01% 1.35% 3.36% 01.12.2013 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010342587 NOK 150 149 6.00% 6.00% 01.12.2013 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050461.6 NOK 1 913 1 953 8.70% 8.70% 26.06.2014 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050460.8 NOK 187 185 2.13% 4.75% 6.88% 26.06.2014 Floating, 3 months Total bonds 1 3 154 Revolving credit facility EUR 750 2 886 0.83% 25.10.2012 LIBOR + Margin2 Revolving credit facility NOK 2 000 1.75-2.50% 19.12.2011 LIBOR + Margin3 Total credit facility 2 886 Term loan NOK 750 753 2.00% 2.00% 4.00% 01.10.2014 NIBOR, 3 months Brazilian Development Bank EXIM loan BRL 155 519 4.50% 08.10.2012 Fixed Other loans 203 Total borrowings 7 515 Current borrowings 180 Non-current borrowings 7 335 Total 7 515 1) The book value is calculated by reducing the nominal value of NOK 3 122 million by total issue costs related to the new financing of NOK 32 million (NOK 12 million in 2009). Accrued interest and issue costs related to the bonds are included. 2) The margin applicable to the facility is decided by a price grid based on the gearing ratio. Commitment fee is 40 percent of the margin. 3) The margin applicable to the facility is decided by a price grid based on the gearing ratio. Commitment fee is 50 percent of the margin. 4) The interest rate applicable for the floating rate loans are the interest rate fixed over year end. Norwegian bonds Aker Solutions has issued five bonds which mature in one, three (two loans) and four years (two loans). The million at end of year 2010 whilst the NOK 2 000 million facility remained undrawn. A term loan of NOK 750 bonds which matures in one and three years were issued on 1 December 2006, while the other two bonds million maturing in October 2014, established in 2009, was fully drawn at end of year 2010. The terms and were issued on 26 June 2009. The bonds are denominated in Norwegian kroner and are issued in the Norconditions include restrictions which are customary for these kinds of facilities, including inter alia negative wegian bond market. Three of the bonds are issued based on a floating interest rate plus a predefined marpledge provisions and restrictions for acquisitions, disposals and mergers. There are also certain provisions­ gin. The bonds with notional value of NOK 150 million and NOK 1 913 million have a fixed interest rates of of change of control included in the agreements. There are no restrictions for dividend payments – both 6.0 and 8.7 percent respectively. revolving credit facilities and the term loan are unsecured. The bonds are issued with Norsk Tillitsmann as trustee and the loan agreements are based on Norsk TillitsThe financial covenants are based on two sets of key financial ratios; a gearing ratio based on gross debt/ mann’s standard loan agreement for such bonds. The bonds are unsecured on a negative pledge basis EBITDA and an interest coverage ratio based on EBITDA/net finance costs. The financial covenants are and include no dividend restrictions. tested on a quarterly basis. The margin applicable to the facility is based on a price grid determined by the gearing ratio. See note 5 Financial risk management and exposures for more information regarding capital The bonds issued in 2006 are listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. risk in the group. Bank debt Aker Solutions strategy is to have between 30-50 percent of borrowings at fixed interest rates. To the The bank debt consists of a revolving credit facility of NOK 2 000 million maturing in December 2011 and a extent that this is not reflected in the loan agreements, swap transactions are entered into. The revolving revolving credit facility of EUR 750 million maturing in October 2012. The facilities are provided by a syndifacility is hedged to fixed rate through an interest rate swap for NOK 1 300 million. cate of high quality Nordic and international banks. The EUR 750 million facility was drawn by NOK 2 800 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 57 Annual accounts – group Financial liabilities and the period in which they mature 2010 Total undiscounted More than Amounts in NOK million Book value cash flow 6 mths and less 6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years ISIN NO 0010341324 (572) (572) (572) ISIN NO 0010341332 (299) (300) (300) ISIN NO 0010342587 (150) (150) (150) ISIN NO 001050461.6 (1 988) (1 913) (1 913) ISIN NO 001050460.8 (185) (187) (187) Interest on bonds (955) (226) (50) (236) (443) Total (3 194) (4 077) (226) (622) (236) (2 993) Revolving credit facility (EUR 750 million)1 (2 792) (2 800) (2 800) Revolving credit facility (NOK 2 000 million) Total credit facility (2 792) (2 800) (2 800) Term loan (NOK 750 million) (755) (750) (750) Brazilian Development Bank EXIM loan (1 365) (1 365) (548) (817) Other loans (118) (118) (28) (26) (44) (8) (12) Interest on revolving credit facility and other bank debt (657) (98) (114) (208) (236) (1) Total borrowings (8 224) (9 767) (352) (762) (3 836) (4 804) (13) 2009 Total undiscounted More than Amounts in NOK million Book value cash flow 6 mths and less 6-12 mths 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years ISIN NO 0010341324 (570) (572) (572) ISIN NO 0010341332 (297) (300) (300) ISIN NO 0010342587 (149) (150) (150) ISIN NO 001050461.6 (1 953) (1 913) (1 913) ISIN NO 001050460.8 (185) (187) (187) Interest on bonds (834) (187) (29) (216) (402) Total (3 154) (3 956) (187) (29) (788) (2 952) Revolving credit facility (EUR 750 million) (2 886) (2 900) (2 900) Revolving credit facility (NOK 2 000 million) Total credit facility (2 886) (2 900) (2 900) Term loan (NOK 750 million) (753) (750) (750) Brazilian Development Bank EXIM loan (519) (516) (516) Other loans (203) (203) (10) (66) (95) (17) (15) Interest on revolving credit facility and other bank debt (634) (80) (99) (194) (259) (2) Total borrowings (7 515) (8 959) (277) (194) (1 077) (7 394) (17) 1) Cash from the sale of principal Process & Construction operations was used to repay all of the EUR 750 million revolving credit as per February 2011. See note 37 Subsequent events for information about the sale. 58 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Mortgages and guarantee liabilities Note 30 Employee benefits pension The group has NOK 26 million in mortgage liabilities (NOK 29 million in 2009), which are secured by pledges on property, plant and equipment with book values of NOK 26 million. The group’s pension costs represent the future pension entitlement earned by employees in the financial year. In a defined contribution plan the company is responsible for paying an agreed contribution to the employee’s pension assets. In such a plan this annual contribution is also the cost. In a defined benefit Note 29 Other non-current liabilities plan it is the company’s responsibility to provide a certain pension. The measurement of the cost and the pension liability for such arrangements are subject to actuarial valuations. Aker Solutions has over a long time period gradually moved from defined benefit arrangements to defined contribution plans. ConseAmounts in NOK million 2010 2009 quently, the impact of the remaining defined benefit plans is gradually reduced. Deferred and contingent considerations 293 676 Pension plans in Norway The main pension arrangement in Norway is a general pension plan organised by the Norwegian State. Deferred income 182 This arrangement provides the main general pension entitlement of all Norwegians. All pension arrangeOther 278 215 ments by employers, consequently represent limited additional pension entitlements. Total 753 891 Norwegian employers are obliged to provide an employment pension plan, which can be organised as a Deferred and contingent considerations defined benefit plan or as a defined contribution plan. The Norwegian companies have closed the earlier Aker Solutions has acquired subsidiaries and non-controlling interest where final consideration is defined benefit plans in 2008 and are now providing defined contribution plans for all of their employees deferred and to a certain degree dependent on future earnings in the acquired companies. The total under 60 years of age. Employees who where 58 or more in 2008, when the change took place, are still in estimated consideration is measured at fair value using a discount rate equal to market rates for the defined benefit plan. This is a funded plan and represent most of the funded pension liability reported ­borrowings. The discount rate is based on market rates on the acquisition dates and varies between 5 in the tables below. and 6.5 percent. Deferred considerations to be paid during 2011 amount to NOK 451 million and are reported as current liabilities, see note 19 Trade and other payables. The deferred and contingent In 2008 paid up policies were set up for accrued rights for employees who were moved to the new ­considerations reported in other non-current liabilities as of 31 December 2010 relates mainly to the defined contribution plan. These paid up policies were provided based on actuarial demographic acquisition of Aker Wirth (2009), Step Offshore (2009), First Interactive (2010) and TH GLobal (2006). assumptions required to be used in Norway at the time. It was known that these assumptions would have to be adjusted and a provision was set up for the anticipated cost of NOK 65 million for this. It has subDeferred income sequently been appreciated that this cost is being absorbed by the pension fund and the provision is Deferred income relates to the estimated gain from disposal of the office building at K2 Eiendom AS. As now released to income statement in 2010. Aker Solutions is responsible for the completion of the facilities within specific timeframes and budgets, the accounting gain will be booked in 2012 when the buildings are completed. The deferred income The annual contribution expensed for the new defined contribution plan was NOK 258 million (NOK 244 related to the 25 percent ownership in K2 Eiendom AS has been deducted directly from the book value million in 2009). Aker Solutions contributions to this plan are at the maixmum level accepted by of the investment, see note 25 Investments in associated companies and jointly controlled entities. ­Norwegian tax legislation. Other To ensure that the employees were treated fairly on the change over to the new plan the company has Other liabilities are mainly liabilities in Aker Insurance AS. Actuary estimated insurance provisions for introduced a compensation plan. The basis for deciding the compensation amount is the difference reported injuries and incurred but not reported injuries amounts to NOK 176 million (NOK 165 million in between calculated pension capital in the defined benefit plan and the value of the defined benefit plan at 2009). the age of 67 years. The compensation amount will be adjusted annually in accordance with the adjustment of the employees’ pensionable income, and accrued interest according to market interest. If the employee leaves the company voluntarily before the age of 67 years, the compensation amount will be reduced. AFP is an early retirement arrangement organised by Norwegian employers the main Labour Union organisation in Norway (LO) and the Norwegian State. The “old AFP” arrangement was established to provide pension between the age of 62 to 67 for employees who retired before the general retirement age of 67. In a recent pension reform individual employees are given a choice of retirement age, but with lower pension with earlier retirement. The old AFP arrangement has been stopped and the remaining recognised obligation of NOK 266 million has been released to the income statement in 2010. This release was net of a provision of NOK 74 million to cover underfinancing of current liabilities in “old AFP”. A “new AFP” plan is being established from 2011 to provide additional life long pensions to employees that retire early to compensate for the reduction in the ordinary pension entitlements. The Norwegian Accounting Standards Board have issued a comment concluding that the “new AFP” plan is a multiemployer defined benefit plan. The “new AFP” plan exposes the participating entities to actuarial risk associated with employees of other entities with the result that there is no consistent and reliable basis for allocating the obligation, plan assets and costs to individual participating entities. Sufficient information is not available to use defined benefit accounting and the “new AFP” plan is accounted for as a defined contribution plan. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 59 Annual accounts – group Pension plans outside Norway 2009 Pensions plans outside Norway are predominatly defined contribution plans. Amounts in NOK million Funded Un­funded Total Net periodic pension cost (return) Defined benefit plans Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Accumulated benefit obligation 2 034 730 2 764 Effect of projected future ­compensation levels 93 99 192 Defined benefit plans Projected benefit obligation (PBO) 2 127 829 2 956 Service cost 189 189 Social security tax on plan assets in excess of (less than) PBO 33 106 139 Interest on projected benefit obligation 113 127 Plan assets at fair value 1 825 1 825 Expected return on plan assets (112) (123) Plan assets in excess of (less than) PBO (335) (935) (1 270) Net amortisations and deferrals 105 125 Unrecognised net (gain) loss 409 118 527 Curtailments and settlements (335) Net employee benefit assets (employee benefit obligations) 74 (817) (743) Administration cost 19 14 Reclassified to disposal groups held for sale Social security tax 24 29 Total 74 (817) (743) Pension cost defined benefit plans 3 361 Pension cost defined contribution plans 417 369 Employee benefit assets 167 167 Total pension cost 420 730 Employee benefit obligations (93) (817) (910) Total 74 (817) (743) Attributable to continuing operations 352 648 Attributable to discontinued operations 68 82 Economic assumptions Status of pension plans reconciled with the balance sheet Norwegian plans 2010 2009 2010 Discount rate 4.00% 4.40% Amounts in NOK million Funded Un­funded Total Asset return 5.40% 6.40% Salary progression 3.75-4.00% 4.00-4.25% Defined benefit plans Pension indexation 2.50% 3.00% Accumulated benefit obligation 1 906 649 2 555 Effect of projected future c ­ ompensation levels 91 6 97 The discount rate is based on the Norwegian ten-year government bond rate. The asset return is Projected benefit obligation (PBO) 1 997 655 2 652 expected to be higher than the discount rate because the assets are invested in instruments with a higher risk than government bonds. Experience has shown that the rate of return on pension assets has Social security tax on plan assets in excess of (less than) PBO 22 74 96 been about 1-2 percent higher than discount rate over an extended period of time. Plan assets at fair value 1 884 3 1 887 Plan assets in excess of (less than) PBO (135) (726) (861) Generally, a one percent increase in the discount rate will lead to approximately 10-15 percent decrease in service cost/projected benefit obligation. This is lower than an expected effect of approximately 20 Unrecognised net (gain) loss 275 22 297 percent as the benefit obligation in Aker Solutions consist mainly of pensioners and employees over 60. Net employee benefit assets (employee benefit obligations) 140 (704) (564) Reclassified to disposal groups held for sale 41 (53) (12) Plans outside Norway Basis for the Canadian plans are a discount rate of 6.25 percent (7.5 percent in 2009), an expected rate Total 99 (651) (552) of return on assets of 7.25 percent (7.25 percent in 2009) and an expected salary increase of 3.5 ­percent (3.5 percent in 2009). Employee benefit assets 95 95 Employee benefit obligations 4 (651) (647) Basis for the German plan is a discount rate of 4.5 percent (5.0 percent in 2009) and an expected salary increase of 2.0 percent (same as in 2009). Total 99 (651) (552) 60 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Movement in pension obligation and plan asset1 Analyses of the plan assets (Norwegian plans) Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Major categories of plan assets in percent of total plan assets 2010 2009 Projected benefit obligation as of 1 January 2 956 2 813 Equity instruments 6.0% 4.4% Service cost incl. cost related to the compensation plan 189 189 Debt instruments 92.4% 93.9% Interest on projected benefit obligation 113 127 Other assets 1.6% 1.7% Benefits paid by the plan (112) (252) Plan assets 100.0% 100.0% Curtailment and settlement 25 5 Acquisition and disposal (352) 11 Overview of net pension obligation Change in unrecognised (gain) loss (180) 71 Currency translation differences 13 (8) Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Projected benefit obligation as of 31 December 2 652 2 956 Projected benefit obligation 2 652 2 973 2 813 4 350 4 034 Plan assets at fair value as of 1 January 1 825 1 872 Plan assets at fair value 1 887 1 826 1 872 2 662 2 438 Expected return on plan assets 112 123 Net pension obligation (765) (1 147) (941) (1 688) (1 596) Contributions paid into the plan 101 99 Benefits paid by the plan (73) (254) Change in unrecognised (gain) Curtailment and settlement (4) loss projected benefit obligation (180) 71 18 (40) 615 Change in unrecognised gain (loss) (58) Change in unrecognised gain Administration costs (19) (15) (loss) plans assets (58) (159) (199) 101 Currency translation differences 3 Plan assets at fair value as of 31 December 1 887 1 825 1) Includes disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations Aker Solutions annual report 2010 61 Annual accounts – group Note 31 Capital and reserves Note 32 Earnings per share Share capital Aker Solutions ASA holds 4 590 978 treasury shares at year end 2010 (4 570 911 in 2009). Treasury Aker Solutions ASA has one class of shares, ordinary shares, with equal rights for all shares. The holdshares are not included in the weighted average number of ordinary or diluted shares. ers of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to one vote per share at General Meetings. Total outstanding shares are 274 000 000 at par value NOK 2 per share, same as in 2009. All Basic earnings per share issued shares are fully paid. The calculation of basic earnings per share as of 31 December 2010 was based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding. Share buy-back At the 2007 Annual General Meeting authorisation was given to repurchase up to 27.4 million shares, 2010 2009 representing 10 percent of the share capital of Aker Solutions ASA. Aker Solutions ASA reduced the shareholdings with 20 067 treasury shares in 2010 and as of 31 December 2010 Aker Solutions ASA holds 4 590 978 treasury shares representing 1.68 percent of total outstanding shares. Profit attributable to ordinary shares (NOK million) 1 957 2 260 Profit attributable to ordinary shares from continuing operations Summary of purchase and sale of treasury shares (NOK million) 1 605 2 115 Amounts in NOK million Number of shares Consideration Issued ordinary shares as of 1 January 274 000 000 274 000 000 Treasury shares as of 1 January 2009 4 966 830 686 Weighted average number of issued ordinary shares for the year Purchase 436 200 20 adjusted for treasury shares 269 267 952 269 138 497 Sale (832 119) (45) Basic earnings per share (NOK) 7.27 8.40 Treasury shares as of 31 December 2009 4 570 911 661 Basic earnings per share for continuing operations (NOK) 5.96 7.86 Purchase 680 000 57 Sale (659 933) (56) Diluted earnings per share Treasury shares as of 31 December 2010 4 590 978 662 The calculation of diluted earnings per share as of 31 December 2010 is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment The group purchases treasury shares to meet the obligation under the employee share purchase profor the effect of rights to receive bonus shares in connection with the employee share purchase programme. gramme and all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 2010 2009 Dividends 2010 2009 Profit attributable to ordinary shares (NOK million) 1 957 2 260 Profit attributable to ordinary shares from continuing operations Paid dividend per share (NOK) 2.60 1.60 (NOK million) 1 605 2 115 Total dividend paid (NOK million) 700 431 Ordinary dividend per share proposed by the Board of Directors (NOK) 2.75 2.60 Weighted average number of issued ordinary shares for the year adjusted for treasury shares 269 267 952 269 138 497 Hedging reserve The hedging reserve relates to cash flow hedges of future revenues and expenses against exchange Expected effect of right to receive bonus shares 564 701 175 278 rate fluctuations. The income statement effects of such instruments are recognised in accordance with Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (diluted) the progress of the underlying construction contract as part of revenues or expenses as appropriate. for the year 269 832 653 269 313 775 The hedging reserve represents the value of such hedging instruments that are not yet recognised in the Diluted earnings per share (NOK) 7.25 8.39 income statement. The underlying nature of a hedge is that a positive value on a hedging instrument exists to cover a negative value on the hedged position, see note 13 Financial income and expenses. Diluted earnings per share for continuing operations (NOK) 5.95 7.85 Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve includes exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and foreign exchange gain or loss on loans defined as hedges on net investments, see note 13 Financial income and expenses. Net investments have been hedged in 2010 with a gain of NOK 68 million. Accumulated gain on net investment hedges from 2005 is NOK 217 million. The net investment hedge in 2010 relates mainly to investments in the United States, see note 5 Financial risk management and exposures. 62 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 33 Financial instruments Liabilities as of 31 December 2010 Total This note summarises each class of financial instruments and gives an overview of book and fair value Amortised carrying of the group’s financial instruments and the accounting treatment of these instruments. The table below Amounts in NOK million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost amount also shows on what level in the measurement hierarchy the group’s financial instruments measured at fair value are considered to be in regard to how objective the measuring method is. Derivative financial instruments 21 (243) (243) Assets as of 31 December 2010 Non-current borrowings 28 (7 508) (7 508) Total Other non-current liabilities 29 (753) (753) Amortised carrying Amounts in NOK million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost amount Trade and other payables 19 (16 278) (16 278) Current borrowings 28 (716) (716) Cash and cash equivalents 3 198 3 198 Total financial liabilities (25 255) (25 255) Investments in other companies 27 157 157 Derivative financial instruments 21 386 386 Total liabilities classified as financial instruments (243) (25 255) (25 498) Non-current interest-bearing receivables 24 225 225 Current liabilities (243) (16 994) (17 237) Other non-current operating assets 221 221 Non-current liabilities (8 261) (8 261) Trade and other receivables 16 14 870 14 870 Current interest-bearing receivables 24 317 300 4 621 Total liabilities (243) (25 255) (25 498) Total loans and receivables 317 300 15 320 15 937 Assets as of 31 December 2009 Total Total assets classified as financial Amortised carrying instruments 3 515 686 157 15 320 19 678 Amounts in NOK million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost amount Current assets 3 515 686 14 874 19 075 Cash and cash equivalents 3 186 3 186 Non-current assets 157 446 603 Investments in other companies 27 135 135 Total assets 3 515 686 157 15 320 19 678 Derivative financial instruments 21 372 372 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 24 184 184 Other non-current operating assets 338 338 Trade and other receivables 16 18 332 18 332 Current interest-bearing receivables 24 218 206 16 440 Total loans and receivables 218 206 18 870 19 294 Total assets classified as financial instruments 3 404 578 135 18 870 22 987 Current assets 3 404 578 18 348 22 330 Non-current assets 135 522 657 Total assets 3 404 578 135 18 870 22 987 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 63 Annual accounts – group Liabilities as of 31 December 2009 Loans and receivables and financial liabilities Loans and receivables and financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Due to the short-term Total nature, the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair values, with the exception of financial Amortised carrying borrowings, which are detailed in the table below. Amounts in NOK million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost amount 2010 2009 Derivative financial instruments 21 (345) (345) Amounts in NOK million Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Bonds1 3 194 3 236 3 154 3 064 Non-current borrowings 28 (7 335) (7 335) Other borrowings2 5 030 5 033 4 361 4 369 Other non-current liabilities 29 (891) (891) Trade and other payables 19 (19 370) (19 370) Total borrowings 8 224 8 269 7 515 7 433 Current borrowings 28 (180) (180) 1) Fair value is quoted prices for the bonds noted on the Oslo Stock Exchange. Notional amount is best approximation for the new bonds. Total financial liabilities (27 776) (27 776) 2) Credit facilities have floating interest and the notional amount is a reasonable approximation of fair values. Notional values of other loans are also expected to be a good approximation of fair values. Total liabilities classified as financial instruments (345) (27 776) (28 121) Note 34 Contingent events Current liabilities (345) (19 550) (19 895) Legal proceedings Non-current liabilities (8 226) (8 226) Given the scope of the group’s worldwide operations, group companies are inevitably involved in legal Total liabilities (345) (27 776) (28 121) disputes in the course of their activities. Provisions have been made to cover the expected outcome of the disputes in so far as negative outcomes are likely and reliable estimates can be made. However, the The first level in the above table, fair value based on prices quoted in an active market for identical final outcome of these cases will always be subject to uncertainties, and resulting liabilities may exceed assets or liabilities, includes cash and financial instruments that are calculated based on observable recorded provisions. prices on identical instruments. Blind Faith The second level in the above table, fair value based on price inputs, other than quoted prices, which Aker Solutions has delivered a semi-submersible hull for Chevron Corporation’s Blind Faith platform. are derived from observable market transactions in an active market for identical assets or liabilities, The platform has been installed in the Gulf of Mexico, and production started in November 2008. Aker includes currency or interest derivatives and interest bonds. These will typically be when the group uses Solutions has initiated arbitration proceedings regarding compensation for various changes to the work forward prices on foreign exchange rates or interest rates as inputs to valuation models. and associated acceleration work. Chevron Corporation has presented various warranty claims and other claims against Aker Solutions and initiated a separate arbitration process in Houston. The disThe third level in the above table, fair value based on unobservable inputs, includes financial instruputes relate to both the contract for the construction and delivery of the hull and the separate contract ments for which fair values are calculated on the basis of input and assumptions that are not from for the tow and installation of the platform. Hearings in the two cases are to commence in the first and observable market transactions. This is typically investments in other companies and pension fund. The second quarter of 2011 respectively and should be completed in the second or third quarter of 2011. A fair value presented in this category are mainly based on internal assumptions. The internal assumpfinal award is expected in the third quarter of 2011. Although there can be no assurance regarding the tions are only used in the absence of quoted prices from an active market or other observable price outcome, the expectation is that this will not have a material impact on Aker Solutions’ financial posiinputs for the financial instruments subject to the valuation. tion or results. 64 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Note 35 Number of employees (unaudited) Ownership Company Location Country (percent)1 20101 2009 Aker Projects (Shanghai) Co Ltd Shanghai China 100 Aker Global Employment Ltd Limasol Cyprus 100 Energy Development & Services 9 297 9 535 Aker Solutions Cyprus Ltd Limasol Cyprus 100 Subsea 5 779 5 276 Aker Cool Sorption AS Glostrup Denmark 100 Products & Technologies 3 034 3 027 Aker Operations APS Glostrup Denmark 100 Process & Construction 425 3 343 Aker Offshore OY Pori Finland 100 Other 909 952 Aker Process Systems SAS Vincennes Cedex France 100 Total Aker Solutions employees 19 444 22 133 Aker Process GmbH Lagenfeld Germany 100 Contract staff 5 370 7 804 Aker Wirth GmbH Erkelenz Germany 100 Total 24 814 29 937 Aker MH (India) Pvt Ltd7 Mumbai India 100 Aker Powergas Pvt Ltd2 Mumbai India 64 Employees in Norway 10 972 11 189 Aker Powergas Subsea Pvt Ltd Mumbai India 64 Employees outside Norway 8 472 10 944 PT Aker Solutions E & C Indonesia Snd Bhd Jakarta Indonesia 100 Total Aker Solutions employees 19 444 22 133 PT Aker Solutions Indonesia Jakarta Indonesia 100 Aker Engineering International Sdn Bhd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100 1) Employees in 2010 is for continuing operations only. Aker Engineering Malaysia Snd Bhd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 90 Aker Process Systems Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd Shah Akam Malaysia 100 Aker Solutions India Snd Bhd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100 Note 36 Group companies as of 31 December 2010 Aker Solutions Malaysia Snd Bhd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100 Phoenix Polymers Malaysia Ltd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100 Ownership Aker Solutions Asia Pacific Snd Bhd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100 Company Location Country (percent)1 Aker Solutions (Mauritius) Ltd Port Louis Mauritius 100 Aker Solutions SA de CV Lomas de Chaputtepec Mexico 100 Aker Solutions ASA Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Advantage BV Gravenhage Netherlands 100 Aker Advantage Pty Ltd Melbourne Australia 100 Aker Oilfield Services BV Amsterdam Netherlands 100 Aker Marine Contractors Pty Ltd Perth Australia 100 Aker Process BV Zoetermeer Netherlands 100 Aker Process Systems Pty Ltd Welshpool Australia 100 Aker Process Engineering Services BV Maastrichts Netherlands 100 Aker Solutions Australia Pty Ltd Melbourne Australia 100 Aker Solutions BV Zoetermeer Netherlands 100 Aker Solutions Oil & Gas Australia Pty Ltd Melbourne Australia 100 Aker Solutions Nigeria Ltd Lagos State Nigeria 100 Aker Subsea Pty Ltd Melbourne Australia 100 Aker Advantage AS Bergen Norway 100 Aker Wirth Australia Pty Argenton Australia 100 Aker Advantage Group AS4 Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Belgium NV/SA Antwerp Belgium 100 Aker Business Services AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Oilfeld Services Ltda Rio de Janeiro Brazil 100 Aker Contracting Russia AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions do Brasil Ltda Curitiba Brazil 100 Aker Egersund AS Egersund Norway 100 Aker Chemetics Offshore Services Inc Vancouver Canada 100 Aker Elektro AS Stord Norway 100 Aker Construction Canada Ltd Ontario Canada 100 Aker Engineering & Technology AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Canada Inc Vancouver Canada 100 Aker Geo AS Stavanger Norway 100 Aker Solutions Newfoundland Ltd2 Newfoundland Canada 100 Aker Installation FP AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Oilfield Services Canada Inc Newfoundland Canada 100 Aker Insurance AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Chile S.A. Santiago Chile 100 Aker Insurance Services AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Cool Sorption (Beijing) Technology Co Ltd Beijing China 100 Aker Jacket Technology AS Verdal Norway 100 Aker E&T (Shanghai) Co Ltd3 Shanghai China 100 Aker Kværner Contracting International (Spain) AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 65 Annual accounts – group Ownership Ownership Company Location Country (percent)1 Company Location Country (percent)1 Aker Kværner Contracting Italy AS Fornebu Norway 100 Norwegian Contractors AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Marine Contractors AS Fornebu Norway 100 Step Offshore AS Hvalstad Norway 100 Aker MH AS Kristiansand Norway 100 Subsea Africa AS2 Oslo Norway 100 Aker Midsund Bruk AS5 Midsund Norway 100 Vind Sammenstilling AS2 Verdal Norway 100 Aker O&G Group AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Peru SA San Isidro Peru 100 Aker Offshore Partner AS Stavanger Norway 100 Aker Kvaerner Caribe LLP San Juan Puerto Rico 98 Aker Oilfield Services AS Oslo Norway 100 Aker Kvaerner Gotech LLC Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 51 Aker Oilfield Services Operations AS Oslo Norway 100 Aker Process Gulf Ltd Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 100 Aker Oilfield Services Shipholding AS Oslo Norway 100 Aker MH (Singapore) Pte Ltd Singapore Singapore 100 Aker Operations AS Stavanger Norway 100 Aker Solutions (Services) Pte Ltd Singapore Singapore 100 Aker P&C Americas AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Singapore 100 Aker P&C Europe AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Wirth SCS Singapore Pty Singapore Singapore 100 Aker P&C Group AS Fornebu Norway 100 Wirth CC Südafrica Germiston South Africa 100 Aker Piping Tecnology AS Verdal Norway 100 Wirth Mining Service Pty Ltd Middelburg South Africa 100 Aker Porsgrunn AS Porsgrunn Norway 100 Aker Pusnes Korea Co Ltd Busan South Korea 80 Aker Process System International AS Fornebu Norway 100 Pusnes Korea Industries Co Ltd2 Busan South Korea 100 Aker Process Systems AS Fornebu Norway 100 Kvaerner Water AB Ørnskjøldsvik Sweden 100 Aker Pusnes AS Arendal Norway 100 Aker Cool Sorption Siam Ltd Rayong Thailand 99 Aker Sakkyndig Virksomhet AS Verdal Norway 100 Aker Cool Sorption Thailand Ltd Rayong Thailand 100 Aker Solutions AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Kvaerner (Thailand) Ltd Bangkok Thailand 100 Aker Solutions Contracting AS Lysaker Norway 100 Aker Kvaerner E&C (Thailand) Ltd Bangkok Thailand 100 Aker Solutions Contracting Kazakhstan AS2 Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Kvaerner E&C Holdings (Thailand) Ltd Bangkok Thailand 100 Aker Stord AS Stord Norway 100 Aker Advantage Ltd London UK 100 Aker Subsea AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Business Services Ltd London UK 100 Aker Subsea Russia AS Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Engineering & Technology Ltd London UK 100 Aker Verdal AS Verdal Norway 100 Aker MH UK Ltd Aberdeen UK 100 Aker Well Service AS Stavanger Norway 100 Aker Offshore Partner Ltd London UK 100 AKOFS 1 AS Oslo Norway 100 Aker Process Ltd London UK 100 AKOFS 2 AS Oslo Norway 100 Aker Process Systems Ltd Aberdeen UK 100 AKOFS Angola AS Oslo Norway 100 Aker Qserv Ltd Aberdeen UK 100 AKOFS Wayfarer AS2 Fornebu Norway 100 Aker Solutions Angola Ltd Maidenhead UK 100 AMC Connector AS6 Oslo Norway 100 Aker Solutions DC Trustees Ltd London UK 100 Dovre Maling AS2 Verdal Norway 100 Aker Solutions E & C International Ltd London UK 100 Drilltech AS Kristiansand S Norway 100 Aker Solutions E&C Ltd Stockton on Tees UK 100 First Interactive AS8 Stavanger Norway 100 Aker Solutions India Ltd Cardiff UK 100 Hinna Base AS2 Stavanger Norway 100 Aker Subsea Ltd Maidenhead UK 100 Jåttåvågen AS Stavanger Norway 93 Aker Well Services Ltd Aberdeen UK 100 K2 Hotellbygg AS2 Fornebu Norway 93 Phoenix Polymers International Ltd Aberdeen UK 100 KB eDesign AS Oslo Norway 100 Qserv Pipeline & Process Ltd London UK 100 Kværner Engineering AS Abu Dhabi Branch Fornebu Norway 100 Woodfield Systems Co Ltd Kent UK 100 Kværner Eureka AS Tranby Norway 100 Aker Kvaerner Well Service LLC Muscat The Emirates 70 Maritime Promeco AS Kristiansand S Norway 100 Aker MH FZE Dubai The Emirates 100 66 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – group Ownership Note 37 Subsequent events Company Location Country (percent)1 Dividend The Board of Directors of Aker Solutions will propose an ordinary dividend of NOK 2.75 per share. Aker Advantage Inc Houston USA 100 Aker Business Services Inc Houston USA 100 Completion of sale of its principal Process and Construction businesses Aker Construction Inc Pensylvania USA 100 Aker Solutions has on 1 February 2011 completed the sale of the principal operations within its Process Aker Field Development Inc Houston USA 100 and Construction business area to Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (Jacobs). As disclosed on 22 Aker Industrial Constructors Inc Pennsylvania USA 100 December 2010, the transaction does not include the US EPC centre in Houston, and the Union ­Construction business located in the US and Canada. Aker Solutions retains Aker Projects (Shanghai) Aker Kvaerner Pharmaceuticals LLC Houston USA 100 Company Limited until such time as the requisite regulatory clearances in China have been obtained. Aker Kvaerner Power Inc Charlotte USA 100 Aker Kvaerner Process Systems US Inc Houston USA 100 The transaction value is estimated to be approximately NOK 5.5 billion (USD 913 million), subject to Aker Kvaerner US LLP Houston USA 100 closing adjustments Net gain for Aker Solutions compared to book value of the businesses is estimated Aker Kvaerner Willfab Inc Williamsport USA 100 to be a total of NOK 2.4 billion (USD 400 million). The purchase price as determined prior to any adjustments based on the closing date balance sheet has been paid in cash, of which USD 30 million to an Aker Marine Contractors US Inc Houston USA 100 escrow account pending China regulatory clearance for the sale of Aker Projects (Shanghai) Company Aker Maritime US Inc Delaware USA 100 Limited to Jacobs. Aker Metals Inc Tuscon USA 100 Aker MH Inc Katy USA 100 Hitachi–Council Bluffs power plant Aker Michigan Inc Michigan USA 100 In February 2011 the rulings from Phase 2 hearings were announced related to the 2003 contract with Hitachi America Ltd. Hitachi was awarded damages but the conclusion did not have a material effect on Aker Oil & Gas US LLC Houston USA 100 the financial statements of Aker Solutions. Aker P&C Inc Houston USA 100 Aker P&C US Inc Houston USA 100 Completion of sale of Aker Marine Contractors Aker Solutions Americas Inc Wilmington USA 100 Aker Solutions has on 1 March 2011 completed the transfer of ownership of subsidiary Aker Marine Aker Solutions Chile Corporation Houston USA 100 Contractors (AMC) to Singapore listed Ezra Holdings Ltd. In the transaction, AMC is valued at USD 250 million. Ezra has settled the transaction by paying Aker Solutions USD 50 million in cash, USD 100 Aker Solutions USA Corporation Houston USA 100 ­million in shares in Ezra Holdings Ltd, and USD 50 million in a convertible bond with maturity after 36 Aker Strategic Operations Inc Washington USA 100 months. The share instruments have been valued on weighted average price per share over the last 30 Aker Subsea Inc Houston USA 100 days preceding signing. The final USD 50 million plus interest will be settled in cash on and subsequent Aker US Holdings Inc Houston USA 100 to delivery of the AMC Connector vessel. Upon delivery of AMC Connector, Ezra will take 50 percent Aker Well Services Inc Houston USA 100 ownership in the vessel owning company. The other half will remain under Aker Solutions ownership. Aker Wirth International LP Houston USA 90 Aker Wirth Management Inc Dover USA 100 DSI Constructors Houston USA 100 Kvaerner Process Services Inc Houston USA 100 RIG Specialities Inc Houston USA 100 Wirth Service Inc North Charleston USA 100 1) Ownership equaling the percentage of voting shares. 2) New companies in 2010 3) Changed name from Aker E&C (Shanghai) Co Ltd 4) Changed name from Kogas AS 5) Changed name from Midsund Bruk AS 6) Changed name from AKOFS 4 AS 7) Increased ownership from 51 percent in 2009 8) Increased ownership from 60 percent in 2009 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 67 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Aker Solutions ASA Aker Solutions ASA Income statement 1.1 – 31.12 Balance sheet 1.1 – 31.12 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million Note 2010 2009 Operating revenue 48 18 Assets Operating expenses 2 (237) (113) Deferred tax asset 4 37 16 Operating loss (189) (95) Investments in group companies 5 7 256 7 071 Income from investments in subsidiaries 3 018 900 Non-current interest-bearing receivables from group companies 7 8 000 13 993 Net financial items 3 384 307 Other non-current interest-bearing receivables 8 220 178 Profit before tax 3 213 1 112 Total non-current assets 15 513 21 258 Income tax expense 4 (60) (60) Current interest-bearing receivables from group companies 7 10 791 3 770 Profit for the period 3 153 1 052 Non-interest bearing receivables from group companies 7 3 310 1 469 Profit for the period distributed as follows: Other current receivables 9 486 326 Proposed dividends 741 701 Cash in cash pool system 7 298 1 100 Other equity 2 412 351 Total current assets 14 885 6 665 Profit for the period 3 153 1 052 Total assets 30 398 27 923 Group contribution against investment in shares 187 260 Equity and liabilities Issued capital 548 548 Treasury shares (9) (9) Share premium reserve 4 279 4 279 Other equity 5 911 3 509 Total equity 6 10 729 8 327 Non-current borrowings 10 6 169 6 689 Total non-current borrowings 6 169 6 689 Current borrowings 10 572 104 Current borrowings from group companies 7 11 111 10 918 Provision for dividend 6 741 701 Non interest-bearing liabilities from group companies 7 730 821 Other current liabilities 9 346 363 Total current liabilities 13 500 12 907 Total liabilities and equity 30 398 27 923 Fornebu, 9 March 2011 Board of Directors and President & CFO of Aker Solutions ASA Øyvind Eriksen Lone Fønns Schrøder Kjell Inge Røkke Vibeke Hammer Madsen Mikael Lilius Ida Helliesen Chairman Atle Teigland Åsmund Knutsen Arild Håvik Arve Toft Leif Hejø Borge President & CFO 68 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Aker Solutions ASA Aker Solutions ASA Statement of cash flow 1.1 – 31.12 Notes to the financial statements Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Note 1 Accounting principles Profit before tax 3 213 1 112 Aker Solutions ASA is a company domiciled in Norway. The accounts are presented in conformity with Norwegian legislations and Norwegian generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in other net operating assets (3 685) (525) Net cash from operating activities (472) 587 Investment in subsidiaries and associates Investments in subsidiaries and associates are accounted for using the cost method in the parent company accounts. The investments are valued at cost less impairment losses. Write-down to fair value are Proceeds from borrowings 2 850 according to good accounting practice recognised when the impairment is considered not to be temRepayment of borrowings (100) (2 480) porary and reversed if the basis for the write-down is no longer present. Changes in net borrowings from group companies 470 (856) Proceeds from employees share purchase program 56 46 Dividends and other distributions are recognised as income the same year as they are appropriated in the subsidiary. If the dividend exceeds accumulated profits in the subsidiary after the day of acquisition Repurchase of treasury shares (56) (20) the payment is treated as a reduction of the carrying value of the investment. Dividends to shareholders (700) (431) Net cash from financing activities (330) (891) Classification and valuation of balance sheet items Current assets and current liabilities include items due within one year or items that are part of the operating cycle. The rest is classified as fixed assets/non-current debt. Net increase (decrease) in cash and bank deposits (802) (304) Current assets are valued at the lowest of cost and fair value. Current debt is valued at nominal value at the time of recognition. Cash in cash pool system at the beginning of the period 1 100 1 404 Cash in cash pool system at the end of the period1 298 1 100 Fixed assets are valued at cost less accumulated depreciation, but are written down to fair value if impairment is not expected to be temporary. Non-current debts are initially valued at transaction value 1) Unused credit facilities in NOK and EUR amounted to NOK 5.1 billion as described in note 10 borrowings. less attribute transaction cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing long-term debt is stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis. Trade receivables and other receivables are recognised at nominal value less provision for expected losses. Provision for expected losses is considered on an individual basis. The cash flow statement is established according to the indirect method. Cash in cash pool system is the parent company’s cash as well as net deposits from subsidiaries in the group cash pooling systems owned by the parent company. Correspondingly, the parent company’s current debt to group companies will include the same net deposits in the group’s cash pooling system. Costs for purchase of own shares including transaction costs are accounted for directly against equity. Sale of own shares are done according to stockexchange quotations at the time of award and accounted for as increase in equity. Foreign currency and interest swaps Cash, receivables and foreign currency debt are valued at the exchange rate at the end of the fiscal year. Subsidiaries have entered into agreements with the parent company to hedge their foreign exchange exposure. In the parent company, this risk is hedged in the external financial markets. All agreements are booked at fair value with any gains or losses booked against the income statement. In order to reduce the financial market exposure, interest swap agreements are entered. The market value of interest rate swaps classified as cash flow hedging (from floating to fixed interest) is accounted for directly against equity and reflected in the profit and loss in line with the future interest. The value of Aker Solutions annual report 2010 69 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA interest rate swaps classified as fair value hedging (from fixed to floating interest) is accounted for Note 4 Tax through profit and loss. At the same time is a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the borrowing accounted for. Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Tax Tax expense in the income statement comprises current tax and changes in deferred tax. Deferred tax is calculated as 28 percent of temporary differences between accounting and tax values as well as any Calculation of taxable income tax losses carry forward at the year end. Net deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is Profit before tax 3 213 1 112 probable that they will be utilised against future taxable profits. Group contribution without tax (3 000) (900) Permanent differences 1 Change in timing differences 57 439 Note 2 Operating expenses Transferred to (utilisation of) tax loss carried forward (289) There are no employees in Aker Solutions ASA and hence no salary or pension related costs and also Taxable income 271 362 no loan or guarantees related to the executive management team. Group management and corporate staff are employed by other Aker Solutions companies and costs for their services as well as other parPositive and (negative) timing differences ent company costs are charged to Aker Solutions ASA. Remuneration to and shareholding of acting managing director Leif Hejø Borge, is described in note 10 Salaries, wages and social security costs in Write down on current interest-bearing receivables from group companies (197) (12) the consolidated accounts. Unrealised gain(loss) on forward exchange contracts 93 (35) Interest rate swaps (27) (11) Fees to KPMG for statutory audit of the parent company amounted to NOK 3 million and fees for other Basis for deferred tax (131) (58) assurance services amounted to NOK 1.4 million excluding VAT. Deferred tax in income statement 29 13 Deferred tax in equity 8 3 Note 3 Net financial items Deferred tax asset 37 16 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences in income statement 16 122 Interest income from group companies 926 845 Benefit of tax losses recognised (80) Interest expense to group companies (144) (137) Payable tax (73) (101) Net interest group companies 782 708 Withholding tax paid (3) (1) Total tax expense in income statement (60) (60) Interest income from external companies 10 7 Interest expense to external (417) (415) Net interest external (407) (408) Write-down on financial fixed assets (185) (12) Other financial income 4 4 Other financial expense (57) Net foreign exchange gain 247 15 Net other financial items 194 19 Net financial items 384 307 70 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Note 5 Investments in group companies Note 6 Shareholders’ equity Number of Percentage Share Own Share Other Registered Share shares Book owner-/ Amounts in NOK million capital shares premium equity Total Amounts in NOK million office capital held value voting share Equity as of 1 January 2009 548 (10) 4 279 3 105 7 922 Aker P&C Group AS Fornebu, Norway 500 500 000 1 067 100% Change in 2008 dividend (1) (1) Aker O&G Group AS Fornebu, Norway 1 110 1 110 000 5 870 100% Shares issued to employees trough Aker Oilfield Services AS1 Oslo, Norway 321 10 379 470 319 32.29% share program 2 44 46 Total investments in group companies 7 256 Share buy back (1) (19) (20) Profit for the period 1 052 1 052 1) The remaining 67,71 percent of the shares in Aker Oilfield Services AS are held by Aker Solutions AS meaning that Aker Proposed dividend (701) (701) Solutions ASA direct and indirect owns 100 percent of the shares. Cash flow hedge1 29 29 Aker Solutions ASA has in 2010 given group contributions with tax to tier-subsidiaries. The equity value Equity as of 31 December 2009 548 (9) 4 279 3 509 8 327 of these are booked against the shares in the subsidiaries holding these tier-subsidiaries. Thereby the Change in 2009 dividend 1 1 value of the shares in Aker O&G Group AS are increased by NOK 138 million and the shares in Aker Shares issued to employees through Oilfield Services AS are increased by NOK 49 million. share program2 1 55 56 Share buy back3 (1) (55) (56) Profit for the period 3 153 3 153 Proposed dividend (741) (741) Cash flow hedge1 (11) (11) Equity as of 31 December 2010 548 (9) 4 279 5 911 10 729 1) The value of interest swap agreements changing interest from floating to fixed interest is recognised directly in equity and will be released to income together with the corresponding interest expense. 2) The Board of Directors of Aker Solutions ASA has approved a share purchase program for employees . Employees participating in the program are committed to a monthly saving and the number of shares awarded are dependent of the share price at the time of award. Participants still holding the shares at the date for award of bonus shares will receive one share for every two shares bought under the program. The costs of the program are covered by each company. Bonus share award for the March 2009 to February 2010 program will take place in September 2011. The number of participart are 4 034 with 1 016 570 shares bought under the program still held by end of 2010 thereby giving right to 508 285 bonus shares. Bonus share award for the March 2010 to February 2011 program will take place in September 2012. The number of participants are 3 685 with 475 314 shares bought under the program still held by end of 2010 thereby giving right to 237 657 bonus shares. 3) During 2010 a total of 680 000 own shares have been acquired in the market. The number of own shares held by end of 2010 were 4 590 978 and are held for the purpose of being used for future awards under the share saving program for employees, as settlement in future corporate acquisitions or for other purpose as decided by the Board of Directors. Proposed dividend exclude dividend on owns shares held as of 31 December. The share capital of Aker Solutions ASA is divided into 274 000 000 shares with a nominal value of NOK 2. The shares can be freely traded. An overview of the company’s largest shareholders is to be found in page 78 Share and shareholder information. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 71 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Note 7 Receivables and borrowings from group companies Note 8 Other non-current interest-bearing receivables Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Group companies deposits in the cash pool system 8 687 9 076 Other non-current interest-bearing receivables 220 178 Group companies borrowings in the cash pool system (138) (213) Total other non-current interest-bearing receivables 220 178 Aker Solutions ASA's net borrowings in the cash pool system (8 251) (7 763) Other interest-bearing receivables consist of loans to the two jointly controlled companies, Caspian Sea Cash in cash pool system 298 1 100 Solutions BV of NOK 8 million and Aker Dof Deepwater AS of NOK 210 million. In addition to this they comprise a deposit in Stiftelsen Aker Solutions Kompensasjonsording of NOK 2 million. Current interest-bearing receivables from group companies 10 791 3 770 Non-current interest-bearing receivables from group companies 8 000 13 993 Current borrowings from group companies (11 111) (10 918) Note 9 Other current receivables and current liabilities Other net interest-bearing receivables from group companies 7 680 6 845 Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Non interest-bearing receivables from group companies 3 310 1 469 Current non interest-bearing borrowings from group companies (730) (821) Other current receivables 486 326 Net non interest-bearing receivables from group companies 2 580 648 Other current liabilities (346) (363) Total net receivables from group companies 10 558 8 593 Net other current receivables and liabilities excluding tax and dividend 140 (37) All current receivables/borrowings are due within one year. Dividend (741) (701) Deferred tax assets 37 16 Aker Solutions ASA is the owner of the cash pool system arrangements with DnBNOR, Nordea, The Royal Bank of Scotland and Banc Itau. The cash pool systems cover a majority of the group geographiDeferred tax liabilities cally and assure good control and access to the group’s cash. Group companies’ participation in the Net other current liabilities (564) (722) cash pool systems are decided by each company’s Board of Directors and confirmed by a statement of participation. The participants in the cash pool system are joint and several liable and it is therefore Other current receivables and other current liabilities include unrealised forward exchange contracts important that Aker Solutions as a group is financially viable and can repay deposits and carry out with external counterparts as well as unrealised receivables and losses related to interest rate swaps transactions. Any debit balance on a sub account can be set-off against any credit balance. A debit and accrued costs as described in note 12 Financial risk management and financial instruments. balance does hence represent a claim on Aker Solutions ASA and a credit balance a borrowing from Aker Solutions ASA. The cash pool systems were showing a net balance of NOK 298 million per 31 December. This amount is reported in Aker Solutions ASA’s accounts as short term borrowings from group companies and as cash in cash pool system. Aker Solutions ASA is the group’s central treasury function and enters into borrowings and deposit agreements with group companies. Deposits and borrowings are done at market terms and are dependent of the group companies’ credit rating and the duration of the borrowings. Other current receivables and other current liabilities include unrealised forward exchange contracts with group companies as described in note 12 Financial risk management and financial instruments as well as receivables and liabilities related to NOK 3 018 million in group contributions received and NOK 258 million in group contributions paid and other short term group receivables/liabilities. 72 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Note 10 Borrowings Contractual terms of group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured at amortised cost. For more information about the the group’s exposure to interest rates, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 12 Financial risk management and financial instruments. 2010 Amounts in million Currency Nominal currency value Book value Interest rate4 Fixed interest margin Interest coupon Maturity date Interest terms ISIN NO 0010341324 NOK 572 572 2.51% 1.05% 3.56% 01.12.2011 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010341332 NOK 300 299 2.51% 1.35% 3.86% 01.12.2013 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010342587 NOK 150 150 6.00% 6.00% 01.12.2013 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050461.6 NOK 1 913 1 988 8.70% 8.70% 26.06.2014 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050460.8 NOK 187 185 2.62% 4.75% 7.37% 26.06.2014 Floating, 3 months Total bonds1 3 194 Revolving credit facility EUR 750 2 792 2.40% 0.73% 25.10.2012 LIBOR + Margin2 Revolving credit facility NOK 2 000 1.75-2.50% 19.12.2011 LIBOR + Margin3 Total credit facility 2 792 Term loan NOK 750 755 2.58% 2.00% 4.58% 01.10.2014 NIBOR, 3 months Total borrowings 6 741 Current borrowings 572 Non-current borrowings 6 169 Total 6 741 2009 Amounts in million Currency Nominal currency value Book value Interest rate4 Fixed interest margin Interest coupon Maturity date Interest terms ISIN NO 0010341324 NOK 572 570 2.01% 1.05% 3.06% 01.12.2011 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010341332 NOK 300 297 2.01% 1.35% 3.36% 01.12.2013 Floating, 3 months ISIN NO 0010342587 NOK 150 149 6.00% 6.00% 01.12.2013 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050461.6 NOK 1 913 1 953 8.70% 8.70% 26.06.2014 Fixed, annual ISIN NO 001050460.8 NOK 187 185 2.13% 4.75% 6.88% 26.06.2014 Floating, 3 months Total bonds1 3 154 Revolving credit facility EUR 750 2 886 0.83% 25.10.2012 LIBOR + Margin2 Revolving credit facility NOK 2 000 1.75-2.50% 19.12.2011 LIBOR + Margin3 Total credit facility 2 886 Term loan NOK 750 753 2.00% 2.00% 4.00% 01.10.2014 NIBOR, 3 months Total borrowings 6 793 Current borrowings 104 Non-current borrowings 6 689 Total 6 793 1) The book value is calculated by reducing the nominal value of NOK 3 122 million by total issue costs related to the new financing of NOK 32 million (NOK 12 million in 2009). Accrued interest and issue costs related to the bonds is included. 2) The margin applicable to the facility is decided by a price grid based on the gearing ratio. Commitment fee is 40 percent of the margin. 3) The margin applicable to the facility is decided by a price grid based on the gearing ratio. Commitment fee is 50 percent of the margin. 4) The interest rate applicable for the floating rate loans are the interest rate fixed over year end. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 73 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Norwegian bonds Financial liabilities and the period in which they mature Aker Solutions has issued five bonds which mature in one, three (two loans) and four years (two loans). The bonds 2010 which matures in one and three years were issued on 1 December 2006, while the other two bonds were issued Total undiscounted 6 mths 6-12 1-2 2-5 on 26 June 2009. The bonds are denominated in Amounts in NOK million Book value cash flow and less mths years years ­Norwegian kroner and are issued in the Norwegian bond market. Three of the bonds are issued based on a floating ISIN NO 0010341324 (572) (572) (572) interest rate plus a predefined margin. The bonds with notional value of NOK 150 million and NOK 1 913 million ISIN NO 0010341332 (299) (300) (300) have a fixed interest rates of 6.0 and 8.7 percent ISIN NO 0010342587 (150) (150) (150) ­respectively. ISIN NO 001050461.6 (1 988) (1 913) (1 913) ISIN NO 001050460.8 (185) (187) (187) The bonds are issued with Norsk Tillitsmann as trustee and the loan agreements are based on Norsk Tillitsmann’s Interest on bonds (955) (226) (50) (236) (443) standard loan agreement for such bonds. The bonds are Total (3 194) (4 077) (226) (622) (236) (2 993) unsecured on a negative pledge basis and include no ­dividend restrictions. Revolving credit facility (EUR 750 million)1 (2 792) (2 800) (2 800) The bonds issued in 2006 are listed on the Oslo Stock Revolving credit facility (NOK 2 000 million) Exchange. Total credit facility (2 792) (2 800) (2 800) Bank debt The bank debt consists of two revolving credit facilities of Term loan (NOK 750 million) (755) (750) (750) EUR 750 million with initial maturity in October 2012 and Interest on revolving credit facility and other bank debt (513) (68) (81) (150) (214) NOK 2 000 million maturing in December 2011. The facilities are provided by a bank syndicate consisting of Nordic Total borrowings (6 741) (8 140) (294) (703) (3 186) (3 957) and high quality international banks. The EUR 750 million facility was drawn to NOK 2 800 million at year end 2010 2009 and the NOK 2 000 million facility was undrawn. In addiTotal undiscounted 6 mths 6-12 1-2 2-5 tion, a credit facility of NOK 750 million with initial maturity Amounts in NOK million Book value cash flow and less mths years years in October 2014 was established in 2009 and was fully drawn at December 2010. The terms and conditions include restrictions which are customary for this kind of ISIN NO 0010341324 (570) (572) (572) facility, including inter alia negative pledge provisions and ISIN NO 0010341332 (297) (300) (300) restrictions on acquisitions, disposals and mergers. There are also certain changes of control provisions included. ISIN NO 0010342587 (149) (150) (150) The facility includes no dividend restrictions and is unseISIN NO 001050461.6 (1 953) (1 913) (1 913) cured. ISIN NO 001050460.8 (185) (187) (187) Interest on bonds (834) (187) (29) (216) (402) The financial covenants are based on two sets of key financial ratios; a gearing ratio based on gross debt/ Total (3 154) (3 956) (187) (29) (788) (2 952) EBITDA and an interest coverage ratio based on EBITDA/ net finance costs. The financial covenants are tested on a Revolving credit facility (EUR 750 million) (2 886) (2 900) (2 900) quarterly basis. The margin applicable to the facility is Revolving credit facility (NOK 2 000 million) based on a price grid determined by the gearing ratio. See note 5 Financial risk management and exposures to the Total credit facility (2 886) (2 900) (2 900) consolidated accounts for more information regarding capital risk in the group. Term loan (NOK 750 million) (753) (750) (750) Aker Solutions strategy is to have between 30-50 percent Interest on revolving credit facility and other bank debt (550) (66) (80) (166) (238) of borrowings at fixed interest rates. To the extent that this Total borrowings (6 793) (8 156) (253) (109) (954) (6 840) is not reflected in the loan agreements, swap transactions are entered into. The revolving facility is hedged to fixed 1) Cash from the sale of the Process & Construction business was used to repay all of the EUR 750 million revolving credit as per February 2011. Se note 7 Disposal groups and discontinued operations to the consolidated accounts for information about sale. rate through an interest rate swap for NOK 1 300 million. 74 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Annual accounts – Aker Solutions ASA Note 11 Guarantees 1 056 million at floating interest rates and hereof NOK 400 million were swapped to fixed interest. NOK 1 300 million of drawings under committed facilities are swapped to 12 months fixed rate from 15 January 2010. A credit facility of NOK 750 million with floating interest was established in 2009 where NOK Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 375 million are swapped to fixed interest. Parent company guarantees to group companies1 80 912 37 341 Floating interest is mainly tied to NIBOR and LIBOR. Hedge accounting is applied using the cash flow Counter guarantees for bank/surety bonds2 7 672 7 284 hedge accounting model which means that gains and losses on interest rate swap from floating to fixed interest rates as of 31 December 2010 are recognised in the hedging reserve in equity and will be conTotal 88 584 44 625 tinuously released to the income statement until the repayment of the bank borrowings. The value of interest rate swaps classified as fair value hedging (from fixed to floating interest) is accounted for 1) Parent Company Guarantees to support subsidiaries in contractual obligations towards clients. through profit and loss. At the same time is a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the 2) Bank guarantees and surety bonds are issued on behalf of Aker Solutions subsidiaries, and counter indemnified by Aker Solutions ASA. borrowing accounted for. Credit risk Note 12 Financial risk management and financial instruments Credit risk relates to loans to subsidiaries and associated companies, overdraft in the group cash pool, hedging contracts, guarantees to subsidiaries and deposits with external banks. Loans to subsidiaries Currency risk and balance sheet hedging are assessed by the internal credit committee. Loss provisions are made in situations of negative equity and were the company is not expected to be able to fulfil it’s loan obligations from future earnings. 2010 2009 External deposits and forward contracts are done according to a list of approved banks and primarily Amounts in NOK million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities with banks were the company also have a borrowing relation. The existence of netting agreements between Aker Solutions ASA and the relations banks reduces the credit risk. Options 8 (7) 1 (2) Liquidity risk Forward exchange contracts with group companies 244 (378) 353 (370) Liquidity risk relates to the risk that the company will not be able to meet its debt and guarantee obligaForward exchange contracts with external counterparts 419 (187) 274 (290) tions and are managed through maintaining sufficient cash and available credit facilities. The developTotal 671 (572) 628 (662) ment in the groups and thereby Aker Solutions ASA available liquidity is continuously monitored through weekly and monthly cash forecasts, annual budgets and long term planning. Aker Solutions ASA enters into approximately 10 000 currency hedging contracts with subsidiaries a year at a total value of about NOK 59 billion. Large contracts are hedged back-to-back with external Note 13 Related parties banks, while minor contracts are hedged after internal netting. Contracts that are hedged directly ­represents about 80% of the total exposure but only a small number of the total contracts. The treasury Aker Solutions ASA’s contract with Intellectual Property Holding AS and agreement with Aker ASA function within Aker Solutions ASA has a mandate to hold small positions in the currency and interest regarding pension obligation in US are described in note 8 Related parties to the consolidated markets. The mandate has limits that are strictly defined and is operated under a strict stop-loss accounts. regime. Open positions are continuously monitored at a market to market basis. All instruments are booked at fair value as per 31 December. Note 14 Shareholders Equity investments in foreign subsidiaries are normally not hedged. As of 31 December 2010 Interest rate risk Shareholders with more than 1 percent shareholding 2010 2009 Company Nominee Number of shares held Owership Amounts in NOK million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Aker Holding AS 110 333 615 40.27% Interest rate swaps cash flow and fair value hedge 61 (31) 2 (28) Folketrygdfondet 10 802 522 3.94% Interest rate swaps not subject to hedge accounting 4 (4) State Street Bank & Trust Co x 10 568 829 3.86% Total 61 (31) 6 (32) JPMorgan Chase Bank x 8 110 997 2.96% Bank of New York Mellon x 7 348 640 2.68% According to internal policy should about 30-50 percent of the company’s gross external borrowing be The Nortern Trust C.O. x 4 951 919 1.81% at fixed interest rates with duration according to the remaining duration of the borrowing. As per year State Street Bank & Trust Co x 4 830 832 1.76% end about 31% of the external borrowings were at fixed interest. Hedge accounting is applied through JPMorgan Chase Bank x 4 773 864 1.74% both cash flow and fair value hedging. As of 31 December 2010, Aker Solutions group had one bond of Aker Solutions ASA 4 590 978 1.68% NOK 150 million with fixed interest rates at 6 percent and one bond of NOK 1 913 million with fixed Fidility Fund-Europ.Growth 4 382 723 1.60% interest rate of 8.7 percent. At year end, there were interest rate swaps with floating interest hedging NOK 1 100 million of the fixed interest bonds. In addition, Aker Solutions had three bonds totalling NOK Clearstream Banking x 4 124 671 1.51% Aker Solutions annual report 2010 75 Auditor’s report 76 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Share and shareholder information Share and shareholder information Aker Solutions is committed to maintaining an open and direct dialogue with its investors, analysts and the financial market in general. One goal is that the share price will reflect s­ ecurities registration number is ISIN Indexed share price development in NOK the company’s underlying value by making NO0010215684. Aker Solutions ASA was ■ Aker Solutions ■ Oslo Børs benchmark index all share price-relevant information listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange on 250 available­to the market at the right time. 2 April 2004. Weight is also given to equal treatment of 200 the various players in the financial market The share in 2010 150 concerning access to such information. The closing share price as of 31 December Aker Solutions’ objective is that its share2010 was NOK 99.25, which gave the com100 holders will achieve a competitive return on pany a total market capitalisation of NOK their shares over time through a combina27.2 billion (20.7 billion as of year end 50 tion of dividend, share buy-backs and the 2009). A total of 502.3 million Aker rise in the share price. ­Solutions shares were traded during 2010, 0 1 Jan 1 July 1 Jan 1 July 1 Jan 1 July 1 Jan 1 July 1 Jan 31 Dec The Aker Solutions share is listed on the representing 3.1 times the company’s freely 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 Oslo Stock Exchange’s main OBX list tradable stock. The latter amounted to (ticker: AKSO), and is registered in the 59.73 percent of total issued shares in ­Norwegian Central Securities Depository 2009, with the remaining 40.27 percent Key figures for the Aker Solutions share 2010 with DnB NOR Bank as registrar. Its owned by Aker Holding AS. The share was 2010 2009 traded on all the 252 possible trading days. The average daily volume traded was 2.0 Highest closing share price NOK 104.4 77.2 million shares, which represents a turnover Lowest closing share price NOK 68.9 29.40 Shareholders rate of 183.3 percent. Average closing share price NOK 85.8 53.09 By geographical area Closing price as of 31 Dec. NOK 99.25 75.45 as of 31 Dec. 2010 Shares and share capital Luxembourg 5.9% Aker Solutions ASA has 274 000 000 Market capitalisation as of 31 Dec. NOK million 27 194 20 673 Others 5.2% ordinary­shares with a par value of NOK 2 Daily turnover No. of shares 1 993 282 2 380 833 Aker Holding 40.3% (see the consolidated financial statements Turnover ratio Percent 183.3 218.1 on page 23). Aker Solutions has a single share class and each share carries one vote. Own (treasury) shares as of 31 Dec. No. of shares 4 590 978 4 643 285 The company owned 4 590 978 of its own Shares issued and outstanding as of 31 Dec. No. of shares 274 000 000 274 000 000 (treasury) shares at 31 December 2010, or Basic earnings per share NOK 8.40 1.7 percent of the total. No shares were Earnings per share continuing operations NOK 8.39 Aker Solutions 1.7% ­issued in 2010. Norway other 17.9% US 18.2% Credit rating Fitch BBBBBBUK 10.9% Non-Norwegian shareholders Percent 43.5 45.0 Source: Norwegian Central Securities Depository (VPS) Aker Solutions annual report 2010 77 Share and shareholder information Shareholder structure The following table shows the dividends Geographic distribution of ownership as of 31 December 2010 Aker Solutions had 10 584 shareholders as per share paid by Aker Solutions for the Nationality Number of shares Ownership (in %) of 31 December 2010, of whom 1 470 (13.9 period 2007–2010: percent) were non-Norwegian. At year end Non-Norwegian shareholders 123 267 264 43.47 43.5 percent of the shares were owned by Year Dividend Norwegian shareholders 150 732 736 56.53 foreign investors, a slight decrease from 45 2007 NOK 3.00 Total 274 000 000 100 percent the year before. 70.8 percent of the 2008 NOK 1.60 share capital was owned by the company’s 2009 NOK 2.60 20 largest shareholders at year end 2010. 2010 – Proposed NOK 2.75 The largest shareholder in Aker Solutions is Ownership structure by size of shareholding as of 31 December 2010 Aker Holding AS, which owned 40.27 Shares held Number of shareholders Percent of share capital percent­of the shares as of 31 December Current board mandates 2010. Aker ASA holds a controlling 60 The Annual General Meeting of Aker 1-100 1 559 0.03 ­percent stake in Aker Holding. The ­Solutions held on 8 April 2010 mandated 101-1 000 7 404 0.99 Norwegian­Government owns 30 percent of the board of directors to acquire the com1 001-10 000 1 151 1.30 Aker Holding’s shares and Swedish pany’s own shares up to a total par value of 10 001-100 000 287 3.91 companies­SAAB AB and Investor AB hold NOK 54 800 000. This mandate also covers 100 001-500 000 121 9.44 7.5 percent and 2.5 percent respectively. the use of treasury shares as security. The More than 500 000 62 84.33 For more information on the principal lowest price per share to be paid under this Total 10 584 100 shareholder, see the chapter concerning mandate is NOK 1, the highest is NOK 300. corporate governance on page 82. The board is otherwise free to determine the way in which treasury shares should be Dividend policy bought or sold. The mandate is valid until The company’s goal is that the average the 2011 Annual General Meeting or until ­dividend over time should amount to 30-50 30 June 2011, whichever occures first. percent of the Aker Solutions group’s net profit through cash payments and/or share Acquisition of own shares buy-backs. The size of the dividend is The company’s share buy-back programme ­assessed in relation to alternative uses for continued under the board mandate the funds and the desire to continue granted by the 2010 Annual General strengthening the financial structure. The ­Meeting. The board has authorised the Board will propose to the Annual General company’s management to buy back up to Meeting that a total dividend of NOK 2.75 five percent of the outstanding shares. This per share be paid for 2010, corresponding programme runs until the next Annual to 38 percent of the net annual profit per ­General Meeting on 6 May 2011. As of 31 share. The dividend will be paid out to December 2010, 680 000 shares had been shareholders of record on the date of the acquired under the mandate. The board of Annual General Meeting. Aker Solutions will propose that the ­mandate be extended from the date of the Annual General Meeting’s decision until the next Annual General Meeting. 78 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Share and shareholder information Share purchase programme for Nomination committee 20 largest shareholders as of 31 December 2010 employees Pursuant to its articles of association, Aker Number of Ownership The share purchase programme for Solutions has a nomination committee with Name Nominee shares held (in %) ­employees that was established in January at least three members. Its composition 2009 was re-launched in 2010. Around must reflect the interests of shareholders, Aker Holding AS 110 333 615 40.27 17 200 employees were invited to particiand the members must be independent. Folketrygdfondet 10 802 522 3.94 pate in January 2010, of these 3 759 signed The nomination committee has the State Street Bank x 10 574 461 3.86 up. They were offered the opportunity to following­members: JPMorgan Chase Bank x 8 110 997 2.96 purchase shares in Aker Solutions up to a ■■ Leif-Arne Langøy (chairman), Bank of New York Mellon x 7 423 928 2.71 ceiling of NOK 15 000 per employee and at 2009-2011 State Street Bank & Trust CO. x 5 472 873 2.00 a discount of up to NOK 1 500 per ■■ Gerhard Heiberg, 2010-2012 The Northern Trust C.O. x 4 948 119 1.81 employee­over the 12-month duration ■■ Kjeld Rimberg, 2009-2011 JPMorgan Chase Bank x 4 773 864 1.74 (March 2010 to February 2011) of the ■■ Mette Wikborg, 2009-2011 Aker Solutions ASA 4 590 978 1.68 ­programme. The price per share was calcuFidelity Funds Europe 4 382 723 1.60 lated on the basis of the average volumeThe deadline for submitting proposals for Clearstream Banking x 4 124 671 1.51 weighted share price on the Oslo Stock board and nomination committee candiGoldman Sachs & CO x 2 484 301 0.91 Exchange the day before the shares were dates for the upcoming term is at the end Vital Forsikring ASA 2 389 996 0.87 allocated. Employees who retain their of November the year prior to the Annual JPMorgan Chase Bank x 2 373 379 0.87 JPMorgan Chase Bank x 2 055 177 0.75 shares until 3 September 2012 and who General Meeting. Shareholders who wish to DnB NOR Bank ASA 1 902 186 0.69 remain continuously employed by Aker contact Aker Solutions ASA’s nomination The Northern Trust x 1 855 138 0.68 ­Solutions throughout the period, will be committee may do so using the following State Street Bank x 1 808 643 0.66 ­entitled to receive free bonus shares at the e-mail address: ir@akersolutions.com. Bank of New York Mellon x 1 793 856 0.65 rate of one bonus share for every two Bank of New York Mellon x 1 696 296 0.62 shares purchased under the programme. A ­ Annual General Meeting Total, 20 largest shareholders 193 897 723 70.78 total of 3 500 employees bought a total of The Annual General Meeting is normally 525 077 shares through the programme in held in April. Written notice is sent to all Other shareholders 80 102 277 29.22 2010. It has been resolved to continue the shareholders individually or to their custoTotal 274 000 000 100 programme on the same terms in 2011. dian bank. The Articles of Association of Around 14 000 employees in Norway, the the company stipulate that documents Source: Norwegian Central Securities Depository (VPS) UK, the US and Canada were invited to ­pertaining to matters to be deliberated by participate in January 2011. 3 690 signed the General Meeting shall only be made up. available on the company’s website, and not normally be sent physically by post to Stock option programme the shareholders unless required by statute. Aker Solutions ASA had no stock option Shareholders or their proxies must be programmes as of 31 December 2010. physically present at the General Meeting in order to vote, in accordance with the ­instructions found on the company’s website and in the meeting notice. For more information on the Annual General Meeting, see the chapter concerning corporate ­governance on page 83. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 79 Share and shareholder information Investor relations Registrar Analysts Aker Solutions wants to maintain a good Shareholders can contact Aker Solutions’ The following research analysts provide analytic coverage of Aker Solutions (as of 31 December 2010): and open dialogue with shareholders, registrar if they have any questions ­financial analysts and the financial markets ­concerning their holding: Company Name Phone in general. In addition to meetings with ­analysts and investors, the company DnB NOR Bank ASA ABG Sundal Collier Anders Hagen +4722016048 stages regular presentations in important Securities service Arctic Securities Kjetil Garstad +4748403224 European and US financial centres. The Stranden 21 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Fiona Mclean +442079956099 company’s website at www.akersolutions. NO-0021 Oslo Barclays Mick Pickup +442031346695 com provides the opportunity to subscribe Norway CA Cheuvreux Geoffroy Stern +33141897379 to news about Aker Solutions via e-mail. All Carnegie Chr. Frederik Lunde +4722009379 press releases, including archived material, Telephone: +47 22 48 27 70 Danske Bank Endre Storløkken +4785407071 are available on the site. That also applies Telefax: +47 22 48 11 71 Deutsche Bank Christyan F. Malek +442075458249 to interim and annual reports, prospectuses, www.dnbnor.com DnBNOR Lars-Daniel Westby +4722948983 presentations, the company’s a ­ rticles of Fearnley Fonds Truls Olsen +4722936393 association, financial calendar, investor Financial calendar 2011 First Securities Pål H. Dahl +4723238198 ­relations and corporate governance policies,­ 6 May 2011 Annual General Meeting Fondsfinans Petter Narvestad +4723113040 and other information. Aker Solutions holds 6 May 2011 1st quarter results 2011 Goldman Sachs Henry Tarr +442075525981 an annual capital markets day open to all 12 August 2011 2nd quarter results 2011 Handelsbanken Haakon Amundsen +4722940995 HSBC David Phillips +442079912344 stakeholders, where key executives provide 3 November 2011 3rd quarter results 2011 JP Morgan Andrew Dobbing +442071556134 updated information about the business 8 December 2011 Capital markets day 2011 Nordea Anne S. Ulriksen +4722486867 and market conditions. Shareholders can Terra Eglé Domataité +37052461919 contact the company at ir@akersolutions. Pareto Andreas Stubsrud +4724132116 com. Aker Solutions has been awarded the Royal Bank of Scotland Phillip Lindsay +442076785486 information and English symbols presented RS Platou Markets Terje Mauer +4790970424 by the Oslo Stock ­Exchange to companies SEB Enskilda Terje Fatnes +4721008538 which satisfy its recommendations on UBS Amy Wong +442075681235 ­informing the stock market. For details, see Unicredit David Thomas +442078267895 www.oslobors.no. 80 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Share and shareholder information Analytical information (Continuing operations) Amounts in NOK million 2010 2009 Revenue EBITDA margin Amounts in NOK 50 000 10% Order backlog 31 December 50 775 52 740 Order intake 46 341 49 048 40 000 8% Revenue 46 267 49 856 30 000 6% EBITDA 3 778 4 095 20 000 4% EBITDA-margin 8.2% 8.2% 10 000 2% Profit before tax 2 355 2 969 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 Rate of taxation 29.6% 26.4% Net profit from continuing operations 1 658 2 186 Basic earnings per share 5.96 7.86 Cash flow from operating activities 2 131 4 245 Cash flow from investing activities (2 109) (3 927) Return on capital employed Earnings per share Amounts in NOK Cash flow from financing activities (121) (278) 15% 8 Cash flow per share 0.04 (2.34) Total capital 40 021 39 926 12% 6 Borrowings 8 224 7 515 9% 4 Equity ratio 25.9% 22.8% 6% Liquidity ratio 1 121.1% 113.7% 2 3% Gearing ratio 67.3% 72.2% Return on total capital 7.4% 8.6% 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 Return on equity 17.3% 25.5% Return on capital employed 2 12.1% 14.4% 1) Includes assets classified as held for sale of NOK 3 136 million and liabilities classified as held for sale of NOK 1 539 million 2) Including discontinuing operations Aker Solutions annual report 2010 81 Corporate governance Corporate governance Aker Solutions aims to ensure that the maximum possible value is created for its sibility reports. Discussion and clarification pany, and any changes thereto, is disclosed shareholders over time. Good corporate governance shall ensure an appropriate of the basic corporate values adopted by to the market in the context of the company’s­ distribution of roles between the owners, the board of directors and the the group, as well as its ethical guidelines quarterly reporting and in designated market leadership group, and also contribute to reducing risk and ensuring sustainable and corporate social responsibility principresentations. value creation. ples, are available on the Aker Solutions website www.akersolutions.com/CR. Section 3: Equity and dividends The book equity of the group as per 31 The corporate governance principles of the Basic corporate values and ethical The company has implemented procedures ­December 2010 is NOK 10 354 million, group are laid down by the board of guidelines to ensure that Aker Solutions’ projects which represents an equity ratio of 25.6 ­directors of Aker Solutions. The principles Aker Solutions wishes to contribute to globally are conducted in compliance with percent. The dividend policy of Aker are based on the Norwegian Code of Prac­sustainable social development through the company’s own guidelines. For key ­Solutions is set out in the Share and Sharetice for Corporate Governance, dated 21 responsible business practices. The board ­areas like HSE, anti-corruption and human holder Information chapter on page 77 of October 2010 (the «Code of Practice»). of directors has defined a set of basic rights, the controls are effected through the annual report. The dividend policy is ­Below follows an account outlining how ­corporate values for the group to ensure internal procedures, some of which are one of the factors that were taken into Aker Solutions has implemented the Code this. The ethical guidelines and other policy elaborate. In case of doubt, issues may be ­account when the board of directors of Practice. This account follows the same documents of the company have been referred for deliberation at group level, ­prepared its proposal for the allocation of structure as the Code of Practice and drafted on the basis of these basic corpowhere they are examined by the group the profit for the year 2010. ­covers all sections thereof. Deviations from rate values. Aker Solutions has a total of 20 function enterprise risk. As far as the main the Code of Practice are discussed under policies, which provide, inter alia, business projects of the company are concerned, the Authorisations for the board of directors the relevant section. practice guidance within a number of key complex extended effects and risks are Proposals from the board of directors for areas. These policy documents express the ­reviewed by a committee with a broad future authorisations shall be restricted to Section 1: Implementation and position of the company with regard to, ­representation, which makes recommen­ defined purposes and shall remain in effect reporting on corporate governance ­inter alia, corporate responsibility, whilst at dations on whether to pursue with the until the next annual general meeting. Good corporate governance shall ensure the same time providing operational guide­relevant projects. ­Existing authorisations for the board of that appropriate goals and strategies are lines that apply to individual employees, ­directors to acquire own shares are adopted, that the adopted strategies are thus ensuring compliance within the Section 2: Business ­described in the Share and Shareholder implemented in practice, and that the ­various functions operated by the comThe objectives of the company, as defined Information chapter on page 77 of the ­results achieved are subject to measurepany. All policies are updated and revised in its articles of association, are «to own or ­annual report. As of year-end, there are no ment and follow-up. The principles shall in 2010. In 2009, Aker Solutions developed carry out industrialand other associated authorisations for board of directors to also contribute to ensuring that the activiand implemented its own «Code of businesses, management of capital and ­increase the share capital of the company. ties of the group are subject to adequate ­Conduct» for the group, which was applied other functions for the Group, and to parti­ controls. An appropriate distribution of in 2010 and which also will be applied cipate in or acquire other businesses». The Share purchase programme for employees roles and adequate controls shall contri­ 2011. It summarises the corporate responprincipal strategies of the group are preAker Solutions wants its employees to be bute to the largest possible value creation sibility principles adopted by Aker Solutions sented in the annual report. Each year, the able to participate in Aker Solutions as over time, for the benefit of the owners and and other key requirements governing the board of directors evaluates the strategy, owners, and to benefit from any increase in other stakeholders. business practices of the company. The goals and guidelines of the company the value of the company, and thereby Code of Conduct is a brief summary of key through designated strategy processes. ­contribute to an even closer relationship principles laid down in the group’s guideInformation concerning the financial posi­between the employees and the company, lines, annual reports and corporate respontion and principal strategies of the comas well as to enhance interest in the 82 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Corporate governance ­ reation of value within the company. A c Aker Clean Carbon AS, in which Aker that exceed, in relative terms, their ownerr­ esources from which Aker Solutions benshare purchase programme for employees ­ olutions holds a 50 percent ownership S ship interests in Aker Solutions. efits in various contexts. This complements was therefore introduced in 2009, and it interest, and any contracts in the ordinary and strengthens Aker Solutions without has subsequently been resolved to extend course of the company’s business with If incompetence is concluded, the relevant curtailing the autonomy of the group. It may this into both 2010 and 2011. The contents other listed companies in which Aker ASA director will not be granted access to any be necessary to offer Aker ASA special of the share purchase programme are holds ownership interests, will nevertheless documentation, etc., prepared to the board ­access to commercial information in ­described in more detail in Note 10 normally be negotiated and concluded at of directors prior to the deliberation of the ­connection with such cooperation. Any ­Salaries, wages and social security costs, arm’s length without any independent relevant matter either. ­information disclosed to Aker’s representato the consolidated financial statements. ­assessment necessarily being arranged for. tives in such a context will be disclosed in The sale of shares to employees pursuant In general, Aker Solutions applies a strict compliance with the laws and regulations to the programme is realised from the own Aker Solutions has prepared guidelines norm as far as competence assessments governing the stock exchange and the shares held at any given time, or by ­ensuring that directors and senior execuare concerned. In cases where the chair­securities market. Aker Solutions is not acquiring­additional treasury shares tives notify the board of directors if they man of the board of directors does not deemed, within the meaning of the Public ­pursuant to existing authorisations for the have any material direct or indirect personal ­participate in the deliberations, the deputy Limited Companies Act, to be a close assoboard of directors. interest in any agreement concluded by the chairman of the board of directors chairs ciate of Aker ASA, or any company in which group. The rules of procedure for the board the meeting. Aker ASA holds ownership interests, but Section 4: Equal treatment of of directors of Aker Solutions stipulate that the board of directors and the executive shareholders and transactions with the directors and the chief executive officer As far as the other officers and employees management team of Aker Solutions are close associates shall not participate in the preparation, of Aker Solutions are concerned, transacnevertheless very conscious that all The company has only one class of shares, ­deliberation or resolution of any matters tions with close associates are compre­ ­relations with other Aker companies shall and all shares carry equal rights. Existing that are of such special importance to hensively addressed and regulated in the be premised on commercial terms and shareholders shall have pre-emptive rights themselves, or any of their close as­so­ group’s rules of ethics. structured in line with the arm’s length to subscribe for shares in the event of ciates, that they must be deemed to have a ­principle. Transactions are made public in share capital increases, unless otherwise prominent personal or financial interest in Principal shareholder accordance with the rules and regulations indicated by special circumstances. If the such matters. The relevant director and the Aker ASA holds 60 percent of the shares of governing companies listed on the Oslo pre-emptive rights of existing shareholders chief executive officer shall raise the issue Aker Holding AS, which held 40.27 percent Stock Exchange. Furthermore, transactions are waived in respect of a share capital of his or her competence whenever there of the shares of Aker Solutions as per 31 of a certain magnitude between Aker ­increase, the reasons for such waiver shall may be cause to question it. December 2010. Proposition No. 88 (2006– ­Solutions and companies within the Aker be explained by the board of directors. 2007) to the Storting (parliament) contains ASA group will be handled in accordance Transactions in own shares are effected via The chairman of the board of directors, more detailed information concerning the with the procedures in Section 3-8 of the the Oslo Stock Exchange. ­ yvind Eriksen, and one other director, Kjell Ø establishment of Aker Holding AS and the Public Limited Companies Act. See also Inge Røkke, are indirect shareholders of agreement between Aker ASA and the the discussion of transactions with close In the event of any material transactions both Aker ASA and Aker Solutions. Since other shareholders of Aker Holding AS. The associates in Note 8 Related parties, to the between the company and shareholders, their relative indirect ownership interests in board of directors is of the view that it is consolidated financial statements. directors, senior executives or close assoAker ASA exceed their ownership interests positive for Aker Solutions that Aker ASA ciates thereof, which do not form part of in Aker Solutions, the said directors will not assumes the role of an active owner and is Section 5: Freely negotiable shares ongoing projects pursued in the ordinary participate in the board of directors’ de­ actively involved in matters of major imporThe shares are listed on the Oslo Stock course of the company’s business, the liberation of matters that concern commertance to the group and to all shareholders. ­Exchange and are freely transferable. No board of directors shall arrange for an in­ cial relationships between Aker Solutions The cooperation with Aker ASA offers Aker transferability restrictions are laid down in dependent assessment. The same shall, and Aker ASA. The same principle is Solutions, inter alia, access to special the articles of association. generally speaking, apply to the relation­applied if Aker Solutions contracts with ­knowhow and resources within strategy, ship between Aker Solutions and the Aker other companies in which the said directors transactions and funding. Moreover, Aker Group. Any cooperation projects with e.g. hold direct or indirect ownership interests ASA offers network and negotiation Aker Solutions annual report 2010 83 Corporate governance Section 6: General meetings that the board of directors shall work in the current members of the nomination coma ­ ssembly. The right of the employees to be The company encourages shareholders to best possible manner as a team, and that mittee are Leif-Arne Langøy (chairman), represented and participate in decision attend the general meeting. It is a priority the background and competence of the Gerhard Heiberg, Kjeld Rimberg and Mette making is safeguarded through, inter alia, for the company to hold the general meetdirectors shall complement each other. As Wikborg. The terms of Leif-Arne Langøy, expanded employee representation on the ing as soon as possible after year end. a consequence, the board of directors will Kjeld Rimberg and Mette Wikborg expire in board of directors. The articles of asso­cia­ ­Notices convening general meetings, propose that the shareholders are invited to 2011. tion stipulate that the board of directors ­including comprehensive documentation vote on the full board composition proshall comprise six to ten persons, one third relating to the items on the agenda, here­ posed by the nomination committee as a A majority of the members of the nominaof whom shall be elected by and amongst under the recommendation of the nominagroup, and not on each member separately. tion committee are independent of the the employees of the group. In addition, up tion committee, are made available on an board of directors and the executive to three shareholder-appointed alternates ongoing basis on the company’s website As it is a priority for the general meeting to ­management of the company. The articles may be appointed. no later than 21 days prior to the general be conducted in a sound manner, with all of association charge the nomination meeting. The articles of association of the shareholder votes to be cast, to the extent ­committee with proposing candidates for The proposal of the nomination committee company stipulate that documents pertainpossible, on the basis of the same informa­appointment as directors. The nomination will normally include a proposed candidate ing to matters to be deliberated by the tion, the company has thus far not deemed committee shall also propose the fee payfor appointment as chairman of the board ­general meeting shall only be made it advisable to recommend either the introable to the directors. of directors, which appointment is made by ­available on the company’s website, and duction of an electronic attendance. The the shareholders in the general meeting. not normally be sent physically by post to company will contemplate the introduction The composition of the nomination The board of directors appoints its own the shareholders unless required by statute. of such arrangements on an ongoing basis ­committee shall reflect the interests of all deputy chairman. According to the Public in view of, inter alia, the security and ease shareholders, in addition to its members’ Limited Companies Act, the directors are The deadline for registering intended of use offered by available systems. independence from the board of directors appointed for a term of two years at a time ­attendance is as close to the general meetand the executive management. The memunless otherwise stated in the company’s ing as possible. Shareholders who are The board of directors will however probers and the chairman of the nomination articles of association.The board of ­unable to attend may vote by proxy. pose for the annual general meeting for committee are appointed by the general ­directors will however propose for the ­Moreover, information concerning both the 2010 to vote for an amendment of Aker meeting, which also determines the reward ­annual general meeting for 2010 to vote for registration procedure and the filing of ­Solutions’ articles of association to allow of the committee. The annual general an amendment of Aker Solutions’ articles to proxies is included in the notice convening for advance voting options at future general ­meeting for 2010 will, in accordance with allow for the flexibility for appointing the general meeting and on the registration meetings. the Code of Practice, be presented with ­directors for terms of minimum one year form. The company also aims to structure, guidelines governing duties of the and maximum three years. to the extent practicable, the proxy form Minutes of general meetings will be ­nomination committee, for approval. such as to enable the shareholders to vote ­published as soon as practicable on the The board of directors comprised ten on each individual item on the agenda. The announcement system of the Oslo Stock Information concerning the nomination ­directors as of 31 December 2010, six of articles of association stipulate that the Exchange, www.newsweb.no (ticker: committee and deadlines for making whom were elected by the shareholders general meetings shall be chaired by the AKSO), and on the company’s own ­suggestions or proposing candidates for and four of whom were elected by and chairman of the board of directors or a ­website, www.akersolutions.com, in the directorships are available on the com­pany’s among the employees. The current compo­person appointed by said chairman. Investor section. own website, w ­ ww.akersolutions.com, in sition of the board of directors is described the Investor section. on page 88 of the annual report, where It is intended for the board of directors, the Section 7: Nomination committee ­information about the background and chairman of the nomination committee and The articles of association stipulate that the Section 8: Corporate assembly and ­affiliations of the directors can also be the company’s auditor to attend the general company shall have a nomination commitboard of directors: Composition and found. The company encourages the meeting. tee. The nomination committee shall have independence ­directors to hold shares of the company. no less than three members, who shall It has been agreed with the employees that The shareholdings of the directors as of 31 It is a priority for the nomination committee ­normally serve for a term of two years. The the company shall have no corporate December 2010 are set out in Note 10 84 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Corporate governance ­ alaries, wages and social security costs, S for the board of directors, which govern mitted by the company, whilst the deadheld eight meetings in 2010. Until 15 June to the consolidated annual statements. A areas of responsibility, duties and the lines for such submission often change, 2010, the audit committee comprised Ida majority of the directors elected by the ­distribution of roles between the board of thus potentially making it difficult to fit this Helliesen (chairperson), Øyvind Eriksen and shareholders are independent of the exe­ directors, the chairman of the board of into the calendar of ordinary board Atle Teigland. As from 15 June 2010, the cutive personnel and important business ­directors and the chief executive officer. ­meetings. audit committee comprises Ida Helliesen associates. None of the executive The rules of procedure for the board of (chairperson), Lone Fønns Schrøder and personnel­of the company are directors ­directors also include provisions on An overview of current directors’ partici­ Atle Teigland. thereof. ­convening and chairing board meetings, on pation in ordinary and extraordinary board decision making, on the duty and right of meetings in 2010 is provided in Note 10 Generally speaking, at least one of the The composition of the board of directors the chief executive officer to disclose Salaries, wages and social security costs, members of the committee shall have releaims to ensure that the interests of all ­information to the board of directors, on the to the consolidated financial statements of vant accounting or auditing qualifications. shareholders are attended to and that the duty of confidentiality, as well as on the group. The chief executive officer (or in The audit committee has a mandate and a company has the knowhow, resources and ­competence, etc. the absence thereof, the acting president in working method that complies with statudiversity it needs at its disposal. At least cooperation with the executive chairman), tory requirements. The committee will half of the directors elected by the shareIn June 2010, President & CEO Simen prepares cases for deliberation by the ­participate, on behalf of the board of direcholders are independent from the principal Lieungh left the company. Since then, chief board of directors, in consultation with the tors, in the quality assurance of guidelines, shareholder of the company. financial officer Leif H. Borge has been chairman of the board of directors. Weight policies and other governing instruments ­acting president of Aker Solutions ASA, is attached to having matters prepared and pertaining to Aker Solutions ASA. The audit The terms of all directors expire in 2011. while Øyvind Eriksen in his capacity as presented in such a way that the board of committee performs a qualitative review of The reasoned proposals of the nomination ­executive chairman has taken on the role directors is provided with an adequate the quarterly and annual reports of Aker committee for candidates to become as CEO for the group. The board is very ­basis for its deliberations. The board of Solutions, which include the group reports. shareholder-appointed directors will be focused on attracting the correct CEO ­directors has overall responsibility for the published on the company’s website and ­candidate, and the recruitement prosess management of Aker Solutions and shall, Reward committee on the Oslo Stock Exchange, via www. was still ongoing as per the publishing of through the chief executive officer, ensure The board of directors of Aker Solutions newsweb.no, as soon as available. The this statement. that its activities are organised in a sound has a reward committee comprising three ­appointment of employee representatives manner. The board of directors shall, inter of the directors, which normally holds at to the board of directors will be conducted The board of directors has held 13 ordinary alia, adopt plans and budgets for the busileast four meetings a year. The current as prescribed by the Public Limited board meetings in 2010, which have been ness, and keep itself informed of the finanmembers of the committee are Øyvind ­Companies Act and the Representation attended by an average of 9.2 directors (out cial position of, and development within, ­Eriksen, Kjell Inge Røkke and Vibeke Regulations. The board of directors has of a total of 10), with all directors having Aker Solutions. This encompasses the ­Hammer-Madsen. appointed a designated appointment been in attendance at 6 of the meetings ­annual planning process of Aker Solutions, ­committee charged with implementing the (46%). In addition, 4 extraordinary board with the adoption of overall goals and The committee prepares and recommends appointment of such employee represen­ meetings have been held, which have been ­strategic choices for the group, as well as proposals for the board of directors relating tatives, which committee comprises repreattended by an average of 9.3 directors (out financial plans, budgets and forecasts for to the salary and terms of the chief exe­ sentatives of the employees and of the of a total of 10), with all directors attending the group and the business areas. The cutive officer, as well as the guidelines and ­executive management team. the same extraordinary meeting in 1 of board of directors performs annual evaluaprinciples governing the reward of exe­ these meetings (25%). tions of its work and its knowhow in cutive personnel within the group at any Section 9: The work of the board of ­accordance with the rules of procedure for given time. The reward committee also directors The need for extraordinary board meetings the board of directors. ­approves, based on the recommendation The board of directors adopts an annual may typically arise because the internal of the chief executive officer, the salary and plan for its work, with an emphasis on ­authorisation structure of the company Audit committee terms of those who report directly to the goals, strategy and implementation. ­requires the board of directors to deliberate Aker Solutions has an audit committee chief executive officer. ­Furthermore, there are rules of procedure and approve material tenders to be sub­ comprising three of the directors, which Aker Solutions annual report 2010 85 Corporate governance Section 10: Risk management and of responsibility, also outside these forums, programme and assists with the ness areas with a view to identifying, moniinternal control through a direct dialog with the businesses, insurance-related follow-up of projects, toring, reporting and handling risk for the Aker Solutions manages risk through an both in connection with specific projects as well as the operation of the group’s entire group in conformity with, inter alia, internal framework comprising guidelines, and as part of knowhow development to captive underwriter the requirements laid down by the audit procedures, standards and process tools enhance risk management. The overall risk ■■ Legal assists all of the abovementioned committee and the board of directors. intended to ensure good business operamanagement effort is primarily handled by functions in their handling of risks by, Moreover, all businesses within the group tions and provide unified and reliable finanthe following group functions, in close inter alia, being a permanent member evaluate, on an ongoing basis, their own cial reporting. The framework is anchored ­cooperation with the business areas: of the project risk committee and the adherence to the framework and whether in the various group functions. The group investment committee, and is also established control activities work appro­ has defined risk into four main areas: ■■ Enterprise risk coordinates the responsible for the contractual and priately. This is done by using, inter alia, a management of risk outside the legal follow-up of projects, partners, standard form with a number of verification ■■ Financial and strategic: Market and traditional project and financial areas, agreements, disputes and the questions relating to the company’s guidecustomer developments may influence and has overall responsibility for relationship with the governmental lines and procedures. The audit committee the earnings and future prospects of the the development of the company’s framework of the board of directors assists the board company framework, basic corporate values, ■■ Tax handles the various tax risks of the of directors with ensuring that the company ■■ Operational and project-related: Delivery corporate responsibility policy, antigroup, relating to, inter alia, transactions, has internal procedures and systems that and quality risk in the implementation corruption effort and ethical guidelines operational activities, tax returns and the ensure good corporate governance, effecof projects and in the production of ■■ Project and operational support preparation of financial statements tive internal controls and good risk products and services assists in connection with project manage­ment – particularly in relation to ■■ Reputational: Events that may affect the assessments in the tender phase and In addition to the said group functions, the financial reporting. The audit committee reputation of Aker Solutions amongst the implementation phase. The unit business areas have their own manageholds regular meetings with the chief financustomers, government authorities, chairs the corporate risk committee ment teams and finance/staff functions cial officer and the responsible group the general public, suppliers and other which is responsible for assessing risk ­tailored to their organisations and activities. ­functions in this regard. stakeholders and giving advice to the group executive ■■ Mergers and acquisitions: Risk relating management team in respect of all major As a supplement to the group functions’ The group’s businesses report monthly on to the divestment, acquisition or tenders that the group contemplates for own control of risks and procedures, the the financial, operational and market status restructuring of businesses submission internal control unit has independent within their respective areas, including ■■ Accounting and control is responsible ­responsibility for auditing the units’ esta­ ­matters relating to important projects. The The managerial and organisational model of for the financial reporting and financial blishment and implementation of necessary ­reports are reviewed in physical meetings the company implies that individual group assessments made in relation thereto. systems and procedures within both the with the chief executive officer and the functions have a global responsibility for In addition, the unit chairs the group’s financial and the operational processes. chief financial officer before the board of following up on their respective areas of investment committee. The investment This unit performs regular controls of the directors receives its monthly report on the specialisation and the frameworks asso­ committee shall give advice to the units, with subsequent reporting of any financial performance of the company, as ciated therewith. Such responsibility group executive management team ­improvement measures. The leadership well as a description of the status concern­includes risk management. This applies concerning risk exposure in major group is provided with a summary of all ing the most important projects of the comirrespective of how one has chosen to capital investments audits carried out on the businesses. pany. The business areas are responsible ­organise the businesses, and involves, inter ■■ Treasury is responsible for financial for monthly financial follow-up and reporting. alia, a close dialog within the corporate risk market risk and the group’s exposure in Each business has independent responsicommittee and the investment committee financial markets, and is a permanent bility for adherence to the internal framePage 10 of the annual report contains a of the company, as well as monthly meetmember of the investment committee of work of the group and compliance with more detailed description of the company’s ings relating to financial and operational the group ­external laws and regulations at any given handling of the operational and financial reporting from the business areas. Individ■■ Insurance is charged with the time. This involves close cooperation risk associated with the business activities. ual group functions follow up on their area procurement of the group’s insurance ­between the staff functions and the busi86 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Corporate governance Section 11: Reward of the board of 10 to the consolidated financial statements directors for the group. The executive reward guideThe reward of the board of directors lines of the company are set out in Note 10, ­reflects its responsibilities, knowhow and and will consequently be submitted to the time commitment, as well as the complexgeneral meeting. The reward committee ity of the business. The reward is proposed prepares and recommends proposals to by the nomination committee, and is not the board of directors on the reward of the performance-related or linked to options in chief executive officer. The chief executive Aker Solutions. More detailed information officer determines the reward of executive about the reward of individual directors in management on the basis of the guidelines 2010 is provided in Note 10 Salaries, laid down by the board of directors, see wages and social security costs, to the also the discussion on the reward commitconsolidated financial statements for the tee of the board of directors in Section 9. group. Neither should the directors, nor All performance-related reward within the companies with which they are affiliated, group has been made subject to a cap. accept specific paid duties for Aker ­Solutions beyond their directorships. If they Section 13: Information and nevertheless do so, the board of directors communications shall be informed and the reward shall be Aker Solutions has prepared a designated Values approved by the board of directors. No IR policy, which is available on the compaand leadership approach ­reward shall be accepted from anyone ny’s website. The company’s reporting of other than the company or the relevant financial and other information is based on group company in connection with such openness and the equal treatment of all duties. securities market players. The long-term Policies purpose of the IR function is to ensure Section 12: Reward of executive ­access for the company to capital on Business personnel ­competitive terms, whilst at the same time Business processes Organisation management meetings The board of directors has adopted desigensuring that the shareholders are provided nated guidelines for the reward of executive with the most correct pricing of the shares management pursuant to the provisions of that can be achieved. This shall take place Strategy People Operations Executive meetings Monthly operating reviews Quarterly business reviews Operating Managers’ Conference Section 6-16a of the Public Limited Comthrough the correct and timely distribution Corporate staff panies Act. Aker Solutions has no option of price-sensitive information, whilst ensurschemes or programmes for the allotment ing, at the same time, that the company is Global networks of shares to employees for 2011, but a in compliance with applicable rules and share purchase programme was introduced market practices. Reference is also made for 2009, and it has subsequently been to the above discussion concerning the Business areas ­decided to extend this to both 2010 and flow of information between Aker Solutions 2011. Additional details pertaining thereto and Aker ASA in connection with their are available on page 39 in Note 10 ­cooperation within, inter alia, strategy, ­Salaries, wages and social security costs, transactions and funding. to the consolidated financial statements. Details pertaining to the reward for 2010 for All stock exchange announcements and Business units individual executives are provided in Note press releases are made available on the Aker Solutions annual report 2010 87 Corporate governance company’s website, www.akersolutions. attendance. Moreover, the board of direccom, and stock exchange announcements tors will as from 2011 hold a minimum of are also available on www.newsweb.no. All one annual meeting with the auditors withinformation sent to the shareholders is out the chief executive ­officer or other posted on the company’s website at the members of the group e ­ xecutive managesame point of time. The company holds ment team being in a ­ ttendance. The Audit open presentations in connection with the committee stipulates guidelines on the reporting of financial performance, and scope for using the auditors for other serthese presentations are broadcast live via vices than auditing, and makes recommenthe internet. A capital markets day is also dations to the board of directors concernhosted annually, and is open to all intering the appointment of external auditors ested parties. The financial calendar of the and the approval of the auditors’ fees. Fees company is available on page 79 of the payable to the auditors, s­ eparated into ­annual report and on the company’s those relating to auditing and those relating ­website. to other services, is specified in Note 12 Other operating ­expenses, to the consoliSection 14: Take-overs dated financial statements for the group. Aker ASA has undertaken to retain control of Aker Holding AS for a minimum of ten years from June 2007. The board of directors has not deemed it appropriate to adopt specific guidelines for takeover situations for as long as the ownership cooperation context within Aker Holding AS remains intact. Section 15: Auditors The auditors annually present a plan for the implementation of the audit work to the ­audit committee. In addittion, the auditors have provided the board of directors with a written confirmation to the effect that the independence requirement is met. The ­auditors attend the meeting in the audit committee that deliberates the consolidated financial statements, and the auditors have reviewed any material changes to the accounting principles of the company, or to the internal controls of the company, with the audit committee. The board of ­directors may meet with the auditors without the chief executive officer or other members of the leadership group being in 88 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Corporate governance Board of directors Øyvind Eriksen Mikael Lilius Vibeke Hammer Ida Helliesen Kjell Inge Røkke Executive chairman Deputy chairman Madsen Director Director Director Øyvind Eriksen is President & Mikael Lilius was President Vibeke Hammer Madsen has Ida Helliesen joined Norsk Entrepreneur and industrialist CEO of Aker ASA. He has a and CEO of Fortum Corporabeen CEO of HSH (The FederHydro in 1980, where she held Kjell Inge Røkke, Aker ASA’s law degree from the University tion from 2000 to May 2009. ation of ­Norwegian Commera number of leading positions; main owner, has been a driving of Oslo. And in 1990 he joined From 1990, Mr Lilius was chief cial and Service Enterprises) including chief financial officer force in the ­development of the Norwegian law firm executive of Sweden’s since 2002. Prior to this, she for the last eight years before Aker since the 1990s. Mr Røkke BA-HR. In 1996 he became a ­Incentive AB, a pharma­ was a partner in the PA her retirement in 2007. From launched his b ­ usiness career partner, in 2003 a board memceuticals company which Consulting­Group. From 1993 2007 until the spring of 2009, with the purchase of a 69-foot ber and chairman. At BA-HR, changed its name to Gambro to 1999 Ms Hammer Madsen she assisted Hydro on a numtrawler in the United States in Mr Eriksen worked closely with AB in 1998. Mr Lilius is chairwas a vice president holding ber of issues, including the 1982, and gradually built a Aker and Aker‘s main shareman of the board of the Finnvarious ­positions in Statoil. completion of the merger leading worldwide fisheries holder, Kjell Inge Røkke. ish company Huhtamäki Oyj Today Ms ­Hammer Madsen, a between Hydro’s oil and business, ­harvesting white fish Mr Eriksen is chairman of the and a member of the board of graduate of the ­Norwegian energy business and Statoil. and processing it at sea. In board of Aker Holding AS, a Wärtsilä Oyj Abp and Evli School of Radiography, holds Ms Helliesen is a director of 1996, Mr Røkke p ­ urchased board member of Reitan­ Pankki Oyj. He is also chaira range of board positions. As the e­ xecutive board of Norenough Aker shares to gruppen AS, Aker Clean man of the board of East of 31 December 2010, she way’s Central Bank, Statistics become Aker’s largest share­Carbon AS, The Resource Office of Finnish Industries. holds no shares in the comNorway and S ­ kagerak Energi holder and owns today 67.8% Group TRG AS, TRG Holding Mr Lilius is a graduate of the pany, and has no stock AS. She has an MSc in busiof Aker ASA through The AS and other companies. As Swedish School of Economics options. Ms Hammer Madsen ness economics from the Resource Group TRG AS, of 31 December 2010 he holds and Business Administration in is a Norwegian citizen. She ­Norwegian School of Economwhich he owns together with no shares in the company and ­Helsinki. As of 31 December has been elected for the ics and Business Administrahis wife. Mr Røkke is chairman has no stock options. 2010 he holds no shares in the period 2009-2011. tion. As of 31 December 2010, of the board of Aker ASA, Aker Mr E­ riksen is a Norwegian company and has no stock she holds no shares in the BioMarine ASA and Det norske citizen. He has been elected options. Mr Lilius is a Finnish company, and has no stock Oljeselskap ASA. As of 31 for the period 2009-2011. citizen. He has been elected options. Ms Helliesen is a NorDecember 2010 he holds no for the period 2009-2011. wegian citizen. She has been shares in the company and elected for the period 2009has no stock options. 2011. Mr Røkke is a Norwegian ­citizen. He has been elected for the period 2009-2011. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 89 Corporate governance Lone Fønss Schrøder Atle Teigland Åsmund Knutsen Arild Håvik Arve Toft Director Director Director Director Director Lone Fønss Schrøder has a Atle Teigland was elected by Åsmund Knutsen was elected Arild Håvik was elected by the Arve Toft was elected by the law degree from the University the employees of Aker by the employees of Aker employees of Aker Solutions employees­of Aker Solutions of ­Copenhagen and a Master ­Solutions to the board of Solutions to the board of to the board of directors in to the board of directors in of ­Economics from Copenhadirectors in October 2004. He directors in October 2004. March 2009. Mr Håvik has March 2007. Mr Toft is a group gen b­ usiness school. Ms also served on the boards of Since 1991 he has held been employed by Aker union representative for Aker Fønss Schrøder has broad Aker and Aker RGI for several ­various ­positions in Aker ­Solutions since 1990 and has Solutions on a full-time basis international experience years. Mr Teigland is a group ­Engineering & Techno­logy AS been a local union represen­ and has been employed by the acquired during 21 years in union represen­tative for Aker and is now a group union tative for Aker Offshore Partner company since 1983. Mr Toft senior management, including Solutions on a full-time basis ­representative for white-collar AS on a full-time basis for the is a certified mechanic and board ­positions at A.P. Møllerand has been employed by employees on a full-time basis. last four years. Mr Håvik is a scaffolder and has been a Maersk A/S. She is among Aker Elektro AS since 1978. ­ Mr Knutsen holds an MSc in scaffolder and sheet metal main safety delegate at Aker others chairperson for the Mr T ­ eigland is a certified hydro­dynamics from Oslo worker and holds a certificate Stord AS for five years. As of audit committee at Volvo, dep­electrician. As of 31 December ­University. As of 31 December of apprenticeship in the two 31 December 2010, he holds uty chairman of the Board of 2010 he holds 1 981 shares in 2010, he holds 3 286 shares in disciplines. As of 31 December 381 shares in the company, Aker ASA, a non-executive the company, and has no the company, and has no 2010, he holds 381 shares in and has no stock options. director of Volvo PV in Sweden stock options. Mr Teigland is a stock options. Mr Knutsen is a the company, and has no Mr Toft is a Norwegian c­ itizen. and NKT A/S in Denmark, as ­Norwegian citizen. He has ­Norwegian citizen. He has stock options. Mr Håvik is a He has been elected for the well as non-executive director been elected for the period been elected for the period ­Norwegian citizen. He has period 2009-2011. and member of the audit com2009-2011. 2009-2011. been elected for the period mittee at Vattenfall AB and 2009-2011. Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Sweden. As of 31 December 2010 she holds no shares in the company and has no stock options. Ms Fønss Schrøder is a Danish citizen. She has been elected for the period 20092011. 90 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Corporate governance Executive chairman and Business management President Øyvind Eriksen Leif Borge Mads Andersen Michael Hambly Leif Haukom Executive chairman President & Chief Financial Head of Subsea Head of Process Systems Head of Mooring and Loading Officer Systems Øyvind Eriksen is President & Leif Borge joined Aker Mads Andersen joined Aker Michael Hambly joined Aker Leif Haukom joined Aker CEO of Aker ASA. In his ­Solutions in 2008. Previously Solutions in 2000 and has Solutions in 2005 and has ­Solutions in 1981 and has 30 capacity as Executive Chairhe has been CFO of Aker been an EVP since 2003. He been President of the Aker years of experience from the man in Aker Solutions ASA he Yards ASA since 2002, after has more than 20 years experiProcess Systems Group since offshore industry. Mr Haukom took on the CEO role in June serving as CFO of Zenitel NV, ence in the upstream oil and October 2008. Mr Hambly was has held a number of various 2010 until a new President and Stento ASA and Vitana, a gas industry. Mr Andersen has appointed Head of Process positions within technical and CEO is appointed. Mr Eriksen ­subsidiary of Rieber & Søn held a range of technical and Systems in March 2011. project/company managehas a law degree from the ASA in the Czech Republic. managerial positions in oilfield Mr Hambly has 14 years of ment. Mr Haukom has acted University of Oslo. And in 1990 Mr Borge is a graduate of the service and oil companies ­experience in the oil and gas as company president since he joined the Norwegian law Pacific Lutheran University in including Schlumberger and industry and has held several 1997, and managed Aker firm BA-HR. In 1996 he Washington State. As of 31 Saga Petroleum (now Statoil). business leadership positions Pusnes the last 8 years. became a partner, and in 2003 December 2010, he holds, Mr Andersen is a graduate in Canadian and American Mr Haukom is appointed Head a board member and chairthrough a privately owned from the University of Glasgow oilfield service companies. of Mooring and Loading man. At BA-HR, Mr Eriksen company, 20 381 shares in the and the Norwegian School of Prior to joining the oil and gas ­systems from March 2011. worked closely with Aker and company, and has no stock Management. As of 31 business, Mr Hambly served Mr Haukom holds a BSc in Aker‘s main shareholder, Kjell options. Mr Borge is a December 2010, he holds as an officer in the Canadian mechanical engineering from Inge Røkke. Mr Eriksen is ­Norwegian citizen. 12 776 shares in the company Armed Forces for over 14 the University of Agder, with chairman of the board of Aker and has no stock options. years. Mr Hambly holds a BSc additional training in economHolding AS and a board memMr Andersen is a Norwegian in Mechanical Engineering ics and management skills. As ber of Reitangruppen AS, Aker ­citizen. from the Royal Military College of 31 December 2010 he holds Clean Carbon AS, The of Canada. As of 31 December 381 shares in the company Resource Group TRG AS, TRG 2010, he holds 381 shares in and has no stock options. Holding AS and other compathe company and has no stock Mr Haukom is a ­Norwegian nies. As of 31 December 2010 options. Mr Hambly is a ­citizen. he holds no shares in the com­Canadian and British citizen. pany and has no stock options. Mr ­Eriksen is a ­Norwegian citizen. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 91 Corporate governance Thor Arne Håverstad Karl Erik Kjelstad Valborg Lundegaard Wolfgang Puennel Tore Sjursen Head of Drilling Technologies Head of Oilfield Services & Head of Engineering Head of Well Intervention Head of Maintenance, Marine Assets Services Modifications and Operations Thor Arne Håverstad joined Karl Erik Kjelstad joined Aker Valborg Lundegaard was Wolfgang Puennel was Tore Sjursen was appointed Aker Solutions in 1989. He has Solutions as EVP in July 2009 appointed Head of the appointed Head of Well EVP of the MMO business close to thirty years experifrom the position of Senior ­Engineering business area in ­Services business area, comarea in October 2010. ence from the oil and gas Partner & President, Maritime February 2011. Ms Lundeprising of the operating entities Mr Sjursen has been with Aker industry. Mr Håverstad was Technologies at Aker ASA. gaard has more than 20 years Aker Geo, Aker Well Services Solutions for 24 years in differappointed EVP in January Mr Kjestad has been with the experience from the oil and and Aker Qserv, in February ent positions in field develop2011. From 2009-2010 he was Aker group since 1998 and gas industry and has held a 2011. Mr Puennel has more ment and MMO. From 2009president of Aker Solutions’ was President & CEO of Aker number of key positions in than 25 years experience in 2010 Mr Sjursen was head of drilling business in KristianYards ASA from January 2003 Aker Solutions, including the upstream oil and gas Aker Solutions Energy Develsand and he has also held a June 2007. Prior to joining ­corporate and project industry. Mr Puennel has held opment and Services (ED&S) range of technical and manaAker, Mr Kjelstad was senior manage­ment. From 2008 a range of senior management International in Australia. gerial positions within the consultant at PA Consulting Ms ­Lundegaard was president positions in oilfield service and Mr Sjursen holds a MSc in company. Prior to this, Group and from 1992-1996 of Aker Engineering and oil companies including mechanical engineering from Mr Håverstad held various held various management Tech­nology. Ms Lundegaard is Weatherford and Maurel & Norwegian University of ­positions within project and positions in the TTS Group. a member of the board of Prom. Mr Puennel holds a ­Science and Technology and a engineering management, Mr Kjelstad holds a MSc in Simtronics ASA and Songa MSc in petroleum engineering MSc in management from technical safety and advisory marine engineering from the Offshore SE. Ms Lundegaard and a BSc in mining engineerBoston University. As of 31 work for the offshore industry Norwegian University of holds a degree in chemical ing from the Technical UniverDecember 2010, he holds 252 as well as seven years of ­Science and Technology. As of engineering from the Norwesity of Clausthal, Germany. As shares in the company and research for SINTEF, Norway. 31 December 2011, gian University of Science and of 31 December 2010, he has no stock options. Mr Håverstad holds a PhD Mr K ­ jelstad holds, through a Technology. As of 31 Decemholds no shares in the Mr Sjursen is a Norwegian from the Norwegian University ­privately owned company, ber 2010, she holds no shares ­company and has no stock citizen. of Science and Technology. As 2 500 shares in the company in the company and has no options. Mr Puennel is a of 31 December 2010 he holds and has no stock options. stock options. Ms Lundegaard ­German citizen. 5 752 shares in the company Mr Kjelstad is a Norwegian is a Norwegian citizen. and has no stock options. ­citizen. Mr Håverstad is a Norwegian ­citizen. 92 Aker Solutions annual report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate centre functions Niels Didrich Buch Åsmund Bøe Per Harald Kongelf Sissel Lindland Mark Riding Chief of Staff Chief Technology Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief HR Officer Chief Strategic Marketing Acting CEO of Aker Contractors Niels Didrich Buch joined Aker Åsmund Bøe was appointed Per Harald Kongelf was Sissel A. Lindland returned to Mark Riding was appointed Solutions in 1999 and was Chief Technology Officer & appointed EVP of the Energy Aker Solutions in 2008 after EVP of corporate strategic appointed Chief of Staff & EVP EVP in June 2010. Mr Bøe is Development & Services busihaving served as SVP Human marketing in February 2011. in 2008. From 2005 Mr Buch responsible for the overall ness area in October 2010. Resources and acting Chief of Mr Riding will co-ordinate conwas head of corporate ­corporate technology portfolio Mr Kongelf has 25 years’ Staff in Aker Yards ASA and tact and relationship with key ­business development in Aker of Aker Solutions. Before experience in the oil and gas STX Europe since 2006. With a customers, country strategies Solutions and previously he ­joining Aker Solutions, Mr Bøe industry. Mr Kongelf was previbackground in human and corporate M&A opportuniheld various other positions in worked 15 years for Schlumously EVP of the Products & resources, organisational and ties. Mr Riding is an oil and the company, in corporate berger on international assignTechnologies business area business development, Ms gas industry professional with legal. Before this Mr Buch ments in varied senior and president of Aker Lindland has held various over 28 years experience in worked ten years with the ­positions. Mr Bøe brings with ­Solutions’ process systems advisory and management varied senior roles and over­Norwegian Foreign Service, him experience from upstream business unit. Before that Mr position within the Aker group seas assignments. In his most including six of them abroad in oil & gas operations, personnel Kongelf worked as an investsince 1984. In 2005-2006 Ms recent position, Mr Riding was Asia and Europe. Mr Buch and strategic business ment manager in the Statkraft Lindland was President of Aker responsible for deepwater holds a law degree from the develop­ment. Mr Bøe holds a Group and in Aker Solutions. Business Services. As of 31 corporate strategic planning, University of Oslo. As of 31 BSc (Hons – first class) in offMr Kongelf holds an MSc from December 2010, she has 381 sales, and technology develDecember 2010, he holds 381 shore mechanical engineering the Norwegian University of shares in the company, and opment worldwide at Schlumshares in the company and from the Herriot-Watt UniverScience and Technology. As of has no stock options. berger headquarters in Paris. has no stock options. Mr Buch sity, UK. As of 31 December 31 December 2010, he holds Ms ­Lindland is a Norwegian Mr Riding holds a BSc (Hons is a Norwegian citizen. 2010, he holds no shares in no shares in the company and ­citizen. – first class) in mining engithe company and has no stock has no stock options. neering from the University of options. Mr Bøe is a Mr Kongelf is a Norwegian Birmingham, UK. As of 31 ­Norwegian citizen. citizen. December 2010, he holds no shares in the company and has no stock options. ­ Mr R ­ iding is a British citizen. Aker Solutions annual report 2010 93 Corporate governance Company information Reports via the Internet The quarterly and annual reports of Aker Solutions ASA Aker Solutions are available via the Internet. Aker Solutions encourages Snarøyveien 36 its shareholders to subscribe to 1364 Fornebu the company’s annual reports via the electronic delivery system of Postal address: the Norwegian Central Securities P.O. Box 169 Depository (VPS). Please note that NO-1325 Lysaker VPS services (VPS Investortjenester) are designed primarily for Norwegian Telephone: +47 67 51 30 00 shareholders. Subscribers to this Telefax: +47 67 51 30 10 service receive annual reports in PDF format by email. VPS distribution E-mail: ir@akersolutions.com takes place at the same time as distribution of the printed version Web: www.akersolutions.com of Aker Solutions’ annual report to shareholders who have requested it. Quarterly reports, which are generally only distributed electronically, are available from the company’s website and other sources. Shareholders who are unable to receive the electronic version of interim reports, may subscribe to the printed version by contacting Aker Solutions’ investor relations staff. Design: Haugvar Communication & Design Photos and illustrations: Aker Solutions Xvision Translation: Hansen & Engedal COPYRIGHT AND LEGAL NOTICE Copyright in all published material including photographs, drawings and images in this publication Layout: remains vested in Aker Solutions and third party contributors to this publication as appropriate. Accordingly, neither the whole nor any part Bolt Communication AS of this publication can be reproduced in any form without express prior permission. Articles and opinions appearing in this publication do not Interactive PDF: necessarily represent the views of Aker Solutions. While all steps have been taken to ensure the accuracy of the published contents, Aker Teigens Design Solutions does not accept any responsibility for any errors or resulting loss or damage whatsoever caused and readers have the responsibility to thoroughly check these aspects for themselves. Enquiries about reproduction of content from this publication should be directed to Aker Print: Solutions ASA. RKGrafisk AS © 2011 Aker Solutions All rights reserved www.akersolutions.com
