UN Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress Ericsson endorses the 10 UN Global Compact (UNGC) princip• Conducted 550 S-CoC audits and 218 on-site assessments of les which provide a universal framework for business conduct. supply chain; increased online CoC training for suppliers to 13 The UNGC principles guide us in development of Group practices languages (p. 66). within our sphere of influence. Through initiatives like Refugees United and Connect to Learn; Ericsson Response, the Millennium Fair labor practices Villages and Weather Info for All, we mobilize our core business to Human resources procedures ban discrimination and ensure equasupport UN efforts to alleviate poverty, improve the environment lity and diversity in our operations. We encourage union memberand bridge the digital divide. ship. In countries where workers cannot freely choose membership, work conditions are discussed with local management in a Ericsson policies and directives structured format. In 2010, we Respect for human rights and intolerance of corruption are embodied in our values of respect, professionalism and perseverance • Strengthened global approach to health & safety, progressed and in our Code of Business Ethics. The Code of Conduct (CoC) towards implementation of the Occupation Health and Safety aims to protect human rights, promote fair employment and safe Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 (p. 68). working conditions, and maintain high ethical standards. The Sus• Increased HIV/AIDS focus among our employees in Africa (p. 69). tainability Policy, replacing the previous Environmental Policy, describes our commitment to reduce the environmental impact of • Supported independent research on health issues related to our own operations and to support socio-economic development radio waves and electromagnetic fields (EMF) (p. 69). through communication for all. The CR component of our Global Assessment Program rose from 20 percent to 25 percent in 2010. Environment Suppliers must meet high social and environmental standards. In • Participated in Global Compact Caring for Climate, COP16 2010, the Ericsson Board of Directors completed annual sustainaLow Carbon Leaders Project. bility and CR training and we launched a CR and sustainability engagement e-learning program. • Environmental Management System globally ISO 14001 certified. This ensures our operations are consistently managed with minimal impact on the environment. Human rights Ericsson sees access to communication as a basic human right. • Promoted low-carbon technologies. CEO addressed COP16. Our first obligation is to avoid complicity in human rights abuse, Ericsson among industry leaders presenting Guadalajara ICT notably in countries where regulations and ethical standards are not Declaration for Transformative Low-Carbon Solutions (p. 48). enforced. Our core technologies can also help improve lives, pro• Achieved Group carbon footprint reduction target (p. 29) mote democratic societies and generate economic opportunities. Among our actions: • Continued to improve energy-efficiency of products (p. 34). • Addressed the issue of conflict minerals in our supply chain and • Incorporated hazardous substances, producer responsibility, in sector initiatives, (p. 70). efficient resource use in product design, procurement, produc• Joined the Stanford University Mobile and Social Computing tion and operation. Updated Banned and Restricted SubstanResearch Group (MobiSocial) to address privacy issues around ces lists, developed new tool for materials declaration (p. 40). open social networks (p. 69). • Published “Measuring Emissions Right,” assessing climate• CEO served as a Commissioner on the Broadband Commission positive effects of ICT. Developed LCA studies on ICT-enabled for Digital Development which presented a Declaration to the carbon reduction in other industries: mobile money in Kenya, eUN General Secretary at the 2010 Millennium Development Gohealth in Croatia, and collaborative working solutions (p. 24/46). als Summit. Our partnership in the Millennium Villages initiative supports sub-Saharan Africans’ right to health, education and Anti-corruption equality (p. 16). The Ericsson Group Management System ensures integrity and • Published a “Monitoring and Evaluation Report” on the Millenhigh standards of conduct worldwide. A whistle-blower procedure nium Villages, defining a model for socio-economic impacts of enables employees to report violations relating to accounting, inmobile communications (p. 16). ternal controls and procedures or fraudulent practices. • Published report, “Life Lines at Lake Victoria”, assessing out• A Chief Compliance Officer appointed early 2011 to strengthen come of the communications project for people living around focus and training on business ethics and anti-corruption (p. 64). Lake Victoria in East Africa (p. 14). 92
