GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – Phoenix Design Aid A/S Phoenix Design Aid A/S Date: 25 April 2011 Østergade 19 DK-8900 Randers C Membership date: 29 Denmark November 2007 Number of employees: 7 Dennis L. Nielsen Managing Director Sector: Graphic +45 2141 0906 Design and Production Brief description of nature of business Phoenix Design Aid is an effective full-service partner in every design and graphic production task. We offer the whole package – from concept development, graphic design, translation, editing, proofreading and layout to new media production, printing and distribution. We are ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified and are CO2-neutral certified as well. We are specialised in working with international and intergovernmental organisations, UN Agencies, NGOs and public authorities. Our mission is to work globally and to assist international partners in the graphic process. Statement of support During 2010 Phoenix Design Aid A/S continued our strong focus on CSR activities. As Managing Director of Phoenix Design Aid A/S, I accepted to speak publicly on a number of occasions to various audiences explaining our business activities and recommending other companies to use UN Global Compact as the framework for CSR activities Our CSR policy supports and adheres to The UN Global Compact and our main CSR philosophy is as follows: • show respect towards people, animals and the environment in all our professional work • Set ambitious goals for social responsibility, environmental concern, quality, and working environment • Comply with laws and regulations in all countries where we work This Communication on Progress describes our initiatives and actions for the year 2010 as well as our plans and goal for 2011. Our main focus will be on areas that correspond to our areas of expertise. Through partnerships we seek and work hard to influence and guide our suppliers and subcontractors to ameliorate their working environments and environmental concern giving our clients the possibility to acquire environmentally-friendly, sound products and services. In our endeavouring to further develop our strong CSR focus in 2011, we have decided to be DS 26001 certified, which is a Danish certified standard that follows the international guidelines of the ISO 26000. Through this initiative our CSR approaches will be integrated parts of our management systems, which is already ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. Consequently this means that Phoenix Design Aid will be even better at setting goals and developing action plans within the area of CSR. These goals are mentioned under the respective 10 UNGC principles. Signature Position Managing Director PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy Phoenix Design Aid gives a high priority to its social responsibility and wishes to ensure equal opportunities for all employees from our head office in Randers over Copenhagen to our offices in Geneva, New York and Mumbai. Our strategy is therefore international while the execution is local. Our corporate social responsibility is implemented, among others, by preventing discrimination. Therefore, we ensure that all PDAid employees know and respect national and international standards for prevention of discrimination. The objective of this effort is to avoid discrimination in our business. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Since PDAid has offices in different parts of the world with employees with different cultural backgrounds, religious beliefs, sex, we see it as an exciting challenge partly to ensure that our employees are not exposed to discrimination and partly to ensure equal possibilities and conditions for our staff. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year To ensure the above we have drawn up a training plan which guides our employees and makes sure that our employees trade their knowledge, experience and working routine. More specifically this plan is carried out in connection with internal courses, where e.g. our Indian and Danish graphic designers sit down together to learn from each other and get a feel of each other’s cultures and backgrounds. Measurable Results or Outcomes Our training plan is evaluated each year and we draw up concrete goals for the coming year. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy Phoenix Design Aid A/S is OHSAS 18001:2008 certified which means that a good working environment is extremely important for our everyday work. A good working environment contributes to a happy, motivated and committed staff. Phoenix Design Aid aims at creating the very best environment for the employees. All employees are respected and given room for creative development. The holistic man performs the best It is important that the three elements of work, family and leisure time form a synthesis. The management does its very best to ensure that all employees reach balance between the three elements, which benefits the employee as well as the agency. The management works continuously with the following principles in mind: show respect and accept show consideration and care for the employees be able to motivate and develop the employees be sparring partner to the employees promote the employees' ideas A brief description of our Processes or Systems OHSAS 18801 is the internationally approved standard for working environment management. In 2006, Phoenix Design Aid was certified by the Norwegian Veritas for valuing the interests of our employees. Phoenix Design Aid wants to be a company where employees thrive and develop. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year An OHSAS 18801 certification entails that Phoenix Design Aid always respects relevant legislation on the working environment, and continually endeavours to improve the working environment in Phoenix Design Aid. Measurable Results or Outcomes Staff development interviews are held each year during which the working environment is discussed and suggestions of improvements are proposed. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy All employees at Phoenix Design Aid A/S are members of trade unions. This means that the employees are aware of their rights to freedom of association and can spare with the trade unions in case this is required. Phoenix Design Aid A/S support our employees’ rights of freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, including our employees’ rights to form, join or not join a labour union or other organisations of their choice, and to bargain collectively in support of their mutual interests without fear of punitive actions such as intimidation, harassment or termination of employment. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We strongly suggest our employees to obtain memberships with trade unions/ covered by collective bargaining agreements in order for the employees to be covered best possible. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year At contract formation Phoenix Design Aid A/S encourages the employee to be covered if not already done. Measurable Results or Outcomes All employees are covered by trade union memberships or collective bargaining agreements. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy At Phoenix Design Aid a responsible way of doing business is just as important as good earnings. We strive to have an open and straightforward dialogue with our employees, clients, business partners, and the society we live in. In this way we make sure to break down the challenges we get of our increasingly international business in a decent and responsible manner. When coordinating our work we always consider how best to respect human beings and the nature. Phoenix Design Aid takes pride in being a workplace, where our employees feel at ease. In cooperation with our staff and business partners Phoenix Design Aid will at all times: show respect for humans, animals and nature in all our actions aim at the highest standards regarding quality and working environment and at reducing the environmental impact caused by production observe current legislation and regulations in all countries in which we operate inform, engage and motivate all parties involved to feeling a joint responsibility for our policy Initiatives to maintain a great working environment: A good working environment is extremely important for our everyday work, as it contributes to a happy, motivated and committed staff. Phoenix Design Aid aims at creating the very best environment for its employees. All employees are respected and given room for creative development. It is important that the three elements of work, family and leisure time form a synthesis. The management does its very best to ensure that all employees reach balance between the three elements, which benefits the employee as well as the agency. The management works continuously with the following principles in mind: show respect and accept show consideration and care for the employees be able to motivate and develop the employees be sparring partner to the employees promote the employees' ideas A brief description of our Processes or Systems Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t allow forced labour in any form including bonded labour, indentured labour, slave labour, or human trafficking. Our employees are allowed to move around freely and leave their place of work when their shift ends. Furthermore, Phoenix Design Aid will not ask workers to submit their original identity papers or any other original official documentation or to pay a deposit as part of their conditions of employment. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year During the annual board meeting the labour guidelines will be examined and updated if required. Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t work with suppliers that do not adhere to UN Global Compact’s principles and these principles will be incorporated into new partnership agreements made. Phoenix Design Aid has implemented a registration system that maps the suppliers working environment, which is used in the total supplier evaluation. Measurable Results or Outcomes We have a strong insight into our suppliers working environment and we are continuously in dialogue with both suppliers and partners. We demand that they support the UN Global Compact or that they at least adhere to the 10 universal principles. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy We do not accept the hiring of child labour under any circumstances. The minimum age for full-time employment is 15 or the legal minimum age for employment, whichever is greater unless the local minimum working age is 14 and in accordance with the ILO exception for developing countries, where minimum working age is accepted under the previously mentioned conditions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems In line with our OHSAS 18001:2008 certification Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t allow any kind of discrimination. This includes that no employees must experience any form of discrimination based on race, colour, gender, language, religion, political or other opinion, caste, national or social origin, property, birth, union affiliation, sexual orientation, health status, age, disability, or other distinguishing characteristics. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The annual staff development interview is a fundamental link between management and employees and it gives our employees the chance to voice his or her opinion on the work, the workplace and the company. Measurable Results or Outcomes The management has not been informed of any discrimination. We have implemented a registration system enabling us to follow up on any incidents and to initiate preventive actions. The system ensures a qualified and professional dialogue with our suppliers and clients. We have been selected as UNICEF ambassador in Randers, Denmark, and we support activities that fight for the rights of children and initiatives that give financial aid to UNICEF. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy We comply with the legal provisions on equal treatment regardless of sex, age, health condition, ethnic and social origin, religion or belief, union membership, financial or other personal circumstances, prohibition of sexual and other harassment at work and other legal provisions. We provide for equal and non-discriminatory treatment in all segments of activities involving people. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We consider ourselves to have created a good working environment and we always look for ways to improve further. We keep an eye on the development and listen carefully to the needs of our employees. We wish to ensure that we do not discriminate against employees because of ethnic background, gender, age, sexual orientation or religion. We believe that diversity is a strength that helps to ensure our access to the most talented employees. In addition, we have employed people from all over the world to produce our work, hereunder Danes, Greeks, Indians, Dutchmen, etc. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have implemented a registration system enabling us to follow up on any incidents and to initiate preventive actions. The system ensures a qualified and professional dialogue with our suppliers and clients. Measurable Results or Outcomes No incidents have been reported. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy In the environmental area, we: have set goals for the environmental improvements we wish to achieve and we check that we reach them will be up-to-date with the recent developments of improved technological solutions in our industry continually carry out environmental improvements inform our customers of Phoenix Design Aid's environmental work and motivate them to choose products and services with less strain on the environment preferably carrying an environmental label communicate in an open manner about our environmental policy and goals ISO 14001 is the internationally approved standard for environmental management. Phoenix Design Aid has been certified by Norwegian Veritas for pursuing environmental-friendly production and having defined a company policy on the environmental issues. PDAid is an extremely sustainable business – our production is currently 99% environmental friendly. In addition, for Phoenix Design Aid it has never been more important to minimise our CO2 emission. As a company we put great focus on our social responsibilities and we want to lead the way for a green and climate friendly world. Our latest initiative is to be a certified CO2 neutral company and thereby being able to offer even greener graphic production and communication services. Being a low carbon company is a very important aspect to our environmental positioning. Our carbon footprint has been calculated according to the principles of The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol); and by purchasing UN issued emission credits we neutralize our consumption. Our certification is in line with international standards and UN procedures and is verified by the approved certification entity CO2focus. When pinpointing the important environmental influences in the graphical process, one considers the consumption of each raw material, and the environmental load related to its use and disposal. The most important environmental burdens in graphical production are the use of paper, printing ink and printing varnishes. Phoenix Design Aid has developed an action plan to reduce the environmental threats in the graphical process. We only collaborate with external suppliers and cooperatives with documented environmental policies. All employees at Phoenix Design Aid are concerned about the environment and act according to the company’s internal environmental policies. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Environmental policy ISO 14001 certified CO2 Neutral Certified Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have prolonged our commitment to be CO2 neutral and have been certified again in 2011. We still support the UN-led Seal the Deal campaign as signatory We participate in meetings for Caring for Climate signatories Measurable Results or Outcomes We have neutralised our CO2 emission and have been certified by CO2 focus for 2011 We actively participate in Caring for Climate events trying to come up with suggestions for protection the environment. We produce eco-friendly/ CO2 neutral products PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy We have integrated environmental concern and global compact related standpoints into our annual customer satisfaction survey in order to increase our stakeholders’ awareness as to the environment and CSR. In the future we will further develop the survey with additional CSR related issues. A brief description of our Processes or Systems The customer satisfaction survey is prepared annually on a web-based platform, and it looks into our customers’ requirements and concern for eco-friendly approaches – product and service wise. The 2010 survey was sent to a greater number of respondents to disseminate our believes and initiatives regarding eco-friendly production methods, services and products. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have continued our membership of FSC Denmark to promote responsible forest management worldwide. We have been in dialogue with a Lebanese printing company giving them suggestions on how to obtain FSC certification We are in dialogue with the Danish embassy in Vietnam in order to locate a qualified graphic design agency for a strategic partnership that, among other things, includes an exchange of experiences regarding ecofriendly production methods and approaches. We advise governmental bodies and national ministries as well as UN and other international organisations about environmentally-friendly graphic processes and products in connection with their respective graphic production assignments. We have neutralised the emission of CO2 from our websites. We give financial support to The Sheldrick Wildlife Trust in Nairobi, Kenya. We have joined The Climate Neutral Network, which is a global campaign led by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to promote climate neutrality. The 2010 customer satisfaction survey was sent to a greater number of respondents to disseminate our philosophy and initiatives regarding eco-friendly production methods, services and products. The reason why we decided to expand the number of respondents shall be found in our clients’ growing interest in the environment and their need for a clear and sound corporate identity. Below please find an extract from the survey: Question 2009 positive answers 2010 negative answers PDAid’s environmental 46 % 80 % policy influenced our choice of PDA as a partner I find it important that 79 % 66 % PDAid’s is a member of the UN Global Compact Network PDAid has a clear 69 % 80 % corporate identity PDAids strong focus on communicating the benefits of UNGC, the environment and social responsibility has made our clients aware these important aspects. This is also illustrated in the 2010 survey and the day-to-day communication with the UN and other clients and partners. PDAid wishes on a continuous basis to indicate that the environment and the 10 principles in general are important to our company. For the coming surveys we plan to implement other areas of CSR. Measurable Results or Outcomes We lead the way in eco-friendly publication design and production, hence most if not all productions are produced in an environmentally friendly manner. We have joined the Danish association of CO2 neutral websites We are foster parents for two baby elephants – in line with our policy to respect animals as well as people, the environment, etc. We have produced a film that displays our values and activities. The film was shown on 3 large screens during the COP16 in Mexico. Furthermore, the film has been distributed to 156 UNDP country offices worldwide. We will use the film as part of our inspiration and communication material presented to all our stakeholders with a special focus on clients and partners. Click the link to view the film: http://www.unep.org/NewsCentre/videos/player_new.asp?w=500&h=310&f=/climateneutral/Portals/0/videos/Phoenix Design Aid COP16.flv PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy We wish to be on the forefront of environmentally friendly technologies in line with Phoenix Design Aid A/S certifications and policies. Consequently, we continuously explore the possibilities of utilizing green technologies in our work. A brief description of our Processes or Systems WebProof When Phoenix Design Aid cooperates with customers in solving graphical production and design assignments, Phoenix Design Aid offers access to WebProof, a specially developed, on-line flexible workflow system. WebProof is an efficient control and guidance system in the development and correction phase of all graphical assignments. This saves the client money and mistakes in graphical production are avoided. WebProof is based on the understanding that a customer wants to be able to see the whole job at any one time – that is to see the status and all the previous proofs page by page. The customer is provided with a password for accessing the server, after which all relevant employees of the customer, at any time and from any location, can follow the production process. In addition to this, the customer can provide corrections and comments when necessary. The project manager and the clients hence at any point in time have a complete and updated overview of the status of the current project and will, moreover, automatically be notified via Email or SMS of all updates in the process. In WebProof all activities are based on a simple and user-friendly interface. The user can for instance choose which language the platform shall use – and there are plenty to choose from. WebProof can be managed in English, Spanish, st French, Chinese, Russian and Arabic. In general we provide the 1 proof in electronic format and like to suggest that proofing is done using WebProof. Besides cutting down the proofing time, WebProof is also environmentally-friendly. Using online proofing rather than traditional printed proofs, we save the many trees it takes to produce the paper and we avoid the subsequent burning of these paper prints, incl. Toner and ink. Furthermore, WebProof reduces the environmental impact caused by transportation. In all cases, we avoid emitting a lot of CO2 to the atmosphere. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Phoenix Design Aid A/S is currently exploring the possibilities of offering e-Books to our customers. Using the internet rather than traditional printed matter, we save the many trees it takes to produce the paper and we avoid the subsequent burning of these paper prints, incl. toner and ink. Measurable Results or Outcomes Our online WebProof workflow saves the environment from more than 3 tons of CO2 emissions every year. WebProof saves us from physical deliveries, i.e. via courier, whereby emission from transportation is avoided. We prefer to ship our goods via sea instead of air as this is a more environmentally friendly way of getting our products distributed minimising the CO2 emission. PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy We do not accept corruption and dissociate ourselves from it. Currently, we are preparing a code of conduct describing what PDAid sees as good practice and how we wish to run our business. Therefore, we have formulated the following principles: We do not accept corruption We do not give presents to our clients to get favours in return. We only donate money to charity – not clients, suppliers, political parties, etc. This commitment applies for our suppliers as well as our own staff and management. Any knowledge of bribery or attempt of bribery must be reported to the Phoenix Design Aid A/S management, who will take appropriate and immediate action. The dialogue with suppliers about the values and principles of Phoenix Design Aid A/S is an ongoing process and has so far not led to any necessary sanctions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our business model is based on a fair, transparent and responsible attitude towards employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. This means that Phoenix Design Aid A/S enter into transparent business relationships with partners supporting the same principles. Where and when Phoenix Design Aid A/S discovers deviations from our model, we show accountability for it. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our policies and code of conduct have been reviewed and are now ready to implement DS 26001 certification We will inform the management and employees about our policies/code of conduct. We will establish and implement a registration system enabling us to follow up on any incidents and to initiate preventive actions. Measurable Results or Outcomes Any incidents will be reported and followed up. In 2010 no incidents have been reported, hence no actions have been required. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Stakeholder dialogue is an integrated part of our activities. Through participation in various networks, we are able to exchange experiences with other Danish and international companies and enhance our knowledge. In order to be DS 26001 certified in 2011 we have implemented guidelines for identification of and communication with our main stakeholders. These stakeholders are uniquely selected and we will do our utmost to influence them to further incorporate solid CSR politics. The selected stakeholders will be clients, suppliers, authorities and NGOs. Consequently, our CSR reporting will be thoroughly aimed at various stakeholders and our communication on progress will be used in this regard. Our main stakeholders are, among others: Suppliers: Scanprint,Strait Air, Eicom Customers: UNEP, UNDP, The World Bank Authorities: Co2 Fokus Norway, the municipality of Randers, The Danish Working Environment Authority,UN Global Compact. NGOs: Climate Neutral Network, Climate Change signatories (part of UN Global Compact), World’s Best News, Rotary Phonix Design Aid has started dialogue with the above stakeholders to identify their main CSR focus areas and their expectation in this regards in the years to come. During 2010, we have maintained our membership of Caring for Climate, The Graphic Association of Denmark, FSC Denmark and Seal The Deal. In the future we will enhance our partnership with the “Climate Neutral network” (www.unep.org/climateneutral/). Communication wise we have already shared a film with the network as well as our climate neutral work has been mentioned in an article. In addition, we support UNDP’s World’s Best News (http://verdensbedstenyheder.dk/ ) – an initiative that helps Danish aid organisations to get their message out. Locally, Phonix Design Aid works with businesses in Randers and the 4 Rotary organisations, who have decided to give financial aid to development projects in Uganda. The Rotary organisations represent 200 local companies. All Phoenix Design Aid’s stakeholders can follow our social responsibility work via multiple channels: Our websites Annual accounts Presentation material Newsletters Press releases E-mail signature Online presentations Company brochures Company letterhead Customer satisfaction survey
