Table of Contents Letter From the CEO 1 Global Compact Principles 2 5 Our Company Corporate Profile 6 Mission Statement and Values 7 Corporate Governance 8 Staff Diversity, Health and Safety 9 10 Staff Spotlight: Araba Sam Annan 11 Our Role in Global Development A Trusted Partner 12 Community Investments 13 14 3 Litres of Clean Water 15 16 United Against Malaria 17 18 Innovation and Response Innovating for a Healthier World 19 Logistics of Saving Lives 20 21 The Haitian Earthquake 22 Flooding in Pakistan 23 Integrating Health For All 24 25 Media Spotlight: The Test 26 Safeguarding the Environment 27 Looking Ahead Afterword 28 Letter From the CEO Vestergaard Frandsen is proud to share the goals of the United Nation’s Global letter from the ceo Compact, “a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.” Since 2006 we have embraced these principles and woven them into our business strategy. At Vestergaard Frandsen, we operate under our own unique Humanitarian Entrepreneurship business model. This “profit for a purpose” approach has turned corporate social responsibility into our core business of creating life-saving products for the most vulnerable. All of our products and concepts are designed to save lives and prevent the transmission of disease, reduce climate change and improve food security. The people who make our products are just as important to us as those who use them and we work hard to uphold the rights of all of our employees, and for many years we have contractually required the subcontractors we work with to expressly uphold these principles. We have recently begun to more closely monitor the activities of all our suppliers and their subcontractors, and are putting in place stricter control procedures to identify problems early and take swift corrective actions if needed. Our products and concepts are in direct support of the Millennium Development Goals and we are specifically working towards the achievement of MDG 1, reducing extreme poverty and hunger, MDG 4, 5 and 6 which are the health related MDG’s relating to reducing child mortality, improving maternal health and combatting infectious diseases. Most recently we launched support for MDG 7’s environmental sustainability, which is directly linked to Global Compact Principle #9 addressing the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. This principal is at the core of our LifeStraw Family product that creates safe water for people in the developing world while removing the need for people to boil their water first to purify it. When our LifeStraw Family is used in large quantities is can greatly reduce the need to cut down trees for firewood, and can remove millions of tons of CO2 from the atmosphere every year. Finally, we take anti-corruption measures very seriously. We are proud of our work in organizing the Bed Net Industry Stakeholder Agreement to ensure high ethics and corporate integrity in all of our offices around the world. Just meeting the minimum requirements for human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption has never been acceptable to us. We want to be industry leaders in these fields, and commit ourselves to the constant vigilance and determination necessary to always improve our practices. Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen 1 Compact Principles Principle 1: Protecting human confidence are forwarded to un global compact rights members of the internal compliance committee (ICC) where they are Vestergaard Frandsen is committed discussed and recommendations to promoting diversity and respect are developed to rectify any issue. for all people—those within our In 2010 we improved the corporate family and those with process by which new employees whom we do business. At all times are educated on our human rights we uphold the UN Global Compact’s policies and streamlined the guiding principles on human rights reporting mechanism to report and labour in our interactions with possible abuses. our customers, shareholders, stakeholders and employees. See “Corporate Governance” for We strive to constantly improve further information. our human rights record and those of our suppliers and partners. In Principle 3: Upholding freedom of 2010 we improved our oversight association and internal reporting mechanisms related to human rights. We embrace and nurture new and challenging ideas, support freedom See “Staff Diversity, Health and of association, and recognize that Safety” for further information. differences ultimately make us stronger and more adaptable to a Principle 2: Avoiding complicity constantly changing environment. in human rights abuses We respect the rights of all staff to freely associate. All Vestergaard As signatories of the Global Frandsen operations and Compact, we uphold human products are, at a minimum, in full rights in all of our offices and compliance with applicable local operations. We supply new staff and governmental requirements. with information on how to report In 2010, the United States discrimination and human rights employees of Vestergaard Frandsen violations and maintain an up-totogether identified gaps in the date library of human resources quality of health care coverage reference documents made and pension benefits provided by available to all staff. Concerns the company. Working together raised by staff members in they proposed improvements to 2 Compact Principles (cont.) these programmes, which company un global compact management reviewed and Principle 6: Eliminating approved. discrimination See “Staff Diversity, Health and Equal opportunity is stated in Safety” for further information. our recruitment policy and all job applicants receive equal treatment Principle 4: Eliminating of all regardless of race, colour, forms of forced and compulsory nationality, disability, ethnic origin, labour tribal affiliation, gender, gender identity, marital status, religion, Vestergaard Frandsen does parental status, sexual orientation, not tolerate forced labour and HIV status, or age. proactively investigates its staff, suppliers and contractors to ensure See “Staff Diversity, Health and that employees’ work conditions Safety” for further information. and treatment are in accordance with industry standard practices Principle 7: Exhibiting a and labour laws, and aligned with precautionary approach to Vestergaard Frandsen’s Business environmental challenges Conduct Principles. Vestergaard Frandsen values See “Corporate Governance” for a precautionary approach to further information. preventing environmental pollution and therefore addresses a broad Principle 5: Abolishing child range of environmental challenges. labour An internal audit in 2010 identified areas in which we could improve All Vestergaard Frandsen operations and products fully meet applicable local and governmental requirements, including those on minimum working ages. See “Corporate Governance” for further information. 3 Compact Principles (cont.) our approach. We effected key with significant health benefits un global compact changes based on that audit. and leads to a reduction of our A green formulation project environmental footprint. was implemented to reduce the For example, our LifeStraw® use of solvents by our suppliers in Family instant water purifiers the manufacture of PermaNet® 2.0 are designed to require zero and PermaNet® 3.0. In addition to maintenance while allowing for delivering obvious environmental uninterrupted use for up to three benefits, this voluntary change also years, giving households access reduced workers’ exposure. to clean water without need for chemicals, energy, or repeat See “Safeguarding the intervention. Environment” for further information. Additionally: Principle 8: Promoting greater environmental responsibility • A system for the treatment of fumes has been implemented Vestergaard Frandsen designs its at one of our suppliers’ products so that end users do not manufacturing locations with need to buy or acquire replacement our support. The specific parts, batteries or electricity that aim of this project was to can have a negative environmental reduce operators’ exposure impact. This approach provides to fumes emanating from the extrusion of certain yarns for Vestergaard Frandsen production • Production at one of our suppliers’ locations was moved from the city centre to an industrial zone. At this location, a new waste water treatment system was installed. See “Safeguarding the employees, the communities in Environment” for further information. which we work, and our suppliers 4 Compact Principles (cont.) Principle 9: Diffusing Principle 10: Working against un global compact environmentally friendly corruption technologies Vestergaard Frandsen is a signatory In 2010 Vestergaard Frandsen of the Bednet Industry Stakeholder planned a high-impact, certified Agreement, and our internal carbon reduction project using compliance council (ICC) and environmentally friendly technology chief compliance officer have been to provide safe water to millions charged by the company’s board of of residents of Kenya’s Western directors to ensure application and Province. The campaign, to be control of our Business Conduct rolled out in 2011, will lead to Principles (BCPs). Vestergaard significant environmental impact; Frandsen’s BCPs are based on the in addition to reducing millions of United Nations’ Global Compact and tons of carbon emissions into the guide the company to operate with atmosphere, the project reduces integrity and consideration for the exposure to indoor pollution caused environment, employees, suppliers, by boiling water, thereby reducing customers and society at large. the risk of respiratory disease. The ICC meets twice a year to Vestergaard Frandsen examine Vestergaard Frandsen’s also seeks solutions for other current performance with respect environmental issues, especially to the BCPs and explore ways regarding the impact of bed net to improve our performance. disposal and the reduction of the Vestergaard Frandsen believes company’s own greenhouse gas in robust governance structures emissions. We favour industry-wide to ensure that our profit comes approaches to minimizing product at no expense to our highly held life cycle environmental impacts principles. that will result in common ground and clarity, without impacting See “Corporate Governance” for competition on price, quality and further information. ability of public health tools to deliver benefits. See “Safeguarding the Environment” for further information. 5 Corporate Profile From humble beginnings in 1957 our company as an apparel manufacturer, Read “Work Smarter: Vestergaard Vestergaard Frandsen has evolved Frandsen” in Wired: to address global health needs with www.wired.co.uk/magazine/ innovative disease control textiles archive/2010/04/features/workdesigned for large-scale distribution smarter-vestergaard-frandsen in public health campaigns and complex emergencies. Today, Follow us on Twitter for company the company is an awardnews: winning, international business www.twitter.com/vesfra leader, weaving the principles of humanitarian entrepreneurship into www.twitter.com/lifestraw every facet of its operations. We are convinced that closeness and regions we serve. Most of to our partners is the key to creating our products are manufactured trusting, lasting and mutually in developing countries, offering beneficial relationships. Since the jobs, career development, and start of the company’s activities training in developing contexts, in development and humanitarian helping to prevent “brain drain” of work, we have sought to establish talented scientists, engineers, and offices in the global south, to logisticians to other parts of the become neighbors with our partners. world. We opened our first African regional We are a proud supporter of the office in Kenya in 1995, and since United Nations Global Compact, then we have added seven more which we signed in 2006, and we locations throughout Africa and Asia. strive to operate above and beyond Our local footprint allows us to its guiding principles. quickly deploy better, smarter public health solutions from concept to delivery, and is widely admired and appreciated. Vestergaard Frandsen has historically based staff in, and recruited staff from, the countries 6 Mission Statement and Values Mission Statement our company “With growing responsibility in global society, Vestergaard Frandsen wants to fulfil the demand for disease-control textiles.” Values Innovation Finding alternative solutions by combining creative and traditional thinking. Speed of Response Working at a faster pace while displaying a high level of energy and flexibility. Passionate People Contributing with enthusiasm, dedication, and positive spirit. Precision Creating unique science-based tools expressly to fit the needs of those in developing countries. Demonstrating commitment by delivering high-quality results in line with company policies, norms and values. Responsibility Performing our duties in a highly ethical and responsible manner for the benefit of the least fortunate members of society. 7 Corporate Governance Corporate governance, which we society at large. our company define as company-wide adherence The ICC meets twice a year to to principled and transparent examine Vestergaard Frandsen’s decision-making mechanisms, performance against the BCPs and complements the other three pillars explore ways to improve. of corporate social responsibility: environmental, economic and social performance. Vestergaard Frandsen believes strong corporate governance structures are crucial to its success, both to guarantee organisational efficiency and to shape a responsible business. During the last two years the majority of our board positions have been filled by new members. The board is now a strong and diverse group, many of whom are independent of the company. Each member brings different strengths and perspectives, with Read Business Conduct both the private and public sectors Principles: www.vestergaardrepresented. frandsen.com/our-passion/businessAdditionally, our Internal conduct-principles Compliance Council (ICC) and chief compliance officer (CCO) have been charged by the board with ensuring application and control of our Business Conduct Principles (BCPs) throughout the company. Vestergaard Frandsen’s BCPs are based on the United Nations’ Global Compact and are designed to ensure that Vestergaard Frandsen operates with integrity and consideration for the environment, its employees, suppliers, clients and 8 Staff Diversity, Health and Safety By Emmanuelle Pigueller, Human Vestergaard Frandsen operations our company Resources Manager and products are, at a minimum, in full compliance with applicable local At Vestergaard Frandsen, we are and governmental requirements. committed to promoting diversity Vestergaard Frandsen exceeded and upholding the Global Compact’s these requirements in close guiding principles on human rights collaboration with its partners in and labour in all interactions with several instances in 2010: our customers, shareholders, stakeholders and employees. • Vestergaard Frandsen Upholding diversity means that implemented a green formulation Vestergaard Frandsen can attract, project to reduce the use of retain and develop local talents. solvents by our suppliers in the Our recruitment policy is equal manufacture of PermaNet® 2.0 opportunity and all job applicants and PermaNet® 3.0. In addition to receive equal consideration delivering environmental benefits, regardless of race, colour, this voluntary change also nationality, disability, ethnic origin, reduced workers’ exposure. gender, gender identity, marital status, HIV status, religion, parental • We have instituted a system status, sexual orientation, or age. for the treatment of fumes at one We embrace and nurture of our suppliers’ manufacturing new and challenging ideas, locations. The specific aim of this support freedom of association, and recognize that differences ultimately make us stronger and more adaptable to a constantly changing environment. We maintain an enduring commitment to the health and safety of our staff. All 9 Staff Diversity, Health (cont.) project was to reduce operators’ are forwarded to the Internal our company exposure to fumes arising out of Compliance Committee (ICC), the extrusion of certain yarns for which discusses the matter and Vestergaard Frandsen products. issues recommendations to rectify any issue. • Vestergaard Frandsen has Vestergaard Frandsen moved one suppliers’ production does not tolerate forced labour out of the city center and to an and investigates any claims of industrial zone. A new waste improprieties. We seek to ensure water treatment system was also that all employees’ work conditions installed. and treatment are in accordance with industry standards and labour laws, and are aligned with Vestergaard Frandsen’s Business Conduct Principles. We strive to make Vestergaard Frandsen a pioneering workplace that brings As signatories of the Global passionate people from all over the Compact, we uphold human rights world together to solve seemingly in all of our offices and operations: intractable public health challenges we supply new staff with information by fostering creative ideas and new on how to report discrimination ways to do business better. and human rights violations and maintain an up-to-date library of human resources reference documents made available to all staff. Concerns brought by staff members in confidence 10 Staff Spotlight: Araba Sam Annan What is your involved in several malaria our company background? education campaigns, and for I was born and World Aids Day, you were involved brought up in in similar education activities in Cape Coast Ghana. Why is health education along the important? western coastline Preventive health is so simple of Ghana. My yet many people, especially in interest is in my part of the world, take it less sustainable development and the key seriously, perhaps because they role that public health has to play. do not understand the health threat After all, the health of any group of very well. I feel fulfilled when I can people is their wealth. contribute to health education, making people aware about a disease and How did you find Vestergaard preventing it from spreading. Frandsen? Why did you decide to work here? People often say that at I first heard of Vestergaard Frandsen Vestergaard Frandsen, the work we during a conference in South Africa do isn’t just a job, but a passion. when I was working on a project Would you agree? by DANIDA (Danish International Yes, I do agree. Meeting people and Development Assistance). It was talking about preventive health care the first time I saw the LifeStraw® makes it more than a job. At the end water filter. A job had opened, so of the day it is not just your salary I interviewed and was offered the that brings about the satisfaction of position. It has been an amazing a job well done but also the positive three years; I have learned a impact you make in peoples’ lives. lot. The whole concept of doing Vestergaard Frandsen also helps business by doing good embedded you to learn and to improve upon in the Vestergaard Frandsen your own knowledge. My background business model is great. I find much is not in health, but now I know satisfaction in knowing that our more than I bargained for, and I do life-saving tools bring relief to many not regret it one bit. Travelling and others. meeting people of different cultures makes it awesome. It is a whole For United Against Malaria, experience that cannot be traded. It is Vestergaard Frandsen was not just a job but so much more. 11 A Trusted Partner In less than 20 years, Vestergaard community is, to a large extent, our role in global development Frandsen has become a major due to the quality of its products and trusted player in global which are designed to perform in development. Our products are the particular conditions where part of the daily lives of millions of they are used: high technology people, providing protection against content is combined with low or zero disease and promoting healthier maintenance needs and a strict lives. attention to low lifecycle cost. The The benefits of insecticideawards and accolades we have impregnated bed nets, our most garnered from international media popular product, in the fight against and our partners are a welcome malaria are well understood. For expression of that trust; recently example, insecticide-treated nets we have earned The Economist’s can reduce deaths in children by Economic and Social Innovation 20 percent and episodes of malaria Award and the Financial Times 2010 by half. Net-protected populations Social Innovation Award for Most are also less susceptible to other Innovative Small For-Profit, while diseases, allowing the existing CEO Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen public health infrastructure to better was named a World Economic leverage its capacity. Similarly Forum Global Young Leader 2010. dramatic benefits accrue from Vestergaard Frandsen’s Vestergaard Frandsen’s other strategic objectives are directly products, such as LifeStraw® water aligned with the Millennium filters, and the combination of such Development Goals (MDGs); as tools shows even more promise. we further expand our role in global To measure the real-world development, we will keep the impact of our public health tools, MDGs firmly in mind. Vestergaard Frandsen relies on objective, scientifically accepted evidence. Additionally, to continue improving its products, Vestergaard Frandsen actively seeks input from users, independent academic researchers, public health professionals, and our partners. The trust Vestergaard Frandsen has earned in the development 12 Community Investments Responsibility for a community’s Back Malaria Partnership. Roll Back our role in global development well-being rests not just with Malaria gathers all actors involved governments, but also its citizens, in fighting malaria, including UN faith-based organisations, organisations, bilateral donors, community groups, NGOs, and NGOs, faith-based organisations, private companies. Together, members of the scientific academic all stakeholders can strive to do and research communities, and more good, and engage in more malaria endemic countries. The opportunities for cooperation and private sector delegation includes collaboration. our competitors in the vector Vestergaard Frandsen is control industry, pharmaceutical committed to supporting the and diagnostic companies, large communities we live and work employers, and consultancy in, and engages both public and companies. Vestergaard Frandsen private partners in alliances that represents the whole private sector address local and regional priorities through its board seat and strives to for achieving the Millennium bring private sector strengths and Development Goals. thinking and a unique corporate CEO Mikkel Vestergaard perspective to a large and diverse Frandsen is one of the two private partnership. sector board members of the Roll In 2010, Vestergaard Frandsen Scenes from the Grandmothers Against Malaria Initiative (GAMI) bed net distribution include (clockwise from left) opening dancers, the Kenyan Prime Minister’s wife Ida Odinga with Mama Sarah Obama and with Yvonne Chaka Chaka and children. 13 Community Investments (cont.) strengthened existing corporate innovation and clean technology our role in global development partnerships with the Global conference. Business Coalition On HIV/AIDS, In 2011, we look forward to doing Malaria, and Tuberculosis and the more good and reaching more Global Health Council. We were people in need with our partners. honored to join several new publicWe have invested in communities, private partnerships including the education and research via the Komen Global Health Alliance, following partners and groups: to address cancer prevention in • Bulamu Children’s Village the developing world, and United • Carter Center Against Malaria, to focus the world’s • Clinton Global Initiative attention and awareness for malaria • Drive Against Malaria in advance of the 2010 World Cup. • Global Business Coalition Vestergaard Frandsen has also • Imperial College London developed new CSR partnerships, • LIVEStrong such as linking Coca-Cola Nordic to • Malaria in Pregnancy Water For All, a South African clean Consortium water NGO, to distribute 35,000 • Princess of Africa Foundation LifeStraw® filters to schoolchildren • Project Hope in Kenya. The company’s • Right To Play commitment to innovation has been • Summit Series further strengthened by participation • United Against Malaria in LAUNCH, a NASA-sponsored • Roll Back Malaria • Women Deliver • Susan G. Komen for the Cure • “F” Cancer Scoring against malaria: not only do youth gain valuable football playing skills at these camps, they also learn to protect themselves from malaria. 14 3 Litres of Clean Water Partners millions of litres of clean water have our role in global development Coca-Cola Nordic, Water For All been pledged—and are now helping children and families in Kenya.” Website Now students who walk long www.3literrentvand.dk distances to school can safely drink clean water along the way, avoiding Description debilitating bouts of sickness that have historically keep them at In 2010, for every bottle of Cocahome. When students stay healthy Cola Nordic’s Kildevæld® brand and stay in school, the whole water purchased by Danish community wins. consumers, the company donated Due to the runaway success of three litres of clean water to rural this year’s campaign, Coca-Cola Kenyan school students in the form Nordic and Vestergaard Frandsen of a LifeStraw® water filter. In less plan on expanding this project in than a year, Danish consumers 2011. spurred the donation of more than 51 million litres of clean water. In October, Coca-Cola, South 3 Litres of Clean Water on Facebook: African NGO Water for All, and www.facebook.com/pages/3literrentv Vestergaard Frandsen visited and/358917431570 Kwasyokimanza Primary School and Kimanza Secondary School Video of moments from the in Kenya’s Matungula District, and LifeStraw® distribution: donated over 27,000 of the highwww.youtube.com/ tech water filters to the community. watch?v=Fu60XgnrMDw Water For All ensured that the Photo gallery of distribution: students received age-appropriate www.flickr.com/photos/ user education to maximize the vestergaardfrandsen/ filters’ benefits.. sets/72157625065707391/ “This campaign has clearly shown that even small changes in Press release for distribution event: everyday routine can create large www.vestergaard-frandsen.com/ results,” remarked Coca-Cola news/press-releases/298-danishNordic country manager Søren consumers-donate-27000-high-techKristensen. “Thanks to the fantastic water-filters-to-students-teacherssupport from Danish consumers, and-families-in-eastern-kenya 15 United Against Malaria Partners along his journey. The expedition our role in global development Kingsley Holgate, Right To Play was sponsored by Vestergaard Frandsen, Land Rover, Nando’s, Website Motorola, and others. The www.unitedagainstmalaria.org expedition culminated with an ascent of Mount Kilimanjaro, and Description the unfurling of a PermaNet® bed net at the “top of Africa” to United Against Malaria is a symbolically show that the 2010 partnership of NGOs, football goal of universal coverage could be clubs, governments, and African attained. businesses that worked together to raise the profile of malaria and malaria prevention activities in the run-up to the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. Vestergaard Frandsen played a leading role, sponsoring two United Against Malaria-branded initiatives: the 2010 Kingsley Holgate Expedition and a campaign with sports and development NGO Right To Play. For the 2010 Kingsley Holgate Expedition, the famed African explorer departed from South Africa on World Malaria Day in a Concurrently, Vestergaard caravan of ten Land Rovers to visit Frandsen and Canadian nonseven countries before the 7 June profit Right To Play partnered start of the World Cup. He raised on a series of events in Ghana, awareness about malaria and Uganda and Mozambique that distributed 5,000 of Vestergaard connected professional footballers Frandsen’s PermaNet® bed nets to their young African fans. These 17 United Against Malaria (cont.) events used football matches health and government officials our role in global development and skills clinics with professional also joined. The game’s message? footballers to teach the importance “Always use a bed net—don’t let the of malaria awareness and how mosquitoes score.” to prevent the disease. At each event approximately 1,000 donated Dispatches from the Kingsley Holgate PermaNet® bed nets and football expedition: trading cards featuring famous www.vestergaard-frandsen.com/ African footballers Didier Drogba news/kingsley-holgate and Michael Essien and educational messages were distributed. Flickr photo gallery of Kingsley The two campaigns merged Holgate: when Kingsley happened upon a www.flickr.com/photos/ football pitch full of students at a vestergaardfrandsen/ Right to Play event. He played a sets/72157624127435682/ game of pickup football which local 18 Innovating for a Healthier World By Dr. Helen Pates Jamet, Head of with increased efficacy due to the innovation and response Entomology synergist that is incorporated in the roof of the net. Experimental Mosquito nets were first used in hut and village-based studies are ancient Egypt, where fishermen ongoing in areas where insecticide used their fishing nets to protect resistance has been documented, themselves from mosquitoes at as is mathematical modeling to night. It was not until the early predict the impact of increased 1980s that insecticide was first efficacy on malaria transmission in applied to mosquito nets to different regions. provide additional protection to the physical barrier of the net, therefore significantly reducing transmission of malaria when used by many households in a community. The arrival of long lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) in the early 2000s enabled the massive expansion of vector control critical to achieving The fight against malaria the MDG targets for malaria isn’t the only battle Vestergaard reduction. Frandsen scientists are waging. Sadly, today in some parts Research in the area of waterborne of Africa, insecticide-resistant diseases has concentrated on mosquitoes can be found sitting improving the user-friendliness on freshly sprayed walls or brand of the microbiological water filter new LLINs; this paradox may LifeStraw® Family, using feedback deter people from using their nets. from the field to further adapt the Insecticide resistance may become design of the filter. We are designing one of the largest challenges in the upgraded version to enable use reducing malaria-related morbidity with limited instruction. and mortality as we are faced The year 2011 will be an with an ever-diminishing choice of exciting one for product innovation, insecticides. as we continue our mission to A major technological advance innovate products supported by against resistance was made thoroughly researched scientific with Vestergaard Frandsen’s data. PermaNet® 3.0, a combination net 19 Logistics of Saving Lives By Thomas Hansen, Regional even when faced with logistical innovation and response Director for East Africa challenges. (Indeed, the places that need bed nets the most are often The past decade saw a massive the most inaccessible.) increase in support for all malariaIn 2010, we successfully related activities, mostly Africa delivered 2.9 million nets and parts of Asia. The war (purchased by The Global Fund against malaria began in earnest. to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Vestergaard Frandsen has been Malaria) to 29 destinations within represented in or around all malariainfrastructure-poor South Sudan. prone geographies, and has thus We were in a race against time to played an essential role in the rapid effectively impact the area’s malaria progress towards achieving the burden; it became a race against MDG 2015 targets regarding greater time to ensure that the nets would access to LLINs. arrive before the rains, as Southern Funding, programmes and Sudan becomes inaccessible by delivery mechanisms for malaria road with the season’s first torrential programmes have changed downpours. The massive task dramatically over the years: from involved 148 cargo containers and small-scale NGOs providing nets to targeted groups in the 1990s… then to subsidy programs for entire populations in the early 2000s…to today, when increased funding and policy changes have paved the way for massive free distributions with the aim to achieve an ambitious 80 percent coverage rate in malariaendemic areas. In response to the growing demand, Vestergaard Frandsen has continuously adapted, partnering with many different organisations to ensure the shortest possible delivery times of PermaNet®. At the same time we’ve offering local support and safe delivery 20 Logistics of Saving Lives (cont.) close coordination with our NGO for Disease Control, and at our innovation and response partners on the ground, all against laboratory in Vietnam. Vestergaard the backdrop of a fragile political Frandsen believes strongly that and security situation. After the developing capacity among distribution, the containers were scientists from malaria-endemic left behind and are now being used countries will facilitate more as storage, office space and even effective malaria control efforts. housing. It is incredible to look back, Over the years hundreds of from the creation of Roll Back millions of PermaNet® bed nets Malaria until today, and see the have been delivered throughout achievements in the fight against the world and we will continue to this relentless disease. While expand in accordance with the 2010 was a milestone for malaria world’s massive need for effective control, with more people now malaria prevention tools. covered by nets than ever before, Even as we expand our too many people still suffer and die production, we must support our from this completely preventable product development with scientific illness. The complexity involved in data, and so we have sponsored battling malaria increases every a fully equipped insectary in day because of larger vector Ivory Coast under the aegis of populations; growing insecticide the Swiss Centre for Scientific resistance; pollution; changing Research. This lab supports many biting behaviours; and the lack of a different countries in Africa that vaccine, among many other factors. lack local entomological capacity Therefore continued funding or even access to basic lab tools. remains critical if we are to reduce In addition, we have refurbished malaria’s death toll to zero. and equipped a new insectary in Kampala, enabling entomologists in Uganda to enhance their work and build local capacity for insect research. Entomologists from all over Africa have participated in technical workshops in monitoring and evaluation via our partnership with the Kenya Research Medical Institute and the U.S. Centers 21 Haitian Earthquake On January 12, 2010, a magnitude Haitian people as they have begun innovation and response 7.0 earthquake originating close to rebuild. to Haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince, brought down government buildings, homes, businesses, and schools. Hundreds of thousands of people were killed, and many more left homeless. Since then, the world community—NGOs, governments, multilateral organisations, the private sector, grassroots groups, the Haitian diaspora—have worked to help Haitians back to their feet. We were fortunate to work with Vestergaard Frandsen staff driven grassroots and powerful were on ground in Haiti shortly international partnerships on the after the earthquake, ensuring that ground in Haiti including: our partners had the tools they • World Vision needed to save lives. We were • ACTED still there after the first transitional • Project Hope shelters were built, helping to • CRS prevent further illness and death. • IOM Vestergaard Frandsen donated • Rotary International thousands of LifeStraw® water • GrassRoots United filters and ZeroFly® plastic sheeting • Sister Eunice kits to prevent vector-borne disease • IMA and enhance temporary shelters. • Mentor Initiative We have continued our work after the advent of cholera, which has See impact of our products in Haiti recently emerged in Haiti as another here: major public health threat. www.vestergaard-frandsen.com/ The public health needs in Haiti raising-haiti are huge, and much work is still to be done. The video and photos by Adam Stoltman/E2 Productions for the Raising Haiti microsite are a testament to the resilient spirit of the 22 Flooding in Pakistan In July 2010, torrential monsoon damaged or destroyed and over innovation and response rains contributed to Pakistan’s worst two million hectares of crops lost. natural and humanitarian disaster Disease, hunger, and uncertainty since the 2005 earthquake. Massive followed. and long-term flooding affected Vestergaard Frandsen’s Dubaian estimated 20 million people, based staff traveled to Pakistan many of whom escaped with to assist partners in bringing safe only their lives; entire towns were and clean water solutions with rapidly flooded and washed away. LifeStraw®, and protection from Hundreds of thousands of people mosquitoes and the elements with were stranded, and over 1,700 PermaNet® bed nets and ZeroFly® people died. plastic sheeting. Despite heavier When the waters began to rains and ever-rising waters, we recede over two months later, were able to deliver these lifesaving nearly 1.9 million homes had been products to displacement camps. 23 Integrating Health For All By Alexandre Doyen, Global product innovator and market innovation and response Portfolio Manager for Joint Health leader. It was an exciting time and Impact PermaNet® was creating a major impact, improving peoples’ lives in When I joined Vestergaard Africa and around the globe. Frandsen in March 2001, I was one The huge improvement that of two people worldwide working PermaNet® represented over the in customer support , providing status quo ante—when nets had generic relief products for use in to be retreated with insecticide disasterand conflict-affected areas. every six months—made me realize We had launched PermaNet®, that private sector companies had firmly refocusing our disease a lot to contribute to the effort to control textile development efforts solve the world’s greatest health on malaria prevention. In parallel, challenges. In university, I had public health programmes began studied tropical agronomy, however financing access to insecticidepublic health was more interesting treated mosquito nets and due to the human factor, and advocating their use as a malaria working at Vestergaard Frandsen control tool. Vestergaard Frandsen has allowed me to delve into this had turned a page, and went from field in new and creative ways. becoming a mere supplier to a Concurrently, evidence was 24 Integrating Health For All (cont.) emerging regarding the impact of participate. Those were allayed innovation and response simple interventions such as safe definitively after launch, when water and bed nets on the health massive crowds came and eagerly of persons living with HIV/AIDS accepted the products we offered and the ancillary benefits for their and also consented to testing. Our households. longstanding preparatory efforts and Discussions around integrated careful planning had been validated. approaches and the possibility The community’s perception of of improving public health through a combination of improved products and services started brewing. In 2008, Vestergaard Frandsen’s Integrated Prevention Demonstration was launched in Lurambi, Kenya, to prove that health incentives could be used to dramatically increase voluntary HIV testing and counseling in a community and reduce the negative HIV had been changed forever, and social behaviour towards people by coming out to test as an entire who are HIV positive. Many people community, residents of Lurambi learned their HIV status for the first went a long way toward shaking off time, and for many of the residents the social stigma associated with of rural Lurambi, the campaign HIV. marked the first time they met It was a privilege to be part of a person who was openly HIVa successful programme that had positive. a positive impact on so many lives, During the planning stage of and I count it as one of my greatest the campaign, we had some natural personal experiences to date. fears about whether people would 25 Media Spotlight: The Test Kenya has one of the highest HIV campaign in Lurambi District, innovation and response infection rates in sub-Saharan Kenya that aimed to tackle both Africa, yet testing rates among the low testing rate and social sexually active adults are worryingly stigma attached to testing in less than 20 percent. Social stigma a novel way. Local residents lessens people’s willingness to get were offered a CarePack® of tested and prevents HIV-positive preventive interventions containing people from engaging in counseling a water filter, anti-malaria bed net, and treatment programmes, not condoms, and educational material to mention finding acceptance as incentive to participate in a and integrating voluntary HIV counseling fully into their and testing program. communities. This simple incentive Often, people that awarded every who are known participant with tools that to be HIV-positive could prevent diarrheal find that work disease, HIV infection, and educational and malaria, brought prospects are an overwhelmingly closed to them, enthusiastic response making it difficult from the community. to provide for The Test, a themselves and documentary film their families. supported by Vestergaard Without treatment or preventative Frandsen and produced by Cielo measures, people with HIV Productions, follows the lives of often are co-infected with other several individuals in the months opportunistic diseases that keep after this integrated campaign. Not them sick, weak, and less able to only has this film received acclaim work and take care of their families. in the public health sector, but it also Not surprisingly, many people prefer has been screened and won awards to simply not know their status at high profile film festivals around because the alternative—poor the world. medical support, social rejection, an Watch the trailer and check out uncertain future—is so appalling. screening locations at In 2008, Vestergaard Frandsen www.thetestfilm.com. initiated an integrated public health 26 Safeguarding the Environment More than ten years ago, Family water purifiers also innovation and response Vestergaard Frandsen pioneered significantly reduce the need to a dramatic reduction in the boil water using wood or charcoal. environmental impact of its main In 2011 Vestergaard Frandsen bed net product by launching will launch a high-impact, certified PermaNet®. This entirely new carbon reduction project to address product avoided the need for repeat this issue. It represents a unique intervention through insecticidal instance of “development for reimpregnation every six months. free” combined with significant In addition environmental to significant impact. In addition health, to reducing carbon compliance and emissions, the cost benefits, programme will a significant reduce to indoor amount of pollution caused by material and, boiling water over especially, fossilwood fires, thereby fueled transport reducing the risk for was taken out respiratory disease. of the environmental equation. This Vestergaard Frandsen is major innovation of creating longeralso seeking solutions for other lasting insecticide-treated nets has environmental issues, specifically now become the industry standard. in relation to the environmental Vestergaard Frandsen designs impact of bed net disposal as its products with zero maintenance well as regarding the company’s in mind, with similarly convincing own operational greenhouse gas combined results in terms of health emissions. With respect to product benefits, cost, and environmental lifecycle environmental impacts, footprint. Our Lifestraw® instant we believe that the industry should water filter requires no maintenance develop a clear, common approach while allowing for uninterrupted without impacting competition on use of up to three years, giving price, quality and ability to deliver individuals access to safe water for the benefit of the populations without any need for chemicals, served by public health tools. energy, or repeat intervention. The company’s LifeStraw® 27 Afterword At Vestergaard Frandsen, we seek to innovate novel lifesaving looking ahead technologies and quickly provide them to those who need them the most. In 2011, we will continue to aid the least fortunate; tackle emerging public health issues in new arenas; launch new products that do more good; and forge new partnerships focused on achieving the MDGs and keeping more people healthy. To follow Vestergaard Frandsen company and product news and CSR activities in 2011, subscribe to our e-newsletter at www. eepurl.com/gC3f. 28 Created by the Vestergaard Frandsen Communications Department. media@vestergaard-frandsen.com www.vestergaard-frandsen.com
