Towards our ideal… Using sometimes the same, sometimes different paths, we reach some shining goals… At the moment of birth, each human being makes his/her first step… Now there are some dreams and ideals to be reached step by step… At Doğuş Otomotiv, we confidently pursue our dreams on our own path without compromising our ideals. We seek to be with our stakeholders wherever they travel, every kilometer of the way, as they head safely, confidently and comfortably along the road. Automobiles, which bind people to the road, be they for transport or providing the dream itself, are the vehicles, whereby we realized our own dream as well. For seventeen years we have stood with our stakeholders, doing business responsibly and without compromising quality. We have an ideal. We desire a sustainable world for all our stakeholders, and we, as the Doğuş Otomotiv family, strive hard for it bunching together. Last year we released our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report; this was a major step on this journey. In order to continue as a responsible and transparent company, we move on with decisive steps and we are pleased to share this, our second CSR report with you. As we follow this path on which we have embarked towards our ideals and in pursuit of our dreams, we acknowledge that we have chosen the route toward a more sustainable world from now on. Promising to move forward in the same manner, we are proud to present our second report to our stakeholders. DOĞUŞ OTOMOTİV CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Contents CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 02 CEO’S MESSAGE 04 ABOUT THE REPORT 06 DOĞUŞ OTOMOTİV 2010 07 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 11 Strategy 11 Methodology 12 Management Approach to Corporate Responsibility 13 Global Cooperations 14 Awards 2010 14 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Goals 20 Strategy and Corporate Governance 21 ECONOMIC IMPACT 22 Economic Responsibility Policy 23 Financial Efficiency 23 Lean Management and Risk Management 24 OEM Relations 25 Authorized Dealers and Service Centers 28 Suppliers 31 Responsible Marketing Communication 32 Climate Change 33 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 34 Environmental Policy 35 Water Use 36 Waste Management 36 Energy Use 38 Environmentally Friendly Products 40 EMPLOYEES 44 Employees and Decent Work Policy 45 Group Values and Employee Satisfaction 46 Employee Health and Safety 46 Employee Development 47 Employee Rights 48 Dialogue Platforms with Employees 48 Human Rights 51 CUSTOMERS 52 Product and Service Responsibility Policy 53 Health and Safety Impact of Products and Services 53 Product and Service Information 56 Customer Satisfaction Process Management 57 Customer Privacy 59 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 60 Community Engagement Policy 61 Indicator Rooms Application 61 Cooperation with Vocational High Schools 62 2011 Goals 64 Traffic is Life 64 Equality of Opportunity in Education and Darüşşafaka 65 Memberships with Associations, Unions and Initiatives 66 GRI INDEX 67 UNGC INDEX 76 02 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Chairman's Message “ Doğuş Otomotiv has enlarged its scope of responsibility in parallel with its size in the sector for all the stakeholders to live in a sustainable world. ” 03 We have defined our principles and policies with the purposes to implement our concept of responsibility into all business processes, to ensure the continuity of this understanding and to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, and in line with these policies we have drawn our roadmap. To Our Esteemed Stakeholders, As Doğuş Otomotiv, we carry out our business with ethical and most accurate way. Our values are shaping our Since our beginning seventeen years ago, Doğuş Otomotiv understanding of doing business. Our method of doing business has aimed to provide the highest quality service in the established upon this perception makes us more valuable day automotive industry, and to raise the standards of this area. by day in the eyes our stakeholders, including our employees, Keeping this in mind, we have continuously researched customers and business partners, and our relations are developments that might contribute to the progress of our strengthened. In other words, happier employees and a country as well as enhance the services we offer. sustainable world and society underlie our insight of corporate responsibility. We know that the continuous and sustainable progress of our company can be accomplished only in parallel with the For Doğuş Otomotiv, 2010 brought enormous development of the society that surrounds us. Sustainable progress in the area of corporate social development occurs on a platform that has continuity of responsibility. We signed the United Nations environmental and social, as well as economic factors. Global Compact, once again happy for proving our decisive stance with regard to sustainable In today’s world of huge and rapid changes in economic, development to the whole world and our social and environmental terms, ancient boundaries have sector. 2010 was a significant indicator of crumbled and every community is affected by the socioour path towards permanent and continuous economic developments. As the Doğuş Otomotiv family, we performance of our company embarked for the upcoming believe that every business contribution we make in the field years. of sustainability, beginning with our own society and environment, may well have distinct, positive impacts in We will continue to add value to our society and our planet completely different places in the world. We define business through these practices that set a precedent for superiority in contribution as giving back to the society in every sense, the field of sustainability, enlarging our scope of corporate identifying and fulfilling the responsibilities as citizens in the responsibility throughout the coming years. We will continue most effective manner. our studies to create awareness of the topics of importance to our stakeholders: such as social, environmental and This extraordinary new era has, by its very nature, significantly educational issues. We have always been careful, taking increased competition in all sectors. Nowadays, companies precautions and projecting probable challenges. Our are not evaluated only on their products and/or services, but management ethic turns all such challenges into opportunities; also on their business practices and responsible participation to maintain a valuable brand for our stakeholders has always in the community to which they belong and, indeed, to the been among our fundamental goals. We believe that this world as a whole. We have, therefore, enlarged our scope strategy will carry us forward, strengthening our symbolic of responsibility in relationship to our size in the sector. We significance. have been developing practices which will establish precedents to create sustainable environmental and living conditions On behalf of Doğuş Otomotiv, I would like to thank to our which are the incontestable rights of our stakeholders. In stakeholders who constitute the cornerstone of our corporate order to evaluate the benefits in a systematic way, to responsibility performance: firstly our employees, and strengthen our corporate responsibility performance built on additionally our hugely supportive investors and business a powerful base with new practices, we published our first partners for their valuable contributions. We expect to continue Corporate Social Responsibility Report last year, which was to share our achievements with you as we rise on these solid the first in our sector. This year, we are happy to share our foundations to build a sustainable future in the coming years. second CSR report. With this year’s second CSR report, we underscore the importance we attribute to sustainability and Yours faithfully, the principle of transparency. Thus we can say that the most significant progress we have in this second report relies Aclan Acar heavily on our management approach. We have defined our Chairman principles and policies for the implementation of this responsibility into all business processes, to ensure the continuity of this understanding and to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. We have drawn our roadmap in line with these policies, managing operations with the awareness that this understanding of corporate responsibility is effective when it is infused into all the units of the company. In 2010 this strategy enhanced awareness at each operational area and empowered our employees to reflect their creativity and positive energy in their work. 04 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 CEO's Message “ Our company, which carries out its operations with practices responsible for the society lived within and even the world community and environment, has been in a leading position in the field of sustainable development. ” Dear Stakeholders, we have made with our second report, and aim to release CSR Reports each year on a regular basis. Over the past year at Doğuş Otomotiv we have been moving with confident steps to secure our position as a leader in Our company carries out its operations in full awareness of corporate social responsibility, in addition to providing high practices responsible for the society we live in, as well as the quality service to the automotive industry for many years. We world community and the environment as a whole, and it is in released our first CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) report a leading position in the field of sustainable development. Our in 2010, the first in the Turkish automotive sector to be prepared company has taken the principles of accountability and benefits in accordance with the international reporting standards of to society to be of primary importance in all activities, from GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). manufacturing to operational practices, and it continues to work within these guidelines. With the Corporate Social Our strategic operations are always based on the quest to Responsibility Reporting, from now on, our company will share provide the best service while continuing to progress. This the results of the decisions and practices made in this field as year we share our second report with the public, adding new well as the progress, with the stakeholders on a regular basis. activities in the field of CSR. We are proud and excited to As a result, we will have the chance to observe the growth in demonstrate the evidence for the strong and steady progress value added to the society and to develop them even further. 05 Acting with the idea to leave a better and viable future for the next generations, our company carries out social and environmental investments in order to ensure sustainable growth in parallel to this understanding. We will be able to carry out activities with a strong infrastructure centers. These were conducted both face to face and on in the field of corporate social responsibility. internet. Our CSR activities for 2010 include a newly structured Code of Conduct Committee, a human rights e-learning module Doğuş Otomotiv executes industry-leading and quality work which is an output of our delicate stance about human rights, today, with the advantage of the know-how obtained from and the suggestion system established by examination of the operating in the automotive industry for many years. The voluntary programs at the international level. We actualized our automotive industry’s nature requires quick response to any first voluntary program with the attendance of our employees. economic change and provides a major contribution to the The prevention of traffic accidents is in our area of impact and economic strength of the country. Because of all these among the major problems in our country and the world, causing characteristics of the automotive sector we operate in, each enormous loss of life. We decided to initiate an informational responsible practice in this field, and each improvement of program to encourage the prevention of traffic accidents, and these practices, will indirectly and positively affect the society. to raise awareness and consciousness about traffic safety as much as possible. On the other hand, the global crisis which has affected the entire world caused difficulties in many sectors, including Doğuş Otomotiv respects the environment and regards the automotive, with decreasing but continuing effects during the sustainability of the habitat as priority; it has therefore put its last quarter of 2009. 2010 was a good year; successes were signature to effective practices regarding environment. The recorded for both the Turkish economy and our sector with environmental policy is gathered under five main topics as water, positive developments in the economic sphere. This success waste, energy, logistics and environmentally friendly products. of Turkey’s economic performance has been a positive source We developed analytical solutions and techniques and carried of motivation and a driving force for our society and our out awareness activities to support the reduction of paper and company to accomplish our objectives. water use in the company. We also conducted studies for conversion to wind energy to gain a remarkable reduction in Our investments at Doğuş Otomotiv are in line with quality and electric use. Another development demonstrating positive sustainable practices for our products, services and business progress in the field of sustainability is the technological structure processes, recognizing the significant potential Turkish of the vehicles of the brands which our company distributes. It automotive industry has. Our company operates in many serves as a model for other brands in Turkey in being different areas of the automotive industry and represents environmentally friendly with lower carbon dioxide emissions, fourteen strong brands. With over 80 models at more than hence supports the growth of environmentally friendly vehicles 500 customer contact points, Doğuş Otomotiv provides high and practices. quality, safe and fast service. We continue to be one of the nation’s most important representatives in international safety Doğuş Otomotiv will sustain its pioneering activities also in the and quality understanding; this is spread through all the rings field of corporate social responsibility in the years ahead, serving of the automotive value chain, where we operate. It is obvious as a model for other companies regarding its responsible way that Doğuş Otomotiv will continue to be one of the main players of doing business since its establishment. in the sector for many years to come, assured by its activities that focus on quality with long term prospects. We will continue to support rapid, value-adding steps in the field of corporate social responsibility as in the last two years, In the last 20 years, our world has undergone rapid social, with projects beneficial to all our stakeholders in the upcoming economic and environmental change. Economic growth and years, and intend to spread our robust corporate social rapid population growth led to an increase in the demand and responsibility understanding and awareness to all stakeholders. pressure for natural resources. Those important issues related to ecological environment, society and economic development I deeply believe that our practices will develop further in the have boosted the need for powerful and responsible companies. future, and our sustainable and responsible operations for the Acting to leave a better, viable future for succeeding generations, environment and society will accelerate with this common our company carries out social and environmental investments synergy created. in order to ensure sustainable growth in parallel to this understanding. Our exemplary practices within this vision have Yours faithfully, accelerated in recent years to provide benefits for our ecological and social stakeholders. Emir Ali BİLALOĞLU CEO Our company has continued responsible and sustainable works practiced at great speed, adding new ones in 2010. We conducted expectation surveys to enhance awareness regarding corporate social responsibility open to all stakeholders, including particularly our most important stakeholders; employees, investors, and authorized dealers and service 06 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 About the Report Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is the second public report our company has released. It has been prepared in accordance with application level B of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework. C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Self Declared Third Party Optional Checked GRI Checked The financial data given is the consolidated data of Doğuş Otomotiv Group. Unless otherwise stated, data displayed at Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report consists of the social, environmental and economic performance data of Doğuş Otomotiv Servis ve Ticaret A.Ş and Doğuş Oto Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş 1 actualized during the period January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2010. We are currently working on including other Authorized Dealers and Service Centers into our report. For feedback, comments and suggestions, kindly contact: Koray Bebekoğlu Strategic Marketing and Corporate Communications Director Phone: +90 (262) 676 90 90 E-mail: kbebekoglu@dogusotomotiv.com.tr 1 Doğuş Oto Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş, is the retail, sales and after sales service company of Doğuş Otomotiv Servis ve Ticaret A.Ş. 07 Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 Doğuş Otomotiv has the widest portfolio range of brands and services networks within its sector in Turkey. Our company, Turkey’s leading distributor in the wholesale import market, is the representative of 14 international brands each of which is the leader of its field among passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, heavy commercial vehicles, industrial and marine engines, and cooling systems. Doğuş Otomotiv is the only company in the world which brings all the Volkswagen Group brands together under a single roof. The company is gradually expanding its portfolio of services in line with the strategy to be present at every stage of the automotive value chain in addition to its activities in the fields of import and distribution. In addition to services in the fields of consumer financing, spare parts and accessories trading, logistics and customer services, used car trading, fleet leasing, quick service, vehicle inspection, and insurance services, Doğuş Otomotiv has signed agreements in important manufacturing investments with Meiller Doğuş Damper Plant in recent years, which started operations in Sakarya, and (in partnership with the Krone Company) the trailer factory built in Tire, Izmir. Doğuş Otomotiv also invests abroad, enhancing its successful operation in Turkey: The Porsche Authorized Dealership and Service Centre D-Auto Suisse was established in Lausanne, Switzerland as a result of trustworthy co-operation with Volkswagen Group, and has achieved major sales success in 2010, its first full year of service. Doğuş Otomotiv offers both individual and corporate customers a wide product portfolio: Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, Audi, Porsche, Bentley, Lamborghini, Bugatti, SEAT, Skoda, Scania, Krone, Meiller. We offer over 80 models of these brands. Also, Doğuş Otomotiv competes in the industrial and marine engines market through the brand Scania Engines, and in the cooling systems market through the Thermo King brand. Embracing the concept of unconditional customer satisfaction as its number one priority, Doğuş Otomotiv has one of the widest Authorized Dealer and Service Center networks in Turkey: more than 500 contact points spread throughout the country enable us to render widespread and continuous services to our customers in sales, after sales and spare parts. In order to further expand and improve the services offered to customers, Doğuş Otomotiv has continued its investments in 2010. 08 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 09 10 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Financial Highlights CMB (mn TL) 2010 2009 2008 Sales (Unit) 89,202 50,789 55,307 DOAS Market Share 11.2% 8.9% 10.06 % Used Car Sales 12,550 10,746 13,125 Revenue 3,428 2,129 2,144 Operating Expenses (283) (224) (269) EBIT 202 78 23 EBIT Margin 5.9% 3.6% 1.1% Gross Profit 485 302 291 Gross Profit Margin 14.1% 14.2% 13.6% Net Profit 150 31 -110 Net Margin 4.4% 1.4% 5.1% Doğuş Otomotiv shares are traded under the ticker symbol DOAS.IS on the Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) ISE 100. Doğuş Otomotiv has combined the competitive advantage created by having one of the world’s most valuable brand portfolios as a distributor with its customer-oriented service philosophy, lean management understanding and mission to exist at every stage of automotive value chain. As a result, the company has reaped the fruits of the progress made over many years in 2010 in a tangible way, and has further strengthened its market position. The crisis which left its mark in the past had been a major test for Doğuş Otomotiv and for each of its companies; the results show that Doğuş Otomotiv has emerged successfully. Sales Units (Total) 2008 2009 2010 Passenger Cars 33,742 39,379 61,802 Volkswagen 21,485 26,862 39,974 Audi 5,647 6,260 9,753 Porsche 157 253 390 Bentley 12 7 14 Lamborghini 9 9 4 SEAT 2,874 2,577 5,149 Skoda 3,558 3,411 6,518 Light Commercial Vehicles 18,969 10,268 23,897 Volkswagen 18,969 10,268 23,897 Heavy Commercial Vehicles 2,596 1,142 3,503 Scania 1,894 800 2,500 Krone 518 208 556 Meiller 184 134 447 TOTAL 55,307 50,789 89,202 Doğuş Otomotiv supports its commercial operations and activities in line with its goals of continual improvement and corporate development, with its efforts in the fields of environment and social responsibility. Doğuş Otomotiv’s vision of corporate responsibility begins with reliable business principles and practices, continues with products and services which adds value to all our stakeholders’ lives and futures, and ensures full satisfaction at every stage of the automobile value chain. Social and environmental investments made to contribute to sustainable development for a better, more viable future, aim to provide benefits for our ecological and social stakeholders. 11 89,202 units sales 11.2% market share 12,550 units used car sales Over 759,000 service check-ins Car park over 700,000 Over 1,700 employees Over 500 sales and service centers Over 800,000 customers Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Management Strategy Doğuş Otomotiv will continue to be an exemplary corporate citizen producing preeminently sustainable and innovative solutions for social and ecological stakeholders. Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is to become an indispensible business partner for our stakeholders by focusing on continuous growth in the automobile value chain, and delivering outstanding performance with complete, timely and accurate service. We evaluate, monitor and manage our performance according to stated priorities, determined in line with our policies. As Doğuş Otomotiv, we defined our understanding of Corporate Responsibility taking into consideration the requirements of global standards, our priorities directly related with our operational area, and the expectations of our stakeholders. Corporate Responsibility is the method which we use while defining the solutions we develop for the social, economic and environmental problems of our sector, and our corporate behavioral pattern covering all our operations. 12 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Decision Making Process Dialogue with Stakeholders Our Environmental Our Social Impact Due to Our Impact Due to Our Activities Activities Methodology Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report details our performance on material issues within our social, environmental and economic impact areas under the relevant headings. The preparation of Doğuş Otomotiv’s corporate responsibility policies was conducted by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which has been working on reporting and strategy formulation in the company since 2009. It consists of all the company’s unit managers. The Policy Working Groups, which are established for six performance areas, formulated objectives, goals and methods in a workshop setting, which were then evaluated and approved by Doğuş Otomotiv Executive Committee and Board of Directors. This report has been prepared according to twenty-six priority headings, which were formulated as a result of the policy work, as shown below. Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility goals will be realized by a special action plan giving precedence to these focus areas. Corporate Responsibility Economic Development Environment Employees Human Rights Customers Community Engagement Financial Efficiency Water Sustainable Employment Discrimination Customer Health and Safety Traffic Safety Economic Fluctuation Waste Management Employee Satisfaction Freedom of Association Customer Satisfaction Business Ethics Child Labour and Forced Labour Education and Information OEM (Producer) Energy Employee Health and Safety Disclosure Community Development Suppliers Logistics Equal Rights Rights of Local Cummunities Responsible Marketing Cooperation and Dialogue Environmentally Friendly Products Dialogue with Employees Strategy and Management 13 2 Management Approach to Corporate Responsibility Doğuş Otomotiv has always taken the priorities of its stakeholders into consideration for its corporate strategy. Corporate performance goals are set and its performance is monitored regularly by the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee. This body is composed of the Corporate Responsibility Work Group, formed in 2009, and members of the Executive Board to whom the work group reports on a regular basis. Corporate Responsibility performance is evaluated at strategic, corporate and operational levels, it is also included in the score cards of the unit managers of work group. The duties of the Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Work Group inçlude: To review the processes for implementation and realization of corporate responsibility rules and principles in all activities of Doğuş Otomotiv; To carry out studies to enhance the awareness among our employees on issues related to our areas of responsibility; To manage the data collection processes within the context of Corporate Responsibility Report and ensure regular reporting; To improve cooperation to identify progressive methods in the field of corporate responsibility; To conduct activities toward corporate responsibility strategies and policies and collaborate with the various units for the implementation of these policies during operations. Duties of the Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee: To evaluate, contribute and approve the plans, activities and proposals of the Corporate Responsibility Work Group; To ensure that activities carried out within Doğuş Otomotiv are in compliance with corporate responsibility policies, principles and goals, and to manage the related processes; To monitor and manage the mechanisms developed to raise awareness among employees; To lead Doğuş Otomotiv toward cooperative ventures on international platforms, and to assure participation in them. Policy Studies Determination of Priorities Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectation Analysis Field Activities Improvement Goals Impact Focus Areas 2 Corporate policies constituting Doğuş Otomotiv Management Approach are stated under the headings of the relevant topic and focus area. 14 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Global Cooperations The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Awards 2010 ‘Most Appreciated Companies Survey in Turkey’ 3rd Most Doğuş Otomotiv signed The United Nations Global Compact Appreciated Company in Automotive Sector, Capital Magazine. in March 2010. This was one of the primary targets toward the adoption of corporate responsibility understanding by all Volkswagen Turkey website, Volkswagen Car Configurator stakeholders and the creation of awareness of and cooperation Project, Altın Örümcek (Golden Spider) Web Awards, with international platforms. Automotive Category, First Prize. ‘Fastest Growing Companies Survey in Turkey in the First Doğuş Otomotiv has contributed to the vision of sustainability Half of the Year’ 17 th Place, CNBC-E Magazine. by signing the Global Compact, subscribing to the following Scania – ‘Action of Responsibility in Traffic’ Certificate of 10 fundamental principles on local and international platforms Appreciation. below. Doğuş Oto and AVEK – Among the 100 Best Volkswagen Authorized Service Centers in Europe. Doğuş Oto Twin Cup 2010 World Finals, second in the 3 Human Rights world in service division among 33 countries. Autobiz, Doğuş Otomotiv, Unit Sales – Europe’s 7 th Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the largest Company; Revenues – Europe’s16 th largest protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Distributor, Autonews Europe 2010 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Stakeholder Engagement Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Our stakeholders, affected from our operations and decisions association and the effective recognition of the right to directly or indirectly, likewise affect Doğuş Otomotiv in various collective bargaining, ways. They expect not only transparency, but also effective Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and strategies, policies and goals concerning sensitivity to social compulsory labour, issues, community engagement, and the protection of the Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and ecological environment. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We regularly seek input from our stakeholders, to understand which topics are of primary concern, to assess our Environment performance in their eyes, and to improve ourselves. We Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary strive to fulfill these expectations by innovations in products approach to environmental challenges; and services, technological developments and multiple Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater platforms of dialogue. 4 environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion Investor Meetings of environmentally friendly technologies. Subsequent to the release of our first Corporate Responsibility Anti-Corruption Report in 2009, several conferences and meetings were Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption organized, with the participation of 179 local and foreign in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. investors and analysts. They also learned about the Doğuş Otomotiv corporate responsibility performance through the monthly-revised investor relations presentation. Additionally, relevant information was released to the social media regularly. When the United Nations Global Compact (which had been We received positive feedback regarding the company’s signed by Doğuş Grubu in 2007, one of the firsts in Turkey) performance through feedback-forms delivered after the was also signed by Doğuş Otomotiv, we were thereby investor disclosures; expectations were seen to be focused committed to reporting with respect to the 10 core principles. on concrete and measurable goals. 3 Twin Cup is a contest organized by Audi AG to measure the knowledge and skills of the service center teams. Every Authorized Service Center constitutes 2 types of teams as technical and service teams. International participation takes place every year among 35 to 40 countries. 4 A corporate responsibility expectation questionnaire was incorporated into the survey conducted in the context of employee satisfaction with Doğuş Otomotiv employees. Relevant explanations can be found in detail at Employees section of our report. 15 Website Stakeholder Analysis Doğuş Otomotiv has conducted research with regards to the opinions and expectations of key stakeholders about corporate social responsibility performance, in a variety of platforms in 2010. Expectation surveys were open to all stakeholders also available on the websites of Doğuş Oto and other brands distributed, in addition to the corporate website. The feedback taken from various stakeholder groups through the surveys are evaluated within the improvement goals of our 2011 performance. The survey through the website was open to all stakeholders; within a month there were 812 respondents; 721 male and 91 were female. Age distribution of the respondents was between 20-30 years, 30-40 years, 40-50 years and over 50 years. Corporate Social Responsibility Market Place Doğuş Otomotiv’s first Corporate Social was explained with examples and on the Responsibility Report (which had the distinction simulation vehicle. of being the first in automotive sector) was distributed for the first time at the CSR Market The event presented the opportunity to see Place Turkey, an event organized by the other companies` projects, to relay information Corporate Social Responsibility Association of on the release of the first CSR report of both Turkey at Kadir Has University on October 15, Doğuş Otomotiv itself and the automobile 2010. The event, which is also organized in industry as a whole. The Indiçator Rooms various countries around the world by CSR Projeçt was met with great interest especially by university students. It was also a venue for Europe, has taken place in Istanbul since 2009. networking with academics and industry representatives, and to promote Doğuş Doğuş Otomotiv attended the second such Otomotiv throughout the event: we distributed event in 2010 with its CSR Report and Indicator the Doğuş Otomotiv CSR Report, and recycled Project. The event included 600 participants pens, to all the participants. CSR specialists, academicians, professionals from the sector, and 20 companies exhibiting The stand, which was made completely from their CSR solutions. Our primary message to recycled material, was subsequently brought the participants centered on the release of the to Doğuş Otomotiv Şekerpınar Headquarters. first CSR report of the automotive industry. An area near the entrance was allocated so At the same time, a simulation of the Indicator that the employees could examine the report Rooms Project was performed, which showed and become familiar and informed about CSR. safe driving practices on vehicle seats, seat belts and airbag use to the participants. The Doğuş Otomotiv will continue to show its Indiçator Rooms Projeçt was presented on pioneering identity and attitude for corporate LCD screens; the importance of seat belt use social responsibility in all CSR platforms. 16 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Stakeholder Expectation Analysis Employee Health and Safety 83,90% Employee Satisfaction and Loyalty 80,23% Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Management 78,04% Invesment on Information Technologies 83,12% Waste and Scrap Management 81,13% Responsible Sanctions in Supply Chain 77,82% Awareness of Traffic Safety 85,96% Customer Health and Safety 83,02% Efforts to Meet Customer Expectations 78,83% Very good, Corporate Governance and Ethics 76,29% Good, Adequate Maintain the Continuity of our Business 79,96% Human Rights 83,07% Awareness of Climate Change 80,46% Sales and Marketing of Environmentally Friendly Products 84,33% Reducing Energy Use 83,63% Reducing Water Use 81,31% Responsible Sales and Marketing 79,46% Risk Management 78,43% Dialogue with Stakeholders 75,14% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Reducing Water Use Reducing Energy Use Very good Very good Inadequate 45,94% Inadequate 50,57% 18,69% 16,37% Satisfactory Satisfactory 17,09% 15,82% Good Good 18,28% 17,24% 17 Sales and Marketing of Awareness of Environmentally Friendly Products Climate Change Very good High 50,81% Awareness Inadequate No Awareness 80,46% 15,67% 19,54% Satisfactory 12,98% Good 20,54% Human Rights Inadequate Very good 16,93% 55,47% Satisfactory 12,30% Good 15,30% Performance of Corporate Governance and Ethics Inadequate Very good 23,71% 36,43% Satisfactory 18,83% Good 21,03% 18 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Material Issues Analysis Authorized Dealers and Service Centers, which we consider to be among key stakeholders of Doğuş Otomotiv, participated in the surveys that were conducted in the context of 2010 material issues analysis. 542 Authorized Dealers and Service Center employees participated in the surveys. Areas where the current performance was found adequate were included in non-priority areas, and the areas expected to show continuous development in short or medium term, were prioritized. The results of the assessment, to ensure the continuity of our employees` satisfaction and loyalty, to continuously enhance our activities with renewed goals for health and safety of our employees and fulfillment of our customers` expectations, are considered to be priority. Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Material Issues Analysis Awareness of Traffic Safety 66,79% Human Rights 71,04% Employee Health and Safety 75,28% Employee Satisfaction and Loyalty 79,34% Efforts to Meet Customers Expectations 75,10% Customer Health and Safety 69,75% Waste and Scrap Management 62,18% Reducing Water Use 66,61% Reducing Energy Use 66,42% Sales of Environmentally Friendly Products 66,24% Material Climate Changes 54,80% Authorized Dealers and Service Centers 69,93% After Sales Services 69,75% Responsible Sales and Marketing 64,40% Invesment on Information Technologies 70,11% Foreseeing Risks and Taking Precatuons 73,99% Maintain the Contiunity of Our Business 73,25% Responsible Sanctions in Supply Chain 70,11% Mutual Stakeholder Dialogue 67,35% Corporate Governance and Ethics 57,20% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 19 What do our investors think about our 2009 Report? Thank you very much for taking the first To be honest, this is the first time I have steps of such a report in the field of seen such a detailed report. Transparency corporate responsibility. Well done, it has is utmost importance. been a very successful study. Erkan Edincik Barkın Yalçın HORİZON TÜRK MEKSA What do our Authorized Dealers think about our 2009 Report? I appreciate that highly sensitive stance of I believe that Doğuş Otomotiv Doğuş Otomotiv about customer satisfaction contributes significantly to the provision and brand image. Doğuş Otomotiv’s support of permanent and profitable being of meets our expectations. our business through customeroriented approaches without ignoring the technology of our age, and We wish to continue to grow with Doğuş enhancing the corporate identity of Otomotiv in the future. I believe there are authorized dealer. In general, Doğuş issues we can advance together Otomotiv determines the standards even further. and we exert ourselves to the utmost. I expect Doğuş Otomotiv to develop Osman Demirel cooperation where Authorized Dealers DEMOTO Manisa will be more active and participatory. General Manager Dilek Yılmaz General Oto Sales Manager When compared with the other brands within the automotive industry, cooperation with Doğuş Otomotiv provides reputation primarily. The power of the brand and distributor creates a strong position for the Authorized Dealers in the economic and social sense. Comparing the profitability gained over the capital with the other brands within the scope of commerce, Doğuş Otomotiv still meets expectations. In addition, premiums and vehicle support are extremely motivating earnings. I think opinions of representatives attending from the Authorized Dealers wing made a big contribution in the formations of Turkuaz system and vdf. Erhan Kıraç Erel General Manager 20 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Goals 2009 Goal Actualized 2010 Progress Goal Deadline Impact Online expectation surveys Stakeholder expectation open to Employees, 100% Stakeholder panel, 2012 Stakeholder Engagement analysis with at least 3 Investors, Authorized Dealers Continuity of Stakeholder stakeholder groups and Service Centers and all expectation surveys stakeholders GRI B application level 2010 Corporate 100% GRI B+ Reporting 2012 Stakeholder Engagement Reporting Responsibility Report Management approach All the policies were designed 100% Sharing our policies with our 2012 Economic to 6 Performance areas, and issued within the context affiliates, and studies on their designation of policies of 2010 Corporate adoption Responsibility Report. Start to work on Code of Code of Ethics Committee was 50% Publishing Code of Ethics and 2011 Economic and formed and started to work on Ethics the Code of Conduct studies. providing its recognition Community Engagement Raising awareness of Expectation survey and 100% Diffusion of trainings and 2011 Economic Authorized Dealers and trainings for Authorized repetition of the expectation Service Centers on Dealers and Service Centers survey Corporate Responsibility Human rights e-learning E-learning module was 77% Ensuring the completion of 2012 Human Rights module prepared, and completed by the module by the authorized 77% of the employees. dealers and service centers including the employees who have just started to work Start to Voluntary Presentation about voluntary 25% Maintenance of a voluntary 2011 Employees and Programs programs on global criteria was program which will be Decent Work prepared and shared with the embraced by all the employees employees, and suggestion of the company and enlisted by system was begun. The first an average of 500 hours per program was performed. year corporate participation. Reducing paper use Efforts were initiated to reduce 25% To decrease the paper use by 2012 Environment in-house paper use. 20% at Doğuş Otomotiv General settings of the inGebze Center, and by 5% at house printers were adjusted Doğuş Otomotiv for double-sided printing. Awareness activities were initiated by warning signs. Reducing water use Installment of mechanisms 25% To establish mechanisms for 2012 Environment providing increase in air measuring and monitoring, to pressure upon checking the develop applications taps of Çayırova Center. according to the result of pilot Start of pilot measuring studies 15% decrease of studies at Doğuş Oto. water use at Doğuş Oto Reducing energy use Start to meet the electricity 100% Executing studies to increase 2012 Environment of Çayırova Center from efficiency and reduce wind power in 2011. consumption, Establishing measurement and evaluation systems, measuring and reporting carbon emissions on global standards Execution of Employee The survey was completed. 100% Sharing the results of the 2012 Employees and Satisfaction Survey and Moreover, a research relating survey and research, Decent Work Values Research to corporate values was Taking the required conducted face to face with improvement actions for the employees. areas open for progress Implementation of Open Efforts were initiated for 25% Organizing Open Door Meetings 2012 Economic, Employees and Door Policy implementation of the policy. at least 3 times a year with the Decent Work, Community attendance of top management Engagement at Gebze Center Start of works for Invitation to most important 100% Organizing trips and trainings 2012 Stakeholder Engagement awareness of corporate Turkish economic writers to to raise awareness about responsibility in the media the GRI Conference held in global sustainability standards Amsterdam among media members Addition of articles Studies have started to add 75% Make all the suppliers and 3rd 2011 Economic concerning human rights the related articles to the parties sign the revised and environmental revised agreements drawn up agreements awareness to the Supplier with the 3rd parties, and to Agreements sign. Diffusion of field activities Field practices were decided 50% Organizing field practices, 2011-2012 Community Engagement to raise awareness about at a workshop held with the training all the employees for and Product/Service traffic safety participation of all unit safe driving techniques, also Responsibility managers. The work started. training sales representatives of Doğuş Oto, Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Corporate Governance Participation to Corporate 100% Conducting studies to 2012 Strategy and Corporate Rating Governance Rating increase rating Governance Signing of the United The UNGC was signed in 100% Continuing to report, and 2011 Strategy and Corporate Nations Global Compact March 2010. Our first carrying out works about Governance Corporate Responsibility awareness on the UNGC Report was published together with COP index and declared to UNGC. Indicator Rooms Comprehensive planning 25% Implementation of 2012 Community Engagement studies were completed technological infrastructure and Product/Service regarding the furnishing of beginning from Doğuş Oto, Responsibility Customer Waiting Rooms at starting the pilot applications Doğuş Oto and Authorized Dealers and Authorized Centers of the new arrangements with means for direct disclosure. Waste Battery Boxes Placement of waste battery 100% Dissemination of the 2012 Environment boxes at Doğuş Oto was application at all our completed with regard to the Authorized Dealers and studies of collection of waste Service Centers batteries and environmental awareness. 21 5 Strategy and Corporate Governance Forming its business plans in accordance with the vision of providing innovative service beyond expectations, Doğuş Otomotiv structures its corporate strategy with the aim of having a presence in every stage of the automotive value chain. Doğuş Otomotiv has the widest network of brand portfolio and services of its sector in Turkey. According to the annual survey of Europe’s top 100 distributors conducted by Autobiz and published on the Autonews Europe website in 2011, Doğuş Otomotiv ranked as the 7th largest company in Europe in number of sales, and the 16th largest European distributor in revenues. We have participated in this study, by our own efforts, since 2008 and we are proud to have upgraded our rank from 18 th to 7 th in total number of sales compared to the previous year. In addition, the most obvious indicator of the group’s reliance on us is that Volkswagen Group assigned its executive candidates for training to Doğuş Otomotiv, among the group’s largest distributors worldwide. Two regional director nominees completed their training at our company in 2010. Vision, Mission and Strategic Goals of the Company To determine Doğuş Otomotiv`s strategy for the next 3-5 years in accordance with the changing market circumstances and environmental conditions, a team of 14 managerial-level employees completed studies within a specific methodology, in line with the directive of Strategy Steering Committee. The new strategy map was approved by Board of Directors. No change has been made to Doğuş Otomotiv`s Vision and Mission Statement. The strategic plans spotlight the growth and development of existing business lines, primarily in the domestic markets, also considering external opportunities, and to keep advancements in human resources and information technologies in the forefront. 5 For detailed information on Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Governance performance, please find the Corporate Governance Compliance Report which we have released within the context of Annual Report 2010 on our website : http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf 22 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Economic Impact “ Doğuş Otomotiv has combined the competitive advantage created by having one of the world’s most valuable brand portfolios as a distributor with its customer-oriented service philosophy, lean management understanding and mission to exist at every stage of automotive value chain. ” 23 Economic Impact Economic Responsibility Policy We çomply with the following poliçies in order to sustain the eçonomiç well-being of Doğuş Otomotiv and all our stakeholders: We use our resources effectively by applying systems like lean management, budget management, and efficiency cards. We regard economic fluctuations and the corresponding causes as sectoral risk, and make the required agreements with OEMs within the framework of budget and risk management to manage (to minimize) those risks, take financial measures and update them according to market conditions. We regard climate change and the corresponding causes as sectoral risk, and aim to raise awareness among our stakeholders on this issue. We determine, assess, make the required contribution for development and audit standards to ensure the sustainability of our Authorized Dealers and Service Centers. We provide maximum contribution to local employment in our areas of operation through our Authorized Dealers and Service Centers. We provide equal opportunities for all of our suppliers. We embrace and abide by the global standards and policies which OEMs, one of our most important suppliers, implemented. We prepare an action plan with respect to the conditions considering the current global state of OEMs. Focus Area Goal Method (Economic Responsibility) Financial Efficiency Effective use of resources Lean Management, Budget Management, Score Cards Economic Fluctuation Proper budget and risk management Managing Risks, Taking Financial Measures OEM Proper and timely dialogue, high standards Taking Precautions According to Conditions, Improving OEM Standards Suppliers Equal opportunities and CSR awareness Dialogue and Disclosure Dialogue with Stakeholders Continuous progress in transparency and accountability Stakeholder Engagement and Expectation Analyses Climate Change Awareness among stakeholders Regarding as Sectoral Risk, and Awareness Raising/Assessment, Evaluation Financial Efficieny Operational Indicators Doğuş Otomotiv 2008 2009 2010 2009/2010 change (%) Number of Sales 55,307 50,789 89,202 75.7 Sales Revenues (TL Thousand) 2,144,139 2,129,485 3,428,300 61 Number of Employees 2,005 1,769 1,817 3 Doğuş Oto 2008 2009 2010 2009/2010 change (%) Number of Sales 15,273 14,126 24,200 71.3 Service Entries 169,495 175,736 171,074 2.6 24 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 TL Million 2008 2009 2010 Sales (Units) 55,307 50,789 89,202 Market Share 10.6% 8.9% 11.2 % Used Car Sales (Units) 13,125 10,746 12,550 Net Revenues 2,144 2,129 3,428 Operational Expenses 269 224 283 EBIT (Operating Profit) 23 78 202 EBIT Margin 1.1% 3.6% 5.9% Gross Profit 291 302 485 Gross Profit Margin 13.6% 14.2% 14.1% Net Profit for the Period -110 31 150 Net Profit Margin for the Period -5.1% 1.4% 4.4% Lean Management and Risk Management Lean Management The Lean Leadership Training Program was implemented for the fourth time in 2010. This program was first implemented in 2008, enabling departments within the body of Doğuş Otomotiv Group to conduct their own improvement activities in accordance with the Lean Management principles. A savings of TL 91,000 was forecast within the eleven training projects, and eleven Lean Leaders completed successfully. Other than the Lean Leaders, 32 more employees attended training sessions and were introduced to the concepts of Lean Management. The 4 th Wave Lean Leaders received certificates at a ceremony in August 2010, attended by Doğuş Otomotiv senior management. Lean Leaders conducted quality and efficiency-based projects within the scope of the program. Eleven Lean Leaders, Certification additional 32 employees LM4 Ceremony on introduced to August 2nd, 2010 Lean by participating at the Education Projects With the 4th Wave Lean Leaders class of 2010, the number of Doğuş Otomotiv active Lean Leaders is 32 at Doğuş Otomotiv, and 18 at Doğuş Within the concept of Lean Management, 83 suggestions Oto. were received in 2010 – a participation by 10% of the Additionally, the 5-day training session for the 5th Wave Lean employees – which should save as much as TL 100,000 per Leadership Program was completed during 2010, with project year in savings in the operational processes of Doğuş studies planned for 2011; two more Lean Leaders training Otomotiv. programs are planned for 2011. Doğuş Oto Value flow studies have been conducted by Doğuş Otomotiv In 2010, 16% of the Doğuş Oto employees made 570 in work areas determined by The Lean Management Board. While After Sales Services, Spare Parts Supply and Sales, suggestions for improvements to the company’s operations New Vehicle Supply and Sales value flow studies had been and processes, resulting in savings of TL 185,000 per year. made previously, in 2011 they will also be made for Support Processes. 25 Economic Impact Risk Management Strategies to manage financial risks and measures take financial precautions specified by Doğuş Otomotiv in 2010 Financing of our company`s growing operations was accomplished with the most reasonable cost with regard to the market conditions. We managed our cash flow in order to serve the common interest in tandem with our OEMs, suppliers and our authorized dealers network. Foreign exchange and interest rate risk, currency risk due to the inventory cost, and risks stemming from funding needs, all of which we define as basic financial risk elements, were monitored by an integrated system on a daily basis and were managed effectively. Further, risk perception was increased throughout the company and proposed risk topics were broadened in 2010 in response to workshops held with the Risk Management Team of Doğuş Holding, and participation in seminars with a wide range of financial risk topics. Strategies to manage financial risks and measures take financial precautions specified by Doğuş Oto in 2010 Doğuş Oto focused on cost management in 2010. Operations previously executed in seven regions were reconfigured into six regions by excluding one region. Staff recruitment gave priority to productive staff (sales representative – service center blue collar). Cost savings were achieved with effective management of suppliers. Payment collection intervals were improved by effective follow-up mechanisms. With these precautions, a savings up to 17% was realized on TL basis in company expenses in 2010 over 2009, and an increase of up to 47% was achieved in turnover. Internal audit evaluation score was added as a target to the score cards of regional directors. In determining this score, audit findings are assessed in accordance with their severity and the managerial action which should be taken. The degree of importance of each criterion is confirmed with the probability of the identified risk, and the effect of the risk on the organizational goals in case of realization. 6 Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Relations Volkswagen Volkswagen Passenger Cars Intense collaboration and communication with Volkswagen A.G. Twice a year, meetings are held for the development of brand continues during the after sales phase too, just as it is till the strategies and execution of annual plans concerning Turkey. sales phase. Business plans made at the end of every year for Also, regular weekly teleconferences are run to discuss the Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Volkswagen Commercial configuration of short and medium term projects in compliance Vehicles for the coming year are reviewed in meetings at regular with the overall strategy, and issues related to the product intervals during the year. Customer satisfaction improvement, and market competition. According to the cyclical structure, one of the most important agenda items in the business plans, new plans of action may be generated in the fields of salesis also closely monitored by Volkswagen A.G. marketing and after sales in additional meetings. Our long-time successful cooperation with Volkswagen A.G. has Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles been recognized by appreciation, thanks and praise many times. The impressive growth we have experienced in terms of repeated Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles incorporate Doğuş Otomotiv repair and customer satisfaction was presented as a case study into the decision-making process from the beginning of every to worldwide distributors for several years. We were granted to product development phase. Turkey has been one of the largest, core team (Research – Development Team) membership on the most important markets for Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, subject of warranty because of the high scores we obtained from so our opinion is frequently asked about sales and marketing audits after we were selected as the pilot country (due to our channels. Additional strategic planning meetings are held twice successful practices in repeated repair), and placed among the in each year, and regular monthly meetings are organized to five best countries in the RASE (Retail After Sales Excellence) facilitate permanent communication and quick action. Research project in 2005. Core team is the name given to a group of into long term inventory planning was carried out with OEM countries who participate in the decision-making mechanisms representatives, closely following the Turkey market in 2010, and for warranty applications and perform pilot practices. Additionally, twice the production quota anticipated at the beginning of the Volkswagen Passenger Car was selected the steering distributor year was agreed upon. in the field of technical product development. Spare Parts Target Compatibility Prize, given to just 10 distributors around the world, As a result of the close collaboration with the OEM representatives, was awarded to Doğuş Otomotiv in 2010. Within this prosperous the factory was able to meet the demand, and additional quotas cooperation, Doğuş Otomotiv played host to the Volkswagen from other European countries were also made available to meet AG Global Technical Service Managers Meeting, held from 11 to the high sales figures. 13 October 2010 in Istanbul. 6 Detailed information on internal and external audits can be retrieved from Doğuş Otomotiv Annual Report 2010 available at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/annual-reports.aspx 26 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Communication Platforms with OEM Our Authorized Dealers need to have facilities and processes, whose quality standards and procedures may sometimes 2010: even surpass those of Volkswagen AG occasionally, to provide authorized service operations of Volkswagen brand vehicles. Volkswagen These standards are assured through contracts signed and New Vehicle Introduction Meeting (Open Day – February 2010) audited at regular intervals. Superstructure Manufacturers Meeting (Conversion Day – November 2010) OEM standards are also applied to the accessories mounted Strategic Planning Meetings (MMI – May 2010, October 2010) on Volkswagen branded vehicles after sales. Volkswagen Planning Meetings with German Sales Department (Monthly) Technical Department examines the products of accessory International Marketing Conferences (IMC – April 22-23rd and producers, conducting tests on products obtained from November 4-5th) suppliers, and recommends only the products which can be Product Launch Workshop (October 11th) used without threatening driving safety or causing problems. Caddy Amarok International Press Launch – Salzburg (September 2010) Volkswagen Passenger Cars Amarok Train the Trainer Event – Hannover (April 2010) New Touareg International Regional Launch – Antalya (April 2010) Volkswagen is the locomotive brand of Doğuş New Jetta Launch – San Francisco (July 2010) Otomotiv. The most innovative and advanced Paris Fair, Marketing Managers Meeting (October 2010) technical and hardware items such as TSI New Passat Launch – Barcelona (October 2010) engine technology, Dual Shift Gearbox (DSG), Volkswagen Authorized Dealers Congress – Sardinia, Italy Electronic Differential Lock (XDS), Electronic (October 2010) Dynamic Differential Lock and BlueMotion Technologies, which the OEM offers as options in order to preserve the Audi technology leadership and innovative style secured in the market, are used as options in packages offered in Turkey. General meetings take place twice a year with OEM representatives. Along with these meetings, action plans for sales-marketing and after-sales channels are formed and Changes and improvements are carried out in the standard enacted through additional meetings, held bi-monthly on a equipment list to meet changing customer expectations in regular basis, focusing on market and brand performances the model life cycle. Volkswagen Passenger Car models and the economic and social indicators of our country. offered for sale in Turkey have high security standards. Seven air bags, which are standard for Golf models, the Fatigue Scania Detection System which was initiated in Passat Comfortline and Highline, and ESP (Electronic Stability Program) which In addition to the Annual General Assembly Meetings organized was added into the standard equipment list of Jetta by Scania, round table meetings are held every year at a Comfortline and Highline have re-defined the segment specified period, attended by OEM representatives and brand managers, for the purpose of developing brand strategies standards. throughout Turkey, evaluating changing demands and needs of customers, and annual planning. Along with these meetings Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles with brand management, OEM representatives frequently visit As competition between and similarity among our country and meet with Authorized Dealers, Authorized products and services increase with each Service Centers and press members at Authorized Dealers passing day, Volkswagen Commercial and Service Center Meetings, delivery ceremonies, fairs and Vehicles seek to further enhance customer similar events. satisfaction with better products and better service in order to fulfill the responsibilities OEM Standards incurred by holding the position of standard setter. Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles produce solutions Volkswagen to meet various needs in the commercial vehicle industry and excel in the market by taking advantage of the competition In order to retain the product quality of Volkswagen during a vehicle’s life span after sales, to provide the customer with edge arising from product and technology through quality and reliable service, and to make no concessions standardizing innovation, creativity, quality, superior regarding driving safety, the equipment used at service stations technological hardware and safety elements. Volkswagen is stipulated on an approval system by Volkswagen AG. Commercial Vehicles have become the commercial vehicle Volkswagen Authorized Service Centers only use the equipment brand with the most inclusive safety package of the model supplied by Volkswagen AG or a producer whose range by offering ESP (Electronic Stability Program) as product/production quality is approved by Volkswagen A.G. standard in the new Caddy, which was launched in 2010. While this ensures the highest reliability at all service operations, The New Caddy stands alone in its division, offering 7speed it also defines after sales services, which emphasize safety of DSG (Dual Shift Gearbox) and Hill Start Assistance, in addition Volkswagen performers, all pedestrians and other drivers in to ESP. traffic. 27 Economic Impact Other new improvements have also been added to the Scania utilizes the knowledge and experience obtained through specifications of new Caddy, including cruise control, rain research and development; great importance is attached to sensor, daytime running lights, automatic headlamp activation, modern, rather than conventional, working methods, which automatically dimming interior rear-view mirror, passenger and are developed since 1900s. Continual progressive work luggage compartment interior lining and similar features, which contributes to the way of thinking for the Scania employees carry Caddy beyond its class. By improvements to the engine, and organization. Caddy also offers an extremely high efficiency of up to 21%. The engine is totally compliant with Euro 5 exhaust emission Relying on the modular product system, over the years Scania standards, having both turbo and direct fuel injection. Fourhas created product-specific structures with fewer parts, and valve TDI engines with 102 PS power advance with fuel consumption as low as 5.2 liters per 100 km. hence appeals to wide customer masses. The modular product system renders costs on the value chain much more Beyond OEM standards, a steering wheel with servotronic advantageous while offering the most appropriate product to (speed-sensitive power control) features has been included in the customer. the standard equipment for all Caravelle models in 2010. As all operations executed within the Authorized Dealers and Audi Service Centers network are monitored via the brand`s In order to provide higher standards, the wide Authorized Dealers and Service Centers customer satisfaction, Audi network facilitates the brand and customers getting together. models offered in Turkey have higher standards than the vehicle standards presented by OEM. Additionally, vehicle Scania has a short and stable delivery time, so customers can standards are increased every year, considering the market take delivery of their vehicles quickly. This speed is ensured and customer demands towards the transition to the new by a global production system, global product range, flexible model each year. ISOFIX (the system which provides the child production cost structure, and the employees who preserve restraint to be fixed to the vehicle`s chassis) was launched as Scania`s core values and manage the production capacity a standard in all Audi models, insuring greater safety for the rapidly and efficiently. youngest passengers. Furthermore, with the pre-sense technology we introduced in 2010, we aim to render more Scania Core Values protection to passengers inside the vehicle in the event of an Scania`s three core values, described in detail below, guide accident. Distinctively from the OEM`s standards, pre-sense the brand`s corporate culture and daily busy schedule. The basic technology is offered as standard in Audi A6 and A7 values: customers, respect for the individual and quality are sportback models in Turkey (there are various preventive closely related with each other. Scania shapes its basic systems which are activated at critical driving situations to corporate culture and begins its business development process further protect the passengers by, including tightening the on these three. front seat belts, activating the lighting hazard warning flashers, closing the windows and sliding sunroof.) Customers First Customers are at the center of the value chain, from the SEAT research and development phase to production, supply, sales Surveys are sent to all distributors by OEM and finance. every year, and standards are improved in reference to the survey results. Quality Customer satisfaction and profitability goals enable Scania to Scania produce high quality solutions. Through customers` needs and Scania aims to provide the customers with information, Scania continuously enhances product and service the highest earnings and best work quality. economics by reducing their operational costs. Scania`s core values serve as a basis Respect for the Individual to advance its own working methods and to ensure employees` Scania encourages all employees to achieve the goal of loyalty. enduring improvement of operations. 28 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Authorized Dealers and Service Centers “ Authorized Dealers and Doğuş Oto will open a new facility in Bursa in 2011. Constructions of two new facilities, in Ankara and Istanbul, will be initiated in 2011 as well. Service Centers Doğuş Oto employs 1,164 people in total, of whom 1,082 are on the payroll and 82 are outsourced. 802 employees reside in Istanbul and environs, 237 in Ankara and invested TL 125 in Bursa. 59,000,000 in The launch of Volkswagen Authorized Dealerships7 is planned for Manisa, Elazığ and total during 2010. Düzce by 2011. Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers employ 5,379 ” people in total. To Our Esteemed Stakeholders, Doğuş Oto is the aspect of Doğuş Otomotiv which lives closest to the customers. With our highly valued staff whom we continuously invest in, we perform comprehensive maintenance and repairs and detailed check-ups to retain our customers’ vehicles in technical perfection. We offer our customers comfortable, modern service areas and the use of a broad range of test and exchange vehicles. A dynamic and reciprocal relationship with our customers, and understanding of providing perfect, efficient service promote and demonstrate enthusiasm in discharging our social and environmental responsibilities. In our business practices Doğuş Oto strives toward smooth and ethical functioning for positive impact not just for the company, but for society as a whole, complying with the laws, moral standards and human rights, and minimizing potential harm to the environment. Environmental impact of our company is managed by reducing energy and water use, utilizing environmentally friendly technologies and products, and planning waste and scrap management. Doğuş Oto defines its corporate responsibility in the categories of work life, customers, and social responsibilities towards environment. Responsibility toward our employees comprises a significant aspect of corporate responsibility. We strive to provide a safe and healthy work environment, with respect for labor rights, and fair wages without discrimination on the basis of religion, language, race, or gender among employees. Doğuş Oto encourages our employees to continue learning and developing their innovative self-critical skills. Lean Management and suggestion systems are implemented in line with the benefits to our company and personal development of our staff, projecting the ideas and suggestions of the employees. Another major element of our corporate responsibility is our customers, and we are intentionally customer-oriented in this regard. Customer needs and expectations as well as those of the society are assessed and necessary improvements are implemented. Aims and goals are defined accordingly. Procedures regarding customer complaints and customer satisfaction are refined and applied. Our customers are adequately and accurately informed about products,after sales services and pricing in line with proper business ethics. Doğuş Oto provides reliable and quality products and services to its customers. Doğuş Oto fulfills its legal and statutory responsibilities, complying with the laws and regulations. Doğuş Oto Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş. provides service in the provinces of Istanbul, Ankara and Bursa through 32 Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers in total and 1,280 employees in an overall area of 175,000 m2 for all the brands Doğuş Otomotiv represents. Providing all kinds of services at a single point to its customers Doğuş Oto is the largest and most distinctive member of this organization , by means of its facilities of the highest level of compliance with brand standards, original spare parts, 24-hour roadside assistance service, technical superiority (attested by the awards received at both national and international competitions in the field of after sales services), and fair and reliable labor practices, to ensure that we are an ideal corporate solution partner for retail and corporate customers. Doğuş Oto continues to move toward offering perfect service in the automotive retail industry, and being an exemplary dealer in the service sector. Doğuş Oto will contribute to the individuals’ development, take part in the progress of sectoral economy by undertaking corporate responsibility practices, and continue to carry out customer-focused corporate responsibility activities with perfect service understanding by expanding environmental protection activities. Doğuş Oto will continue to discharge all the responsibilities which fall on its shoulders for a better world and future, and to share Corporate Social Responsibility practices with business partners, employees and stakeholders. Yours sincerely, Zafer BAŞAR Doğuş Oto General Manager 7 Authorized Dealers excluding Doğuş Oto. 29 Economic Impact Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Commercial Vehicles professional training, 4-week pedagogical-didactic training and 3-day long brand trainings. At the end of 2010 our staff included four Technical, two Bodywork, two Non-technical and one IT certified trainers; Our trainers attended Volkswagen AG’s annual training sessions, follow technology closely and update their knowledge. Volkswagen Technician of the Year Competition which we The thriving countries of 2010 were prospected by Volkswagen initiated in technician category in 1999 has become an annual A.G, and successful practices of those were scrutinized. Turkey tradition and organized every year. The competition was was among the 5 most successful and hence prospected countries. Implementations of the 5 Authorized Service Centers proposed as a project to Volkswagen AG in 2002, has been prospected in Turkey have been turned to be a part of the taken over by Volkswagen AG and since 2008 has continued project. Doğuş Otomotiv aspires to raise the bar through internationally under the category of Technician and Service implementing the RASE (Retail After-Sales Excellence) project, Advisor. Similar competitions were been held in Bodywork and consisting of the outstanding practices of 25 service centers Painting fields between 2004 and 2007. from all 5 countries, including ourselves. Within the context of distance education applications which Another significant marker indicating where our authorized have been necessity due to the technological development, service centers have leveraged their after sales service quality Volkswagen Service Centers Training Website and Online and customer satisfaction in 2010 is that two of our Authorized Examination System were implemented in 2008. Volkswagen Service Centers were honored with the After-Sales Service After-Sales Service Centers Training Website and Online Quality Award which is given to 100 authorized service centers Examination System has provided training documents and films, around Europe every year. This award was granted on the basis updated news and announcements regarding spare parts, of customer satisfaction and the repeated repair ratio among accessories, model information and so on. These are available 6,450 authorized service centers. By being in the Top 100 list, to users through the website, and the number of participants Doğuş Oto Etimesgut (Ankara) and AVEK A.Ş. (Istanbul) continues to increase. Volkswagen Authorized Service Centers demonstrated their sensitivity, determination and success about customer Volkswagen Service Centers Training Workshops prescribed satisfaction and repair reliability of Authorized Service Centers by Volkswagen AG standards, have also been organized since as well as of Doğuş Otomotiv. 2007. The workshops are two-day group courses with the participation of approximately 200 certificated Service Managers, Building the after-sales regional management system upon the Spare Parts Managers and Service Advisors. Participants premise of always standing by Authorized Service Centers, contribute new ideas working on the issues which emerged Volkswagen provides all such installations with permanent and during the year. These activities lead to increased competency professional support, and enables successful application for the after-sales service employees, and enable them to practices to spread rapidly within the service network. This undertake the standards and responsibilities of Volkswagen results in harmonization with positive applications regarding brand. We can provide the highest level of service, such as customer satisfaction. customer satisfaction, safety and even management of their precious time through proper training system. Training for Volkswagen Authorized Dealers and Service Centers The quality of our products, and of our after-sales service, and our dignified stance which we show standing by our customers The Volkswagen brand is intentional about continuous training are also reflected in the warranty processes. Our warranty within the authorized after sales service network for increased processes are always under control through Authorized Service customer satisfaction and driving safety, and therefore continuing Center Evaluation System (PBS) which was developed in education is among our priority issues. After-sales teams are coordination with Volkswagen AG. In this way, conditions and trained in various skills: Technical, Non-technical, Bodyworkopen-to-improvement processes of the authorized dealers can painting and IT. Training offered till the end of 2009 within the be responded to immediately. Our employees who are experts framework of Volkswagen Technical – Non-technical – IT trainings in warranty are kept update via annual training. program (Export Training Concept) was resumed under the rubric of After Sales Services Training 2010, which has become Audi the new training system of Volkswagen AG in 2010. All such training is in compliance with or above Volkswagen AG standards. There are two basic training All service center employees, from technicians to service processes in order to become an Audi Sales Advisor or an Audi managers, are included in the target group; there are 37 different Sales Manager to improve our authorized dealers’ skills. All the learning components. sales advisors and sales managers are obligated to complete the basic training which complies with international Audi All our trainers have earned internationally valid Volkswagen standards . Sales advisors and sales managers who complete Trainer Certificates completing Volkswagen AG`s 4-week the training receive sales advisor and sales manager certificates 30 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 after the exams. There are also basic and advanced training teams. Every Authorized Service Center enters 2 types of teams courses regarding our products. We have been participating in technical and service and about 35 to 40 countries take part international CLT trainings held by Audi AG every year within in the competition on international platform every year. the scope of product trainings. We attended CLT trainings of A8 and A1 models in 2010 with 40-50 sales advisors on average. The Audi Twin Cup Turkey Practical Final has been held annually Advanced product training is offered in an annually-updated since 2006, and the 5th practical final was held on April 9, 2010. training schedule according to the results of mystery customer Participants perform at service stations and technical stations and customer satisfaction surveys and authorized dealer during practical finals. Applied service knowledge and skills are performance analyses, aiming at the continuing development assessed at these stations. Each Technical team is responsible of authorized dealers. The online Audi Training Portal is designed for diagnosis and mechanical knowledge, and the Service team to international standards and is actively used by authorized is responsible for product knowledge, CSS8 service work flow dealers to follow up the training. Applied training is given after and behavior skills. basic product training is completed via this portal; exams are taken over the portal as well. SEAT Training is of the utmost importance, a must Additionally, the Audi Sales Cup Competition is organized every for SEAT brand, in order to enable retention year with the purpose to increase the knowledge level and of the service quality in sales and after-sales strengthen the team spirit of our authorized dealers. In 2010 issues, and to sustain the knowledge level to the competition was held with the participation of our entire satisfy our young customer profile. This goal authorized dealer organization, unique within the Audi family is achieved through training sessions, meetings and competitions worldwide. organized for our sales and after-sales teams. Technicians at authorized service centers are provided with Technical trainings are provided at Basic, Advanced and Master technical training starting with the basic disciplines in accordance levels. Trainings offered by producers, which are organized in with Audi AG standards. Technicians who complete the training keeping with the present after-sales service network structure, gain expertise in various fields. Besides, within the context of are provided to our technicians at our training center. Market Audi Diagnosis Technician (technician who seeks for malfunction conditions are considered critically important criteria by SEAT on vehicle) training, technicians who have already complete S.A. and the trainings are generated within the structure to initial training and passed an entrance exam are given meet the market needs. Monitoring the occurrence of regional troubleshooting training with real failures in training vehicles, problems, actions are taken with regard to frequently encountered and so are enabled to handle with high-tech electronic problems. infrastructure easily. Current problems are dealt with by Technician Committees at Audi service center training is responsible for all the training certain intervals, and potential difficulties concerning repeated processes of service advisors, customer advisors, service repair and customer satisfaction are addressed. During these managers, spare parts managers, emergency staff, warranty committees, companies which operate in the critical issues staff, and customer relations staff, in compliance with the Audi regarding our after-sales services are invited to contribute, and AG standards. Service advisors are responsible for four modules the general knowledge level of our technical team is expanded. (16 days), customer advisors for 3 modules (9 days), service Customer transactions are expedited through warranty trainings. managers for 3 modules (12 days), spare parts managers for Warranty specialists are regularly trained about procedures and 3 modules (12 days) within the basic training process. All these work flow issues. occupations have certification procedures. Upon completing the training modules, participants are given a 2-day certification A Virtual Campus training website meets a crucial need for exam, and the basic training process is completed with an Audi distributors and service centers. Far beyond a resource for AG endorsed certificate. technical training documents, it is a pivotal tool for online training systems, brand vehicles and technologies. 2-day basic trainings for warranty, emergency and customer relations staff are held once a year. After-sales service staff take In the fields of competition and motivation, a Top Service People advanced and product training after completing basic training. Competition is organized by SEAT S.A. to honor the most Within QSPL standards, all staff holding such positions within outstanding technical team employees among Authorized Service Audi Authorized Service Centers is required to attend the training Centers all around the world. The competition, held since 2003, and obtain certification. is organized within the categories of Technician, Service Advisor, Service Manager, Technical Support Specialist, Warranty An annual Audi Twin Cup competition is organized by Audi AG Specialist and Spare Parts Specialist. The competitions are to assess the knowledge and skills of the after-sales service carried out in two phases: theoretical and practical. The winners 8 CSS is a survey which questions the satisfaction of the customers who were served by our Authorized Service Centers, and makes it possible to detect the development areas of the authorized service centers in the light of information obtained from our customers. It is conducted by the independent research company GFK on a monthly basis and covers all Audi Authorized Service Centers in Turkey. The surveys can be followed instantly by both Doğuş Otomotiv and Authorized Service Centers, and must-be-developed areas can be attempted very quickly. 31 Economic Impact of the national finals of each country go on to the international and required of all Authorized Dealers and Service Centers finals in Spain. Apart from competing, the contest improves network with the contents revised periodically. Employee brand and team spirit and increases motivation. Our employees development is followed closely and the successes are rewarded. entered the competition in the categories of service technician, DOS 3 (Dealer Operating Standards) certification processes, service advisor and service manager in 2010. Our country team whose standards are determined by the producer, are applied won first place in the Service Manager branch at the Top Service at all Authorized Dealers and Service Centers that are under People Awards 2010.9 control of the Doğuş Otomotiv audit team. Besides, sanctions are applied to Authorized Dealers and Service Centers regarding 3-day basic level and 2-day advanced level trainings are safe work conditions and environmentally friendly service. conducted to expand the knowledge level of our Service Advisors. Our trainings are enriched through social topics like customer Within the framework of the Dealer Development Agreement relations and conflict management, in addition to the basic (BGA), common goals are identified for the authorized dealers topics like work processes and brand knowledge. Sales to improve the quality management processes. The achievers techniques are also communicated to our team through the of these goals are rewarded. These studies ensure the desirable success in customer satisfaction by creating competition among advanced level trainings, being aware of the importance of sales the authorized dealers for premium service. advisor at selling parts and service. After the trainings, refresher courses are offered during Follow-Up trainings held at A Top Team competition is held by Scania once every two years approximately monthly intervals. 3-day basic level and 2-day to distinguish the best Scania technicians among Authorized advanced level trainings are conducted also for the Sales Service Centers worldwide. The best technician teams of the Advisors. Within the context of these trainings, customer relations participant countries are selected first, and then the representative and sales techniques subjects are communicated to the technical teams of the countries ‘battle it out’ in the competition participants as well as work flows and brand model information. in Sweden. This competition, which indicates how much Scania The participants are asked to visit sales points of competitors emphasizes authorized service centers and after-sales services, and note their observations before the Follow-Up trainings, and consists of theoretical and practical phases. thus correspondence between omissions they found out and training contents are brought to their attention. Sales team DOD meetings are organized at certain intervals. Current issues and DOD Authorized Dealers are subjected to sales-marketing strategies are communicated at these meetings. internal trainings, organized periodically and repeated systematically, in the fields of SCANIA sales, purchasing, pricing, expertise and Scania brand emphasizes the development marketing within the framework of the and standardization of Authorized Dealers training program designated by DOD for and Authorized After-Sales Services. Obeying the first time in Turkey. The knowledge level of authorized dealers the rules prescribed by the producer, importance is given to is frequently tested and assessed. Successful completion of the implementation of all processes at every point in the same these tests is honored with a training achievement certificate. manner. Starting with the owners of the Authorized Dealers and Also, DOD City Sales and Purchasing Staff are included in the Service Centers, all the sales and service staff are trained by Doğuş Otomotiv module trainings, which increase their level of experts on a regular basis. The trainings are scheduled annually technical knowledge. Suppliers Our criteria for supplier selection are framed from ISO quality standards. Our supplier selection criteria include possession of ISO 9001 Quality Certificate, adequate references, competence and market position of the company, previous “ The services / commodities purchased history with Doğuş Group, work quality, turnaround time and price. from our local suppliers in 2010 cost TL Prediction of economic, environmental, and social risks, and adoption of Doğuş 10 Otomotiv`s corporate responsibility vision also by suppliers will be ensured by 285,467,497.37 in total. preparing a supplementary protocol to the agreements signed with our suppliers in 2011. ” 9 Doğuş Otomotiv SEAT Authorized After Sales Center Avek Otomotiv Service Manager Yaşar Özuğur was selected for Best Service Manager surpassing his competitors among 26 countries. 10 Doğuş Otomotiv: TL 234,895,553.78 Doğuş Oto: TL 50,571,943.59 32 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible Marketing Communication we were the most visited automotive brand in the mobile applications, with as many as 3,500 users. Doğuş Otomotiv embraces the principles of United Nations Global Compact signed in 2010, also in its communication We also took part in the Junior Masters Cup U12 Football and marketing processes. Within the scope of environmental Tournament organized by Volkswagen AG this year. Volkswagen related articles of the initiative and environmental policy of Passenger Cars, represented by Aydin Social Services and Doğuş Otomotiv, our corporate communication materials are Child Protection Institution, reached the quarter finals in this prepared with recyclable paper. Moreover all press kits are tournament. prepared web-based, press releases and other printed materials are printed using recyclable paper. As Doğuş Otomotiv, we Additionally, 211 people attended our event at the Istanbul uphold the corporate ethics and transparency principles through Park track, where we provided Volkswagen owners in Turkey all our communication processes and show regard to with the opportunity to drive the F1 track with their cars. international responsible marketing principles throughout all our communication mechanisms. We do not allow human rights violation, discrimination or similar unethical messages Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles or practices to occur within our communication processes. The continuous mass communication conducted in a competitive market within the scope of brand communication Additionally we are moving toward the international standards took an important place in the marketing strategy in 2010 as of ICCO-International Communications Consultancy well. Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles reached its target Organization in terms of communication and public relations. audience in a most effective way upholding the use of national The companies with whom we consult are also requested to channels with sectoral applications in terms of product and comply with these standards.This issue is included as an article corporate communication. Both product and corporate identity in business agreements. communication was conducted comprehensively using local channels and outdoor as well as national channels. Volkswagen Passenger Cars Volkswagen Passenger Cars, which was among the first leading In 2010 Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles achieved good 25 countries worldwide among Volkswagen AG distributors visibility in the press through its intensive communication in marketing means in 2010, implement marketing strategies management, and preserved its position among the first three designed in line with Volkswagen AG`s vision for the year 2018, brands holding the second place in the news activity evaluation within the concept of responsible marketing communication. conducted among light commercial vehicles. Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles was the only European country Our customers are updated about our breakthroughs via representative attending the Amarok International Press Launch, informative e-mails and mobile messages sent them to inform held in Argentina just for South American countries, in February about our campaigns. 2010. Volkswagen Caddy Press Launch was held in October 2010 as well. In 2010 direct marketing activities based on In addition to participating in many organizations and holding customer segmentation were conducted and investigative and various events in 2010, Volkswagen Passenger Cars launched direct marketing activities were carried out simultaneously in the Passat and Touareg models. This occurred on a huge order to establish one-to-one communication especially for 2,400 m 2 platform at Autoshow 2010, where customer such targeted key commercial vehicle sectors as tourism, information was collected through the Turkuaz11 system, for the first time, via iPad. Thus as paper use was reduced and transportation, after sales, textiles. we switched to a technological system with a lower margin of error. Social media applications which we initiated during the Targeting the regions lacking in authorized dealers in Anatolia, same period with Autoshow provided us with the opportunity the introduction of Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles is carried to meet our target audience in a new digital environment. out with customized mobile Crafter vehicles. According to the Turkey results of the Large European Markets market brand Using the latest technology to meet our target audience, we image and recognition research conducted by Volkswagen have created new channels of communication. We have AG, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles has reached the highest become the first automotive company to use the iPad image score of all times. Leaving all its domestic rivals behind application on this kind of new communication platform, and in brand awareness and surpassing even the luxury brands in 11 Turkuaz is the IT System of Doğuş Otomotiv. Detailed information is available on page 59 of our report and on Doğuş Otomotiv 2009 CSR Report reachable at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/pdf/kssr/Dogus_Otomotiv_CSRR_2009.pdf 33 Economic Impact brand admiration, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles has also Climate Change become number one in the brand admiration index once again. In keeping with our studies to spread our strategies, policies Within the framework of the Marketing Force Project, a sales and goals in various Corporate Responsibility fields, precautions and marketing strategy created and developed by Volkswagen regarding the probable economic effects due to the climate Commercial Vehicles, Crafter was introduced to customers change have being taken as of 2010. one-to-one simultaneously with Transporter, accurate, and updated customer information was collected, cross-selling Our risk management studies, including those of our affiliates, of other products (finance, insurance and so on) within Doğuş proceed through installing measurement, evaluation and Otomotiv offered, completing the holistic value chain. monitoring mechanisms until 2012. Our intention to create awareness on the issue during the years 2010 and 2011 has Audi been initiated through various field activities. An Audi Communication Meeting is organized once a year by Audi AG with the participation of the Doğuş Otomotiv Audi Environmental sensitivity-related articles embedded in the marketing team. Audi Dealers Meeting is attended by Audi agreements drawn up with our Suppliers and Authorized Authorized Dealers and Doğuş Otomotiv Audi team, who confer Dealers and Service Centers have been initiated through a about Audi strategies, communication works and introduction supplementary protocol in 2010. and sneak preview of the new models. Also, electrical energy consumed within Doğuş Otomotiv has Scania been supplied from Fina Enerji since April 2010. Certification research continues toward renewable energy use, to be Scania implements responsible marketing communication completed in 2011. tasks by organizing activities and sponsoring social responsibility activities. Always standing by its customers and making a difference with its products and services in a market which is highly competitive through high technology vehicles, Scania held 40 various promotional activities during 2010 and reached 20,000 customers all around Turkey. Doğuş Oto In order to give factual information regarding products and services offered to its customers, Doğuş Oto carried out 70 events in 2010, and designated four campaigns in the aftersales services field. Doğuş Oto continued informative and introductive activities, sending customers 413,465 mobile messages and 122,571 e-mails, and publishing 71 newspaper advertisements in the same period. DOD As the brand bringing institutionalism to the used cars sector in Turkey, the DOD brand carried out effective marketing communication in its 10th year. In addition to advertising on national and local channels, customers were reached through several activities held around Turkey. Vehicle page views climbed to 2.5 million hits monthly over the website, and an increase of up to 25% was observed in the number of showroom visitors. 34 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Environmental Impact “ Doğuş Otomotiv considers environmental effects while giving managerial and operational decisions, examines the direct and indirect environmental effects derived from its operations, and is committed to reducing those effects. ” 35 Environmental Impact Environmental Policy Doğuş Otomotiv’s environmental poliçy is defined under five main headings: water, waste, energy, logistiçs, and environmentally friendly produçts Doğuş Otomotiv, Considers environmental effects while giving managerial and operational decisions, examines the direct and indirect environmental effects derived from its operations, and is committed to reducing those effects; Beyond the requirements of the law, feels responsibility for society about environmental protection and use of resources; Works at motivating employees, employee families, and business partners to gain the same level of environmental consciousness; Targets to install the required systems to measure, monitor and refine the environmental effects; Cooperates within the value chain and provides awareness for better recognition, understanding, and sales of high-standard, environmentally friendly products of brands distributed. Focus Area (Environmental Responsibility) Goal Method Water Reducing the water used in all operations Awareness, Measuring, Monitoring Mechanisms, Targeting Waste Line, Waste Recycling Boxes, Pilot Study, Measuring, Monitoring, Waste Waste Management, Awareness of Authorized Dealers and Customers Targeting, Job Descriptions Establishment of energy consumption monitoring mechanisms, Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Thermal isolation and Efficient Use Energy of Daylight, Stable Temperatures, EmployeeCompliance, CDP Reporting Awareness Awareness, Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Environmentally Friendly Logistics Reducing environmental effects, considering environmental effects Vehicles, Training, Advanced Technology in planning Environmentally Friendly Support for the introduction and a better understanding of the products Disclosure, Dialogue Platforms Products WATER Water is an indispensable source of life to Doğuş Otomotiv. Doğuş Otomotiv implements mechanisms to measure and monitor water use, and plans the required processes. Doğuş Otomotiv sets goals to reduce water use and creates awareness among stakeholders. WASTE Doğuş Otomotiv implements mechanisms to measure and monitor waste utilization, and plans the required processes. Waste management and waste utilization are not only a corporate responsibility, but also the responsibility of the Doğuş Otomotiv employees individually. Doğuş Otomotiv generates in-house awareness on the environmental impact of waste. It applies the Waste Line system to consult Authorized Dealers and Service Centers about waste. It adopts an action plan to embed waste-related responsibility matter into job descriptions. ENERGY Doğuş Otomotiv creates corporate awareness and consciousness on reducing energy consumption. It implements mechanisms to measure and monitor energy use, and plans the required processes. It develops suggestion mechanisms about heat isolation and efficient use of daylight. It sets constant temperatures in the work areas and standards in regard to regional adaptation of the employees. LOGISTICS It leads transportation and logistics processes via environmentally friendly vehicles. It carries out strategic logistics and efficiency plans. It provides route optimization, using advanced technologies. 36 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Water Use Unit (Consumed water per vehicle sold) m3 2009 2010 1.35 0.89 *Considering total transactions operated in sales and services, water amount consumed per transaction is 0.3 m3 at Doğuş Otos. This value remained constant in 2009 and 2010. Examples from Practices Executed to Reduce Water Use We began irrigating gardens using a ‘weeping hose’ system controlled by a time clock. In 2010, flow rate settings were altered by decreasing the water pressure in taps used for general means. Doğuş Oto started to measure the water consumption of the car wash departments of all its branches in April 2011. The average water consumption of Doğuş Oto is 63 liters per vehicle in the period April-July 2011. A relatively low consumption is provided by using pressure feed washing machines. The average water consumption per vehicle at public car wash facilities is stated as 80-120 liters, or US32 gallons, in most sources. Waste Management Waste of Doğuş Otomotiv is dispatched with the national waste transportation form to authorized institutions for disposal. These forms are recorded officially on the website of the Ministry of Forestry and Water by regional administrative officers. Each region has its own authorization and password. TYPE OF WASTE Doğuş Oto (Kg) Doğuş Otomotiv (Kg) OIL AND FUEL FILTERS 18,799 1,366 CONTAMINATED WASTE 1,979 805 CONTAMINATED PACKAGES 2,395 1,753 SPRAY BOXES 133 0 LIQUID WASTE ANTIFREEZE 24 0 BRAKE FLUID 517 0 WASTE THINNER 70 0 There are waste collection boxes at Doğuş Otomotiv Authorized Service Centers, and all paint shops have been using water based paint for about 10 years. Cooperation with Anel Doğa Pursuant to the Regulations About the Control of End of and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles and assure that the Life Vehicles (ELVs), prepared by the Ministry of Forestry and treatment, reuse, recovery, and recycling of ELVs is done Water, published in the Official Gazette dated 30/12/2009 and according to the statute. numbered 27448, Doğuş Otomotiv Servis ve Ticaret A.Ş. has As a result of this cooperation, Authorized Service Centers signed a 5-year agreement with Anel Doğa Entegre ve Geri also use Anel Doğa for the collection, interim storage, Dönüşüm Endüstri A.Ş. for the period between 15/12/2010 transportation, and disposal of hazardous waste in suitable and 15/12/2015. This serves the purpose to operate the ELV equipment. collection system and build the delivery points within the Doğuş Oto paid TL 51,635.41 to Anel Doğa for waste system involving the imported brands Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, disposal in 2010. Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, Volkswagen Passenger Cars 37 Environmental Impact In-house Awareness Reducing Paper Waste Collecting Waste Batteries Within the context of our policy and focus area studies, it is our The batteries used in the company are collected in waste goal to minimize the waste by creating awareness on the issue, battery boxes placed to Doğuş Otomotiv units, and passed as an aspect of the studies regarding waste management which to the authorized institutions for safe disposal. we plan to implement in short-medium and long term. Recycling Packaging Materials In addition to sending our paper waste for recycling, another application initiated to reduce paper use was that general settings Approximately 12% of the parcels we purchase for packaging of the in-house printers were adjusted for double-sided printing. spare parts are returned to us. Parcels are gathered from Amount of the paper used at Doğuş Otomotiv and Doğuş Oto Authorized Dealers in Istanbul, Ankara, Bursa, and some from was 423,324 kg in 2010; we aim to decrease total paper Izmir, where Unsped vehicles make delivery constantly. Monthly consumption by 25% in 2011. packaging saving has averaged TL 8,500. Abiding by the laws and regulations, our paper waste is sent to In addition, the blue plastic crates coming from the main source Tanrıkulu Recycling Plant, which works under contract with the Municipalities. are also utilized. Since 2001, extremely heavy materials have been transported to Authorized Dealers through these crates Additionally, collaboration with Çevko (Environmental Protection and collected back. About 2,000 blue crates are used per month, and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust) continues. netting a savings of approximately TL 10,000. Our contract period has been prolonged to fulfill our responsibility as a distributing company. 2010 Paper Consumption (A4) Doğuş Otomotiv 4,157,500 units/year Doğuş Oto 2,146,500 units/year “ Using recycled plastic boxes for spare parts deliveries from Annual recycling operations of packaging material are executed in tandem with Çevko, with whom we have worked since 2008. our logistics warehouse to The packages released to the market are re-collected back by Çevko in accordance with the regulations of Ministry of Forestry Authorized Dealers and and Water. Additionally, packaging material collected from nearby Service Centers provides dealers to our spare parts warehouse is also re-used. savings by decreasing carton costs, and reduces paper use. ” 38 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Energy Use Energy Consumption Unit 2009 2010 Doğuş Otomotiv Doğuş Oto Doğuş Otomotiv Doğuş Oto Natural Gas (m3) 224,475 536,826 230,250 595,760 GJ (8,757) (20,942) (8,982) (23,241) Gasoline (lt) 343,949 367,474 439,081 410,150 GJ (11,359) (12,136) (14,501) (13,545) Electricity (kWh) 2,290,312 6,828,641 2,419,550 7,242,241 GJ (8,245) (24,583) (8,710) (26,072) Total amount of energy saving (%) Unit 2009 2010 Total Saving 13 1.5 CO2 Emissions (ton) 2009 2010 Electricity Consumption 6,051 6,411 Natural Gas Consumption 4,534 4,919 Company Cars 426 574 EmployeeTransportation 182 185 Business Trips 103 90 Total 11,566 12,179 Energy Saving by Technology Investments Each of the physical servers located in the system control rooms is functioning 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. A server consumes electrical energy with an average of 7,000 kWh per year including the cooling process. 47 such servers were in operation in system control rooms before virtualization operations executed in 2010; the annual energy consumption totaled 329,000 kWh. In 2010, these servers were re-arranged, reducing the total number of physical servers to four, thereby reducing energy consumption by 87% from 376,000 kWh to 40,000kWh. Logistics Management process is created, where a subcontractor at a place near Logistics management and maintenance of all the deliveries OEM ensures delivery with the arrangement style OEM expects in an efficient manner is among Doğuş Otomotiv`s prominent priorities. An average of 23-24 vehicles per day depart from The subcontractor company has rented a warehouse at a near our Logistics Center, located in Gebze, for domestic place to Volkswagen AG warehouse in Germany, and employed transportation of spare parts. Occupancy rate of our vehicles appropriately trained personnel to manage this operation, as is 80%. well as the flow of documents, between Volkswagen AG. An Exemplary Logistics Practice Because the cages are in various sizes and entitled by different codes, the reassembly was initiated right after the trainings Within our logistics system, spare parts are sent from abroad given to the subcontractor staff about loading in the order that in iron and steel cages by OEM. Within the framework of import procedures, these cages are temporarily nationalized VW AG demands. and returned to SEAT S.A Spain in containers and to Volkswagen AG Germany in trailer trucks overland. Thus by substantially reducing the number of trailer loads needed to return empty cages, a 50% saving has been realized. Volkswagen AG requests the return of these cages addressed This project is considered an important business optimization to Germany overland to be done in accordance with a specific project for Volkswagen AG, and displayed as an exemplary arrangement and stacking in order not to create additional application for trade with other countries. work load. This required a large number of trailer deliveries, adding expense and the increase of our negative environmental effects due to emission release. The advantage provided on the basis of number of trailers over the deliveries since 2009 is shown below. Therefore, since 2009, within the context of project developed by Lean Operations, we have returned the cages nested inside The project application continues, increasing the figures by each other, despite the demand of the OEM. An additional their realization percentages every year. 39 Environmental Impact NUMBER OF VW NUMBER OF IMPROVEMENT AVERAGE FUEL TOTAL KM/ TOTAL FUEL FUEL SAVING EMISSION TRAILERS (MIXED TRAILERS IN VW ON THE BASIS CONSUMPTION/ TRAILER CONSUMPTION (LITER) CO2 (TON) DELIVERY) Annual Number of CONTRACT OF THE NUMBER TRAILER LT/TRAILER Trailers OF TRAILERS 2009 408 538 130 0.32 2,480 km 800 lt 104,000 250 ACTUALIZED 2010 400 559 159 0.32 2,480 km 800 lt 127,200 305 ACTUALIZED 2011 GOAL 489 665 176 0.32 2,480 km 800 lt 140,800 338 TOTAL 893 Deliveries ready for shipment made nested Deliveries ready for shipment made by stacking as Volkswagen AG asks In-house Awareness To reduce electricity consumption, light bulbs are replaced with energy saving products as they are out of use. Research was made toward building a system which enables the electricity to turn off automatically inside of the company at the end of the work hours. Studies have been initiated regarding the planning of the required investment. Route planning of employee bus services has been completed, anticipating a fuel saving of 5%. Safe Driving Techniques Training for Service Drivers Economic and Safe Driving Training was given to 200 employees of an employee bus service provider company, operating in Antalya, in 4 groups of 50, on December 14-15, 2010. All of the participants were commercial vehicle drivers, and some of them drive commercial vehicle models of our product, Volkswagen Crafter. Fuel conservation, environmentalist driving techniques, maintenance and importance of the vehicles, understanding and impact of meeting the service needs, the impact of using spare parts and labor at producer quality standards, conditions of use and effect of driving style, safety (mainly safety belt and air bag) hardware functions and correcting known errors are communicated to the participants within the context of the training. 40 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally Friendly Products CO2 Emission Releases of the Vehicles According to the Doğuş Otomotiv Sales Numbers Number of Sales Average Emission per Vehicle (Retail) CO2 Compound (g/km) 2009 2010 2009 2010 Volkswagen Passenger Cars 26,929 39,966 155 144 Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles 10,223 23,909 192 183 Audi 6,255 9,752 164 157 Porsche 251 393 250 227 Bentley 8 14 404 394 Lamborghini 9 4 345 323 SEAT 2,572 4,410 154 139 All brands average 46,277 78,448 165 158 Scania, Krone and Meiller brands are not included in all brands. Because Krone and Meiller brand vehicles are not motor vehicles, and Scania is not obligated to declare CO2 emissions like other heavy vehicles, measurement is not carried out. CO2 emission released per vehicle sold has improved by 4% in 2010 with comparison to 2009. Euro 5 Engines and low-emission TSI engines all equipped with catalytic 12 The European Union and numerous other developed countries converters as a representative of the downsizing wave, TDI have established and continue to develop various policies CR diesel engines with diesel particulate filter, DSG transmission aimed at solving environmental problems, including global technology which minimizes the loss of time and fuel by warming, arising from the greenhouse effect. To prevent global performing high-speed gear-shift. warming it requires the reduction of carbon monoxide and BlueMotion Technologies vehicles, which offer innovations nitrous oxide gasses released into the atmosphere by the conducive for clean and economic driving, were launched in millions of vehicles moving in traffic, which would in turn reduce 2010. Touareg and Passat models are the pioneer damage to the ozone layer and minimize the negative effect representatives of these vehicles. They offer low friction on human health. resistance tires, Start/Stop System and Brake Energy Recovery systems, in addition to TSI, TDI and DSG. Start/Stop System Members of the European Union are requiring car makers to helps to reduce CO2 emissions. The automobile cuts down produce environmentally friendly vehicles by continuously fuel consumption and CO2 emission by turning the engine off raising the Euro0 Emission standard level, initiated in 1990. when stopped at traffic lights. Brake Energy Recovery relieves Traffic registration permits were given to vehicles meeting the alternator from the engine during acceleration and turns Euro3 norms in 2001, Euro4 norms in 2006, and Euro5 norms off the electric system, which consumes fuel unnecessarily, were made compulsory starting from October 2008 for new utilizing engine power only for acceleration; meanwhile, the engines and in 2009 for all engines. These regulations set car’s electricity is provided by the accumulator. During braking, standards for fuel consumption, waste exhaust gas processing the alternator increases engine brake effect by pulling power and diesel engines, which mean less pollution and more above normal from the engine, and rapidly recharging the productivity. In order to achieve its goal, the European Union accumulator at the same time. encourages Euro5 engines with promotions such as discounts in road tolls and taxes. The basic difference between Euro5 Through all these innovative technologies, CO2 (g/km) value engines and Euro4 and earlier engines is that the amounts of shrank to 144 with the 2,471 BlueMotion Technologies cars nitrous oxide, carbon monoxide and hazardous particles they imported in 2010. emit are reduced, and even though particle emission remains at a level of 0.02g/kWh as in Euro4, NOx drops from 3.5 In addition to the efficiency technology infrastructure of g/kWh to 2.0 g/kWh. BlueMotion Technologies, BlueMotion cars will be brought to the market in 2011 with improved aerodynamic structures Volkswagen Passenger Cars which lessen CO2 emissions even more. BlueMotion models High-efficiency technologies are being utilized in Volkswagen are the most energy-saving and least emission-releasing Passenger Cars since the mid-2000s. Some examples can models in their categories. Additional to the Touareg BlueMotion be cited are the new laser-welded chassis and bodies with Technologies model, Touareg Hybrid model was put on the decreased weight as well as increased robustness, powerful market 2011. 12 It means that the engine volume, hence fuel consumption and emission values, decrease, so horsepower previously offered at 2,0 liter engine, now can be acquired at 1,4 liter in the TSI engine. 41 Environmental Impact Customer Benefits Greenhouse Gas Effect on Volkswagen Technologies easily understood by the customer 35 Production Use (mileage 150,000 km) Disposal Measurable and explicit features like fuel saving, low CO2 30 emission 25 Technologies offered on all models like TDI, TSI and DSG 20 An average of 6% fuel saving through the Start/Stop System 15 TDI, the cleanest and most quiet diesel technology 10 5 Besides all these, recyclable parts are used in the production, 0 especially plastic and glass materials, on Volkswagen Passenger Diesel Gasoline Cars. In addition, friction elements like brake pads which do Previous Models Previous Models Polo 1,2 TDI Polo 1,4 MPI 7Gang-DSG not contain asbestos , known to be harmful to the environment Polo 1,6 TDI BlueMotion Technology Polo 1,2 TSI and human health, are widely used in the entire model range. Polo 1,2 TDI BlueMotion Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Audi Our new Caddy vehicles, put on the market in October 2010, At Audi our vehicles are furnished with many environmentally reduce the emissions of greenhouse effect gases further, friendly technologies, notably technologies which reduce fuel through EU5 norms. Caddy EcoFuel vehicles, sold to specific consumption. Start/Stop System in our vehicles reduces fuel order, are distinguished by considerably reduced exhaust consumption and hence CO2 emission by shutting down the waste, working on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG). engine when the automobile is not in motion. CaddyEcoFuel, produced by Volkswagen, works on Production of Hybrid and Audi E-tron is a significant indicator Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) which has cleaner exhaust that environmental sensitivity of the brand will further increase waste and is 50 % more economic than diesel fuel, has come in the future. Hybrid model sales will start with the Q5 model to the forefront in the market. in the Turkish market in 2011. The highest environmental benefit of Caddy EcoFuel, which New Audi A6, to be launched in 2011, is quite light due to its uses CNG as fuel, is the noticeable reduction in exhaust waste. aluminum body technology, and thus even though it is stronger, When compared to equivalent TDI engine, Caddy EcoFuel more dynamic and sportier, the car has turned into a more produces less carbon monoxide (CO) waste with a ratio environmentally friendly vehicle by reducing fuel consumption. exceeding 50%, 70% less nitrous oxide (Nox) waste, and no carbon black particles. CO 2 emission of Caddy EcoFuel is Through Audi Drive Select, which will be presented as standard measured as 157 gr/km, a value 20% less than a normal of new A6, and the integrated efficiency module to be offered gasoline engine. Offering extra 1,0 m 3 load area, the larger for the first time with Audi Drive Select, drivers will also receive Caddy Maxi EcoFuel is a convenient and alternative-fuel option advice during driving to drive more efficiently. For instance, for environmentally sensitive businesses. the driver will be warned if the sunroof is open when the air conditioner is on, so that the driver’s awareness on fuel Running on bio-ethanol, a sustainable fuel commercially consumption will be raised. It is known that driving style is as obtained from renewable sources, or by CNG used in homes, important as the car’s technology on fuel consumption, and Caddy EcoFuel also has got a 13-liter gasoline tank backup hence on CO2 emission. Therefore, Audi both improves the which is automatically activated in case of running out of gas. cars and develops systems to give advice to the drivers. 42 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 SEAT the most environmentally friendly engines for diminishing the SEAT models use the high-tech, environmentally friendly acid oxide and particle amounts to minimum. Fully produced engines of the Volkswagen Group. Gasoline models use low by Scania technology, Euro 6 engines show respect for nature volume TSI engine technology with low fuel consumption and with low emission values and at the same time contribute to CO2 emission, in addition to high performance. The Ibiza model our economy with low operating costs. uses 1.2 TSI and 1.4 TSI engines, Altea XL model uses 1.4 TSI, and Leon model uses 1.2 TSI and 1.4 TSI engines. Diesel Euro 6 engines have 80% less nitrous oxide components and models have DPF (Diesel Particulate Filter) mounted 1.2 CR 50% less particle amounts in comparison to Euro 5 engines. and 1.6 CR engines with low CO 2 emission levels. Fuel Reduction of nitrous oxide components and particle amounts consumption of automatic models is minimized by the DSG to the lowest levels is an indication that the Euro 6 engines technology when changing gears. Engines of all SEAT models are a very good solution in terms of fuel consumption and conform to EU5 standards. environmental sensitivity. 1.4 TSI engine, used in the Alhambra model to be on the Environmental Commitment from Scania Authorized market in 2011, holds the Ecomotive title which represents Dealers and Authorized Service Centers the most environmentally friendly products of the SEAT brand. Scania expects a commitment from its Authorized Dealers The Start/Stop System implemented in this car switches off and Authorized Service Centers to reduce their negative the engine when the car stops in traffic to save fuel, becoming environmental impact with the Authorized Dealer Operation environmentally sensitive, with less CO 2 production. Standards (DOS 3) Quality Profile Report. Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers are expected to conform to SEAT SA brand has been continuously working on models minimum Scania standards to reduce waste fuel and hazardous with less fuel consumption and less exhaust gas production. chemicals. The employees of Authorized Dealers and Authorized The lowest fuel consuming and the lowest exhaust gas producing models are launched with the Ecomotive brandService Centers are also expected to learn the appropriate name. environmental arrangements for their facilities and act accordingly. Scania’s Black/Grey List is used by all staff doing Scania chemical purchasing. Chemicals on the black list are not used in the Company, nor are they distributed outside; instead of Scania brand holds its pioneering position in the automotive the chemicals in Scania’s Black/Gray List other substitute industry in these days of the ultimate importance of sensitivity substances, if they exist, are used. All Authorized Dealers and about global warming and environmental pollution. The Heavy Commercial vehicle sector continues efforts for compliance Authorized Service Centers are obliged to abide by this with the emission standards which becomes more difficult standard. with each passing day. Scania has launched vehicles with 440 and 480 horsepower and Euro 6 engine technology in May Each of the Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers 2011, adding to the Euro 5 engine product range which came has a person assigned and a written plan of action for premiered in 2010. Scania’s emission amount is reduced to environmental matters. Also, there is an environmental policy the minimum allowable level for Euro 6 engines. documented for the Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers. Environmental targets are embedded in the written When nitrous oxide compounds, giving the greatest harm to plan of action. All environmental goals are aligned with the the environment, couple with rain or water, they form acid environmental policy. Environmental exercises are continuously dissolving in it. This also causes acid rain which is very harmful a point of focus on the agendas of the executive staffs of the to the environment. To this end, Euro 6 engines are seen as Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers. 43 Environmental Impact To Reduce Our Environmental Impact As Scania: Of the DOS audits of all the Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers, the appropriate use of the chemical substances and prevention of their diffusion into nature is the concern of a specific audit department. Authorized Service Centers failing in this department are counted as failed in all matters. The collection of oils and used filters in the special waste tanks is required at all Authorized Service Centers; it is also an audit clause. All of our water discharge systems have chemical or physical treatment equipment. New and used accumulators are kept in special storage areas. Oil, accumulator, filter and other chemical substances are transferred to disposal companies. There are black and grey harmful substance lists. The use of chemical products like paint, glue etc which contain proscribed harmful substances and appear on the black and gray list is prohibited. Only clean energy sources are selected for heating purposes. Authorized Service Centers may not begin service before the implementation of ventilation and exhaust evacuation systems for the health of our employees. The use of insulated glass in facilities is standard. Efficient and renewable energy projects such as solar energy and ground heat pumps are investigated. Water based paint is used. Chemical substances are definitely not allowed to mix in soil and water. 44 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Employees “ Doğuş Otomotiv applies programs and determines goals to increase the life quality and social wellbeing of employees, and to make the working environment more efficient. ” 45 Employees Employees and Decent Work Policy Doğuş Otomotiv; Uses measurable recruitment tools to be transparent and traceable at recruitment processes; recruits employees of appropriate competency in accordance to the job description, making an assessment together with the related department manager. Human Resources policy aims to increase loyalty and ensure sustainable efficiency of its human resources. Therefore stakeholder-materiality analysis, employee satisfaction and loyalty surveys are conducted and improvement programs are carried out according to the results. Targets zero accidents, takes lessons from experience and improves processes; applies programs required to make the consequences of the accidents traceable and accountable. Attributes importance to the enhancement of employee awareness in public health and safety; thus organizes informative seminars to increase consciousness and awareness. These studies are brought to life in a systematic and planned way. Applies programs and determines goals to increase the life quality and social wellbeing of employees, and to make the working environment more efficient. Keeps transparency in the forefront at all processes of the employee applications; follows the legal processes regarding discrimination and monitors the data. Gives attention to dialog with the employees, questions their expectations regularly and applies open door policy. Specifies key performance indicators to acquire Best Company to Work For, The Best Employer goals on local and international platforms. Focus Area (Social Responsibility) Goal Method Employees and Decent Work Employee Satisfaction To be the best company to work for, to keep the employee turnover Expectation Analysis, Surveys, Open Door Meetings, Continuous and at minimum Transparent Dialogue, Mother and Baby Policies, KPI Employee Health and Zero accidents and maximum information disclosure Training, Monitoring and Self-Audit Mechanism, Seminars Related to Safety Mass Diseases Sustainable Employment Employee satisfaction and loyalty, contribution to local employment Dialogue with Employees, Right Performance Management, Improvement Program According to the Survey Results Equal Rights Transparency in all processes, data monitoring mechanisms, taking opinion Surveys, Evaluation Mechanisms, Information Disclosure, Dialogue Open and transparent communication, direct dialogue platforms with Dialogue with Employees senior management Open Door Meetings, Suggestion Systems, Surveys Doğuş Otomotiv 2009 2010 Number of full-time employees 1,665 1,652 Number of part-time employees Total workforce 1,665 1,652 Employees according to regions 2009 2010 Gebze Center 498 513 Doğuş Oto 1,102 1,087 Other Regions 65 52 Employees according to contract type 2009 2010 Number of permanent employees for undefined period 1,665 1,652 Number of seasonal and temporary employees 46 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Group Values and Employee Satisfaction Within the scope of a project titled Increasing Awareness in Taking Measures Foreseeing the Risks Doğuş Group Values, 60% of the Doğuş Otomotiv employees Investment in Information Technologies were interviewed face-to-face. The research included evaluation Responsible Sales and Marketing of our employees’ Perceptions of Group Values together with After Sales Services their working environment and culture, with a view toward Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers understanding how their behaviors and preferences are shaped. Climate Change The research identified the company’s cultural structure from Sales and Marketing of Environmentally Friendly Products a broad perspective, and in the light of all these findings, the Reducing the Energy Use degree to which the company values have been adopted. In Reducing the Water Use Waste and Scrap Management response to the study results, plans of action will be generated, Customer Health and Safety determining priority development areas on a company-wide Efforts to Meet Customer Expectation basis. The improvement programs based on the survey results Employee Satisfaction and Loyalty are being addressed. Employee Health and Safety Human Rights Activities, Results and Targets Related to Employee Awareness on Traffic Safety Expectation Survey A research company was retained to assess employee loyalty, The company’s Employee Satisfaction goal, our related willingness and satisfaction. The research helped identifying material improvement areas and the improvement actions the material improvement areas and evaluating the overall planned will be shared with all the employees when the success of the company in 10 criteria as stated below. study is complete. The Meaning of the Work Done Work Conditions/Environment Employee Health and Safety Leader/Manager Two-level Up Manager There is an Employee Health and Safety (EHS) Committee in Remuneration and Social Benefits our company in charge of employee health and safety. The Recognition and Appreciation workforce involved here is 2% of the total workforce. Meetings Personal/Professional Development are held the last week of each month, with input from the Information Flow – Communication and Collaboration consulting service. Agreements with suppliers include EHS Performance Management related rules in their addenda as well. Company Reputation and Recognition Doğuş Oto started to take consulting services in addition to The material company-wide improvement areas defined through making own studies within the context of Employee Health and the research were first evaluated by the Executive Board of Occupational Safety, in 2010. Inspection and improvement the company, on the basis of which the company’s four year activities were carried out by two A-Class Certified Occupational goals were set to increase the Overall Satisfaction Index from Safety Specialists over a total period of 72 days, at all Doğuş 53% up to 58%, and plans of action were developed. Oto agencies. Within this concept, Doğuş Oto targets 216 days of work for its Occupational Safety Specialists in 2011. After defining the company-wide improvement suggestions and sharing them with the units, separate meetings were held During the year, the following events were organized to help with each department/unit and plans of action were developed employees, their families and/or society related to serious mass for the material improvement areas of the units. diseases: Beyond these headings, questions from the following headings, devoted to how successful the CSR-related applications of Oral and Dental Health Discussion, the company are considered, were added to the research. H1N1 Panel, Development opportunities in this area were also investigated Healthy Nutrition and Diet Seminar, within the scope of the research. Civil Defense and Service Trainings. Corporate Governance and Ethics Doğuş Otomotiv plans to give support to awareness activities Mutual Dialogue with Stakeholders within its sphere of influence by getting involved in the global Responsible Sanctions in the Supply Chain campaign of awareness against HIV/AIDS disease, to be initiated Ensuring the Continuity of Our Business by Volkswagen AG in the second half of 2011. 47 Employees Employee Development We offer career development programs in the following areas: environment in the Company while working in their own mentorship; competence development; potential and fields. succession development; general manager trainings; and a management development academy. We also cooperate with universities to create synergy as corporate strategic partners, aimed at enabling employees The Mentorship Program is a project we plan to realize in to benefit from educational programs. 2011. Employees working within the Doğuş Otomotiv body for at least 10 years who are distinguished by their outstanding Performance Management performance and exemplary behavior will share their knowhow with newcomers. Within the Doğuş Otomotiv body in 2010: Common goals of Sales, After Sales Services and The Competençe Development Program prepares highly Marketing units were stated company-wide following workcompetent employees to increase their contribution to the shops organized by a company specialized in this field. company through project work and their own skill development. The Target Expansion team was trained in goal setting, and its progress was noted. The Potential and Suççession Development Program is designed for developing employees with great potential, who In line with the development areas set during the performance could quickly rise to the next level, take higher duties in various management process, a Performance Management System functions at Doğuş Otomotiv. It comprises 8 modules based Improvement Project was put into practice for the managers; on leadership. the suggestions received within the project’s context are realized after approval by the Executive Board. General Manager Training is the senior exeçutive development program, determined according to need; finding preferred training institutions abroad to equip our General Communication meetings were held with all employees within Managers with more visionary, strategic points of view, as the performance management system headings, and Human submitted to the approval and preference of the General Resources processes were shared as well. D-Human system Managers in 2010. infrastructure was updated in keeping with our employee expectations and the today’s conditions. The Management Development Açademy Program seeks to contribute to the development of strategic leadership Doğuş Oto has initiated the Employee of the Month and competencies and approaches to doing business, rooted in Year recognitions in 2010. Two employees, one from the the perpetual development understanding entailed by the sales and support functions and one from after sales service increasing growth in today’s business world and achievement units, were singled out in each region, announced at the goals. Blending business life and personal development, based company and rewarded. In 2010, awards totaling TL 20,400 on business administration executive-level master degree were given in this program. program, the Management Development Academy Program is to be carried out collaborating with a university in 2011. Employee Volunteerism In 2009 – 2010 Academic year, Long Live Our School The Internal Training Program is initiated to meet all training Support for Sister Schools Project was initiated under the requirements using internal resources and know-how, instead scope of voluntary projects. During the first year five of using external sources, to increase the employees' levels bookcases, painting of walls and ceilings, cleaning the floor, of competence and job related skills. classroom curtains, teacher’s desk, three PCs and sports Course headings are: Basic-Advanced Excel, Powerpoint, equipment were delivered to Akçakoca Primary School in Access, Consumer Law, Effective Communication, Time Çayırova district for building the Turkish language classroom. Management, Basic Accounting Practices, Emotional Intelligence, Marketing Techniques, Sales Methods According Missing books for the school library, sports equipment, and to Behavior Patterns, Lean Basic Concepts, Problem Solving three PCs were supplied for Tahsin Tarhan Primary School Techniques, Customer Relations, Market Planning Trainings, as well. Professional Attitude and Behavior Training, and Recruitment and Evaluation. In 2010 – 2011 Academic year, a Science and Technology Laboratory with all the equipment was set up at Tahsin Internal trainers help with the development of other employees Tarhan Primary School. In 2011, we plan to support Sevgi through their know-how, keeping alive the continuous learning Evleri Social Services and Child Protection Institution. 48 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Employee Rights It is clearly stated in the Doğuş Otomotiv Basic Rights and e-mail or phone, Authorized Dealers conducted the Responsibilities Procedure that Doğuş Otomotiv employees, changes through the system themselves and hence a all full-time, have the same rights and each employee is one gain of 454 man hours/year was obtained. of the key stakeholders of our company. Health insurance, life insurance, meals and transportation service are social rights A gain of ~ 517 man hours/year was obtained by enabling that all the employees benefit from. We also give support to the Authorized Dealers and Service Centers to access employees with new babies, to work in a more comfortable their own scores in CSS reports. Also, the Authorized and peaceful working environment through a system enabling Dealers had the opportunity to take CSS related actions them to visually monitor their homes during the hours they are faster through actual data they can access any time. in the company. Through a system set up within the company, the employees with babies are given the right to use the File transfer is realized easier and faster by creating a company network to monitor the camera system which they common file share area between the logistics building have established in their homes and they are provided with and the Center building. (~ 70% shortening of the file the opportunity to see their homes on their computer screens delivery time) while working. Updating user information and adding the phone numbers Dialogue Platforms with Employees of the employees located out of Şekerpınar on the computer programs provided saving 1,7 minutes per Management information meetings phone number shortening the time spent to find the Information disclosure via intranet and e-mail related employee’s phone number. (~%90 time saved from time spent to find the number). Direct Dialogue Platforms with Senior Management Executives and senior management share information about In response to feedback received from employees, it was the company’s activities and operations at the management decided to update the IT infrastructure, and to work together information meetings every three months. with all Lean Leaders within the context of Suggestion Human Resources Department organizes communication System through the organization of Lean Workshops; this meetings to share HR processes when there is a change task is intended to be executed in 2011. The goals related in applications and at years’ end. to the suggestion system are planned to be inserted in the Each employee of Doğuş Otomotiv can directly communicate score cards of Lean Leaders and Managers during 2011. with the related manager whenever he/she wishes. Intranet System Suggestion System The Intranet is the homepage for all Doğuş Otomotiv Through the Doğuş Otomotiv Employee Suggestion System, employees and it is visited frequently. 653 suggestions were received from Doğuş Otomotiv and Doğuş Oto employees in 2010, and 205 of these suggestions were approved. Annual Return Estimation of the suggestions As a part of intranet improvement studies, the intranet system delivered to the system and approved is TL 285,000 in 2010. has been renewed because of user demands and suggestions. The improvement continues in line with these Examples from the suggestions taken into practice demands. in 2010: Local Employment To prevent the possible financial loss and customer complaints by tracking the new model launch processes Three Executives and 61 employees at Çayırova Center within a plan; making a total of 64 people within the Doğuş Otomotiv body, and 802 people in Istanbul, 237 people in Ankara, 125 Instead of the Regional Managers conducting the vehicle people in Bursa making a total of 1,164 people at Doğuş quota changes upon requests from Authorized Dealers via Oto are employed from the provinces in which they reside. 49 Employees Employee Turnover Doğuş Otomotiv 2009 2010 Number of employees resigned 212 259 Employee turnover rate 13% 16% (%) Number of male 147 211 employees resigned Male employees resigned 70% 81% (%) Number of female 64 48 employees resigned Female employees 30% 19% resigned (%) Number of resigned 124 109 employees under 30 Resigned employees 59% 42% under 30 (%) Number of resigned employees 82 146 between 30 and 50 Resigned employees 39% 56% between 30 and 50 (%) Number of resigned 5 4 employees over 50 Resigned employees 2% 2% over 50 (%) Number of resigned 69 48 employees from Gebze HQ Resigned employees 33% 18% from Gebze HQ (%) Number of resigned 131 207 employees from Doğuş Oto Resigned employees 62% 80% from Doğuş Oto (%) Number of resigned employees 12 4 from other regions Resigned employees 5% 2% from other regions (%) Doğuş Otomotiv Data Measurement Method 2009 2010 Rate of lost days due to illness – Full Days lost in total/Lost days due to illness 10,466/5,543 Days 11,777/5,966 Days Time Employees Rate of lost days due to illness – Days lost in total/Lost days due to illness Subcontractors Accident rate recorded Number of accidents 4 accidents 4 accidents Rate of lost days due to accidents Days lost in total/Lost days due to accidents 10,466/151 Days Incapacity 11,777/56 Days Incapacity Number of fatal cases – Full Time Number of cases Employees Number of fatal cases Subcontractors Number of cases Rate of lost days due to occupational Days lost in total/Lost days due to 10,466/11,777/illnesses occupational illnesses Doğuş Otomotiv Days lost in total/Doğuş Otomotiv lost days 2,876/4,029/rate of lost days due to accidents due to accidents Doğuş Oto rate of lost days due to Days lost in total/Doğuş Oto lost days due 7,590/151 7,748/56 accidents to accidents 50 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Female Employees Age Groups Employees Total Doğuş Number of Otomotiv Doğuş Oto Total Number of Employees Doğuş Otomotiv (%) According to Doğuş Oto (%) Positions Employees (%) (%) Under 30 Between 30 Over 50 Under 30 Between 30 Over 50 Under 30 Between 30 Over 50 and 50 and 50 and 50 Middle and Senior Level 14 8 4 70 5 42 3 23 1 Executive Executive 43 35 10 154 3 7 133 1 Sales 61 5 54 74 88 10 6 59 80 Employee Blue Collar 3 271 254 9 239 315 5 Other 224 94 110 255 341 8 80 103 4 154 207 3 Board of Directors, 1 1 5 5 5 4 1 Executive Board 2009 2010 Ratio of female employees’ wages to, 107% 109% male employees’ wages Basic Sales Training Basic training for the certification program organized for Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles sales representatives was carried out this year, as usual. This nineteen day program emphasizes technical and product topics for 12 days and behavior topics for 7 days, and is a regular part of the company’s annual calendar, diffused over 21 weeks during the year. 1,128 days/man capacity targeted in this training program has been reached. 211 sales representatives participated in the basic training and 47 employees from our sales team gained the right to take the certification exam. After this successful year, the number of our certified sales representatives has reached 130. Our sales team members all attended the Caddy launch training which we organized for the Caddy model put on the market with its new face in 2010, and the training was evaluated positively by Authorized Dealers and Service Center organization and distributors. A one day competition training was delivered to agency employees, who support us for our marketing activities and should be familiar with all our models and the competitive aspects of the market. Static and dynamic investigations of the models of the competitors, and of Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles were made within the training, and test drives were also given. A modular training system similar to this is also provided by our other brands. Trainings Employment Type 2009 (Average hour per employee) 2010 (Average hour per employee) Senior Management 1 0 Middle Level Executives 12 48 Other 10 73 Blue Collar 4 17 General Average 9 55 51 Employees Human Rights Doğuş Otomotiv Human Rights Policy Doğuş Otomotiv, Doğuş Otomotiv bases its commitments regarding Human Rights on the United Nations Global Compact which was signed already and the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights are also an integral part of Doğuş Otomotiv Ethical Principles and all of the employees and business partners are expected to comply with these principles and Doğuş Otomotiv Human Rights policy. Doğuş Otomotiv obeys national and international laws and regulations related with human rights, and expects that business partners do as well. Doğuş Otomotiv safeguards the rights of the people living in the regions where it operates and takes precautions against violation of rights and manages the related risks. The number of distinct persons visiting the Human Rights elearning application was 360. There are 469 white collar employees using computers; as such the read rate of the elearning is 77%. 52 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Customers “ Doğuş Otomotiv, consistently audits service standards, aims to reach the highest standards of customer satisfaction by taking special action concerning issues to be improved. ” 53 Customers Product and Service Responsibility Policy Doğuş Otomotiv tracks the social and environmental impacts stemming from its products and services, and is aware of the responsibility towards all of the social stakeholders and ecological environment. Doğuş Otomotiv adopts and implements the following policy within the framework. Manages audits and continuously improves the procedures relating to customer health and safety. Applies international standards for training and correctly informing stakeholders directly or indirectly affected by its products and services. Focuses on choosing the right equipment, reasonable price, right launch, for Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers trainings and informing the customers correctly, to serve beyond expectations. Consistently audits service standards, aims to reach the highest standards of customer satisfaction by taking special action concerning issues to be improved. Embraces the principles of responsible communication, and seeks well beyond the laws and regulations to comply with OEM standards in accordance with the values and expectations of the brands represented. Focus Area (Social Responsibility) Goal Method Product and Service Customer Health and Safety International standards of service and a full, accurate and Process Management, Audit and Controlling Mechanisms, timely information disclosure Disclosure, Dialogue, Training Training and Disclosure Informing the stakeholders effected from our products and Dialogue Platforms, Safe and Economic Driving Techniques services, trainings in cases of need Trainings, Indicator Rooms, Being a Role Model Customer Satisfaction Trust, loyalty, service beyond expectations Choosing the Right Equipment, Reasonable Price, Right Launch, Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Trainings, Informing the Customer Responsible Marketing Responsible communication techniques, accordance with Responsible Approach Beyond The Laws and Regulations, Preliminary OEM expectations Evaluation and Follow-up of The Global Voluntary Codes Health and Safety Impact of Products Since the Polo model the ABS brake system, inertia reel front and Services seat belt, front airbags and ISOFIX child seat anchorage sockets are offered as standard. In the Golf model, seven airbags are standard; this characterizes the peak point of the Volkswagen segment. In the Passat model, dangerous situations such as ISO audits are made every year for safe transfer of parts from driver distraction are identified in advance by the Fatigue Authorized Service Centers and Doğuş Otomotiv central Detection System. warehouse to customers. Parts with a shelf-life of are defined in the system, and carry shelf-life tags to be visible in the In addition, the 4-wheel drive 4Motion system, used in the warehouses. Used parts like oil, oil filters, fuel filters, tires, Touareg, makes this large off-road vehicle’s road-holding accumulators, etc. which might be harmful for the environment are not transferred to customers, but sent to the authorized almost perfect. This drive system is also used in Golf R, which entities for disposal. as a sports car requires a high cornering ability. Touareg is able to distinguish the characteristics of the ground, and adjust In addition to the standards they must comply with Volkswagen, the behavior of the brake system accordingly via ABS Plus. service centers are also subject to ISO audits. These audits ensure the procedures and services provided to the customers We aim to raise consciousness of our customers about proper as well as the facilities of the authorized service centers to be use of the entire security infrastructure and the systems so maintained at the highest level. they can benefit from the potential offered by the vehicles as much as possible during any difficult situation. Volkswagen Passenger Cars Volkswagen Passenger Car models aim to secure maximum Additionally, sales and service teams regularly attend relevant customer safety through the best active and passive safety training programs, to keep their information levels up to date systems of the industry; their bodies are made of high-strength in order to raise consciousness of the customers. Also through steel. Thanks to this high level safety, the Polo, Golf, Passat, Volkswagen Driving Experience organizations, our customers Scirocco and Tiguan models which are still on the market can receive trainings concerning safe driving techniques under were awarded 5-stars in the EuroNCAP crash tests. different driving conditions. 54 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Asbestos-free brake and clutch linings, and fluids not detrimental When a collision is unavoidable, the pre-sense plus system, to human health, have been standard on Volkswagen Passenger in addition to the functions of pre-sense front system, activates Car models for many years; this also protects the health of the Audi braking guard and initiates full braking to reduce the maintenance staff. severity of the collision as much as possible. The vehicle can be completely stopped within the system limits. Audi Side Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Assist is designed to support customers at blind spots during lane changes. Technologies like Audi Lane Assist support The Volkswagen Commercial Vehicle brand distinguishes in system allowing the driver to remain in the same lane; and the market by its technological and product-based competitive adaptive cruise control are available in a wide model range on advantages, standardizing innovation, creativeness, quality the Turkish market. We have been training our Authorized and superior technological equipment and safety. The Dealers about these technologies and, in order to raise Volkswagen Commercial Vehicle brand has the most awareness in our customers, we have been sharing information comprehensive standard safety package in the entire model regularly both on our website and through social media tools range of commercial vehicles, offering ESP as standard on like LinkedIn. the New Caddy in 2010. The New Caddy is the only vehicle in its range which also offers 7-speed DSG and Hill Start Furthermore, Product Portal intranet system, established to Assistance together with ESP. increase the information level of our Authorized Dealers, includes detailed information about all Audi accessories, thereby The New Caddy has had many improvements to its product enabling all Authorized Dealers instant access to accurate specifications. Cruise control, rain sensor, daytime running information. We also provide our customers with training about lights, automatic headlamp activation, automatically dimming safe driving techniques via Audi Driving Experience interior rear-view mirror, passenger and luggage compartment, organizations. interior lining and similar features carry Caddy beyond its class. Due to the improvement of the engine, Caddy also offers an SEAT extremely high efficiency of up to 21 percent. The engine is Vehicle safety standards of all SEAT products have been entirely compatible with Euro 5 exhaust emission standards, boosted in line with customer needs. All of our models have with both turbo and direct fuel injection. With other features been furnished with advanced active and passive safety like four-valve TDI engines with 102 PS power it consumes systems. ESP (Electronic Stability Program), TCS (Traction fuel as low as 5.2 liters per 100 km. A very quiet and efficient Control System) and the latest technology ABS (Anti-lock joint-line fuel injection system (common rail pressure generation Brake System) are the most significant of those technologies. and injection are separate; a high-pressure pump continuously feeds the fuel line) has TDI engines with direct injection and In addition, the three-point rear seat belts, the middle safety diesel particulate filters as standard. belts and the ISOFIX child seat fixing system on the rear side seats to provide children with maximum safety; are standard The steering wheel with servotronic (speed-sensitive power to all models. control) features has been included as standard equipment SEAT Ibiza and Altea XL model families have earned the fivefor all Caravelle models in 2010. star rating, the highest score of Euro Ncap crash tests regarding the passenger safety. Audi We offer very comprehensive safety-related solutions and The advanced safety systems being offered in the product technologies to our customers with the Audi brand. First of all portfolio are displayed in detail on the brand website for ISOFIX technology, of utmost importance for the safety of child customer information. passengers, is standard on all of our brands. Audi A6, A7 Sportback and A8 models have Pre-sense basic, a series of Scania preventive systems activated at critical driving situations such Scania’s values project the requirements of the suppliers with as accidents to protect passengers, including stretching the ISO / TS 16949 quality management standards and as ISO front seat belts, lighting hazard warning flashers, closing the 14001 certified. Scania’s supply policy calls for the suppliers windows and closing the sunroof, as standard. to meet high quality standards, provide a certified environmental management system, and commit to basic human rights, In addition, the car can be ordered with the integrated advanced employee health, safety, remuneration and working conditions driver and passenger support systems such as the Audi Preand the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Scania is sense plus (Audi side assist) and adaptive cruise control always in contact with its suppliers to support them to meet systems. these needs. 55 Customers Customer Health and Safety prevented by our expert teams’ findings and identifications. Vehicles with completed service process are subjected to a final check, in line with our procedures, to minimize any Volkswagen unnoticed issues related to the customer safety. Through the BAK (Dialogue Reception) practice of our Authorized Service Centers, when comprehensive inspections A check-up application performed without charge for all are conducted on vehicles brought to service centers, customers who update information on our website is also a customers are informed about their vehicles’ situations in part of the awareness activities of our brand related to customer detail. These inspections aim to identify and prevent conditions safety. which might endanger the safety of our customers, and provide our customers with awareness about their vehicles. More detailed information about customer awareness will be shared through the Online Service application to be ready on Inspection conducted in the presence of the customer at the our website soon. vehicle reception is repeated by experienced service staff after the transaction is finished as a comprehensive final check, As with all other group brands, the parts which have a shelflife and during delivery, the service transactions are explained to are checked periodically and the parts found over the shelflife the customer to whom the vehicle is delivered. Additionally, are disposed of. parts which have a shelflife are checked periodically and those parts over the shelf life are disposed of. Doğuş Oto Volkswagen Passenger Cars Doğuş Oto completes the (PDI) controls, conducting a detailed inspection on the newly sold cars before delivering them to Volkswagen Passenger Cars aims at enabling customers to the customers. On delivery, all customers are given a user’s fully utilize their vehicle’s potential in undesirable situations, manual and provided with the features of the vehicle in detail. by raising their awareness to ensure correct use of the systems. Doğuş Oto realized 24,200 vehicle sales in 2010. Volkswagen Driving Experience events are organized for this purpose. These consist of teaching safe driving techniques 171,074 service entries were recorded at Doğuş Oto service under different driving conditions to our customers. Within this centers in 2010. All vehicles coming out of service of Doğuş context, life-saving techniques are taught through theoretical Oto get a final check on the engine, the inside and underside and practical trainings like accurate cornering, braking on of the vehicle, and a general check. They are also cleaned slippery surfaces and avoiding hurdles. inside and out before delivery to the customer. Customers are also given the opportunity to participate in test All the vehicles served at Doğuş Oto service centers are insured drives under the conditions which make the systems like ABS, against any kind of risk during the time they are in the center. ASR and ESP work, and experience active safety conditions. Doğuş Oto sends automatic mobile messages to the owners Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles of all vehicles whose tires are more than 4 years old, and/or Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles began to offer ESP, an passenger vehicles with more than 40,000 km and commercial important safety component, in the standard equipment vehicles and all-terrain vehicles that have more than 20,000 package on all models in 2010, maintaining its position in the km, to remind them of the need to change tires. 6,744 mobile commercial vehicles market as the brand presenting the most messages were sent for this purpose in 2010. inclusive safety package. A test movie has been produced indicating the difference between vehicles with ESP and without Recall campaigns forwarded by Doğuş Otomotiv are exercised. ESP by experienced drivers on a special track, to demonstrate As a result of recall campaigns, 8,264 vehicles received service the benefit of ESP offered on all Volkswagen Commercial form Doğuş Oto service centers in 2010. Vehicles models. In addition to being broadcasted in the ad zone of some television channels, this short film has also been Informative brochures are available in all Doğuş Oto’s service constantly displayed on the LCD screens in showrooms. center waiting lounges and vehicle admission areas to provide information on fuel saving, warning signs on the display panel, SEAT used vehicles, security systems, pets, and child safety. Active Vehicle Reception is exercised at the Authorized Service Centers, especially for customers coming by appointment. In case of an accident or a breakdown, Doğuş Oto service is immediately available to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days Throughout this application, vehicles are inspected in detail of the year, with 13 tow trucks and 15 emergency assistance with the customer present, and potential problems are vehicles for prompt response to problems. 56 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 We provided temporary replacement vehicles to the comfort Product and Service Information of our customers during repair of their vehicles from a fleet of 172 vehicles a total of 1,795 times, for a total of 15,789 days Audi in 2010. Audi publishes all detailed information about the pricing of our Safe and Economic Driver Trainings products and services over our website in order to be clear, transparent and understandable. Again over the website, our Doğuş Otomotiv takes, among its areas of responsibility, the customers can access the details of standard equipment and creation of awareness on such topics as the importance of traffic safety and safe vehicle driving for sake of all the the technical data of and technologies offered within each stakeholders within its sphere of influence, and the model. For any information they cannot find on the website, our dissemination of information to assist the development of safe customers can reach our brand representatives directly via our vehicle driving culture in Turkey, by collaborating with the call center, facebook or twitter pages, and ask their questions. relevant institutions and organizations for the awareness works. Also through the car design module on the website, our To this end, enlarging the scope of the Traffic is Life awareness customers can see the prices of the accessories they want, campaign, which has been carried out for years, in order to and make a comfortable decision examining the interior and reach more people, Doğuş Otomotiv plans to organize Safe external visuals projected there. Driving Days, beginning with its employees, at Istanbul Park in 2011. The program’s goal is to extend training to include In addition to the website, our customers can obtain access to employees of all the Doğuş Group companies in the next model details, price information, contact information of the phases. Traffic Safety e-learning application is planned for the authorized dealers and service centers, emergency roadside sales teams of all the Authorized Dealers again within the assistance service over Audi Mobil website via their mobile Traffic is Life campaign. A First Aid in Accidents course for all phones. Model catalogues are another source displaying all Doğuş Otomotiv employees is also planned within 2011 targets. information wondered about Audi models in detail. Safe driving trainings such as sudden braking and quick lane SEAT change were offered to our customers through the Audi Driving Experience event, organized at Istanbul Park in 2010. We deliver our product information through car introduction Both Audi customers and demanding potential customers brochures and the website. We announce any change in the participated in the driving trainings of Audi AG abroad, which prices on all related platforms as soon as possible. In addition were provided at levels like driving on ice, basic driving training to our own communication channels, we share our prices with and intensive training. the press for publication in sectoral journals. Scania Safe and Economic Driving Trainings Scania Doğuş Otomotiv has been giving free training for drivers in As Scania brand, we carry out open, understandable, clear, Turkey since 2005 as part of the global vision of Scania for detailed, and above all, in compliance with the legal requirements, reducing traffic accidents and safe and economic driving. to promote our products and services through channels easily 2,452 drivers from 235 companies have been trained to date. accessible to the customers. Our website enables our customers In the theoretical training, given by Doğuş Otomotiv’s both to communicate their demands and complaints, to easily professional driving trainers, drivers are given useful information reach the information they seek from authorized dealers and on the using of Scania vehicles’ ABS and exhaust brake service centers and to follow brand activities. In addition, Scania systems and using the sequence of differential locks. The Dünyası Magazine is sent free to our customers quarterly to vehicles are introduced, and points which affect safe driving, inform customers about new developments and activities of fuel consumption, safety and vehicle maintenance are analyzed. our brand. Customers have access to highly detailed product In the second, practical section of these lessons, instructors information through product brochures available from all the assist drivers with the suggested driving styles, and correct authorized dealers and service centers. When changes occur, their mistakes through one-to-one drives. Finding the all users and others concerned are informed through revisions opportunity to learn how to develop their reflexes correctly, of the information in these brochures, on our website, technical drivers experience more economic driving with less fuel information sheets, announcements, and advertisements. consumption. During the daily training where theory meets practice, drivers are provided with information on how to act With regard to pricing, we make our updated and recommended in all road conditions. This training is also given to the sales prices in detail available to the customers through the mentioned teams of Scania Authorized Dealers. channels. 57 Customers All our processes are implemented by experts in the field. Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Commercial Vehicles Important issues are prescribed taking opinion of the law One of the chief goals of the MACH 18 project comprising the department. year 2018 vision of Volkswagen AG is leadership in customer satisfaction. Therefore the responsibility of this vision conduces Doğuş Oto to increase our company’s responsibilities related to customer Doğuş Oto provides consultation services to customers during satisfaction. the purchasing phase to pick the car which suits best to their needs, and provides them with test drives through the 104 test Through the CSS – Customer Satisfaction Survey workshops, vehicles from every brand of the Volkswagen group to gain a organized for the first time in 2010 and ongoing in 2011, methods better idea about the car of their interest. 6,368 test drives were to uphold our performance in customer satisfaction at the performed at Doğuş Oto agencies during 2010. highest level were discussed and responses were sought, in consultation with investors and executives of the Authorized DOD Service Centers. The workshops focused solely on performance for customer satisfaction, and the results were rendered to DOD`s Pricing module is obtained through analysis of data on decisions and carried out quickly. approximately 25,000 vehicles of different brands and models on the market, and continuously updated. Consumers are A significant point of the RASE (Retail After-Sales Excellence) informed through a clear, transparent and understandable project targets is also to increase customer satisfaction. By this structure over www.dod.com.tr website with the support of project, Volkswagen shows its determinism in this field. DOD`s pricing specialists. Additionally the consumers are given the opportunity to be able to determine the actual value of their There have been several applications aiming to raise the customer own vehicle, considering the vehicle`s mechanical and bodyworksatisfaction at our Authorized Service Centers. When a paint conditions, via the virtual expertise module keyDOD, a customer’s vehicle is picked up from and delivered to the door, first in Turkey. The evaluation processes executed at DOD sales the customer is also supplied a temporary vehicle. BAK (Dialogue points and their results are shared with the consumers Reception) application includes our customers in the service transparently. Detailed information regarding the vehicle details, procedure, and shows that we care about their vehicles as past and current situations is communicated during vehicle much as we do about them. sales. Customers have access to any information with regard to changed and/or repainted parts of all the vehicles put up for Our complaint and request lines are available to our customer sale at DOD, as well as the results of the mechanical evaluations. 24/7, and complaints are concluded within 3 days, on average. Our first reaction occurs within 24 hours at maximum. Similarly, Customer Satisfaction Process the customers sending e-mails are also ensured of a response within 24 hours at latest. All the complaints and requests received Management are interpreted and analyzed. Volkswagen brand understands complaints as gifts from our customers to help us to better our Doğuş Otomotiv regularly evaluates our customers` expectation business. and satisfaction levels through Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSS) and measures the satisfaction levels. We review services An online application will be launched to instantly message our offered and carry out the required improvements and customers through our website starting at the second half of arrangements in line with these expectations. In 2010, the 2011. The application aims to enable the communication with following processes were rearranged due to the customer our customers via instant messages. expectations: Audi Online appointment scheduling system BAK (Dialogue Reception) service One of Audi’s practices oriented to customer satisfaction is the Express after sales service Audi Product Portal, prepared to increase the information level Door-to-Door pick-up and delivery service of Audi Authorized Dealers, enabling them to reach the Service bus transportation for the customers information needed quickly and shortening the processes needed Increasing the number of test vehicles to give faster and more accurate responses to customers’ Hiring new employees with the duty to meet the customers product-related questions. The Audi Product Portal includes before the sales advisor technical data about the products, standard equipment, detailed Quickly acknowledging customers who communicate their explanations of the technologies offered, visuals to share with complaints via surveys or various channels, and providing the customers and videos depicting how the systems work. full satisfaction Through this portal it is aimed that before ordering a vehicle, 24/7 Call Center service concerning Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT customers can approach Authorized Dealers without any and Scania brands, accessible from all around Turkey without questions remaining in their minds about the vehicle they want dialling the area code to buy. 58 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 In 2010, BenimAudim (MyAudi) website was also put into service The general outline of the customer satisfaction studies for Audi customers, who can make appointments online at any conducted at Scania is as follows: service point and gain a 10% discount on workmanship in return Customer satisfaction index conducted for sales and after for using this service. Our customers can also enjoy conveniences sales customers in certain periods (CSI), like the temporary vehicle or taxi service requests, see service SMS and e-mails sent to the customers at feasts and the information and interim invoices on their vehicles during service New Year period, transactions through this website. BenimAudim(MyAudi) provides SMS sent to existing customers for informational purposes access to bank account information and contracted insurance during campaigns, company information of the concerned service centers, and the The Scania Dünyası Magazin including comments from our possibility to have detailed information on services provided at customers, the Service Centers, Audi original accessories and Audi boutique Special customer interviews and photo shoots to be included products. in our magazines or press releases, Customer-specific delivery ceremony activities accompanied The number of temporary vehicles kept at the Authorized Service by the press, Centers for customers leaving their cars for after-sales service Domestic and international customer visits. has been increased. Also, the number of drivers has been increased for door-to door delivery of customer’s vehicles in DOD need of after-sales service to save their time. Quality control The DOD Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI), the first such index technicians were trained to render healthier quality control of in the used car retail sector in Turkey, which provides periodical all the vehicles coming out from the service center; these training assessments from customers for sales and purchasing, has sessions will be continued every year on a regular basis. been improved in 2010. The values gained on the basis of the Authorized Dealers’ and customers’ feedback were evaluated SEAT by the brand management teams, and field executives trained the Authorized Dealers to provide them with the necessary The customer’s expectation is always asked at SEAT when they development. call the Call Center, or communicate their request or complaint via e-mail. Complaint management is supervised through Turkuaz, We enhance our synergy and customer satisfaction, prompting the common information system of Doğuş Otomotiv. customers who sell their used vehicles via DOD and want to have a “brand new vehicle”, to the related brand new sales The following activities are carried out for customer satisfaction units. at SEAT: Studies are carried out at DOD to understand the customers’ Surveys expectations both face-to-face (during sales after sales service) Process improvements and through the surveys. Taking actions on repeated complaints Instant solutions from call center and failures mentioned in the complaints are given precedence. All of our activities are in line with related laws and regulations. Customer satisfaction is surveyed both for customers purchasing new vehicles and for customers who received after-sales service Audi from Authorized Service Centers.The feedback from these surveys is evaluated on a regular basis, and improvements are Audi customers receive communication in accordance with executed as well. The survey results serve as important outputs a systematic plan following purchase through our Customer also to preserve the service quality of our Authorized Dealers Relationship Management application entitled as Customer at a certain level. Dialogue Programs. The aspects of Customer Dialogue Programs are summarized as follows: Scania Informing Audi customers via relevant e-mails about insurance, Presenting its customers with many kinds of standard equipment car insurance, service and motor vehicles tax after the vehicle to reduce operating costs, including engines with low fuel is sold, consumption, Scania continuously assists its customers with Sending Audi Magazine to the Audi customers quarterly, its after sales service and approach. Sending Audi e-bulletin to the Audi customers monthly, Informing existing customers about the launch of new products Our service centers gained “DOS 3 Certification” through via online and offline e-mails, compliance with the criteria set to provide the same quality Audi Driving Experience events, launches, sponsorships and service to the customers around the world. special activities, 59 Customers Invitation to and free accommodation at international 2 0 1 0 C u s t o m e r S a t i s f a c t i o n S u r v e y R e s u l t s 13 organizations held by Audi AG before the model launches, Doğuş Otomotiv Sales: 100.58 like A8 and A6, Doğuş Otomotiv After Sales Service: 91.18 Customers-only launches with the Authorized Dealers activities and test drives, Recording the customer requests and delivering them to the Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Satisfaction Authorized Dealers through Audi brand portal. Surveys The satisfaction surveys prepared for the Authorized Dealers Doğuş Otomotiv Customer Satisfaction Research Surveys and Service Centers are conducted by the Authorized Dealers The accord with service quality standards is computed on the and Service Centers through Turkuaz, 3 days after the vehicle basis of customer satisfaction measurements to enable the sales or service entry. They are not subjected to any kind of producer companies to monitor the performance of Doğuş scoring. Otomotiv, and Doğuş Otomotiv to monitor the performance of the Authorized Dealers. Customer Privacy Survey Methodology Surveys are conducted weekly and published online over Turkuaz System the system on between 12 th and 15 th of each month (www.doguscss.com) Privacy principles and sharing rules of the customer data on The overall score range is between -40 and 120. Doğuş Otomotiv Turkuaz System abide by precise and highly The Satisfaction Questions which are responded by all the detailed rules. First of all, any person or institution, including customers are queried via the following options: Perfect (12), the Authorized Dealers and Service Centers, is authorized to I am quite satisfied (8), I am satisfied (4), I am not so satisfied see only the part of the customer data entered by them. (0), I am not satisfied at all (-4). Response options to Control Questions are either Yes or No. Additionally, the employees of different brands within the same The positive responses are given 12 points, and negative institution are not authorized to see each other's customer ones -4. data. Role-based authorization model is applied for each user of SALES SERVICE Turkuaz. Users can see only the transaction pages which are Customer Loyalty Customer Loyalty appropriate to their operational roles. Pages, processes and functions which are not attributed to their roles are hidden Customer Retention Vehicle Record from other users. The brands which each user is authorized Test Drive Repair to see and operate in the customer data are also considered Delivery Invoice system-wide. The rights of users authorized by more than one Follow up – Communication Vehicle Delivery corporation can be defined separately for each corporation. Introducing to the Service Staff General The hosting of application and database servers is assured Appearance Personal Approach to the Customer by expert staff. Access of the Authorized Dealers and business partners to any application is provided through the special VPN access under security. Turkuaz application and database are audited by various control mechanisms quarterly on a regular basis, wherein security elements such as access to the application, user management and authentication, database access, and compliance with defined processes are scrutinized by independent experts. 13 This survey covers the brands Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, Audi, Porsche and SEAT. 60 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Community Engagement “ Doğuş Otomotiv values the importance of traffic safety and human’s life. Our company commits to provide appropriate services for its products and services having higher standards and preventing these qualifications during their life span. ” 61 Community Engagement Community Engagement Policy Doğuş Otomotiv; Knows the importance of traffic safety and the value of human life. It is committed to providing the necessary services for the products and services to have high standards and maintain their properties during usage; Presents a model for the importance of traffic safety, and responsible behavior through its employees; Guarantees the high standards of its products in terms of customer health and safety; Ensures maintenance and repair services with quality and high standards in order to preserve those standards of the products throughout their lifecycles; Conducts and manages information and awareness activities regarding traffic safety with continuous dialogue and cooperation with the relevant institutions and organizations; Maintains ethical principles that are lucid and accessible, supported by multiple participation, approved by senior management, and are among the main elements of our corporate governance principles; Continues to work on the ethical principles to make them a comprehensive framework that covers all the processes; Avoids unethical situations such as fraud and abuse, communicates the required information for employee awareness and undertaking responsibility in this regard; starts works to establish fraud and abuse prevention mechanisms, and sets goals thereto. Focus Area (Social Responsibility) Goal Method Community Engagement Traffic Safety Consciousness, awareness, cooperation, high standards in Indicator Rooms Application, Safe Driving Techniques after sales services Trainings, Doğuş Otomotiv Employees Being Role Models, Cooperation Platforms, “Traffic is Life” Business Ethics Establishment of the systems required to create understanding of Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics, In-house Awareness, ethics in global standards, prevention and audit mechanisms, transparency Trainings, Ethics Line, Definition of the Processes Public Awareness on Traffic Safety and After Sales Maintenance Training and Disclosure All Activities Executed within the Context of “Traffic is Life” and Repair of the Vehicles, Increase Cooperation with Vocational High Schools Program Cooperation and Dialogue Local and global cooperation and leadership at dialogue Cooperation, Dialogue Platforms, Memberships, Support platforms and being role model about Traffic Safety Programs, Trainings and Information Disclosures Indicator Rooms Application Ethical Principles Indicator Rooms application was derived in 2009 It is essential that all Doğuş Otomotiv Group employees from a vehicle`s indicator, which is a hardware and executives comply with the following ethical informing, warning and directing the drivers in most principles: accurate and fast way. The research and development 1. We carry out our activities in compliance with Doğuş work for Indicator Rooms continued in 2010 with the Otomotiv’s mission and goals and the basic Principles prototype at Kocaeli Authorized Service Center Ark of the United Nations Global Compact. Oto, and customer feedback is evaluated. 2. We protect the principles of integrity, honesty and transparency in all of our actions within Doğuş Otomotiv’s sphere of influence. 3. We treat all of our stakeholders and each other justly and avoid discrimination. 4. We respect the reputation, property and all other human and commercial rights of others. 5. We make decisions and executions indepent from individuals and bodies outside the corporation. 6. We respect different cultures and opinions. 62 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 The selected stand layout was standardized with a dynamic look after the development work to ensure effective functionality. The stand is double-sided, movable, has real parts with product/dealer standards on it, and has a screen to display movies etc. Indicator Rooms became display units which can be placed in the customer waiting rooms. Simulation in an actual vehicle aiming at awareness of safety belts, airbags, etc. has been quite difficult to apply and is not functionally effective, so filmmaking was preferred in the end. Films shown on the screen of the display unit are in correspondence with the Traffic is Life idea and have a positive approach. In order to display real parts, simulate real occurrences and present real stories concerning service needs, the parts to be displayed were carefully accumulated by assigned teams of dealers, whose names were cited, using sustainable data/material gathering method. In its final form, Indicator Display Unit was tendered, and production started according to the shapes/numbers to put them into use firstly in Doğuş Oto agencies operating in Istanbul, Ankara and Bursa. Approximately 10-14 real parts/objects will be exhibited in a display unit and changed according to update requirements Cooperation with Vocational High once in about 6 months. The display unit will be presented Schools for sales and aftersales customer feedback, with a film about Our educational activities continued in 2010 as well, notably making use of the safety equipment consciously being displayed with Şişli and Samandıra Industrial Vocational High Schools on the screen over the display unit. Volkswagen Laboratories. Activities carried out within this context in 2010 include: By using positive and effective information disclosure methods In 2010/ 2011 academic year, 26 new students were in line with the Traffic is Life vision, the targets of the Indicator accepted to the 10th class to Şişli Industrial Vocational Display Units are: High School (IVH) VOLKSWAGEN Laboratory and 16 new students to Samandıra IVH VOLKSWAGEN Laboratory. to draw attention to the conscious use of safety equipment, Operational internships of 88 students were organized at create awareness, ensure memorability and form habits; Authorized Service Centers for 2010 / 2011 academic to make people learn what the transactions executed to year. meet the service needs of their cars are; how they are Şişli IVH VOLKSWAGEN Laboratory received Honorable Mention in Production and Engineering Project category carried out, whether they add to safety or not, their of Project-Based Skill Competition in Istanbul region, held necessity, their importance, and how to improve their on 28 April 2010 by the Ministry of National Education. ability to foresee the needs; One of our graduates from Şişli IVH VOLKSWAGEN to communicate and correct known errors and their impact Laboratory represented Turkey in the automotive area on environment. within the Euroskills competition held in 46 occupational branches in Lisbon on December. 60 students were graduated from the two classes in To encourage conscious usage style in traffic and in vehicles, overall in 2010, and 18 of them were employed at the it is planned to build several Indicator Rooms to show and Authorized Service Centers. explain that traffic actually means life and how to survive happier, longer and healthier during this life. 63 Community Engagement A training atelier was initiated with Doğuş Otomotiv’s contributions to Düzce University Vocational Graduate Students School Automotive Department on June 13, 2010. To work at Doğuş Otomotiv is good for my references and Şişli IVH VOLKSWAGEN Laboratory represented Turkey at I do not worry about my employment in the future. the Junior Mechanic Competition held in Poland. Burcu Kurt Within the context of the service training program which was held by the Ministry of Education General Directorate The career opportunities and every kind of support Doğuş of Apprenticeship and Non-Formal Education, 16 Technical Oto and Doğuş Otomotiv provide the employees fulfill my Teachers attended a seminar on gasoline engines hosted expectations. I expect the program carried out with Doğuş at Doğuş Otomotiv Training Center. Otomotiv to continue also growing in the future and the In 2010, 23 schools received various contributions within sense of mutual trust to reflect on the works without the scope of the support given to the schools such as deterioration. educational documents, demo components, etc. To date, Duygu Kurt 92 schools have been supported in this context. 12 of the first wave students graduated from Şişli IVH The occasions which Doğuş Otomotiv renders for me are VOLKSWAGEN Laboratory who completed their university influential on my social and economic status and personal education or military service have been employed by development. We look forward the cooperation with Doğuş Authorized Service Centers. Otomotiv also to embody a visual-weighted program on digital platform. Within the framework of the importance Scania attributes to Celal Yalnız education, engine atelier students of Namık Kemal University Çorlu Vocational Graduate School Automotive Technology The collaboration I do with Doğuş Otomotiv makes me Department started to be educated on the Scania diesel work more disciplined and have more responsibility. engine, delivered in 2010. Stemming from the fact that creating Onur Avutmuşlu a difference in design and technology today is not sufficient for the absolute success in its industry any more, Doğuş Mutual work with Doğuş Otomotiv allows me to learn the Otomotiv believes that education is the key to meet customer working principles of a corporate company, stand close expectations, taking full account of the tough competitive to the technology and be open-minded. environment, and to achieve success. For this reason, Scania Uğur Karataş training department continues to deliver technical, commercial and driving training to stakeholder groups of strategically utmost importance. Aware of that training is a major factor of the quality of the service given to the end-customer; Scania provides training both in-house and to customers, and also Teachers continues its support to education in order to make the young Thanks to our cooperation with Doğuş Otomotiv, we are people feel safe with their futures. able to follow the current technology closely. As teachers, we are trained by Doğuş Otomotiv. Our knowledge is refreshed. Our educational documents and books are renewed and given us as they are re-printed every year. We attain also technological capabilities. Our students begin to work directly at the end of the school, and since they already give a start to their careers with internships, they are hired for important and promising positions (Service Advisor etc.) and they proceed successfully. On the other hand, there are students who enter relevant universities, work during their education, and afterwards start to work directly at Doğuş Otomotiv. In the future, to maintain the efficiency of the program, information and trainings can be added within the scope of the European Union. We wish the opening of similar laboratories in different provinces. Rıdvan Demirkıran / Ercan Doğan Şişli Industrial Vocational High School Teachers 64 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 2011 Goals 1. Upon the requests of Ankara Authorized Service Centers and Gazi IVH, the establishment of a laboratory was initiated for Gazi IVH in Ankara. A detailed project was prepared, after visiting the related school. 2. In May 2011, Şişli IVH VOLKSWAGEN Laboratory will be hosting Junior Mechanic competition which it attended as observer in 2009 and as competitor in 2010; this is held on an international level, among 8 European countries. 3. Acceptance of 40 new students is planned to the VOLKSWAGEN Laboratories in 2011/2012 academic year. 4. Operational internships of 100 students will be carried out at Istanbul Authorized Service Centers in 2011/2012 academic year. 5. We are still working through our Human Resources Unit and Authorized Service Centers on the employment of the students to be graduated in 2011. Traffic is Life In parallel with our continuous development, as Doğuş Otomotiv, we plan to continue improving our Traffic is Life corporate social responsibility activities in 2011, focusing on our employees, who we hold to be the cornerstone of our understanding of corporate social responsibility. In order to raise the awareness of Doğuş Otomotiv employees on traffic safety, trainings will be organized on such subjects as first aid intervention techniques following traffic accidents and safe driving techniques. With the purpose of adoption of the traffic safety concept by our employees, works will be conducted about the corporate traffic safety principles. Another goal is to deliver traffic training on a special track, to be prepared for the children of our employees at the Doğuş Fair, when the Doğuş Group employees’ families come together every year. As Doğuş Otomotiv, we have been constantly working on corporate contributions in the field of sustainability starting from the society and environment we live within. We plan, within this context, to design training about traffic safety oriented to our Authorized Dealers and Service Centers organization, which is our contact points with customers and share the training online with the entire Autorized Dealers and Service Centers network. Additionally the vehicle delivery procedures will be renewed to deliver traffic safety training to our customers throughout the year. As Doğuş Otomotiv, we intend to complete our work within the scope of Traffic is Life with activities for all segments of the society, not restricting ourselves to company employees only. We will continue our efforts at enlarging the impact and improving methods in the future. Additionally, various activities will be organized through the media and on site to drive our works on a wider community. Also, Traffic is Life corporate website and the social media pages are intended to go live in 2011. 65 Community Engagement TÜVTURK Scania Cooperation in Safe Vehicles Movement Project Scania provided a tow truck to be used within the Safe Vehicles Movement activities, which were held in 18 provinces. ‘Responsibility Movement in Traffic’ is conducted by Ministry of Transport and Communications and TÜVTURK, an affiliate of Doğuş Otomotiv, in order to take protective measures against the loss of life and property and to develop sense of responsibility in Turkey. Within the project, initiated in May 2010, applications such as the seat belt simulator, psychotechnics device and ‘drunk goggles’ were performed for visitors to activity centers at those locations where the specially designed Scania tow truck positioned, and both light commercial and heavy vehicle drivers were trained by experts in the field as well. The volunteers who worked to enlarge the Responsibility Movement in Traffic over a large area in a short time were recognized at a ceremony with the participation of the Ministry of Transportation, representatives of the stakeholder institutions and TÜVTURK senior executives. Celebrities and media institutions giving support to the Responsibility Movement in Traffic project, coordinated by the Ministry of Transport and Communications with the purpose to develop the sense of responsibility in traffic, were also presented with appreciation plaques. The Land Transport Deputy General Ali Riza Yüceulu from the Ministry of Transport and Communications presented the appreciation plaques to Doğuş Otomotiv CEO Ali Bilaloğlu for providing the vehicle for the project, and Scania General Manager Tolga Senyücel for providing the trailers. Scania and Krone Sponsorship for the 'We Are Equality of Opportunity in Education Measuring Turkey's Blood Pressure' Project of the Turkish Association of Hypertension and Kidney and Darüşşafaka Diseases, held with the approval and support of the One of Turkey’s long-established non-governmental Ministry of Health organizations, Darüşşafaka, has been providing orphans and Within the context of the project which is carried out through children who lack financial potential with an opportunity for the vehicle sponsorships of Scania and Krone, citizens' blood qualified education, thereby changing their lives, since 1863. pressures were measured in various provinces and local people were informed especially about hypertension.Within Depending on the support given by many persons and the scope of the project, the blood pressures of 24,000 people institutions since the day it was established, Darüşşafaka in 4 provinces were measured in 2010. Cemiyeti (The Darüşşafaka Association) has been providing full scholarships and boarding facilities for more than 800 students Scania Sponsorship for “Adidas World Basketball each year. Tournament” held with Adidas Sponsorship and supported by the Basketball Federation Up to the present Darüşşafaka has provided more than 7,000 The National Basketball Team Jersey was brought to the students’ education at the Darüşşafaka Eğitim Kurumları from public attention, being exhibited in the trailer linked to the fourth grade to graduating from high school, and has made it Scania brand vehicle which was used as the Adidas Basketball possible for many to go to university on scholarship. Going truck during the project. back a century and a half, the institution has embraced the ‘Lives Changing with Education’ mission, believing that The National Basketball Team Jersey on display was delivered throughout history the development of the country has been to Hidayet Türkoğlu before the opening match of the World parallel to the development of individuals. Basketball Championship. Providing equality of opportunity in education, Darüşşafaka “Young European Trailer Driver 2010” event supported Education Institute aims at bringing up modern and selfby European Union and Turkey was attended for the confident leaders responsible to the society, who are lifelong third time learners. This event, organized by Scania to improve road safety, reduce traffic accidents and raise driver consciousness, is In 2010 Doğuş Otomotiv contributed USD 500,000 to the the biggest trailer driver event of Europe and is repeated every Darüşşafaka Association, in support of the continuation of the two years. institution’s mission. 66 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Memberships with Associations, Unions and Initiatives TAİD Association for Heavy Commercial Vehicles ODD Association of Automotive Distributors KALDER Turkish Quality Association ÇEVKO Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust TÜSİAD Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board KİD Corporate Communication Association RVD Advertisers Association of Turkey DENTUR Turkish Marine Industry Association AKÜDER Accumulator and Recycling Industrialists Society PETDER Turkish Petroleum Industry Association UNGC United Nations Global Compact 67 GRI Index 68 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Senior Management Full Chairman’s Message 2-3 Declaration CEO’s Message 4-5 1.2 Basic effects, risks and Full Chairman’s Message 2-3 opportunities CEO’s Message 4-5 Goals 20 Strategy and Corporate Governance 21 Risk Management 25 2. Corporate Profile 2.1 Corporation Name Full Identification Bracelet 78 2.2 Brands, products and Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 53-54 services Health and Safety Impact of Products Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv and Services Annual Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/annual-reports.aspx (Pages; 22-60) and Web Site http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/brand-names.aspx 2.3 Operational structure of Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 the corporation Detailed information can be found at Doğuş OtomotivAnnual Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/annual-reports.aspx (Pages; 4, 8-9, 72, 74-75, 89) 2.4 Headquarters Full Identification Bracelet 78 2.5 Countries in which the Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 corporation operates 2.6 Ownership properties Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Annual Report and legal state http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 72,73) 2.7 Markets serviced Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Annual Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-1.pdf (Pages; 4-7, 16-17) 2.8 Corporation scale Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 Financial Indicators 10 Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Annual Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-1.pdf (Pages; 4-7, 16-17) 2.9 Important changes in Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 7-10 size, structure and Financial Indicators 10 There were no changes in the issued capital of Doğuş Otomotiv during ownership situations the reporting period. Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Annual Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 72, 76) 69 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages 2.10 Awards Full Awards 2010 14 3. Rapor profili 3.1 Reporting Period Full About the Report 6 3.2 Date of Previous Report Full About the Report 6 3.3 Reporting frequency Full CEO’s Message 4-5 3.4 Contact information Full About the Report 6 about report 3.5 Report contents Full About the Report 6 Methodology 12 3.6 Report contents limits Full About the Report 6 3.7 Report scope and Full About the Report 6 contents limitations 3.8 Reporting principles on Full About the Report 6 joint ventures and other subsidiary companies Doğuş Otomotiv CR Report 2010 includes all social, economic and environmental corporate performance of Doğuş Otomotiv Servis ve Ticaret A.Ş. and Doğuş Oto Pazarlama ve Ticaret A.Ş. group companies. 3.9 Data assessment Full Corporate Responsibility Strategy and 11 techniques and Management calculation methods Methodology 12 3.10 Reasons for the Full About the Report 6 repetition of information in the previous report 3.11 Important changes in the Full About the Report 6 report scope and contents 3.12 GRI Index Full GRI Index 67-76 3.13 Report supervision Full Doğuş Otomotiv 2010 CR Report was prepared in accordance with the level B requirements of the GRI G3 Principles. It did not receive an independent audit. 4. Governance liability and sharing practices 4.1 Corporation governance Full Management Approach to Corporate 13 structure Responsibility Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Governance Compliance Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 68-71) 70 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages 4.2 Autonomy of the Full Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Chairman of the Corporate Governance Compliance Report Board http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 68, 71) 4.3 Number of Independent Full There are no independent members in our Board. The Board of Directors consists of people in line with the laws and regulations. Members in the Board of Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Directors Corporate Governance Compliance Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 68, 71) 4.4 Stakeholders’ and Full Stakeholder Engagement 14 employees’ involvement Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv in management Corporate Governance Compliance Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 62-67) 4.5 Fee paid to senior Full Management Approach to Corporate 13 management and Responsibility Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Governance Compliance Report connections with http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf sustainability (Pages; 71, 141) performance 4.6 Processes preventing Full Risk Management 25 61 conflicts of interest Ethical Principles Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Governance Compliance Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 68-71) CSR Management Corporate Responsibility Strategy and 4.7 Full Management 11-12 Strategy of the Management Approach to Corporate corporation Responsibility 13 4.8 Corporation’s rules of Full Corporate Responsibility Strategy and 11-12 mission and behaviour Management regarding CSR Management Approach to Corporate 13 performance Responsibility Ethical Principles 61 4.9 CSR performance and the Full Management Approach to Corporate 13 supervision of its risks by Responsibility senior management Economic Responsibility Policy 23 4.10 Self-check of senior Full CEO’s Message 4-5 management about CSR Management Approach to Corporate 13 performance Responsibility 4.11 Risk management Full Chairman’s Message 2-3 attitude of the CEO’s Message 4-5 corporation in fields Management Approach to Corporate 13 related to CSR Responsibility Strategy and Corporate Governance 21 Economic Responsibility Policy 23 4.12 Foreign enterprises and Full Global Cooperations 14 activities in areas regarding Human Rights 51 CSR 4.13 Union and association Full Memberships with Associations, Unions 66 memberships and Initiatives Stakeholders list Full Stakeholder Engagement 14 4.14 Our Stakeholder List can be found our Web Site: http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/Stakeholder_Engagement.pdf 71 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages 4.15 Key stakeholders Full Stakeholder Engagement 14 determining process Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Web Site: http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/Stakeholder_Engagement.pdf 4.16 Stakeholder Full Stakeholder Engagement participation process 14 Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Web Site: http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/Stakeholder_Engagement.pdf Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Governance Compliance Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 64-67) 4.17 Stakeholder Full Stakeholder Engagement 14 participation and Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Web Site: primary subjects, http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/Stakeholder_Engagement.pdf responsiveness performance Performance Indicators Economic Management Full Economic Responsibility Policy 23 Performance Approach EC 1 Direct economic Full Financial Indicators 10 value produced and Financial Efficiency 23-24 distributed Equality of Opportunity in Education and 65 Darüşşafaka Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Annual Report http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/annual-reports.aspx (Pages; 5, 73-74, 76) EC 2 The effect of climate change Full CEO’s Message 4-5 on the financial success of Economic Responsibility Policy 23 the corporation, risks and Climate Change 33 opportunities EC 6 Policy, practice and rates Partly Suppliers 31 of payment regarding payments made to local suppliers EC 7 Local employment Partly Local Employment 48 EC 8 Investments made for Partly Community Engagement 61-65 public interest EC 9 Important indirect Partly Chairman’s Message 2-3 economic effects CEO’s Message 4-5 Financial Indicators 10 Financial Efficiency 23-24 Authorized Dealers and Service Centers 28-31 Suppliers 31 Environmental Management Full Environmental Policy 35 Performance Approach EN3 Direct energy Full Energy Use 38 consumption 72 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages EN4 Indirect energy Partly Energy Use 38 consumption All types of energy consumed by Doğuş Otomotiv are from nonrenewable sources. EN5 Saved amount of Full Energy Use 38 energy due to improvements EN6 Products and Full Energy Use 38 services that provide Energy Saving with the help of Technology 38 energy efficiency Investments Corporate Awareness 39 Environmentally Friendly Products 40-43 EN7 Attempts to reduce Full Energy Use 38 indirect energy Energy Saving with the help of 38 consumption and Technology Investments reductions obtained Corporate Awareness 39 Environmentally Friendly Products 40-43 EN8 Total amount of Full Water Use 36 water used according to its sources EN11 Production centres Full There is no orbit of Doğuş Otomotiv in the within protected protection area. areas EN12 Effects on biological Full There is no orbit of Doğuş Otomotiv carrying diversity high biodiversity in or near the protection area. EN13 Protected or Full There is no orbit of Doğuş Otomotiv in the reclaimed living protection area. spaces EN14 Strategies regarding Full There is no orbit of Doğuş Otomotiv carrying bio-diversity, high biodiversity in or near the protection activities in progress area. and future plans EN15 Number of the Full There is no orbit of Doğuş Otomotiv in the species in IUCN Red protection area. List in the living spaces in the areas affected by the operations and the species in the national protection list, according to extinction risk level EN16 Total direct and Full Energy Use 38 indirect greenhouse Environmentally Friendly Products 43 gas emission EN17 Indirect greenhouse Full Environmentally Friendly Products 40-43 gas emission EN18 Attempts to reduce Partly Energy Use 38 emissions Logistics Management 38-39 Environmentally Friendly Products 40-43 73 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages EN22 Total waste according to Partly Waste Management 36 type and disposal method EN26 Attempts to reduce the Full Waste Management 36 environmental effects of Corporate Awareness 37 products Environmentally Friendly Products 40-43 EN27 Percentage of Partly Waste Management 36 recollecting of sold Recycling of Packaging 37 products and their packaging materials in categories EN28 Discordances with Full Doğuş Otomotiv has not fined in the year of environmental laws and 2010 because of not complying with regulations environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Effects caused by Partly Logistics Management 38-39 product transportation and employee logistics EN30 Total amount of Partly Waste Management 36 environment expenses Energy Saving with the help of Technology 38 and investments Investments Logistics Management 38-39 Labor Management Full Employees and Decent Work Policy 45 Practices Approach and Decent Work LA1 Total number of employees Full Employees 45-50 according to employment type, contract and district LA2 Total number of Full Employee Circulation 49 employees and their Employees 50 circulation according to age groups, gender and district LA3 Benefits provided for the Full Employee Rights 48 full time employees LA5 Period of notice due to Full Notice period in our company is in line with operational changes Turkish laws and regulations. LA6 Percentage total labour Full Employee Health and Safety 46 represented in the health and safety committees LA7 Injury, occupational Partly Employees 49 illness, days lost and absence 74 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages LA8 Consultancy, precaution Partly Employee Health and Safety 46 and risk control regarding serious illnesses LA10 Annual average training Full Trainings 50 hours per employee LA11 Employee training Full Employee Development 47 LA12 Regular performance and Partly Performance Management 47 development monitoring LA13 Inventory of employees’ Full Employees 50 age, gender and minority group LA14 Men-women wage rates Full Employees 50 according to employee category Human Management Full Doğuş Otomotiv Human Rights Policy 51 Rights Approach Performance HR1 Percentage and total Partly Goals 20 number of significant Suppliers 31 investment agreements Scania 54 comprising human rights clauses and screened for human rights HR3 Total number of hours for Full Goals 20 human rights training Human Rights 51 HR4 Total number of incidents Partly United Nations Global Compact 14 regarding discrimination Agreement (UN Global Compact BM KIS and precautions taken Principles) Responsible Marketing Communication 32 Employees and Decent Work Policy 45 Employee Rights 48 Human Rights 51 Ethical Principles 61 HR5 Freedom of organization Partly United Nations Global Compact 14 and collective bargaining Agreement (UN Global Compact BM KIS Principles) HR7 Operations having the Full United Nations Global Compact 14 risk of forced labour and Agreement (UN Global Compact BM KIS precautions taken Principles) Doğuş Otomotiv Human Rights Policy 51 HR9 Total number of incidents Full Doğuş Otomotiv Human Rights Policy 51 which resulted in the violation of the rights of There has been no incident against human the native public and rights and Doğuş Otomotiv has not been precautions taken fined because of this reason. Product Management Full Product and Service Responsibility Policy 53 Responsibility Approach Performance 75 Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages PR1 Health and safety in the Full Suppliers 31 life cycle of products and Health and Safety Impact of Products and 53-54 services Services PR2 Number of incidents in Full Health and Safety Impact of Products and 53-54 discordance with the Services regulations and voluntary Product and Service Information 56-57 rules regarding health There has been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety effects of and safety impact of products and services during their products and services life cycle, by type of outcomes. For related technical and security specifications of products: http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/default-en.aspx PR3 Labelling Full Product and Service Information 56-57 PR4 Total number of incidents Full Product and Service Information 56-57 displaying discordance Doğuş Otomotiv complies with regulations and with regulations and voluntary codes concerning its products and voluntary rules regarding services. There has been no incidents noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes labelling regarding labeling. PR5 Customer satisfaction Full Customer Health and Safety 55-56 Customer Satisfaction Process Management 57-59 Customer Satisfaction Surveys at Doğuş 59 Otomotiv PR6 Adherence to laws and Full Responsible Marketing Communication 32 regulations regarding Product and Service Responsibility Policy 53 marketing communication PR7 Total number of incidents Partly Responsible Marketing Communication 32 displaying discordance Product and Service Responsibility Policy 53 with regulations and voluntary rules regarding marketing communication PR8 Confirmed complaints Partly Customer Privacy 59 regarding customer confidentiality PR9 Non-compliance with Partly Suppliers 31 laws and regulations Health and Safety Impact of Products and 53-54 regarding supplying and Services usage of product Customer Health and Safety 55-56 services Social Management Full Community Engagement Policy 61 Performance Approach SO1 The influence of our Partly Stakeholder Engagement 14 activities on local public Goals 20 Employee Volunteerism 47 Community Engagement 61-65 SO2 Risk analysis regarding Partly Risk Management 25 corruption SO3 Corporation’s policies Partly Community Engagement Policy 61-65 against corruption and Ethical Principles 61 trainings on the subject SO4 Precautions taken Partly United Nations Global Compact Agreement 14 against incidents of (UN Global Compact BM KIS Principles) 25 corruption Risk Management Detailed information can be found at Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Governance Compliance Report. http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/pdf/fr/EN/AnnualReports10-3.pdf (Pages; 64, 68-70) 76 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 77 UN Global Compact Principles Stance of Performance Information in Report Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally CEO’s Message – 4-5 proclaimed human rights. Human Rights – 51 Principle 2. Businesses should take all precautions in order not to Goals – 20 be complicit with human rights abuses. Employees and Decent Work Policy – 45 Doğuş Otomotiv Human Rights Policy – 51 Labour Principle 3. They should respect freedom of union and collective Employees and Decent Work Policy – 45 bargaining. Human Rights – 51 Principle 4. They should work for the elimination of all forms of forces Goals – 20 and compulsory labour. Employees and Decent Work Policy – 45 Human Rights – 51 Principle 5. They should work for the complete abolition of child Goals – 20 employment. Employees and Decent Work Policy – 45 Human Rights – 51 Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination Economic Responsibility Policy – 23 regarding employment and occupation. Employees and Decent Work Policy – 45 Employee Rights – 48 Human Rights – 51 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach Chairman’s Message – 2-3 to environmental challenges. CEO’s Message – 4-5 Climate Change – 33 Environmental Policy – 35 Waste Management – 36 Product and Service Responsibility Policy – 53 Principle 8. Businesses should support all forms of activity and Chairman’s Message – 2-3 formations that would increase environmental responsibility. CEO’s Message – 4-5 Goals – 20 Suppliers – 31 Environmental Commitment from Scania Authorized Dealers and Authorized Service Centers – 42 Principle 9. They should encourage the development and diffusion Environmentally Friendly Products – 40-43 of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should fight against all kinds of corruption Risk Management – 25 including bribery and extortion. Community Engagement Policy – 61 Ethical Principles – 61 78 Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Doğuş Otomotiv Servis ve Ticaret A.Ş. Management and Contact: Şekerpınar Mahallesi, Anadolu Caddesi, No: 22 Şekerpınar, Çayırova Kocaeli T +90 (262) 676 90 90 Legal Headquarters Maslak Mahallesi, G-45, Ahi Evran Polaris Caddesi, No: 4 Ayazağa Maslak, Şişli İstanbul http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/c/en/default-en.aspx Consultancy: FCS Finansal İletişim Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. www.finansaliletisim.com info@finansaliletisim.com Design: Çağlar Yücealp cyucealp@gmail.com
