€ægæ€ æææ€=åæ FE=* Communication on Progress Participant: Royal Danish Fish Group A/S Published: 20-12-2011 Time period:.20I1-2012 Format: Stand alone document Basic COP Temolate Differentiation Level: This coP qualifies for the Global compact Active level Self-assessment: o lncludes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles o Description of actiot.rs or relevant policies related to Human Rights e Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour o Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environrnent . Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Comrption . Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued suppoft for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Royal Danish Fish Group A /S reaffirms its support of tlie Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Hurnan Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Com-rption. In this our first Communication on Progress, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations ofour company, and to ellgage in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Royal Danish Fish Group A/S wants to make a clear statement of tiris commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Our main tbcus this year has been on environmental issues and especially how to make a responsible production of European eel. In May 201 1 that work was rewarded, when our fishfarrn, Aquaculture achieved the honor of being the first eelfarm in the world able to rneet the stringent requirements of the prestigious Sustainable Eel Standard. In 2008, West African Fish ltd. was founded as a joint venture between Paim Acres ltd. and Royal Danish Fish Group A/S. This year we have participated in rnany CSR activities at our fishfann in Ghana, and made rnultiple donations, with the pulpose of becoming an integral part of the development in Ghana and the Asikuma region. At the sarne time we have worked against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are very proud of the goals we have achieved this year, but we will strive to stay on the forefrout iu our line of business especially concerning CSR related matters. In our name, logo and in our daily work we keep focus on balance between quality and efficiency in our production on one side and environrnental issues, the welfare of our employees, CSR and sustainabiiity on the other side. Sincerely yours Royal Danish Fish Group A/S Mogens Mathiasen Chief Executive Officer . æ*€æ= *æææ=* F€=* Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy ancl Goals Royal Danish Fish Group A/S approves and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Moreover, we have established some core values that underline the company's devotion to the Hurnan Riglits principles. Since we are operating internationally the conditions are diverse. In our Danish factories as well as in our African fish fann we live up to any law as well as ethics concerning these matters. Implementation In Ghana our company, West African Fish Ltd. has joined the Ghana Business Code. On the African continent the best thilg we can do for human rights is to establish long term collaborations and try to rrlove things in the right directiou. one step at a tilne. Measurement of outcomes We try to monitor the welfare of the people we are doing business with, and will not accept any human rights abuses. Labour Principles Principle 3: Buiinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principie 6: tire elimination of discrirnination in respect of employrnent and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals We have a strong focus on ensuring the best possible work environment and conditions for our employees. That includes the freedorn to organize themselves as they wish. We respect the ILO Core Conventions and any local and international standard on this issue. We want every employee to f'eel cornfortable and to have ownership in our Corporate Culture. Furthermore we try to make rootn for everyone. I mplenrentation In our Danish companies we have some employees, who despite lesser handicaps, prove to be irnportant members of our team. That is part of a long term strategy to give a large group of people, who is often underrated, an opportunity to ;how their worth. Furthermore we participate in education and self development programs. This year all the employees at our Hanstholm based factory participated in an an-rbitious project aiming to implernent an understanding on sustainability in our corporate culture. In Ghana we are part of a joint venture business, West Aliican Fish, breeding and raising Tilapia for the African market. Here we have done several things for our employees. We have: r €ægæ€ æææ€=fo F==f,e Built a school with 3 class roorns and imported tables and chairs fbr the children. All this to secure that the children can go to school, and get better education than previously available. Rebuilt the rnarketplace in Asikuma and placed our outlet for fiesh Tilapia in the market, making it a lot more attractive for other retailers to sell their products at the marketplace. This has led to the marketplace being a lot more active in other frelds as well. Constructed a 30 meter deep well at the rnarketplace, providing clean water for the people of Asikuma every day. Built a 7 kiiorneter long road from Asikuma to our site at Lake Vo1ta. This is also irelping other farmers tremendously, witir transport of trees and vegetables. Donated free consultancy, fish food and net cages to the Water Research lnstitute in Ghana, to help promoting the aqua cultural industry in the country. Measurement of outcomes We feel tliat the approach we have made to give our Danish employees ownership of our corporate culture has been a success. They take pride in their daily work and understand that focus on sustainability, environn-iental concerns and welfare is a common task. ln Ghana West African Fish ltd. has had a large, positive, rmpact on the economic growth in the Asikuma area so far. We are looking to expand our business in Ghana, while still having a great amount of respect for our ernployees and the environment in the sector, being the most environrnentally friendly aqua culturel farm in all of Africa. Curently we create jobs and livelihoods for about four hundred families, u,hich benefit either directly, or indirectly, through spin-off in resale of our fish or similar practices. Environmental Principles . Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environrnental challenges; Principle B: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environrnentally fi'iendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Enviroumental concerns and focus on sustainability are among our highest priorities. Right from the start we knew, that we wanted to do everything possible to act responsible regarding the environnent on a local basis as well as a global. Fish farms can have a major, negative impact on the ecosystems in which tirey are placed. We didn't want to be parl of that problen,. Instead we wanted to be part of t1-re solution. Furthermore we f'elt wonied by the decline in the population of the European eel, which part of our business is based on. We wanted to do our best to help the ee1 back to E,uropean waters. Implementation Our Danish fish farm, Aquaculture is among the world's largest recirculating land-based aquaculture plants. At present, the cornpany consists of the main department in Hansthohn and a breeding departrrent in Kærbæk, Grindsted. The teclnology is separate, recirculating tanks with a daily water exchange of less than 20Å. About 10.000m3 of water swirls around the system every hour, and the water is circulated througli internal cleaning systems, tirus maintaining the recirculation degree of 98%. That all makes up for ar-r absolutely nrinimum of inlluence on the environment. The cornpany is Eco-Healthy certified. We are member of the Sustainable Eel Group. An organization in which environmental orgauizations. politicians, NGO's, science and industry are working together to nurture the stock of European eel. The culmination of a long and determined effort is the launch of the Sustainable Eel Standard which is a tool designed to ensure a sustainable production of eels. The standard will be followed up by a labeling of products that meet the Sustainable Eel Group's requirements for sustainable production. Tl-re label will guarantee that: ææHæ= æææ*=* fl*=å€ o The most gentle rrethods are used to catch elvers r There is a low rnortality rate during rearing o Fish meal / oil in the diet comes from a sustainabie resource . Food is used optimally . Environmental impact lxeets statutory requirements o Handling, transport and slaughter of fish meets fish welfare requirernents o The company actively helps nufturing lish stocks, which could be used by restocking programs Our breeding facility in Ghana is based on a lot of the same principles. The farrn is built as environmentally fiiendly as possible, and makes use of modern technology and equiprnent. On shore are the hatcireries, where we grow our own fingerlings, that is, fish about the size of a finger. Those are bred from our own broodstock. Curently we only produce fingerlings for our own use; however, soon we will be able to provide top quality fingerlings for other fish farmers, and for restocking Lake Volta. This will benefit the dwindling tilapia stock that is causing great problems for local fishing cornrnunities. The hatcheries are constructed with state of the art recirculation technologies. This al1ows us to produce fingerlings with almost no u'ater exchange, which reduce our effect on the environment to a minimum. At the farm we use the most ecologically Frierrdly floating fish food. Measurement of outcomes Any test made by local water authority in Denmark shows fantastic positive results. We have never had any remarks regarding the quality of the water that leaves our fish farm. In May 20 I 1 our work for at sustainable production was rewarded, when our fishfarm, Aquaculture achieved the honor of being the first eelfarm in the world able to meet the stringent requirements of the prestigious Sustainable Eel Standard. The certification for Sustainable Eel default is handled by an independent third partl', namely MacAlister Elliott & Partners Ltd. in Hampshire. In Ghana we have had lots of positive reactions to our environmental fiiendly approach. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against comrption in all its fonns, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our policy is clear on this matter. We adhere to the strongest anti-comrption principles and will work against coruption in all its fonns, including extortion and bribery. We fully support the tIN Convention Against Corruption. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-coruption policies, reduce anti-comrption risks and respond to incidents. Royal Danish Fish Group A/S has a zero tolerance for any form of comrption and tries to educate any employee in this regard. Measurement of outcomes We do not have any problerns with our poiicy in Denmark. In Africa it can be a slightly different matter. lt can cause solne delays. But we feel that our anti-corruption attitude in the long run is met with respect.
