UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2011 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Soraya Narfeldt, Chairman and CEO “RA International is a growing company and I very much hope we can continue creating a social and economic impact in the communities where we operate. Our work is challenging but the satisfaction is truly rewarding as we see the gradual changes in society and an increased awareness of human rights, equality and environmental consciousness. The United Nations has developed a Global Compact with businesses to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. RA International will support the compact and report in line with its principles. RA International is focused on reconstruction and reconciliation of areas where we know we make a difference. Supporting the principles of the UN Global Compact gives us further advantage in witnessing the growth and economic wellbeing of the countries in which we operate. Soraya Narfeldt Chairman RA International 1 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless PART I CORPORATE IDENTITY Introduction to RA International RA International (“RAI”) is a construction, operations and maintenance provider specializing in challenging and remote areas. We offer a wide range of services to assist in major logistical operations, capital investment and technical programmes. From initial feasibility studies, planning, design and procurement, to implementation, start-up and management, our unique project mobilisation teams can have post-conflict resolution, reconstruction, oil/gas and mining projects up and running quickly. We are specialists when it comes to fast mobilisation and carry out a host of construction and engineering-related project management services, including groundwork, infrastructure, waste management, logistics and procurement, and power generation. RA International is partner to some of the most complex and innovative projects around the globe. Our portfolio includes governments, NATO, United Nations’ agencies, peacekeeping operations, embassies, nongovernmental organizations and private companies. Evolving from early roots in Africa more than 40 years ago, RA International has gained a wealth of experience in project management and support services in postconflict, developing countries and remote locations worldwide since that time. Headquartered in Dubai, RA International began serving clients in Afghanistan in 2002, and in the years since, has grown into a large multi-national firm. With owners and senior management hailing from English, Arabic, African and French cultures, and with 400+ international staff, RA International operates in multi languages. No geography is too challenging and today, the company manages projects in Sudan, Southern Sudan, Chad and Somalia. 2 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless SERVICES Catering and life support services RA International provides full food service catering. We fully understand and appreciate the importance of high-quality catering and the positive impact this can have on the morale of personnel within a camp. That is why we make it our mission to produce restaurant quality meals our clients enjoy on a daily basis. Our daytoday operations include supporting all catering services as well as technical/managerial oversight for food item procurement and delivery, storage facilities and food stock accounting. RA International can offer extensive 30 day menus geared towards health/wellness, special menu plans for various religious and cultural beliefs, vegetarian courses, packed meals, and events highlighting the national cuisines of camp personnel. “We go the extra mile for clients. Our state-of-the-art bakery in Afghanistan for example, supplies fresh baked goods throughout the country, giving camp and aid workers that ‘special extra’ to supplement mealtimes.” Richard Wilson, Country Manager, Afghanistan Our chefs are internationally trained and ethnic food commodities are procured in accordance with applicable regulations/customs. We ensure proper food storage and transportation with fresh and perishable products from preapproved sources. Staff undergo rigorous training courses in personal hygiene, cross contamination and the causes/dangers of food poisoning, safe handling of catering equipment, customer relations, food preparation, serving techniques and other catering-related subjects. Periodic checks are conducted to ensure compliance with international level health and sanitation standards. Staff undergo health checks before being hired and response plans are always in place to ensure continued service and minimal food wastage/loss in case of any failure of refrigeration equipment within camp storage facilities. 3 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Procurement and Logistics services Whether self executing regular operations and maintenance duties or assisting clients with the goods they need to manage their own projects, RA International has the expertise and supplier network to get the job done well. We take advantage of the best that international and local suppliers have to offer enabling us to reduce acquisition costs by applying best practice sourcing and purchasing strategies. When international organizations and other NGO’s need assistance running their operations, we help them. We cover the most sophisticated maintenance procedures to the most basic health and wellness jobs. For clients who prefer to self-manage, we make procurement and logistics what it should be; the movement of goods and services from ‘point A to point B’ in a simple, efficient and hassle free manner for everyone involved (sender/vendor/ receiver/purchaser). Supply chain: development, implementation and support for IT solutions, consulting services, warehousing, transport and freight forwarding. Procurement: Products & equipment including generators, vehicles and fuel, HVAC and accommodation. Vast network of suppliers No matter how remote the project, RA International gives clients the best possible value for money. While transportation and logistics to remote conflict ridden areas will always produce challenges, RA International has proven its ability to resolve problems and exceed expectations. Our procurement, through a combination of international and local suppliers, ensures we provide maximum quality. We utilize a number of supply and logistics support companies, each of which meet our strict standard operational criteria to provide products and services as quickly and efficiently as possible. Goods are procured directly from manufactures all over the world and we ensure maximum warranty support. 4 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Construction and operations and maintenance RA International has extensive experience in construction. We perform groundwork, camp design, grading, leveling, site preparation, access roads and grounds upkeep. We also provide construction materials and maintenance. Construction: prefabricated buildings, temporary shelters, tent cities, concrete/brick buildings, existing structure rehabilitation, warehouse/cold storage facilities, security installations/lighting, perimeter walls and permanent structures. Infrastructure: drainage, water wells, irrigation, septic systems, filtration systems, treatment plants, electrical systems, water distribution and plumbing. Operations: Servicing of plants, refrigeration, catering appliances, fire equipment, generators, waste water systems and other facility equipment. General services: laundry, catering, garbage/refuse collection, fire prevention/protection, internet, sports and recreation. Preventative and curative maintenance: defense structures, grounds maintenance, cleaning, storm water drainage and vector control within the United Nations’ minimum operation security standards. Water management and plumbing: water lifting, storage, treatment, recovery, supply and recycling, plumbing fixture and appliance servicing, maintenance of water supply reticulations systems and potable water distribution. “Teaching and showing the host country nationals working for us the intricacies of getting waste water management right has been a revelation, but extremely gratifying” Neil Howard, Site Manager, Afghanistan 5 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Fast mobilization We manage fast mobilization e.g. from zero to site in Somalia in just 14 days, supported by unique project mobilization teams who are always striving for environmentally friendly solutions. To ensure fast decision making in order to prevent unnecessary delays, regional managers are empowered to respond and act on client requests quickly. RA International is committed to the United Nation’s Global Compact Principles RA International is ISO accredited and we assure customer satisfaction by meeting contractual obligations and provide guarantee service through implementation of the integrated management system based on the ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. RA International’s experience in extremely diverse countries and contexts, gives us the expertise needed to get jobs done where others cannot. In addition to being ISO compliant and maintaining insurance that fulfills United Nation’s requirements, we are a licensed contractor and service provider, fully knowledgeable of local laws and regulations. We hold appropriate local licenses and, thanks to our ability to leverage experience gained on other difficult environments, we are highly adept when it comes to obtaining the additional licenses often required in unique areas. “Vector control routines are carried out on a monthly basis. Waste is burnt in a pit and drinking water, food and other consumables are procured from outside and carefully selected. Expiry dates and quality are monitored to prevent sickness. Flyers have also been stuck around the dining and kitchen areas depicting good hygiene practices”. Brima Kamara, Operations Manager, Somalia We assure the quality of our products and services in order to develop a service culture that enables us to exceed customer expectations. By actively involving and empowering all employees in the continuous improvement process, we enhance profitable growth. 6 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are designed to empower employees and provide them with the relevant information to learn, which improves decision making and leads to better performance. They allow RA International to understand how well we are performing in relation to our strategic goals and objectives. They reduce the complex nature of performance monitoring to a small number of key indicators and help us understand whether we are on track or not. We recognise the need to set ourselves challenging targets to improve our performance. The identification of Key Performance Indicators form part of the process of developing a strategy for each of the areas in which we operate. In the past, we have reported against a set of metrics on a fiscal year basis in our annual reports and, while we will continue to report on those same metrics, the new framework set out in the KPI policy allows us to develop our corporate and regional strategies further. “We recognise the need to set ourselves challenging targets to improve our performance. The identification of Key Performance Indictors forms part of the process of developing a strategy for each of the areas in which we operate”. John Mitchell, HR Director Performance Management Performance management for RA International is our set of management processes, supported by technology that helps us improve our strategic decisions. Integrated, our KPIs and performance management link with other key management processes. We are looking at the key areas that drive RA International business practice and from there are consolidating our processes to improve our performance. Key Areas Financial Planning, Consolidation and Budgeting: We are seeking to integrate more fully our budgeting and financial planning with our corporate objectives and priorities. This will allow us to ensure the financial resources at our disposal are spent on the things that matter the most. It will also give us a better ability to update our budgets and forecasts in real time, based on the continuous inflow of financial and non-financial data from operational areas. 7 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Project and Procurement Management: The delivery of projects and associated resources will be aligned with the corporate objectives and priorities in order to again ensure our efforts are focused on the most important areas. These activities will be prioritised based on strategic needs and therefore will be aligned with our strategic performance framework. People Management and Rewards: Our people are our most valuable assets. It is our employees who deliver projects and implement our strategic plans. By aligning our budgets and projects with our strategic performance framework, we will have made major steps towards alignment. With further alignment of reward and recognition systems, we need to ensure that our competences, through our appraisals, are in place and adhered to, allowing us to recognise performance appropriately. Performance Reporting: Relevant performance information will become crucial to RA International for better decision making and performance improvement. It also allows us to demonstrate to external companies that we can deliver the desired levels of performance. KPIs will be tailored to measure what is important and reporting data will be simple deliverables of key information. Regular reviews will ensure we remain current in our industry. “The framework set out in our KPI strategy will allow us to develop our corporate and regional strategies further”. John Mitchell, HR Director Aligning and integrating the above processes allows us to create an invaluable set of data that we use to inform our decision making. While the data will serve towards performance improvement, it will also allow reward set against targets, personal performance, professional performance, execution of tasks and the operational performance of the team. As well as improving interaction, it will develop our knowledge as RA International moves forward. Training Hours per Month Operating Area 1 60 50 40 Vocational (Hrs) 30 HSE (Hrs) 20 Trade (Hrs) 10 0 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 8 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless PART II CORPORATE IMPACT Introduction 2011 and onwards will see RAI move away from traditional Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to Creating Shared Values (CSV) within and without the company and its operations. We aim to: • Promote education within both local and international employee groups through a variety of programmes; • Increase support and access; • Advance management skills in partnership with The Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM); • Increase investment in local manufacturing to minimize foreign inputs, carbon emission and generate income for the local economies. THE TEN GLOBAL PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. By underpinning our own business principles with the 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact, we ensure our work adheres to the highest international standards. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/aboutthegc/thetenprinciples/index.html Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence and; Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. RA International recognises that people are our most significant asset. In the course of conducting business in ‘high-risk areas’, we are committed to ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses and monitor this within our sphere of influence. Consultation and interplay between management and staff are managed on a country-by-country basis to ensure cultural appropriateness. We aim to act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people, treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. We are also committed to providing a work environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminating any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individuals’ self-esteem, including bullying and victimisation. 9 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Our employees are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect and our employment and recruitment practices support this principle. We take action where necessary to ensure all current and potential members of the company are able to maximise opportunities. RA International believes gender equality is a human right and employs staff based on merit, not on gender. Awareness of each others’ beliefs, culture and values are of great importance and we support interactive discussions and create an environment of cross cultural education in the hope to increase this further. “I am so grateful to RA International for their support, but most of all for the hands-on guidance that RAI offers to someone who strives to grow”. Henry Tabbilos, Civil Engineer, Somalia Embracing Diversity We recognise that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation of “delivering regardless” through innovation and creativity, and to understand and meet the needs of our clients, we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We aim to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our process and through our training and development, thereby encouraging knowledge sharing and intellectual growth. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on sustainability and human rights. 10 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Gender Equality is a Human Right RA International employs staff based on merit and not on gender. In cases where jobs are situated in areas that may present risk to women, the company highlights the risks and ensures that clear and current information is supplied along with the job posting. We fully support the UN’s viewpoint that empowering women is an indispensable tool for advancing development and reducing poverty. The organisation strongly believes that no one should live and/or work under threat or pressure based on their colour, race, ethnic origin, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation or marital status. Both employees and suppliers are expected to always show respect and consideration for others. Co-operation between staff members is expected at all times. Employees are encouraged to help one another and disseminate information around the company. Youngest employee – 23 Oldest employee – 63 Average age of employees – 37 Zero Tolerance of Sexual Harassment Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment that is free from harassment of any kind. The company will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. RA International is committed to equality of opportunity in employment, irrespective of gender, gender reassignment, marital status, disability, age, race, colour, nationality, sexual orientation, religion or belief. We never discriminate on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, religious beliefs or ethnicity. We recognise that to produce work of high quality, maintain our reputation of ‘delivering regardless’ through innovation and creativity, and to understand and meet the needs of our clients, we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. The company will take positive action to prevent sexual harassment. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. 11 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Nationalities of RA International Employees Sierra Leonean Chadian British Congolese Ivoirians Indian Macedonian Bangladeshi Burundian Rwandan Filipino Pakistani American Bosnian Russian Nepalese South African Ghanaian Cameroonian Swedish Kenyan Zimbabwean Canadian French Tanzanian Ugandan German Australian Sudanese Syrian E ti L b Af h K Y i Outlawing Child Labour RA International does not tolerate child labour and does not engage in any practice inconsistent with the rights set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Minimum Age Convention or the Prohibition and Immediate Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RA International continues to create a working environment that is conducive in creating facilities of high standards, with minimal environmental impact. We go to great lengths to ensure our procedures and protocol support Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ). Mitigating and managing risks is important to us. Our dedicated risk management programme guides and controls our work while maintaining what’s most important to our clients: value and reliability. Our HSE dedication also drives us to design ecofriendly waste management solutions that are innovative, costeffective and efficient. We use high quality products, equipment and cleaning techniques, all compliant with the leading environmental standards. Environmental targets for 2011 RA International’s objectives for 2011 are to improve our customer care, increase environmental awareness among staff and find the most environmentally friendly procedures. We are conducting quarterly meetings and follow up to ensure that the standards are being followed and implemented, along with formal HSE training. The company is continuously updating and improving its HSE Manual, HSE-and Environmental Policies to ensure they are up to date with international requirements. 12 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless The company was certified with ISO 9001:2008 in October 2009, ISO14001:2004 in February 2011, and recently the integrated QMS & EMS Management System has been established to comply with requirements. Records are kept to track of the amount of food and paper being wasted. Paper is collected in binds to ensure confidentiality and picked up for recycling. The company is also actively trying to keep water consumption down and continuously making sure staff are fully informed about being more environmentally aware. “RA International has been a most wonderful tenant at my compound. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for all that you have done for me and for improving the safety standards of my compound. You are blessed with my thanks”. Haji Mahmood, Kabul Meeting International Standards The EU has some of the highest environment standards in the world, developed to tackle climate change, preserve biodiversity, reduce health problems from pollution and encourage a more responsible use of natural resources. RA International is a staunch believer in protecting, preserving and improving the world around us and adheres not only to EU environmental legislation, but works with best practice in the countries we operate in when it is in keeping with our high environmental standards. RA International also adheres to environmental governance as enshrined in various United Nations and other international conventions. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) provides with substantial information regarding the environmental challenges and we are facing but also give guidelines how to battle these challenges, RA International supports this program through ensuring our own practices and training in local communities serves the same principle. Many of the areas where we operate in lack environmental laws or any environmental impact on society. It is therefore crucial for us to ensure these regulations are being enforced and implemented in our daily business procedures. 13 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless RA International environmental commitments: Chad To comply with UN standard requirements, we have submitted to the UN standard operating procedures for each of our services. For disposal of hazardous material, we coordinate with local authorities to ensure we are compliant with environmental standards and have subcontracted a local agent, Vitre Claire in Chad, with whom we have regular meetings on operational practices. For PVC and fumigations, RA International Chad has subcontracted RATOU SARL, a qualified local company and uses their services three times a week. We have also hired an international consultant to train and certify local agents. Compliance includes the use of an approved list of chemicals. The RA International head office is aware that all goods procured for our operations need to comply with environmental standards. “During the HAZMAT waste collection at Log Base 1 in Ndjamena, the following items were safely disposed of: 242 large used batteries 111 small used batteries 847 ink cartridges 17 drums of used oil three air filter boxes one box of worn tires three drums of air/oil filters; and a truck of load of debris The HAZMAT collection was carried out by a well motivated team in accordance with the standard operating procedure. Items were sorted by the contractor; all employees wore safety boots, goggles, gloves and masks; spillages were covered with a spill granulate; and afterwards the container was cleaned” Joel Agoncillo, Chief Finance, RA International Chad RA International environmental commitments: Afghanistan In 2005, as a direct result of a NATO waste management contract, RAI set up the first recycling compound in Afghanistan. The compound was located 10 km outside of the city and set up to separate and reuse all materials that could be safely reintegrated into society. RA management identified internally displaced people who could be hired to manage the compound and benefit for the resale of usable items. Our waste teams separate goods at source using colour coded bins which were collected in vehicles and moved to site. The type of materials collected: • Aluminium cans The cans were washed and compacted being resold to blacksmiths to use in the manufacture of cooking utensils and pots; • Plastic water bottles the bottles were shredded and sent to Pakistan for recycling into the main water factories; 14 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless • Cartons & Shredded Paper The cartons and paper products reused as fuel for fires; • Clothes reused by local population; and • Oil reused in the brick manufacturing industry as fuel. Health and Safety in the field RA International always ensures to put health and safety first in our operations and we stress the importance of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), commitment to HSE regulations, and general awareness of the risks involved. Daily toolbox talks are held onsite and Site Managers continuously supervise that everyone shows commitment and does not put themselves or others in any danger by violating any rules. Our HSE manual is continuously reviewed and distributed among our staff. HSE training is also conducted in various operational areas and staff receive certificate after completed training. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Fighting Corruption in the Supply Chain The company fully supports the UN Global Compact 10th Principle, which requires participants to not only avoid corruption, but also to develop policies and concrete programmes to address it. Our business relationships are built on honesty, fairness and trust. “The company does not accept or solicit bribery of any kind. We commit ourselves to a high standard of integrity and will work against corruption and bribery in any form by implementing and monitoring integrity programmes”. Sarah De Guzman, RA Procurement, Dubai 15 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless RA International is committed to working against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. It is our policy that everyone in the company must be free to pursue their career solely on the basis of their ability and effort, without intimidation, humiliation, harassment or abuse. Any conflict of interest will be disclosed and no gifts or hospitality is offered to our Clients. We adhere to the highest standards of moral conduct with a ‘zero tolerance’ policy. Employees are not allowed to accept or give gifts. We believe that engaging supply chain participants and communicating our meaningful anticorruption programmes improves product quality, reduces fraud and related costs, enhances the company’s reputation for honest business, improves the environment for business, and creates a more sustainable platform for future growth. “RA International recognizes that we share responsibility for stamping out corruption and we stand ready to play our part. We expect both company employees and suppliers to abide by a strict moral and ethical code, to heed local laws and not engage in corrupt practices of any type”. Soraya Narfeldt, Chief Executive Officer RA International’s approach to business has always aimed to deliver the very best solutions based on the overarching cornerstone of, among many, integrity of business. When selecting suppliers, RA International focuses on forging long-term relationships with a number of market participants with the primary aims of diversifying our exposure to price sensitivity from single suppliers or markets, and to ensure we always have access to the best quality materials available. Other best practices utilized by our procurement team include developing social responsibility standards, maximising functional team benefits, opening up lines of communication throughout the supply chain, encouraging trust between buyers and suppliers thereby leading to greater cooperation, and finding creative ways to share knowledge with colleagues. 16 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless By using local suppliers in the countries we operate in, RA International has a beneficial impact on labour costs, which directly inject money into the local economy through payments of wages and benefits to local residents. Profits will remain in the community in proportion to local ownership. Procurement of local goods and services for resale and operation also creates a charitable impact, where local firms contribute a greater share of revenue to local causes. Other benefits are direct and indirect employment, infrastructure improvements, access to information, direct support for social services through taxes and overcoming cultural communication. It also increases local integration by providing access to local knowledge and by helping the growth and development of local SMEs. RA International maintains good relationships with its suppliers by fostering a sense of commitment by working with suppliers, instilling confidence in them that we will return with future business. We discuss upcoming orders with our suppliers rather than waiting until our needs arise and see our suppliers as business partners, which in turn, boosts efficiency and profitability. Examples of local procurement: Sudan: • Nature valley organic farms (meat, dry goods, cleaning materials) • Bima Enterprises (diesel, engine oil) • Irene’s Groceries (fresh fruit and vegetables) • William Doshi (hardware and electrical materials) • Blue Flag (construction materials) • Sozim Ltd (blocks) Chad: • Quencaillerie Mosque (technical and construction supplies) • Adoulaya Ibrahim (office supplies) • Alimentation Generale (food items, general merchandise) • Socgen (cleaning and other consumables) • Tigo (telephone services) • Ratou and Vitre Claire (waste and hazardous materials disposal) • Madet Bechir (legal consultations and local requirements) Somalia: • Camel Trading (gravel, electrical, construction consumable items). • Iiman Trading (life support items, plumbing, cement, fuel, furniture and fixtures) • Shire Trading (life support items, plumbing, electrical, diesel and petrol, furniture). • Nagaad Inc. (life support items, plumbing, electrical, construction materials) • AIG International Company (heavy equipment rental, aggregates) • Indian Ocean Enterprises (food, home appliances) 17 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless SOCIAL IMPACT In all countries where we operate, we provide a return to the communities in which we work. We believe that by giving back to the community we provide sustainable long-term relationships with its inhabitants. Not only do we recruit staff from the local community, but we also offer them salaried vocational training. The opportunities we provide lead to sustainable employment where we either continue to employ the individuals ourselves, or we assist them to set up their own business and then we enter into partnerships with them. We aim to ensure that our employees have satisfactory wages and working conditions, and that there is no exploitation of labour. Compliance with the relevant laws relating to employment and employment conditions in each country we work is of great importance. Subject to relevant laws in the countries where we operate, we fully respect the right of our people to freedom of association and representation. We have developed peer-to-peer communication channels and we have effective formal and informal channels between management and staff which actively support interaction between all cultures, nationalities, genders and religion at all operational locations. RA International operates in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do. If we were to find ourselves inadvertently implicated in abuses of human rights, we would take immediate steps to rectify such a situation. “Our employment and recruitment practices adhere to and strive to exceed local legislation wherever we work in the world. RA International abides by local government regulations and inputs to these communities by adhering to tax laws in our countries of origin. Over a period of three years, RA International has contributed in the region of USD 500,000 in local and corporate taxes through the employment of international and local personnel from the community. In doing so, RA International has assisted in the local security and health care of the families of our employees and significantly contributed to economic growth”. Nasir Kazmi, Chief Financial Officer Impact on Society We believe that by giving back to the community, sustainable long-term relationships with its inhabitants can be forged. We have initiated a development fund to support non-governmental organisations which adds value to the communities they work in. RA International commits 3% of its profits to this fund on a yearly basis. Our aim is to hire local labour to ensure their participation in the development process. Without their highly valued knowledge about the countries we work in and their culture, we would not have come so. We are fully aware that as a foreign company, it is our duty to treat locals with the utmost respect. We are the guests in their country and by giving local workers the chance to interact in an international environment, we ensure that people learn about human rights, equality and the importance of stamping out sexual harassment and gender discrimination. 18 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless In May 2010, RA International started an initiative whereby US$500 is donated each month to various projects in the countries we operate in. So far, money has been donated to build a school in Afghanistan and toys and clothes have been collected and shipped to Kabul, where they were handed out to children on the streets and in refugee camps. RA International also supports the Confident Children out of Conflict (CCC) project in Juba, Southern Sudan, with monthly money donations for food and school items. CCC operates in the slums of Juba and aims to reduce poverty among orphans and vulnerable children by enrolling 6-11 year olds into basic school, 12-14 year olds to catch-up classes, and 15-16 year olds to livelihood skills training such as laundry and house-keeping, hair dressing, vegetable gardening, etc. The project also provides counselling and psychosocial support through sports and other activities. The ultimate aim is the creation of a safe and just environment, where orphans and vulnerable children, especially street girls, can grow and have a meaningful future in Sudan. In Somalia, onsite training is given to locals, who are encouraged to take responsibility for their daily lives and avoid corruption. During the PAE project, we assisted Al-Jazeera School by making wooden desks and chairs, and providing toilet facilities. RA has also participated in building a mosque. 19 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless In Chad, RA International has made English lessons available for all staff employed in N'Djamena and Abeche, which prior to the commencement of the withdrawal of MINURCAT numbered 11 employees. We have also provided fire fighting and HAZMAT training for relevant staff, with all training costs borne by the company. RA International hopes that the standards and morals we stand for will be transferred into the local community, benefiting all parties. For instance, in Afghanistan we employed only war widows for our laundry service, giving them the opportunity to provide for their families and make money in a culture where women mostly stay at home. Educating workers in a profession and instilling pride in what they are doing, along with the chance for promotion, creates values that then spread to the rest of the society. The company supports education in a number of ways, for example, by providing onsite training for locals; donating money to equip young Sudanese girls with the books and educational items needed for school; and making English lessons. 20 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Future projects RA International continues to focus on supporting programmes for women and children that actively change the lives of disadvantaged and underprivileged IDPs in all the countries we operate in. In Sudan, we hope to start construction of low-cost housing on behalf of the Darfur Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Committee to provide shelter for up to 30,000 families displaced by the war. In Chad, we assist the UN with expansions to remote areas, where we support the local communities through job creation and skills training. RA International is currently working with the Municipalities of Afghanistan to provide rehabilitation and reconstruction of municipal structures, allowing water, power and sanitation services to resume. We will provide training on daily support and management of the services and will also endeavour to introduce an exchange programme with municipalities across the world to encourage a transfer of knowledge and capacity building RA International is actively working on a concept paper for USAID Pakistan to provide for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of schools across the SWAT valley areas of Pakistan, combining a school structure and community building with green technology and access to clean water. “This is the most satisfying and fulfilling job I have had the pleasure of doing.” Anne White, Operations Manager, Chad 21 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Projects RA International has funded Minurcat Project for the United Nations in Chad Maintenance and operational work for the United Nations Mission in Chad to support the peace-keeping forces in the border regions with Darfur. Although this project is drawing down with the withdrawal of the UN, RA International has maintained its efforts in the relevant communities. UNAMID Project for the United Nations in Darfur Infrastructure support for the UN peace-keeping troops in Darfur. United Nations peace support mission in Sudan RA International provides catering and waste management services for the United Nations Mission in Sudan (currently on hold while decisions are made on the future of Sudan). Waste management in Kabul, Afghanistan RA International, together with NATO/ISAF, is currently involved in a waste management project at girls’ schools in Kabul. We provide portaloos and empty and clean them for two schools. Support to Médecins Sans Frontières Juba, Sudan RA International offered prompt and highly appreciated support to Médecins Sans Frontières during a cholera outbreak in Juba, supplying them with offices and accommodation for free. Feeding project for the leprosy community Juba, Sudan RA International is involved in an extensive humanitarian project in Sudan, where we supply a leprosy community in Juba with food and drinks, serving a large number of meals per day. Feeding project Kabul, Afghanistan We provide food items for three orphanages in Kabul on a regular basis. We also do spot donations of food products when needed. UNSOA Project in Mogadishu RA International is involved in the rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure for the peace keepers in Somalia. 22 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2011 We Deliver. Regardless Summary RA International has always had a strong commitment to the countries in which we operate. Our name, Reconstruction Assistance, highlights our support and dedication to help people, not only improve their daily life, but generate opportunities that will have an impact on both the economical and social sector. To do so, one needs a solid understanding of the local environment best gained by engaging local staff, learning about and respecting local culture and customs, and embracing the knowledge and traditions which already existing. Our contribution is not only to improve the infrastructure but also create shared values, pride and awareness of equal value, non discrimination and environmental consciousness which will have a great impact on communities in the future. RA International is a dynamic people-oriented service provider. Quality and service have always driven our business. We value the relationship with our clients and our highest goal is to ensure that we continue to offer the best quality. We strive for excellence and we constantly seek to improve our products. RA International is not simply a for-profit company. We understand that with working in some of the poorest parts of the world comes also great responsibility. We design projects that involve local communities and that have a positive impact on the local economy by encouraging entrepreneurship and skills training. We involve local labour and local resources whenever it is feasible. We sponsor training facilities and support schools with some of our services free of charge. It is our objective to combine our business projects with sustainable outcomes for environment and people. What differentiates RA International is our strong service culture. At the foundation of our success are our people. Each of our people has a passion for quality and a ‘can do’ attitude With pride, integrity, and good humour, we strive as a team to make a positive contribution to our customers ,clients and suppliers but importantly in the countries we are guests in. By embracing the principles of the UN Global Compact, RA International is further supported in continuing to share our own values with the people we work with. All that is valuable in human society depends on the opportunity for development accorded to the individual. Albert Einstein 23 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2011 RAI
