2010 CORPORATE safe RESPONSIBILITY REPORT profitable growth 01 2010 Performance At A Glance 16 Communities 02 President’s Message 20 Progress Against 2009 Targets And Future Plans 04 How We Manage Corporate Responsibility 21 Key Numbers 06 Safety 23 Forward-looking Information 09 Environment 25 Board Of Directors And Executive 13 People About Our Report As an international oil and gas company, our business takes us around the world in search of exploration and development opportunities. We are strongly committed to being a socially responsible company and, in our efforts for continuous improvement, we pay close attention to our safety, environmental, community and people practices. Throughout 2010, Talisman made great strides in our business, year, we have continued this emphasis on key performance continuing to improve the underlying profitability and growth indicators (KPIs). An overview of our progress against 2009 potential of the company. Equal in importance is the work targets and new targets for 2011 can be found on page 20. and advancements that were made toward our corporate This report has been prepared using the Global Reporting responsibility efforts. Initiative (GRI) Sustainability reporting guidelines, application This report highlights successes and areas of improvement level A+. Talisman’s last report was published in April 2010 and for our corporate responsibility performance. It describes the next report is scheduled for publication in May 2012. our activities across a range of topics, focusing on safety, Talisman’s KPIs can be found at www.talisman-energy.com environment, people and communities. To prepare this report, and selected KPIs have been reviewed by an independent we have considered issues important to both our business third party, Ernst & Young LLP. and key stakeholders, including ethical business conduct, Additional information on Talisman’s corporate responsibility employee practices, human rights and community relations. performance can be found online at www.talisman-energy.com. In last year’s Corporate Responsibility report, we included more quantifiable targets as a measure of our performance. This This report provides performance data on all aspects of our company on a consolidated basis. Unless otherwise indicated, figures are reported in metric units, and all financial information is reported in Canadian dollars. Unless the context indicates otherwise, reference in this report to “Talisman” or the “company” is intended to include, for reporting purposes only, the direct or indirect subsidiaries of Talisman Energy Inc. and partnership interests held by Talisman Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries. Talisman defines its stakeholders as its employees, shareholders, suppliers, service providers, communities, indigenous groups, investors, debtholders, governments, regulators and non-governmental organizations affected by, or that can affect, the company’s operations. B TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Canada Montney Shale development and piloting Quebec Shale piloting conventional production midstream United States Marcellus Shale development Talisman Energy Inc. is an conventional production independent oil and gas exploration Eagle Ford Shale and production company – with the purpose of safe, profitable growth. Peru exploration Colombia production, exploration and development About Our Company Our Business Strategy Is Focused On: United Kingdom (UK) governments. In 2010, Talisman • establishing safe, long-term profitable growth from our was also included on the Jantzi-Maclean’s list of the 50 Most operations in North America shale and Southeast Asia Socially Responsible Companies in Canada. • repositioning the international portfolio for renewal Talisman is listed on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges through high-impact exploration in selected areas under the symbol TLM. 2010 Key Facts • operating our conventional North Sea business and conventional portfolio in North America at maximum Net Income Production efficiency to maintain stable, high-quality production $648 million 417,000 and cash generation for at least the next decade. ($0.64 per share) barrels of oil We are committed to conducting our business safely and Capital And equivalent in an ethically, socially and environmentally responsible Exploration per day manner. We participate in the United Nations Global Expenditures (approximately 50% Compact and are included in the Meritas Jantzi Social $4 billion oil, 50% natural gas) Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index. Talisman was the first Canadian company to join Global Workforce Enterprise Value the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 3,078 employees $25 billion 1 Plenary Group developed by the United States (US) and 1 Enterprise value of common shares plus book value of debt as at December 31, 2010 Poland Algeria shale piloting Vietnam offshore exploration Kurdistan region and development of northern Iraq exploration Malaysia/Vietnam offshore production Malaysia offshore exploration Indonesia production offshore exploration Papua New Guinea exploration Australia offshore production and development North Sea United Kingdom Norway offshore production offshore production and development and development offshore exploration offshore exploration Where We Operate Headquartered in Calgary, Canada, our main operating areas are North America, the North Sea and Southeast Asia. In addition, we are pursuing a number of international exploration opportunities. North America Southeast Asia Talisman is becoming a leading, returns-focused shale We are involved in exploring and developing oil and natural producer in North America. We have a diversified portfolio gas in Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Australia and Papua that includes interests in shale plays in British Columbia and New Guinea (PNG). Current production from the region is Quebec in Canada, and Pennsylvania, Texas and New York predominantly oil and liquids or natural gas linked to oil prices. in the US. We also continue to invest in conventional oil and Our Southeast Asia operations are expected to continue as natural gas properties in Western Canada. We expect future a growth area, with new projects coming on stream over the growth to come from low-cost, long-life shale assets. medium term and with significant exploration upside. North Sea International Exploration With a decade of sustainable production ahead of us in We are building an international exploration portfolio that will the North Sea, we are focused on offshore development and contribute to our renewal through the discovery of significant exploration activities near the coasts of UK and Norway. Our new hydrocarbon resources. In Peru and Colombia, we are North Sea production is predominantly light, high-value oil building an oil-focused core region. In Southeast Asia, we are and liquids. Our plan is to maintain the region as a stable exploring prospects offshore Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam cash-generating business. and onshore PNG. In addition, we are also looking for exploration opportunities to sustain North Sea production. We are also pursuing material growth opportunities in Poland and in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq. 2010 Performance At A Glance At Talisman, continuous improvement means learning from both our successes and challenges, and using these insights to enhance our performance. In 2010, while we had many noteworthy accomplishments, we also identified some areas to improve on. We: • Carried out a comprehensive review of our global drilling • Rolled out 10 Golden Rules for Safe Operations – compliance operations in the aftermath of the BP plc Deepwater Horizon with these rules is a condition of working at any Talisman site. incident and used our findings to apply additional rigour to • Developed a new global community relations policy (GCRP) our design, procedures and safety processes in preparation to create a consistent, best-practice approach to interacting for our first deepwater well. with, and gaining the support of, local stakeholders. • Improved our combined employee and contractor lost-time • Updated our policy on business conduct and ethics (PBCE) injury frequency by 18% from 2009, delivering another to include prohibition of facilitation payments. year of improved performance, however falling short of our 30% target. • Invested $8.5 million worldwide in community initiatives. • Suffered a fatality when contractor Evaristo Chimpa • Launched our first global employee survey to more than tragically lost his life on the Pastaza River in northern Peru. 3,000 employees in seven languages and achieved a We immediately ceased all river operations to undergo a response rate of 82%. safety review and identified opportunities to improve our river barge operations in all applicable regions. • Reduced the number of spills greater than a half-barrel by 31% to 109 from 157 in 2009. • Experienced a spill from a shale gas drilling operation in Bradford County, Pennsylvania, of which approximately 1,700 litres (450 gallons) of diesel were recovered. As a result, we implemented a number of improvements to prevent offsite impacts from our shale gas developments across North America. 1 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 President’s Message Welcome to Talisman Energy’s 11th Corporate Responsibility Report. The year, for all of our industry and most particularly for those directly affected, was dominated by the devastating explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico. This was a tragic reminder of what can go wrong. Immediately after this incident, I asked for an intensive include our North American drilling and completion operations worldwide review of all of our drilling operations, with an and our start-up exploration projects around the world. We emphasis on operational integrity and process safety. The have implemented special programs in these areas to ensure findings were reviewed by the Board of Directors and fully continued progress toward our safety goals. discussed throughout the company. While we were satisfied Although we make concerted efforts to keep all workers with the overall results of this evaluation, we were able to use safe at all times, tragically, we experienced a fatality in 2010 our findings to improve upon many of our existing processes when contractor Evaristo Chimpa lost his life on the Pastaza and put in place more extensive readiness reviews for our River in northern Peru. All of us at Talisman extend our deepwater and higher-risk operations. sincere condolences to Mr. Chimpa’s family and friends. We At Talisman, we are on a five-year journey to move to topimmediately ceased all river operations to undergo a detailed quartile safety performance, and we have made significant and comprehensive investigation. We have since used the gains in the past couple of years. In 2010, we lowered our lostfindings to improve river operations in all areas where we rely time injury frequency rate by 18% over 2009, which itself had on barges to supply our activities. reduced 40% over 2008. Despite our continued progress, we Wherever we operate, we try to minimize our impact on the did not meet our own internal aspiration and have refocused environment, work with the support of local communities and our efforts again as we enter 2011. An assessment of our 2010 share the economic benefits of our activities. We commissioned incidents indicated that priority areas for our attention this year a report by Washington-based Foley Hoag, an internationally renowned legal and corporate social responsibility consultancy, on the issue of free, prior and informed consent for indigenous communities. We also received guidance from the World Resources Institute and several other expert organizations and individuals on this topic. Stemming from this report, we developed and issued a new community relations policy to help guide our interactions with local communities wherever we work. As an example, in Peru we undertake a rigorous process to ensure local communities are made aware of our plans and are offered access to additional support to understand and evaluate the impacts on their communities. After this process, community members hold a vote, which requires a two-thirds majority before we can commence operations. In North America, as we increase our shale activities, we see the tension between an affordable, abundant and clean energy source and public concerns, particularly with respect to water. Talisman is committed to environmentally responsible shale development, and we continue to look for ways to decrease our use of fresh water 02 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 John A. Manzoni President and Chief Executive Officer and to protect surface and ground water resources. Since communities impacted by our activities, in order to preserve mid-2010, we have achieved nearly 100% reuse of flowback our license to operate. As you will read in this report, we water in Pennsylvania, our largest shale operation. In 2011, we continue to build and enhance our activities to ensure Talisman will further increase environmental monitoring by developing and remains a responsible corporate citizen. We are proud of our piloting a sector-specific water intensity performance indicator. accomplishments to date, but we recognize that it must be a process of continuous improvement. We have created a series of partnerships with agencies that provide support in the regions we operate, or that have a 2010 was the first year we publicly shared some of our targets global focus on an important issue such as clean drinking for improvement. This was to demonstrate our commitment to water. In 2010, we partnered with the Centre for Affordable advancement and to set visible benchmarks for our stakeholders. Water and Sanitation Technology. The Calgary-based, notThe scorecard at the end of this report highlights some of our for-profit organization provides education, training and successes and areas for continued improvement. For 2011, technical consulting in water and sanitation to organizations we have added two new performance indicators relating to that serve the poor in developing countries. And, already in recordable injuries and overdue preventative maintenance. 2011, we accepted an invitation to participate in the United Talisman’s purpose is safe, profitable growth. We believe that Nations Global Compact LEAD program, comprised of a corporate responsibility programs must be fully integrated into all group of companies committed to defining best practices for business activities. As the complexity of our business increases sustainability leadership. As well, we have recently announced and the scale of our operations grows, we will continue to make a partnership with the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct substantial investments in the development of our people. project focused on measuring and mapping water risk. I would like to thank the Talisman Board for its important role Of course, beyond local boundaries, hydrocarbons are also in providing oversight to our corporate responsibility activities. a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. Talisman Most of all, I would like to thank the more than 4,600 Talisman continues to look for ways to leverage technology to improve employees and contractors around the world who live our energy efficiency and reduce our carbon footprint; you will values and conduct their business every day in an ethical and see examples in this report. responsible manner. Another challenge for the oil and gas industry is the aging demographic profile of our workforce. In a global, exciting and highly technical business, there is more we can do to attract and retain a new generation of engineers, geologists, accountants and other talented people. This is a great industry with great opportunities, in need of the best people. We are John A. Manzoni implementing a series of programs to build our capacity President and Chief Executive Officer within the firm, and to develop our employees to their Talisman Energy Inc. maximum potential. February 28, 2011 To meet these challenges, we recognize that Talisman must OUR VALUES: produce energy safely, responsibly and with the support of safety. passion. results. respect. excellence. teamwork. honest communication. 03 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 How We Manage Corporate Responsibility Our commitment to corporate responsibility is rooted in our company values. Our people put these values into action daily. Their dedication to making Talisman a great corporate citizen is built into the policies, systems, procedures and practices we put in place to keep us improving. 1. Our Values Provide A Solid Foundation 2. Our Management System Drives Corporate responsibility at Talisman starts with our values. Continuous Improvement They reflect what we stand for as a company and guide our Our global management system for health, safety, security, conduct at the highest level. environment and operational assurance (HSSE/OA) helps us to manage HSSE/OA risks, set common expectations for workers safety: our goal is to create working conditions where we and is central to understanding and improving our performance. cause no harm to people Building on the standards in this detailed framework allows passion: we inspire others by the passion we demonstrate us to translate many of our corporate values into actionable for our work commitments for our employees and contractors. results: we have a bias for results and take initiative to get In 2010, this system was expanded to include global projects things done efficiently, creating value for our shareholders and drilling and completions activities. Now known as the respect: we take time to consider and appreciate other Talisman operating management system, it provides a single people’s points of view and treat the environment with respect system that will further integrate our key HSSE/OA priorities excellence: we strive for excellence in what we do and how into our daily operations and effectively manage related risks. we do it We will continue implementing this system throughout 2011. teamwork: by working effectively together, we can deliver 3. Our Board Provides Oversight results far beyond our individual capabilities Our Board of Directors (Board) oversees the conduct of honest communication: we show courage to speak the business and management, including efforts to manage honestly and support others to do the same corporate responsibility. The Board ensures systems are in place to manage key financial and non-financial risks, including environment, health and safety. We have wellOUR VALUES established structures in place to ensure the Board can 04 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 function independently of management. All of our 11 directors 5. We Follow International Standards For Human are independent, except for Talisman’s president and chief Rights, Security And Transparency executive officer. We promote adherence to and respect for human rights In addition, the Board’s health, safety, environment and principles in all our areas of operation. We are a signatory to corporate responsibility (HSECR) committee oversees our the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which supports health, safety and environment initiatives, policies and systems. a number of principles related to human rights, labour, the In 2010, the mandate of this committee was expanded to environment and anti-corruption. In early 2011, we were invited include oversight for policies on security, community to participate in its LEAD program, which is comprised of a group relations and human rights. of 54 companies committed to defining best practices for sustainability leadership. 4. Ethical Conduct Is Fundamental To How We Do Business We are also the first Canadian company to participate in the Our policy on business conduct and ethics (PBCE) provides Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Plenary our employees and contractors with guidelines on a range of Group. The Voluntary Principles guide companies in maintaining issues, including personal conduct, human rights, community the safety and security of their operations, within an operating relations and health, safety and environment. All employees framework that promotes respect for human rights and security. and contractors are required to complete annual training and In addition, we are committed to transparency in our dealings to sign a certificate of compliance. Training has been updated with governments. We are a member of the Extractive Industries to reflect changes to the PBCE, which now references the new Transparency Initiative (EITI), and publish all royalties, taxes GCRP and prohibits facilitation payments. and other material payments to host governments across our global operations. Integrity Matters Talisman’s Integrity Matters hotline was available to both 6. We Engage And Listen To Stakeholders internal and external stakeholders throughout 2010. The In carrying out our business, we communicate and consult with hotline is a confidential option for submitting inquiries or a wide range of stakeholders. They can include landowners, local complaints regarding ethics matters and other areas of communities, Aboriginal and indigenous people, regulators and concern, such as human resources or workplace practices. governments. We create opportunities to engage stakeholders It is managed by an independent third-party with global early in a project cycle and frequently throughout our activities. operations that offers services in more than 140 languages. Our goal is to share information, learn from external perspectives All matters reported through this vehicle in 2010 were and build strong relationships in the community – all with a view investigated for possible breaches of business conduct to supporting our long-term success. and actions were taken where appropriate. 05 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Safety Safety is our top priority. It is paramount to our business that we create a work environment that is incident-free, where we do no harm and workers are not exposed to hazards. Driving Continuous Improvement Our Approach advance our safety performance. Contractor management will Keeping our people safe is a company-wide effort, and one to be a main area of improvement for 2011. Site supervision for which all Talisman employees are dedicated. Our objective is drilling and completions in North America will become more to become a consistent top-quartile safety performer. We strive rigorous. Control of the work on our sites will be enhanced. As for high levels of safety vigilance through safe work practices, well, we will manage our onshore operations with very clear site visits, reporting, education and training, as well as the accountabilities between Talisman and our contractors. We will commitment of our people. We are not satisfied with the status become more structured in our standards upon entry into new quo and have set key indicators for improved performance. We areas and how we start new projects. continually learn from both our incidents and successes. We set clear expectations through our global standards and follow Fatality In Peru up to provide assurance, thorough tracking and reporting. Although we make concerted efforts to keep all workers safe at all times, tragically, we experienced a fatality in 2010 on the Our Performance Pastaza River in northern Peru. On April 27, contractor Evaristo One of the key safety measures we track is the rate of lost time Chimpa died from injuries sustained after the guide boat he due to workplace injuries. Our lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) was travelling on suddenly lost power and was struck by the was down 18% from 2009. Although this was still a significant contractor-operated barge it was supporting. Immediately, we achievement, it fell short of our 30% improvement target. More ceased all river operations in the region. Through a detailed and work is required to achieve our goal of zero safety incidents in comprehensive investigation, we adapted our processes and, our workplace. Our 2011 target is to further reduce LTIF by 20%, subsequently, we identified opportunities to improve certain compared to 2010. procedures and controls, particularly in the area of operator training and vessel inspection. We have since used the findings In addition to tracking key performance indicators, we have to enhance the safety of river barge operations in Peru and to been focusing our attention on incidents and potential incidents. make improvements in Colombia and PNG, where we also rely We have learned a significant amount about where we need to on barges to supply exploration activities. Communicating 10 Golden Rules For Safe Operations Global Lost-time Crucial to managing personal safety is building an entrenched Injury Frequency safety culture where clear rules and procedures are consistently per one million exposure hours followed to prevent personal injuries. To reinforce our commitment 2.0 to safety, we have established our 10 Golden Rules for Safe 1.6 Operations. These rules form part of our global safety culture 1.2 In 2010, our global lost-time injury frequency standard. Compliance with these rules is a condition of working 0.8 (LTIF) was 0.88 per million at any Talisman site. In 2010, we rolled out the rules to our 0.4 exposure hours, down from 1.08 in 2009. global workforce. They were published in nine languages and 0.0 2008 2009 2010 were supported by a communications campaign of posters, DVDs, booklets, online guidelines for supervisors and face-toface conversations. 06 6 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 “At Talisman, we are on a five-year journey to move to top-quartile safety performance, and we have made significant gains in the past couple of years.” John A. Manzoni, President and Chief Executive Officer Reinforcing Safe Behaviours On The Worksite By encouraging people to follow the proper operating procedures Across all our operations, we place a strong emphasis on in our facilities, we can prevent major incidents, such as fatalities, peer-to-peer observations and supervisor mentoring to raise spills and fires. For the past year, we achieved a zero backlog awareness of job hazards and correct safety behaviours. In of repair orders for safety-critical equipment. In other words, if 2010, we renewed these programs in our North America and this equipment needed to be repaired, we fixed it immediately UK operations. In North America, we provided additional and reported these corrective actions to management. training on behaviour-based safety for new and existing workers, and we introduced safety observation training for Global Review Of Process Safety After BP Incident leaders. In the UK, we used a program that promoted peerOn April 20, 2010, an explosion on BP’s Deepwater Horizon to-peer behaviour-based safety among workers. Through drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico resulted in a fire that sank the this continuing program, employees are trained in effective rig, causing 11 fatalities, multiple serious injuries and the largest techniques for carrying out safety conversations in order to oil spill in history. In response to this devastating incident, we coach and encourage co-workers to follow safe work practices. conducted a thorough review of all aspects of our global drilling operations, including well design, procedures, training and Improving Contractor Management equipment. This company-wide investigation reaffirmed that Our company works with thousands of contractors worldwide Talisman has appropriate measures and barriers in place to who provide diverse services to our operations. In some areas, maintain high levels of safety. While this gave us confidence in they represent a significant portion of the local workforce. the processes and procedures we have in place, we recognize Contractors are expected to follow the same safety standards that there are inherent risks associated with any kind of complex as our employees. In 2010, to bring more consistency to operation. While removing risk entirely is unlikely, we were able contractor performance, we implemented a global contractor to use our findings to apply additional rigour to our designs, health, safety and environment (HSE) management standard. procedures and safety processes. The standard provides a common system for evaluating and At the same time, the review also identified the opportunity to selecting contractors and working with them to enhance safety develop a more robust incident response plan. For example, practices. As a first step, we categorized contractor jobs based on as Talisman expands our operations and enters new regions, a the level of hazardous work. For tier-one contractors involved in commitment to consistent standards is increasingly important. the most hazardous work, we now consider their previous safety Immediately after our review in 2010, we shared the company’s performance as a prequalification for employment and we require expectations for well operations and process safety with all regular safety meetings between Talisman safety managers and site supervisors throughout our global drilling and completions the contractor. Looking forward, our goal is to have all tier-one business. We are also developing a global standard on well contractors operating to this new standard by the end of 2011. control, which will set out clear expectations for onshore and offshore operations. This standard will be introduced in 2011. Reducing The Risk Of Critical Incidents We plan to drill our first deepwater well in the Indonesian In Our Facilities Makassar Strait later this year. Process safety involves plant equipment, processes used to operate a plant, and people who use the processes. 07 7 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Safety in action: a barrier management system in Norway, a four-point plan in the UK and medical care in remote locations. Stories From Our Regions Breaking The Chain Of Events That Can Lead To Major Incidents Norway Our Norway operations use a barrier management system to maintain high levels of process safety at the Gyda platform in the North Sea. The system covers 17 barriers (technical, organizational and operational measures) designed to prevent events that can lead to major incidents such as spills, fires or explosions. Each barrier is monitored by a technical authority, and the overall risk index for each barrier at the site is updated each day and shown on an online data management system. Since its launch in 2009, the system has increased awareness of daily process safety practices on Gyda. In 2011, it will be expanded to the Yme platform in the North Sea. The system is also being considered for other Talisman regions. Improving Personal Safety Through A Four-Point Plan UK In the UK, our operations apply a four-point plan to improve personal safety on 11 offshore installations in the North Sea as well as the Flotta Oil Terminal. Since introducing the plan in 2008, it has been updated each year to address safety priorities. In 2010, the plan was used to stress the importance of visible site leadership, safety interventions, awareness of work-site hazards and effective procedures for personal safety. The program has helped our UK operations decrease lost-time injury frequency by more than 50% in the past two years. Based on this success, we plan to expand use of the four-point plan to other operating regions in 2011, including Malaysia, Norway and North America. Providing Medical Care In Remote Locations Papua New Guinea In PNG, we have acquired about 400 kilometres of seismic data since we commenced onshore activities in 2009. Here, our exploration programs take place in challenging and remote jungle environments where workers can be exposed to a variety of health risks, including endemic diseases such as malaria and cholera and other hazards such as crocodiles and poisonous snakes. For the people working on our behalf in these environments, we have established a variety of arrangements for health and medical support, including medical evacuation via air ambulance to hospitals in Australia, and heli-portable medical clinics staffed with doctors and paramedics. These arrangements are also available for assisting members of the local communities. For instance, in 2010, Talisman provided medical assistance and evacuation for a child from a village located near one of our remote camps who had been bitten by a poisonous snake. 08 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Environment At Talisman, we are committed to environmental performance that meets or exceeds regulations wherever we operate. Understanding and minimizing our impact on the environment is a priority in every decision we make. Managing Responsibly, Limiting Our Footprint Our Approach Our pursuit for continuous improvement in environmental performance includes integrating environmental considerations into our business and making efficient use of resources. We carefully plan all projects and operations so as to minimize our impacts to air, land and water. We also draw on technological innovation and best practices to ensure we are using energy, water and other materials we need to operate our daily business activities as efficiently as possible. Strengthening Spill Prevention We track and record spills across our global operations as a key indicator of environmental performance. We take all spills seriously. By investigating for root causes, developing corrective actions and sharing what we learn, we work to prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future. Responding To A Spill In Pennsylvania In 2010, the number of spills greater than one-half barrel in In March 2010, we experienced a spill from a shale gas our global operations decreased from 157 in 2009 to 109. drilling operation in Bradford County, Pennsylvania, of which 1,700 litres (450 gallons) of diesel were recovered. The spill leaked offsite into a nearby field. Upon discovery of the spill, Global Spills Talisman’s environmental response crews were immediately number of spills (>0.5 bbl) notified and began implementing containment and recovery 500 Total spills (2008 not categorized) operations. Working with local regulators and stakeholders, we 415 400 Hydrocarbon spills took prompt action to remediate the area impacted by the spill Other spills 300 and to thoroughly investigate the incident. In 2010, our global operations 200 recorded 109 spills greater than As a result of our investigation, we implemented a number of 74 one-half barrel, a decrease of 100 83 39 70 48 from 2009 levels. Our total improvements to prevent future offsite impacts from our shale gas 0 spill volume in 2010 was 501 developments across North America. We installed plastic liners 2008 2009 2010 cubic metres. under drilling and completions sites in order to prevent any spilled fluids from reaching the environment. We also upgraded connector equipment to help prevent leaks, introduced new operating procedures for tanks and increased spill prevention training for our field staff. 09 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 “Wherever we operate, we try to minimize our impact on the environment, work with the support of local communities and share the economic benefits of our activities.” John A. Manzoni, President and Chief Executive Officer Protecting And Conserving Water techniques that meet or exceed industry guidelines designed Shale gas development uses fracturing fluid, which consists to protect fresh water and we monitor our practices and of greater than 99.5% water and sand with less than 0.5% strive for continuous improvement in each well program. of other chemicals, to fracture the shale and release trapped To minimize our environmental footprint, we are focused on gas for production. In North America, increased shale gas recycling water to reduce the amount of fresh water used in development has raised concerns about possible impacts our developments. This involves recovering flowback water on the environment, including aquifers and surface water. (fracturing fluid that flows back through the wellbore to the Our industry must apply and be granted permits from the surface), storing it and reusing it to fracture future wells. Since government to withdraw surface water. Most of the water mid-2010, we have achieved nearly 100% reuse of flowback used for shale gas development is taken directly from nearby water in Pennsylvania, our largest shale gas operation. Reuse lakes and rivers. of flowback water reduces the cost of offsite waste disposal and helps to conserve water resources. At Talisman, we take great care to protect aquifers. Before starting to drill, we carry out voluntary testing of domestic As the pace of Talisman’s shale development increases, so wells in the vicinity. We follow stringent wellbore casing will our focus on enhancing our water management practices. In 2010, we developed a water management strategy to define best practices for water withdrawal, reuse, disposal and conservation in our North America shale gas operations. This strategy outlines a number of objectives to minimize fresh water use, reduce water disposal and increase the use of alternative water sources. Talisman is active within the industry to drive continuous improvement in water management. We have partnered with the World Resources Institute in their Aqueduct project. The project’s overarching goal is to share research and information on the multiple drivers of water risk, in order to better manage increasingly scarce water resources around the world. We are also participating in initiatives led by IPIECA and GEMI (Global Environmental Management Initiatives) to develop oil and gas-focused water risk tools and best management guidelines. 10 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Minimizing Our Footprint Managing Emissions We conduct studies to identify and avoid encroaching on Greenhouse gas emissions pose significant regulatory and environmental features, such as streams and wetlands, early in reputational risks to our industry. A priority for Talisman is the planning stages for our exploration projects. We minimize the use of economic energy measures that can be integrated the size of land to be cleared and look for opportunities to avoid into our daily business to improve energy efficiency and sensitive environmental areas through routing and schedule operations. For example, in Alberta, Canada, we operate a adjustments. In some cases, as in our shale gas developments, waste heat recovery unit at our Bigstone gas plant and a we drill multiple wells from a common pad to minimize our cogeneration facility at our Edson gas plant. Both facilities help footprint on the land and the community. to reduce fuel consumption and, together, they reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by more than 40,000 tonnes a year. In 2010, we took additional global actions to reduce our environmental footprint, including: We also monitor and participate in regulatory initiatives. Since 2008, our Talisman UK and Norway operations have • In North America, we introduced the use of geographic participated in Phase II of the European Union Emissions information system (GIS) technology to enhance our ability Trading Scheme. The market-based scheme involves the to identify and map environmental features in planning for trading of greenhouse gas emissions allowances to ensure shale gas well sites. emissions reductions by industrial emitters across Europe. • In PNG, where possible, we located our remote camps for Since 2008, equipment upgrades and operating efficiencies our seismic crews in areas of the rainforest previously cleared have enabled our UK operations to reduce emissions by about by the indigenous people for villages and agriculture. This 25%. In 2010, CO2 allowances for our UK operations slightly allowed us to minimize tree clearing and land disturbance. exceeded emissions. Our Norway operations have had to purchase CO2 quotas for each tonne of CO2 emitted since 2008. • In Colombia, we hired environmental inspectors to monitor our seismic activities to ensure compliance with government Longer term, we recognize a need to develop a consistent regulations and our own standards. Based on input, we approach to climate change across our global operations. adjusted seismic locations to safe distances from streams We are evaluating a set of global requirements for greenhouse and water bodies. gas emissions and energy efficiency. In 2010, we also developed an online information package to increase internal awareness of climate change science and possible emissions reduction strategies. 11 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Preserving our environment through prevention, protection and investment. Stories From Our Regions 17-Point Spill Prevention Plan Canada We conduct conventional oil operations in the Shaunavon fields in Saskatchewan, Canada. In the past, we have experienced a higher incidence of hydrocarbon spills and leaks in this operation due to older equipment. In 2010, we assessed the historic information and developed a 17-point action plan to reduce the number spills. The plan sets out a series of actions for field staff, including maintenance of pumpjack equipment and inspections of pipelines. This approach has already helped to reduce spill frequency at Shaunavon by 45%. We are now looking to adapt the plan for other areas of our North America operations. Protecting Rare Bird Species Colombia During an environmental impact assessment in Colombia’s Block 9, an endangered bird species (the small yellow-eared parrot) was identified in the foothills region. We adjusted our seismic line to avoid the bird’s habitat and, with participation from the local community, developed a plan to minimize our impacts. We also contributed to the building of an ecological walking trail and visited local schools to increase awareness of the importance of species protection. Investing In Biodiversity Studies Malaysia The State of Terengganu on the east coast of Malaysia is well known for its natural environment heritage. Despite its designated and protected marine parks, there is limited information on coastal ecosystems and marine mammals in the region. In 2010, Talisman committed more than US$100,000 to the Malaysian Nature Society (MNS) to support its project to provide environmental monitoring of marine and coastal ecosystems. Talisman’s project partnership with MNS will focus on areas in Terengganu and Sabah and working with local communities to monitor coastlines in addition to conducting marine mammal observation. 12 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 People We have a responsibility to our people to treat them with respect, to enable them to reach their full potential and to create a work environment in which they can excel. In doing this, we attract and retain talented people. Valuing And Developing Our Employees Our Approach Seeking Employee Input And Ideas Critical to our future growth and success is our ability to Recognizing that our company continues to be in a stage of attract and retain quality individuals who contribute positively transformation, we commissioned our first-ever global survey to our culture. We want to be an employer of choice. With of employees in late 2010. The survey asked for their opinions that goal in mind, in 2010 we set out to identify and build on topics related to working at Talisman, including leadership, our professional and leadership capabilities. We also focused empowerment, work-life balance, safety, communications and our attention to how we work together and how we can ensure career development. Talisman is a great place to work. We asked employees for Our target of 70% completion was exceeded when 82% of feedback through a global survey and we embarked on a employees took the time to participate in the survey. Employee plan to enhance our people strategy. comments indicated a number of areas of strength: Our Workforce • They understand, feel aligned with and support our As of December 31, 2010, Talisman employed a global corporate goals and objectives. They feel accountable, workforce of 3,078 employees. With our people located in motivated and recognized. 15 countries around the world, we benefit from the diversity of experiences and knowledge that comes from a global • They believe in what we do as a business, are willing to go workforce. In hiring for our regional operations, we employ the extra mile and are optimistic about our future. local people whenever possible. In 2010, approximately 74% of all regional hires were local to that area. In light of our • They take pride in and feel that Talisman is a socially exploration, production and business activities, we employ responsible company. a variety of professionals such as engineers, geologists, The results also clearly identified some areas we need to accountants, lawyers and skilled field operations staff. improve, including simplifying how we work and investing in the development of our employees. Employee Breakdown Canada 1,576 Based on what our employees told us, our global people By Geography US 208 (includes full-time and part-time UK 376 priority will be enhanced development. We will continue our permanent employees) Norway 249 comprehensive approach to developing all employees, with a Malaysia 341 focus on our professionals and leaders. Our expectation for Peru 90 Colombia 28 2011 is that all employees will have development conversations Kurdistan region with their leaders and development plans in place. We have of northern Iraq 14 Vietnam 48 increased our training budget and expect these funds to be PNG/Australia 50 allocated. We are also putting in place more programs and Indonesia 89 Algeria 1 activities to help enhance employees’ on-the-job experience. Netherlands 4 Our commitment to people development will be an ongoing Poland 4 Global 3,078 focus that will carry on beyond 2011. 13 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Attracting And Recruiting The Right People teams, secondments and project work, to expose employees to A diverse workforce helps ensure we are benefiting from a new ideas and continuous learning. In 2010, we invested more wide range of backgrounds, perspectives and experiences. than $6 million in learning and development expenditures We recruit globally to find the right skills to support and lead for employees. our business strategy. Our business spans many geographies Developing our leaders is critical to our success. Strong and includes a variety of oil and gas products, making it leadership is essential to achieving our goals and creating a extremely important for us to hire experienced people to share climate that inspires employees to deliver results. In late 2010, their knowledge and mentor our next generation of leaders. we launched our development program for key senior leaders. To recruit new people to the industry, we also hire students The program offered participants an opportunity to focus on from universities and technical schools. We visit campuses strategic thinking, executive decision making and personal worldwide to promote Talisman as a great place to work and leadership styles. Recognizing the broader importance of these provide cooperative education and summer job opportunities. skill sets, we are in the process of developing a program for Upon completion of their studies, students may be hired into our emerging leaders that will launch in 2011. full-time positions at Talisman. Setting Goals And Rewarding Performance Investing In The Development Of Our People Our total rewards philosophy recognizes that achievement We believe that the development of our people begins with a of business success is largely a reflection of the company’s conversation. Talisman is committed to having conversations performance and the contributions of our people. The link that lead to development actions. We recognize that these plans between individual and business success is the premise for need to be supported by opportunities for experience, exposure our compensation philosophy. and education. By providing these opportunities, as well as the We have put considerable effort into how individual performance framework, support and necessary tools for development, we plans are created and evaluated. This starts by having goals that are equipping our employees to guide their own careers. are specific, measurable, achievable, results-focused and time While 2011 will see an increased focus in the area of bound. We have created a variety of feedback channels for our development, we will support this focus by building on the leaders, this includes reviews from their peers, those who report programs already in place. In 2010, our employees could to them and the person they report to. We also offer workshops take advantage of a wide range of training and development for employees to support effective conversations on performance. activities aimed at helping them broaden their skills. In Our performance management system is now in its third year addition to traditional classroom training, we provide a variety and it is helping employees clearly identify their goals, the of experiential learning opportunities, such as cross-functional expectations of their work and the reward and recognition for varying levels of performance. While the type and design of plans vary by country, they are developed in consideration of overall total compensation, market competitiveness and in support of employee performance aligning with business success and increasing shareholder value. This flexibility provides opportunity to reward performance, as well as to share the benefits of corporate success with participating employees across the company. We also offer educational assistance programs, flexible health plans and a global employee and family assistance program. 14 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 “We are implementing a series of programs to build our capacity within the firm, and to develop our employees to their maximum potential.” John A. Manzoni, President and Chief Executive Officer Stories From Our Regions Talisman Recognized As One Of Alberta’s Top Employers Canada For the second consecutive year, Talisman was named one of Alberta’s top 50 employers by the editors of Canada’s Top 100 Employers. The designation recognizes Alberta employers who lead their peers in offering exceptional places to work. Companies are chosen based on work atmosphere, benefits, training and skills development, and community involvement. Supporting Post-Secondary Education Globally One of the ways we contribute to developing future professionals in our industry is by investing in post-secondary education. In 2010, we contributed more than $1 million in funding to Malaysia post-secondary institutions worldwide. Here are some of our key contributions in 2010: • Canada: We committed $1 million to the University of Calgary to support the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council/Talisman Energy Research Chair in Drilling Engineering. These funds, delivered through the Schulich School of Engineering, are aimed at developing technologies and operating practices to enhance precision drilling and helping to limit impacts to the land and water. We are also a foundation sponsor of the Vietnam University of Calgary’s Global Executive Energy MBA offered through the Haskayne School of Business. Our contribution of $1 million will go toward development of the program as well as enrolment costs for some Talisman employees or partners. • Malaysia: In 2008, Talisman began a five-year commitment to fund scholarships in partnership with the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Universiti Sains Malaysia and University of Malaya. To date, more than US$240,000 has been disbursed to 32 engineering and geology students from across Malaysia. Norway • Vietnam: Starting in 2009, we have funded a scholarship program in Vietnam that supports two professionals each year to undertake post-graduate degree courses in geosciences, engineering and business administration at the University of Alberta. • Norway: We offer a scholarship program for foreign students to attend the master’s degree program in petroleum technology at the University of Stavanger. Since its inception in 2006, more than 34 students have participated. 15 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Communities It is important that we bring direct benefit to the communities where we operate. We do this through employment opportunities, new infrastructure and support for community programs. Engaging With Communities, Providing Local Benefits Our Approach Our new policy moves us to a more systematic approach for We openly communicate with local community members to gaining the support of communities. Incorporating the broad FPIC make sure they have access to information on our projects and principles means we will work with communities, at the earliest business activities. Through community consultations, we have stages of development, to gain support for the work we plan to meaningful conversations to understand local perspectives and do. While governments have the final say on how resources are to ensure they are taken into account in our decision making. developed, this policy demonstrates Talisman’s good faith attempt We do this early in the process and frequently, because the to involve and respect our community neighbours. opinions and concerns of our stakeholders matter. We also invest in local projects and initiatives that benefit the Sharing Information About Our Shale Developments communities wherever we operate. Our commitment to our community partners is that we will make every effort to share information and address their New Global Community Relations Policy concerns. As an example, in North America there is public Our new GCRP marks an important evolution in our commitment concern about shale development, including the use, sourcing, to working with our local communities. In particular, when treatment and disposal of water. In addition, there is concern working with communities, we commit to engaging them in about the use of fracturing fluids to fracture the shale and a fair and open discussion of our activities and addressing their recover the gas. We are committed to open and transparent concerns – this is the foundation of our new GCRP. communications on our shale operations, including full disclosure of fracturing fluids. Approved in late 2010 and introduced in early 2011, the policy outlines our objectives, which include respecting the rights and In 2010, we conducted more than 100 open house meetings interests of indigenous and tribal communities, understanding in Pennsylvania, British Columbia and Quebec, where we met their cultural needs, finding ways for communities to share in with landowners, community groups and others to discuss our the economic benefits of oil and gas development, and meeting development activities and our plans to minimize environmental the expectation that we will do no harm. impacts. As a further measure, we began publishing a listing of fracturing chemicals used in our Pennsylvania operations The policy underwent extensive review by key internal and on our Talisman Energy USA website. In 2011, we will list external stakeholders, including consultation with companies, fracturing chemicals for all of our shale gas developments civil society organizations and experts in indigenous rights across North America on both our corporate and Talisman working within governments. Prior to crafting the policy, Energy USA websites. The Talisman Energy USA website also Talisman commissioned a report by Washington-based Foley provides detailed information on our drilling procedures as Hoag, an internationally renowned legal and corporate social well as any notices of violations and our corrective actions. responsibility consultancy, on the issue of free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) for indigenous communities. In Quebec, we took an active part in public hearings on shale gas Guidance was provided by the World Resources Institute exploration and development led by the provincial government’s and several other expert organizations and individuals. Bureau des audiences publiques sur l’environnement (BAPE). 16 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Sharing information, being transparent and engaging with communities are key to building relationships. We shared information on our shale gas development activities, Engaging Communities In Colombia the purpose of fracturing fluids and the different operating We continued to apply an open and transparent approach to practices we use to protect fresh water. engaging communities in all operating regions. For example, in Colombia we are conducting seismic operations in a number Building Relationships With Aboriginal Communities of areas, including Block 8, a remote rainforest environment Talisman works with Aboriginal and indigenous communities in bordering on four indigenous reserves. In 2010, we adopted an honest and respectful manner to build strong relationships. a creative approach to involve indigenous and non-indigenous Talisman proactively engages communities on our projects, communities to educate them on our seismic project. We allowing time for review of our development plans and an hosted interactive outdoor presentations and produced a opportunity to provide feedback on general areas of concern storybook, both in Spanish and native languages, created that could require further consultation. Early and ongoing with local indigenous people to explain different aspects of consultation with communities has allowed Talisman to respond the project. The name of the project – Dajitaneja – means to concerns and arrive at solutions that benefit both the company “for all” in a local indigenous language. and communities. We also partnered with a local independent civil society In 2010, we continued to build on our strong existing relationships organization, Fundación Ideas para la Paz (FIP), to promote with Aboriginal communities in Alberta and British Columbia. transparency in our community engagement activities. In 2010, In northeast British Columbia, for example, we continue to FIP representatives attended our meetings with indigenous work closely with communities near our projects. Three of communities to act as impartial observers and monitor our these communities are West Moberly First Nations, the Saulteau engagement with these communities. Started in 2009, this First Nations and the Halfway River First Nation. A focus of our partnership has provided ongoing feedback in the field on our discussions in 2010 with these communities was the hiring of engagement activities and an additional level of assurance to Aboriginal-owned businesses to support our shale gas exploration Talisman’s human rights performance. efforts. We also invested more than $40,000 in local initiatives that support education and training, culture retention, health Engaging Communities In Peru and wellness and youth and elders in these communities. Talisman has operator interests in five onshore blocks and is non-operator of two blocks covering 8.7 million net acres in the In areas like the Quebec lowlands, where we are in the Maranon basin of northern Peru. Since we began exploration in early stages of exploring for shale gas, we began developing Peru in 2004, most activity has been in Block 64, where light relationships with Aboriginal neighbours such as the Le Grand oil was discovered in 2005 and confirmed in 2009. Conseil De La Nation Waban-Aki, representing the Conseil de Bande des Abénakis de Wôlinak and the Conseil de We recognize the unique nature of these local communities Bande d’Odanak. in Peru, and before operational activity begins, Talisman must have the consent and support of two-thirds majority of each impacted community. 17 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 We recognize that Talisman must produce energy safely, responsibly and with the support of communities impacted by our activities. Our consultation process involves public meetings and More Than $8 Million Contributed To Communities workshops to explain plans and listen to concerns, using third We contributed approximately $8.5 million to community parties and local language as necessary. This is followed by the initiatives worldwide in 2010. We focused our donations and negotiation of compensation for disruption and impact, which sponsorships in areas that are important to our business and runs in parallel with a formal environmental impact assessment communities, with a focus on youth and education. study required by the Peruvian government. We have consulted In 2010, we made a commitment to contribute $1 million and received consent for exploration and seismic activities in over five years to the Centre for Affordable Water and Blocks 64, 101, 134 and 158. We also have good neighbour Sanitation Technology (CAWST). The Calgary-based, not-foragreements with almost all of the communities on the Morona profit organization provides education, training and technical River. For instance in Block 64, land access, compensation consulting in water and sanitation to organizations that serve and bilateral code of conduct agreements, signed with the the poor in developing countries. Talisman funds will be used previous operators, were renegotiated. Talisman is committed to grow a global network of water expertise and training to to open dialogue with all stakeholders. We are engaging with improve access to clean drinking water and sanitation in areas a number of organizations, including non-governmental of greatest need in developing countries. organizations, in North and South America to understand concerns and receive feedback on how to improve our Responding To International Relief Efforts operations and practices in Peru. During the year, our company and our employees responded to In the fall of 2010, we began an environmental impact international campaigns to assist people affected by devastating assessment study for a proposed production project in the natural events. We provided more than $500,000 globally to Situche Central region of Block 64. As part of the study, registered charities assisting with the earthquake relief efforts in scientists are collecting environmental and social data from Haiti and flood relief efforts in Pakistan, Vietnam and Colombia. the area where the project would take place. Results of the study The money was used to provide clean water, medical assistance will be shared with local communities through public workshops. and other relief items for affected communities. More recently, in early 2011 we were affected directly when a destructive flood in Brisbane, Australia, caused our regional Total Community Contributions Worldwide office to temporarily close and forced some of our employees ($ millions) to provisionally relocate. We worked to ensure the safety of our workers throughout this event and, in the aftermath, contributed 10 8.5 $50,000 to help with relief efforts. 8 7.5 6.3 6 4 We focused our donations 2 and sponsorships in areas 0 that are important to our 2008 2009 2010 business and communities. 18 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Supporting our communities through consultation, education, medical support and capacity building. Stories From Our Regions Giving Generously To The United Way Canada Talisman actively supports the annual United Way of Calgary fundraising campaign to build strong, healthy families and communities in Calgary and the surrounding area. Each year Talisman employees and executives volunteer significant amounts of time and energy throughout the campaign. In 2010, for the fourth consecutive year, Talisman and its employees raised more than $1 million for the United Way campaign. In an additional effort to raise awareness and create opportunities for employees to participate, we held our first A Day Makes A Difference campaign, which involved a week of volunteer activities for a range of charitable projects. Led by our executive team, more than 200 employees volunteered as part of the campaign. Supporting Education Peru In Peru, we are committed to offering full education scholarships for indigenous students in the areas where we are working. In 2010, 20 students from the Loreto region and the communities of Fasam, Nuevo Osham and Sabaloyacu benefited from these scholarships, which included the cost of materials, lodging, food and transportation. In addition, we funded a training course in Lima for 30 community members on basic health-care techniques. Helping To Rebuild Communities Kurdistan We have carried out seismic exploration activities in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq and commenced drilling our first operated well earlier this year. As a condition of our investment, we provided capacity-building payments of US$220 million in 2008 to the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) to rehabilitate local communities damaged by past conflict. We have taken steps to ensure these dollars are managed transparently. The KRG has established a committee to oversee allocation of $200 million of the initial capacity-building payments, which are allocated specifically to the Garmian region, an area in great need of infrastructure support. Talisman has a seat on that committee. To date, about $75 million has been invested in projects to build roads, improve water sanitation, drill water wells, build schools and provide affordable housing developments. 19 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Progress Against 2009 Targets And Future Plans In our 2009 report, Talisman introduced quantitative and qualitative performance targets focusing on safety, environment, community relations and people. We introduced these targets to continue to build on the performance improvements already achieved. In addition to current metrics, we are adding two new key performance indicators (KPIs) to report against in 2011, relating to total recordable injuries and overdue safety critical preventative maintenance. As well, our 2011 targets are divided into leading (proactive) and lagging (improvement) metrics to allow us to not only track and report on incidents, but focus on prevention and intervention. What We Said In Our What We Achieved What We Plan For 2011 2009 Report In 2010 Management • operationalize 2009 • operationalized five global • operationalization of global standards will be a focus Systems global standards standards: KPI periodic over the next five years reporting; incident reporting, • each region will implement five Golden Rules for Safe investigation and analysis; Operations, an important part of our global safety culture leadership and commitment; standard; the remaining five rules will be implemented safety culture; and contractor in 2012 HSE management • introduce and operationalize a global well control standard • develop and introduce three • four global standards were • focus will be on the global contractor HSE management additional global standards approved in 2010: management standard for our highest risk operations, and on of change; risk management; operationalizing the emergency and crisis management integrated emergency and structures at all levels of the company crisis management; and process safety – equipment • development work will continue on several standards integrity element to be ratified in 2012 Safety • achieve 30% reduction in • achieved an 18% reduction in • achieve 20% reduction in LTIF loss-time injury frequency LTIF, reporting 0.88 per million • new metric: achieve 20% reduction in total recordable (LTIF) from 1.08 per million exposure hours and one fatality injury frequency (TRIF) exposure hours and • unintentional hydrocarbon • reduce unintentional hydrocarbon releases by 20% no fatalities releases reduced by 66% • achieve zero backlog of overdue safety critical repairs • reduce unintentional • zero backlog of overdue safety hydrocarbon releases by 20% • new metric: zero overdue safety critical preventative critical repairs maintenance man-hours • achieve zero backlog of overdue safety critical repairs Environment • reduce the number of spills • achieved a reduction of 31% • reduce the number of spills by 20% by 20% from 157 in 2009 People • 100% completion • 100% completion of • all of our global permanent workforce will have actionable of 360-degree feedback feedback reviews development plans completed. This will be supported reviews for all managers through targeted learning for employees and leaders on • 70% response rate on how to have robust development conversations global employee survey • 82% response rate achieved • for the last two years Talisman has rolled out 360-degree feedback reviews for our managers and senior leaders. To assist our next generation of leaders in developing others, we will implement a similar process in which they will receive feedback from both their leader and employees Community • contribute $7.5 million to • contributed $8.5 million to • contribute $9.7 million to community investments Relations communities in 2010 community investments • partner with one international agency to address • develop global community • policy developed and important global issues identified by the United relations policy approved in 2010, launched Nations Global Compact that are relevant to our in January 2011 core competencies and affect people in our regions • develop tools for implementation of the global community relations policy 20 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Key Numbers This table provides a snapshot of different areas of our corporate responsibility performance. For a full list of key performance indicators and detailed notes, visit our online Corporate Responsibility report at www.talisman-energy.com Indicator 2008 2009 2010 Health Lost-Time Injury Frequency 1.83 1.08 0.88 injuries expressed as a rate per one million exposure hours and Safety Number of Fatalities 3 0 1 number Environment Number of Spills 415 157 109 greater than a half-barrel Volume of Spills 1,149 1,196 501 greater than a half-barrel, expressed in cubic metres not previously Number of Unintentional Hydrocarbon Releases reported 345 1 118 People Number of Employees 2,966 2,820 2,975 full-time permanent employees Employee Turnover 6.4 3.5 6.4 expressed as %, not including retirements Communities Community Contributions 7.5 6.3 8.5 $ million in total funding to community initiatives Economic Production 432 425 417 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day Net Income 3,519 437 648 $ millions Exploration and Development Expenditures 4,395 3,784 3,935 $ millions Remuneration to Employees 653.7 583.7 728.1 $ millions in compensation and benefits 1 In mid-2010, we moved to a more robust definition for unintentional hydrocarbon releases, resulting in the 2009 number being restated. 21 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Independent Assurance Statement To the Board of Directors and Management of Talisman Energy Inc. (“Talisman”) Our Responsibilities Level Of Assurance Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance assurance on which to base our conclusions. The procedures Engagements ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be required Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. in a reasonable assurance engagement and accordingly, we do not express a reasonable level of assurance. While we developed Scope Of Our Engagement an understanding of management’s internal process when We have carried out a limited assurance engagement in determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our limited relation to specific corporate responsibility performance assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance indicators in Talisman’s Corporate Responsibility Report (the on internal controls. “Report”) for the year ending December 31, 2010 which covers corporate responsibility performance information that Work Performed has been prepared by Talisman Management. In order for us to provide a conclusion in relation to the above scope of work, we have sought to answer the following The subject matter of our engagement, as agreed with questions for the Subject Matter reviewed: management, is as follows: • Total number of spills >=0.5 bbls Completeness • Has Talisman fairly presented performance information • Total volume of spills >=0.5 bbls concerning the selected performance indicators with respect • Total unintentional hydrocarbon releases to the boundaries and time period defined in the Report? • Total number of fatalities • Has Talisman included sustainability performance • Global lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) information from all material entities in its defined boundary • Total number of employees for its reporting of the selected performance indicators? • Total number of directors • Has Talisman accurately collated corporate data relating to the • Total voluntary turnover rate selected performance indicators from operations level data? • Global learning and development expenditure ($) Accuracy • Global employee remuneration ($) • Is the data reported for the selected performance indicators • Total community contributions ($) sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders to assess Talisman’s performance? Criteria Talisman has prepared its specified performance information Our assurance procedures at Talisman’s corporate head office in accordance with the GRI G3 Guidelines or where relevant, included but were not limited to: internally developed criteria. • Interviewing selected personnel at Corporate and selected Talisman Management Responsibilities international sites to understand the key sustainability issues The Report was prepared by the management of Talisman, related to the selected performance data and processes for the who is responsible for the collection and presentation of the collection and accurate reporting of performance information performance indicators, statements, claims in the Report • Where relevant, performing walkthroughs of systems and and the criteria used in determining that the information is processes for data aggregation and reporting appropriate for the purpose of disclosure in the Report. In • Checking key assumptions and the evidence to support addition, management is responsible for maintaining adequate the assumptions records and internal controls that are designed to support • Checking the accuracy of calculations performed, on a sample the reporting process. There are currently no prescribed basis, primarily through inquiry and analytical procedures requirements relating to the preparation, publication and • Checking that data and statements had been correctly verification of sustainability reports. transcribed from corporate systems and/or supporting evidence into the Report 22 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Limitations Of Our Work Performed Completeness Our scope of work did not include providing conclusions Nothing has come to our attention to cause us to believe that: in relation to: • Talisman has not fairly presented performance information • The materiality, completeness or accuracy of data sets concerning the Subject Matter with respect to the boundaries or information relating to areas other than the selected and time period defined in the Report performance data, and any site-specific information • Talisman has not included sustainability performance • Information reported outside of Talisman’s 2010 Corporate information from all material entities in its defined boundary Responsibility Report for its reporting of the Subject Matter • Management’s forward-looking statements • Talisman has not accurately collated corporate data relating • Any comparisons made by Talisman against historical data to the Subject Matter from operations-level data • The Report being in accordance with all of the requirements Accuracy of GRI G3, or to a particular application level Nothing has come to our attention to cause us to believe • The appropriateness of definitions for internally that data reported for the Subject Matter is not materially developed criteria accurate and insufficiently detailed for stakeholders to assess Talisman’s performance. Our Conclusions Subject to our limitations of scope noted above and on the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance engagement, we provide the following conclusions: Ernst & Young LLP Calgary, Canada February 25, 2011 Forward-looking Information This corporate responsibility report contains or incorporates by reference information that constitutes “forward-looking information” or “forward-looking statements” (collectively forward-looking information) within the meaning of applicable securities legislation. This forward-looking information includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding: This corporate responsibility report contains or incorporates • implementation of water consumption intensity and by reference information that constitutes “forward-looking protection performance indicators; information” or “forward-looking statements” (collectively • HSSE/OA and people standards, strategies, goals, forward-looking information) within the meaning of applicable management systems, programs and policies; securities legislation. This forward-looking information includes, • 2011 performance targets, objectives and policies in HSSE/OA, but is not limited to, statements regarding: safety, environment, community relations and people; • business strategy, plans, goals, objectives and outcomes; • safety priorities, goals and development of safety initiatives • expectations of growth, onstream timing, drilling and and systems (for example, the development of global exploration in Southeast Asia; standards on well control); • expectations of future economic conditions; • expected environmental initiatives and practices, including water management practices related to North American • expected results from the Talisman’s portfolio of oil and shale operations; gas assets; • implementation of global safety standards and rules; • the potential of shale gas and shale gas development within Talisman’s asset portfolio; • reductions in lost-time injury frequency; • the company’s international exploration strategy and • reductions in unintentional hydrocarbon releases and spills; expected discoveries; 23 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 • reductions in backlog of overdue safety critical • health, safety and environmental risks, including risks repairs and preventative maintenance; related to the possibility of major accidents; • contributions to community investments; • uncertainties as to the availability and cost of credit and • implementation of 360-degree review process for other financing and changes in capital markets; next-generation leaders; and • risks in conducting foreign operations (for example, • the expectation that the company’s values will ensure political and fiscal instability or the possibility of civil continued success. unrest or military action); • changes in general economic and business conditions; The forward-looking information listed above is based on Talisman’s 2011 capital program as announced on January 11, • the possibility that government policies or laws may change 2011. Talisman set its 2011 capital expenditure plans assuming: or governmental approvals may be delayed or withheld, (1) Talisman’s production in 2011 will be approximately 5 to including with respect to shale drilling; and 10% greater than 2010, excluding the BP Colombia acquisition; • results of the company’s risk mitigation strategies, including (2) a WTI oil price of approximately US$75/bbl; and (3) a insurance and any hedging activities. NYMEX natural gas price of approximately US$4/mmbtu. The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Additional Information regarding business plans generally assumes that information on these and other factors that could affect the the extraction of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids company’s operations, financial results or strategy are included remains economic. in Talisman’s most recent Annual Information Form. In addition, Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking information is available in the company’s other reports on file information. Forward-looking information is based on current with Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the SEC. expectations, estimates and projections that involve a number Forward-looking information is based on the estimates and of risks that could cause actual results to vary and in some opinions of the company’s management at the time the instances to differ materially from those anticipated by Talisman information is presented. The company assumes no obligation and described in the forward-looking information contained in to update forward-looking information should circumstances or this corporate responsibility report. The material risk factors management’s estimates or opinions change, except as include, but are not limited to: required by law. • the risks of the oil and gas industry, such as operational risks Talisman makes reference to production volumes throughout in exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and this corporate responsibility report. Where not otherwise natural gas, market prices and demand and unpredictable indicated, such production volumes are stated on a gross basis, facilities outages; which means they are stated prior to the deduction of royalties • risks and uncertainties involving geology of oil and and similar payments. In the US, net production volumes are gas deposits; reported after the deduction of these amounts. US readers may • uncertainty related to securing sufficient egress and markets refer to the table headed “Continuity of Net Proved Reserves” to meet shale gas production; in Talisman’s most recent Annual Information Form for a • the uncertainty of reserves and resources estimates, reserves statement of Talisman’s net production volumes by reporting life and underlying reservoir risk; segment that are comparable to those made by US companies • the uncertainty of estimates and projections relating to subject to SEC reporting and disclosure requirements. production, costs and expenses; Natural gas is converted to a barrel of oil equivalent (boe) at • the impact of the economy on the ability of the counterparties the ratio of six thousand cubic feet (mcf) to one barrel of oil to the company’s commodity price derivative contracts to (bbl). Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent (mcfe) at the meet their obligations under the contracts; ratio of one bbl to six mcf of natural gas. The boe and mcfe • potential delays or changes in plans with respect to measures may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. exploration or development projects or capital expenditures; A boe conversion ratio of six mcf to one bbl and a mcfe conversion • fluctuations in oil and gas prices, foreign currency exchange ratio of one bbl to six mcfe are based on an energy equivalence rates and interest rates; conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not represent a value equivalence at the wellhead. • the outcome and effects of any future acquisitions and dispositions; 24 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 10 11 1 Member of Audit Committee Board Of Directors Executive 2 Member of Executive Committee Charles Williamson 2 John Manzoni 3 Member of Governance and Nominating Committee 4 Member of Health, Safety and Environment and Chairman, Talisman Energy Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Responsibility Committee California, United States 5 Member of Human Resources Committee Paul Blakeley 6 Member of Reserves Committee Christiane Bergevin 3,4 Executive Vice-President Quebec, Canada International Operations (East) Donald Carty 1,5 Richard Herbert Texas, United States Executive Vice-President International Exploration William Dalton 1,2,3 Arizona, United States Bob Rooney Executive Vice-President Kevin Dunne 4,6 Legal and General Counsel Tortola, British Virgin Islands Paul Smith Harold Kvisle 5,6 Executive Vice-President Alberta, Canada North American Operations John Manzoni 2,4 Alberta, Canada Scott Thomson Executive Vice-President Lisa Stewart 5,6 Finance and Chief Financial Officer Texas, United States Nick Walker Peter Tomsett 4,5 Executive Vice-President British Columbia, Canada International Operations (West) John Watson 1,6 Helen Wesley Alberta, Canada Executive Vice-President Charles Winograd 1,3 Corporate Services Ontario, Canada designed and produced by smith + associates www.smithandassoc.com Printed on acid-free paper containing 80% post-consumer fibre and processed chlorine free. The inks used are environmentally friendly VOC-free inks. Please recycle. 2010 ANNUAL safe REPORT profitable growth Talisman has produced a separate Annual Report, which is available by contacting the company and can also be viewed or downloaded at www.talisman-energy.com WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU Questions and views on this report and Talisman’s corporate responsibility efforts may be directed to the vice-president of corporate affairs at: Talisman Energy Inc., 2000, 888 – 3rd Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5 Telephone: 403-237-1234 Facsimile: 403-237-1902 Email: tlm@talisman-energy.com Additional information on Talisman’s corporate responsibility performance can be found in our online report at www.talisman-energy.com Talisman Energy Inc. 2000, 888 – 3rd Street SW Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5 Telephone: (403) 237-1234 Facsimile: (403) 237-1902 Email: tlm@talisman-energy.com www.talisman-energy.com
