Sysmex Sustainability Report 2011 About this Report Editorial policy Guidelines referenced Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” in the hopes of · The Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting communicating our approaches and activities concerning corporate social Guidelines (2007 ed.) responsibility (CSR) to our stakeholders and facilitating dialogs with them. · The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 In this ﬁfth issue, particularly important CSR activities are reported in the Highlight section. Typical activities are introduced for each stakeholder Date of publication category, and each page lists the titles of related information posted on our website. September 2011 Scope of this Report Inquiries about this report Period reported CSR Promotion Department, CSR Division FY2010 (from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011). Some activities conducted Sysmex Corporation outside of this period are also included. 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan Tel: +81-78-265-0500, Fax: +81-78-265-0524 Organizations covered Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both in Japan and abroad). For the purpose of this report, “Sysmex” refers to the “Sysmex Group”. 1 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Contents Sysmex at a Glance • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3 Message from the President • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Corporate Philosophy and Core Behaviors • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7 Highlight Automated Detection of Colon Cancer Lymph Node 1 Metastasis Provides Rapid Testing Results • • • • • • • • • 9 Highlight Supporting Healthcare Facilities in Developing 2 Countries through the Supply of Instruments • • • • • 1 1 Corporate Governance • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 3 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Customers • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 7 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Employees • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 9 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Business Partners • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 21 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Shareholders • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 22 Behaviors and Commitment as a Good Corporate Citizen • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 23 Behaviors and Commitment toward the Global Environment • • • • • • • • • • • • • 27 Environmental Management • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 27 Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) • • • • • • 28 Global Warming Countermeasures • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 29 Eﬀective Use of Resources and Waste Reduction/ Eﬀective Use of Water Resources/Others • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 30 Environmental Impact of Business Activities • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 31 Independent Opinion • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 32 Corporate Data • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 33 Cautionary statements This report contains both forward-looking statements and facts regarding the past about Sysmex Corporation and its group companies (the Sysmex Group). These forward-looking statements are based on the current judgments and assumptions of the Sysmex Group in light of the information currently available to it. Uncertainties inherent in such judgments and assumptions, the future course of our business operations, and future events may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially diﬀerent from any future results, performance, or achievements either expressed or implied within such forward-looking statements. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 2 Sysmex at a Glance Supporting the Lives and Health of People Worldwide through Clinical Testing Sysmex supplies a wide range of instruments, reagents and software for clinical testing, such as hematology and urine analysis, to healthcare facilities around the globe. We employ a highly integrated system for all business operations, starting with R&D, production, sales, and after-sales support in order to continuously enhance the clinical value and usability of our products. Through clinical testing, we help people all over the world enjoy longer, healthier lives. Creating high-value-added testing and diagnostic technologies Research We strive to create high-value-added testing and diagnostic and technologies for a wide spectrum of ailments, including Development blood/immunity diseases, infectious diseases, cancer and chronic disorders. Ensuring high quality and stable product supply Our quality control system is extensive and thorough. Production We have also established a global production system to ensure the stable supply of reagents. Providing products and services to more than 170 countries Through our global sales network, we provide high-quality Sales products and services to healthcare facilities in more than 170 countries around the world. Responding accurately to each and every inquiry After-Sales We take special effort to respond accurately to inquiries Support received through our call center and over the network. We also provide extensive academic support. Global Network Affiliates Sales Production Development Distribution Controlling company 3 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Enhancing clinical value We help to improve the quality of Patients life (QOL) of people everywhere through high-value-added clinical testing and diagnosis for the early detection/prevention of diseases, and for the selection of suitable treatment methods and prediction of post-operative conditions. Doctors Improving the efficiency and quality of clinical testing We help laboratories achieve higher efficiency and quality by providing them with easy-to-use products, detailed after-sales Clinical support, and optimal solutions technicians for their diverse needs. Main Products Automated hematology Fully automated Gene ampliﬁcation analyzer Coagulation analyzer integrated urine analyzer detector This is a blood cell counter used for This thrombosis and hemostasis This device is used to examine This device amplifies the genes of counting red blood cells, white tester is used to analyze the protein, sugar, presence of blood cancer cells (breast or colon cancer) blood cells and blood platelets, and likelihood of blood clot formation cells and solids (such as bacteria using the OSNA method and detects also for analyzing their functions. and blood clot dissolving functions. and cells) in urine. the presence of cancer cell genes. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 4 Message from the President Pursuing Healthcare Possibilities and Building the Trust and Confidence of People across the Globe Contributing to the advancement of healthcare to social contribution activities carried out on a global scale by Ever since its founding in 1968, Sysmex has created a wide NPOs and NGOs who work actively in the ﬁelds of healthcare, spectrum of products and services in the diagnostics ﬁeld based on education and the environment. In ﬁscal 2010, we decided to advanced technologies. Diagnostics play a vital role in healthcare become the special sponsor of the “Kobe Marathon 2011”, which by enabling the early detection of disease, the determination will take place in Kobe in November 2011, concurring with the of treatment and the prevention of illness. At present, Sysmex’s purpose of the event: “To express gratitude to everyone who products are being used at healthcare facilities in over 170 supported the recovery after the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake”. countries around the world. The healthcare environment is currently undergoing dramatic Participating in the United Nations changes due to changing social structures. In emerging countries, Global Compact economic development and population growth are rapidly In order to further promote CSR activities as a global corporation, increasing healthcare needs. On the other hand, advanced Sysmex participated in the United Nations Global Compact in countries are facing declining birthrates and aging populations, February 2011. and individual values on health are increasingly diversifying. We took this opportunity to reconﬁrm our social responsibility Sysmex is responding to such changes and striving to create and to incorporate and implement the innovative values with the aim of contributing to the advancement UN Global Compact’s ten principles in of healthcare. We want to respond to the wishes of people across the areas of human rights, labor, the the globe: “to stay healthy”. environment and anti-corruption into our In ﬁscal 2010, Sysmex obtained approval from the Ministry activities as a means of further building of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan to manufacture and the trust and conﬁdence of people across market reagents for the detection of colon cancer lymph node the globe. metastasis. By providing more accurate results in a shorter time, this system helps healthcare professionals to make objective and Promoting Eco-Vision and appropriate decisions on post-operative treatment. our mid-term environmental activities In response to global environmental issues, Sysmex formulated Building the trust and conﬁdence of the Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) all stakeholders in April 2010. This Action Plan set forth long-term environmental Sysmex believes that continually building trust and conﬁdence objectives for ﬁscal 2020. is the basis of fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility (CSR). It also sets targets focusing on reducing the environmental Based on our Group Corporate Philosophy, the “Sysmex Way”, burden in each stage of the product lifecycle, which consists of and our Core Behaviors, we conduct various activities in an eﬀort product design, production, sales, product use and disposal. to bring solid trust and conﬁdence to our customers, business Through these eﬀorts, we are striving to save energy and resources partners, employees, shareholders, and other stakeholders. in our business activities and to actively develop and distribute In addition to contributing to the health of people around the eco friendly products and services. world, we actively carry out environmental activities and social contribution activities. Creating innovative values based on our In ﬁscal 2010, we continuously conducted VQ (Value Quest) mid-term management plan Activities, through which all of our employees worldwide think This year, Sysmex formulated a new mid-term management about and propose ways to further strengthen our abovementioned plan. Guided by the new plan, we will strive to further improve eﬀorts. For example, we have participated in the Kobe Medical the usability of our products, provide high clinical value, and Industry Development Project and continued to provide support strengthen our response to healthcare needs around the world. 5 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 In emerging countries, where the establishment of the We will continue in our eﬀorts to achieve sustainable healthcare infrastructure is urgently needed, we will provide development of the Group and the global community. products and services that meet local healthcare needs, and We ask our stakeholders for their continued support and focus on improving our support systems. In the area of molecular generous understanding of all of our endeavors. diagnosis pertaining to cancer and other diseases, we aim to create original testing technologies in an eﬀort to contribute to the further advancement of healthcare. Supporting disaster-stricken areas Hisashi Ietsugu We would like to express our heartfelt condolences to all the victims President and CEO of the Great Tohoku Paciﬁc Earthquake, and our sincere sympathy to those who have been aﬀected by this terrible tragedy including those who were compelled to leave their homes and businesses. Healthcare infrastructure is an essential and critical factor in disaster recovery. We have provided as much support as possible for the early restoration of devastated healthcare facilities and the healthcare support network through the free use of testing instruments and the provision of reagents. It is our hope that those aﬀected by the tragedy will be able to return to their normal lives in a relatively short time. We would also like to take this opportunity to express our deepest gratitude for the warm support for disaster victims that arrived from overseas. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 6 Corporate Philosophy and Core Behaviors Corporate Philosophy Sysmex Way Mission Shaping the advancement of healthcare Value We continue to create unique and innovative values, while building trust and conﬁdence Mind With passion and ﬂexibility, we demonstrate our individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. Core Behaviors To our Customers We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions that consistently reﬂect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers' true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. To our Employees We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulﬁllment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. To our Business Partners We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the soundness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. To Society We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. 7 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Sysmex Employees around the World Put the Sysmex Way into Practice Promoting VQ (Value Quest) Activities to live Giving Shape to Various Ideas Proposed by up to the Sysmex Way Employees In order to ensure steady implementation of the “Sysmex Way”, Some of the ideas for VQ Activities contributed by our our Corporate Philosophy, in fiscal 2008 we kicked off the VQ employees have already been implemented, including teaching Activities, through which each employee is encouraged to a class at a junior high school in our host city of Kobe and the propose ideas and discuss with others about how to put the opening of a “portal site of good working conditions” on the Sysmex Way into practice. company intranet in fiscal 2009. We have also initiated the This companywide initiative continued on to fiscal 2010. following activities. In response to President Ietsugu’s question, various ideas were •Dialogue on work efficiency improvement and work-life balance received from our employees around the world, and these (see page 20) ideas were then used to form 22 teams, which held a series of •Environment preservation activities by the “Eco Team” formed discussions that lasted for several months. In the VQ Session by Japanese employees (see page 24) held in December, the fruits of these intensive discussions were • “Greener Sysmex” activities by employees in the Asia-Pacific presented. Attended by some 150 people, including employees region (see page 26) of our Group companies in Japan and overseas, the event provided Going forward, Sysmex will continue VQ Activities such as an opportunity for people from different regions and organizations these aimed at putting the Sysmex Way into practice. to communicate with each other. Fiscal 2010 VQ Session Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 8 Highlight Automated Detection of Colon Cancer 1 Lymph Node Metastasis Provides Rapid Testing Results Sysmex’s active involvement in creating new cancer particularly prevalent, along with lung and stomach cancer. testing technologies led to the development of a rapid Cancer can spread from its originating site to lymph nodes breast cancer lymph node metastasis testing system by lymph fluid called lymph node metastasis, and then to other (LINOAMP ® BC and LYNORHAG ® diagnostic reagents, parts of the body through the process. Diagnosis of cancer metastasis is extremely important for predicting the characteristics and RD-100i gene ampliﬁcation detector), which was and future progression of the cancer. This is also used to determine released to markets in Europe in ﬁscal 2006 and Japan in post-surgical therapeutic principle. ﬁscal 2008. In ﬁscal 2010, Sysmex received manufacturing and marketing approval from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan for applying these reagents A Detection System for the Fast and Accurate to the detection of colon cancer lymph node metastasis. Diagnosis of Lymph Node Metastases that Provides Rapid Results In the present method of diagnosing colon cancer lymph node Providing Vital Information for Post-surgical metastasis, following a surgery, a pathologist prepares a series Therapeutic Principle by Testing for Lymph of pathological samples from surgically removed lymph nodes, Node Metastasis and then views the samples under a microscope to determine In Japan, cancer accounts for more than 30% of all deaths, and whether the cancer has metastasized. However, the need to the incidence of cancer is rising each year. Colon cancer is painstakingly diagnose a large number of lymph nodes places 9 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Colon Cancer Lymph Node Metastasis Detection Based on the OSNA Method Parts of lymph nodes are surgically sampled. Testing with the OSNA method Measurement by a proprietary instrument and reagent are used to amplify the cancer cell genes for measurement. One-step amplification detection of the target gene Solubilization and judgment of the results Lymph node Diagnosis Approx. 1 day OSNA stands for One-step Nucleic Acid Amplification. With the OSNA method, sample lymph nodes are dissolved, and cancer genes contained in the samples Approx. Diagnosis are amplified and detected to determine 1 week cancer lymph node metastasis. This is a one-step testing method. Preparation of samples Conﬁrmation using [Features] a microscope • Results are rapidly obtained. Confirmation of the presence of cancer cells by a pathologist using a microscope • Automated diagnosis eliminates accuracy disparities among medical institutions. Conventional pathological diagnosis 1 Research and development of technologies in the life sciences 2 Gene amplification detector RD-100i 3 Amplification reagent 1 2 3 LINOAMP® a major burden on the pathologist. A detection system for the fast and accurate diagnosis of Nariaki Matsuura lymph node metastases applying the OSNA (One-step Nucleic Acid Professor Graduate School of Medicine Amplification) method developed by Sysmex greatly simplifies Osaka University the testing. While the conventional method takes about a week Words from a Stakeholder to provide diagnostic results, the new system has the results ready the day after the surgery. I look forward to seeing wider use of the rapid, high-accurate OSNA method. Also, with the conventional pathological diagnostic method, With its rapidness, the OSNA method has contributed significantly the process of preparing samples and confirming the presence to the treatment of breast cancer. It is now expected to find of cancer cells depends largely on the skill and experience of application in the rapid intra-operative diagnosis of colon cancer. In the case of colon cancer, early recurrence in Stage II is observed the pathologist. It is said that this causes the diagnostic accuracy in many cases even when the lymph node metastasis diagnosis to vary from one medical institution to the next. These differences is negative. Therefore, the accuracy of pathological diagnostic in accuracy can be eliminated by the widespread use of the methods in which only parts of lymph nodes are tested is in question. The use of the OSNA method is expected to bring higher automated detection system. diagnostic accuracy to many cases. Sysmex will continue to promote this system and will also In addition, because the OSNA method uses a simple automated system, I believe it can eliminate disparities among medical focus on the R&D that is needed to apply this technology to the institutions and contribute to a more standardized form of cancer detection of lymph node metastasis for other types of cancer, treatment. I have high expectations for the OSNA method in the clinical treatment of colon cancer. such as stomach cancer. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 10 Highlight Supporting Healthcare Facilities 2 in Developing Countries through the Supply of Instruments There are many regions in the world where adequate hematology analyzers for diagnosis and treatment use to clinics healthcare infrastructures have not been constructed. in Indonesia through an NPO involved in activities to improve As a healthcare company operating globally, Sysmex the health of mothers and children. To a hospital in Tibet located supplies instruments to healthcare facilities in regions 3,600 m above sea level, we delivered instrument modified to operate properly under low atmospheric pressure. such as these, thus minimizing the burden on doctors and clinical technicians and helping patients maintain and improve their health. Letter of appreciation received in April 2010 for a hematology analyzer delivered to Vanuatu In April 2010, Sysmex received a letter of appreciation from Maintaining and improving the health of the Kawasaki North Rotary Club for a hematology analyzer people in developing countries delivered to a hospital in Vanuatu. Sysmex provides instruments to healthcare facilities in developing Vanuatu is an island nation located in the South Pacific Ocean. countries with the cooperation of various organizations. In this country, Vila Central Hospital in the capital city is the only In Africa, we have delivered instruments for monitoring general hospital. In other towns, there are only small clinics each the health conditions of HIV patients to healthcare facilities staffed with several nurses. The laboratory of Vila Central Hospital in Senegal, Kenya, Zambia and other countries where the spread tests the blood of about 100 people every day. However, since of HIV is becoming increasingly serious. In Asia, we have donated the number of staff members was limited and microscopes were 11 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Hematology Analyzers Provided in the Past Senegal Tibet Senegal Kenya Indonesia Sysmex provided products to hospitals and Senegal's Ministry of Health Zambia Vanuatu and Prevention through JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency). In recognition of its effectiveness for the country's program to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV, our hematology analyzer was certified as an authorized instrument by the HIV National Laboratory. Zambia Kenya Tibet Indonesia Sysmex provided products to clinics In response to a request by an NPO Sysmex provided a modified product We donated our products to local operated by an NGO involved in working to eliminate HIV, Sysmex to a hospital in Tibet at an altitude clinics through an NPO helping to support activities for socially provided products to meet the of 3,600 m which had difficulties improve the health of mothers and vulnerable groups in Zambia where country’s need for rapid analysis of in obtaining instrument that would children. Since the power supply is not the spread of HIV was growing the health conditions of patients. function properly under low stable in the country, we also provided increasingly serious. atmospheric pressure. solar power generation equipment. 1 Vila Central Hospital 2 Letter of appreciation from Kawasaki North Rotary Club 3 Presentation of letter of 1 2 3 appreciation used for testing, the testing efficiency had to be improved to meet the demand. The Kawasaki North Rotary Club, which had Noboru Matsunami been promoting a malaria eradication program in Vanuatu, Chairman of International Service Committee for 2011 and 2012 learned this from a local healthcare professional and decided to Kawasaki North Rotary Club donate a hematology analyzer. Upon receiving a request from Words from a Stakeholder the Rotary Club, Sysmex provided a KX-21 automated hematology analyzer, and set it up in the hospital in July 2009. Sysmex We seek cooperation from companies in the healthcare ﬁeld continues to supply reagents and conduct maintenance to support The Kawasaki North Rotary Club began providing healthcare efficient testing at the hospital. support to Vanuatu 12 years ago. After carefully researching local Vila Central Hospital expressed its gratitude via the Kawasaki needs, we donated microscopes and various other instruments. North Rotary Club, stating that the automatic analysis function When we learned recently that a hematology analyzer was needed, provides quickly accurate test data and that the instrument we contacted Sysmex. We are very grateful that Sysmex kindly responded to our contributes greatly to the healthcare services in Vanuatu. request by setting up and adjusting an analyzer for use in Vanuatu The Kawasaki North Rotary Club also sent its appreciation and as well as by providing training to operators. After the analyzer stated that the provision of our instrument helped further deepen was donated, many people sent us thank-you messages. We are the relationship with Vanuatu. Sysmex will continue to help very happy to be of assistance. As our Rotary Club continues to solve healthcare issues around the world by providing instruments provide support to Vanuatu, we seek cooperation from companies in the healthcare field. through its global network. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 12 Corporate Governance To Become a Trustworthy Company with High Expectations from Society Sysmex seeks to maximize the corporate value of the Group through enhanced management robustness, better transparency, and improved management speed and eﬃciency. We also strive to earn greater trust from our global society by ensuring that all of our business activities are conducted openly and aboveboard. Corporate Governance Structure Internal Control To Improve Management Eﬃciency through To Ensure the Appropriateness of Enhanced Management Robustness and Financial Statements Better Transparency Sysmex is working on the establishment of an internal control Sysmex considers reinforcing corporate governance to be one system for the entire Group. To expedite this ongoing effort, of its most important management priorities. We believe that in November 2008 we laid down Internal Control Regulations enhanced management robustness, better transparency, and concerning Financial Statements and established an Internal improved management speed and efficiency will help us to Control Committee concerning Financial Statements, a maximize the overall corporate value of the Group. consultative body to the President. The Company’s Board of Directors consists of 8 directors, To standardize financial reporting operations within the who deliberate on important management issues. The Company Group, we began rebuilding our ERP* system in fiscal 2009. In has adopted the corporate auditor system, and the Board of fiscal 2010, we completed its implementation across the Group Auditors consists of 4 corporate auditors, 2 of whom are external except for some sites in Europe. auditors. The corporate auditors supervise the directors’ business * Enterprise Resource Planning. A method / concept for enhancing management eﬃciency through an integrated approach toward managing an entire enterprise conduct both independently and objectively. In April 2005, we for eﬃcient use of management resources adopted the executive officer system in order to increase the speed of decision making in the conduct of business and respond quickly to changes in the business environment. A consultative Risk Management body to the President, the Steering Committee deliberates on important matters concerning the Group’s business. Seven Promoting Risk Management by Establishing out of the 14 executive officers are concurrently directors. The a Dedicated Committee Company has also established the Nominating Committee and To control Group-wide risk management activities, Sysmex the Compensation Committee, which have responsibilities in established a Risk Management Committee, which is chaired accordance with the “Companies with Committees” system. by a Risk Management Officer (Senior Managing Officer), the In order to protect stakeholders’ interests, we have Group’s chief executive in charge of risk management. established regulations concerning insider trading, personal In fiscal 2010, in order to select priority risks to address information protection, compliance, and ethics for clinical during the mid-term management plan, this Committee research and development. conducted risk assessment and determined new priority risks. Corporate Governance Structure Risk Management Structure Shareholders’ Meeting Risk Management Officer (Senior Managing Director) Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Risk Management Committee Board of Directors (Directors) Chaired by: Risk Management Officer Nominating Committee Members: Relevant executive officers Compensation Committee Board of Accounting Auditors Auditors President & CEO (Corporate Risk Management Dept. Auditors) Global Strategic Internal Audit Office Committee Meeting Auditing Risk Management Auditing Compliance Sub-committees Steering Committee Committee Leader: Executive vice president, CSR Div. Executive Officers Divisions, Subsidiaries, and Affiliates Divisions, Subsidiaries, and Affiliates 13 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Information on the Web Security export control Intellectual property management Compliance Activities During Compliance Enforcement Month In fiscal 2010, we designated October as “Compliance Enforcement Pursuing “Open and Aboveboard Business Month”, and intensively conducted a variety of activities during Activities” this period to raise employee awareness concerning compliance. Sysmex has defined its view of compliance as “respecting laws Specifically, we conducted a questionnaire survey with and regulations and going about our business boldly with all employees of Group companies in Japan to confirm the a strong sense of ethics”. progress of improvements pertaining to employee knowledge In accordance with this definition, we have established a and the effectiveness of education. We also held a series of Compliance Code, in which particularly important conformance lectures and seminars to further raise employee awareness rules for all executives and employees to abide by are compiled. concerning compliance. The Compliance Code has been translated into English, Chinese, German and other local languages for use by subsidiaries and Lectures and Seminars Held During Compliance Enforcement Month affiliates outside of Japan. We have collected a written pledge to comply with this Code from all employees within the Sysmex Group. Name Number of participants Compliance lecture for directors 17 persons Compliance Code (Excerpts) Compliance lecture for (executive) 81 persons vice president 1 . To Ensure Safety of Our Products and Services to Customers 2. To Promote Fair Dealing and Free Competition Seminar on copyrights and trademarks 380 persons 3. To Make Fair and Proper Information Disclosure and (for employees) to Exercise Complete Information Control 4. To Respect Intellectual Property 5. To Maintain International Peace and Safety 6. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payment 7. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety 8. To Make Distinction between Public and Private Matters and Not to Do Any Act Involving Conflict of Interest 9. To Maintain Sound Relationship with Society 10. To Preserve the Global Environment Established in April 2006 Continuously Providing Education on Compliance Compliance lecture for (executive) vice president Sysmex provides education on compliance for all employees of Group companies in Japan. We have also produced a Compliance Handbook and distributed a copy to every employee in Japan. Furthermore, we provide education on work-related laws and regulations to each department. For overseas Group companies, we have appointed compliance managers at regional headquarters for the Americas, Europe, China and the Asia-Pacific region. Each Group company provides education to its employees. Compliance Handbook Seminar on copyrights and trademarks Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 14 Corporate Governance Internal Reporting System Group Company in Brazil Obtains SA8000*1 An internal reporting system originally developed for Group and OHSAS18001*2 Certiﬁcation companies in Japan, the “Campanula Lines” allow our staff In fiscal 2008, our affiliate Sysmex do Brasil Indústria e Comércio members to seek consultations and file a report via telephone, Ltda. began their initiative to acquire certification for Social postal mail or e-mail through two lines (in-house and external). Accountability 8000 (SA8000)*1, an international standard for the Any information received is handled anonymously to protect protection of workers’ fundamental human rights, and has since the personal information of those providing the information. briefed their employees and business partners on this standard. We are expediting the introduction of an internal reporting In fiscal 2010, the company obtained SA8000 certification system at our subsidiaries and affiliates outside of Japan. As of as well as certification for OHSAS18001*2, an international standard January 2011, the system had been introduced to 38 of the 44 for occupational health and safety management systems. overseas Group companies. *1 SA8000: Created by an American CSR assessment body based on the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. *2 OHSAS18001: Published in 1999 based on the BS8800 standard, which “Campanula Lines” internal reporting system was developed by the British Standards Institute (BSI) in 1996, by a team consisting of some 30 certiﬁcation bodies and standardization organizations Compliance Sub-committee in various countries. Reporting Compliance leaders In-house contact External line (law ﬁrm) E-mail, telephone, E-mail, Reply Consultation postal mail, postal mail Consultation Reply in-house mail Sysmex Group employees Certification project team at Sysmex do Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda. (regular employees, non-regular employees, part-time employees, temporary employees) Educational Campaign for the Prevention of Corruption R&D Ethics Compliance In fiscal 2008, Sysmex Corporation established a Sysmex Being involved in clinical research and human genome and Promotion Code (SPC), which stipulates the core behaviors for genetic analysis research, Sysmex Corporation adopted the preventing bribery and other inappropriate acts and maintaining “Ethics Regulations on Clinical Research and Development and fair trade. At the same time, the Company established a Fair Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research”, whose basic Trade Promotion Committee, under which three Sub-committees policies include “respect of human dignity” and “thorough are placed in charge of “training and guidance”, “investigation”, protection of personal information”. The Company also established and “auditing”. a “Research Ethics Examination Committee”, which includes In fiscal 2010, seminars continued to be organized and held outside members such as legal and science experts, in order to for employees involved in sales and service activities, including review research content. those from Group companies in Japan and those from R&D who The list of committee members and examination results deal with public agencies. are disclosed on our website, thus ensuring transparency. 15 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Promotion of CSR Activities Reorganizing the Structure for Promoting CSR In fiscal 2010, Sysmex established a new CSR Division in order to Participation in the United Nations Global aggressively fulfill its corporate social responsibility. Placed under Compact the CSR Division are the CSR Promotion Department (formerly the To demonstrate our increased emphasis on activities pertaining CSR Promotion Division) and the Risk Management Department. CSR, Sysmex expressed its intention to participate in the United With this organizational structure, we will promote CSR activities Nations Global Compact and was officially registered on February that also encompass risk management. 22, 2011. We also began examining Sysmex’s priority CSR issues in The UN Global Compact sets forth ten principles that fiscal 2010. companies and organizations should abide by. It was originally proposed by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in an address to the World Economic Forum in January 1999. Then, in July 2000, Holding CSR Opinion Exchange Meetings it was officially adopted by the United Nations Headquarters Sysmex holds CSR opinion exchange meetings with the CSR in New York. The UN Global Compact asks participating Promotion Department (formerly the CSR Promotion Division) companies and organizations to embrace, support and enact ten and managers of various divisions and facilities. principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment In fiscal 2010, a total of six meetings were held. Participants and anti-corruption. The number of participating companies exchanged information on the progress of Sysmex’s CSR activities and organizations total 8,800 worldwide, and more than 125 in and discussed future activities. Japan (as of the end of December 2010). Through participation in the Global Compact, Sysmex deepens its understanding of the social responsibility that it must fulfill through business activities and also incorporates the ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption into its corporate activities in a bid to build trust and confidence to people all around the world. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Human of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights Opinion exchange meeting held at the Tokyo Office 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. Opinion exchange meeting held at the Osaka Branch Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 16 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Customers In Pursuit of Superior Quality and Satisfaction That Go Beyond Customers’ Expectations While attending to constant improvement of the quality of our products and services, Sysmex is working hard to create a system that allows us to ensure that customers can conﬁdently use such products with safety and ease. We sincerely wish to oﬀer satisfaction that more than meets their expectations by deepening our understanding of “what customers truly want”. Quality Assurance Quality Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global business activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We understand our customer’s needs, and provide products and solutions that meet or exceed their expectations. 2. We act based on our customer’s viewpoints by realizing that “Quality is customer satisfaction”. Global QA Meeting in fiscal 2010 3. We seek to reassure our customers by establishing the highest quality assurance standards and using them to enhance the quality of all aspects of our business. Ensuring Product Quality 4. We continually create innovative value for our stakeholders Used for clinical testing, Sysmex’s products play a vital role in by developing and applying new and unique technologies and knowledge. protecting people’s lives and good health. Being fully aware of 5. We comply with all relevant national or regional regulations this responsibility, Sysmex is making constant efforts to maintain and standards to provide safe products. and improve product quality by building various systems, not 6. We maintain and continually improve the effectiveness of our to mention complying with safety standards around the world in quality management system. 7. We establish quality objectives consistent with this quality policy, the design and development stages. In the product development and measure our performance against them. stage, we verify product quality by setting five “quality gates” in Established in May 2007 the process leading up to market launch. When we market products that are manufactured by others, we verify their quality by conducting periodic audits of the Creating a Global Quality Management System manufacturers and meticulously inspecting the products. As of March 31, 2011, a total of 27 of the 44 Group companies were qualified for the ISO 9001 international standard for quality management systems, with all of the companies involved in After Sales Support development and production being certified. In fiscal 2009, we newly established a “Sysmex Corporation For Responding to Inquiries both Rapidly and Quality Compliance Policy”. In this Policy, we reaffirmed the laws, Responsibly regulations, and in-house rules that we must comply with in order In Japan, Sysmex Corporation maintains a Customer Support to maintain product quality and achieve customer satisfaction, Center, where experienced staff members with expert knowledge and clearly defined systems and activities designed for cater to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (separate conformance with them. At the same time, we developed contract necessary). procedures for global internal auditing, which is conducted to ensure the steady implementation of such systems and activities. Inquiries to the Customer Support Center In fiscal 2010, we conducted an audit of our factories in China Consultations on data Complaints 3.3% 0.1% and Singapore. Others Inquiries on operating In addition, we hold a Global QA (Quality Assurance) procedures 6.7% 3.8% FY2010 Meeting each year where managers of quality management Inquiries on quality Total : systems from Sysmex Corporation in Japan; the regional control headquarters in the Americas, Europe, China, and the Asia-Pacific 3.5% 110,263 Requests for Inquiries on repairs / region; and affiliates gather to share information as a means of products maintenance strengthening the global Sysmex quality assurance system. 6.3% 76.3% 17 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Information on the Web Ensuring Product Safety The Fight against Counterfeit Reagents By creating a database containing maintenance histories in an easy-to-understand manner are essential for obtaining and the details of past inquiries from customers to ensure quick accurate test data. In fiscal 2010, as a means of making our reference, the Center responds to inquiries and requests both manuals easier to understand, we revised the arrangement of their quickly and carefully. We also maintain customer service contacts chapters to match the user's workflow, and made improvements at our regional headquarters in the four regions outside of Japan to the font size and type to achieve easier-to-read print. For some (the Americas, Europe, China, and the Asia-Pacific region). instruments, we have also provided moving pictures on the display to provide users with viewable instruction manuals that make operating methods easier to understand. Supporting Customers’Quality Control on a Daily Basis At hospitals and other healthcare facilities, the accuracy of instruments is controlled to consistently maintain the reliability of testing data. The condition of their instruments is checked by comparing the measurement results of special reagents known Instruction manuals on instrument as “control samples” with results from the previous day. displays use moving Sysmex Corporation supports customers’ quality control pictures to describe operating methods. by offering such control samples. Customers’ instruments are connected to the Customer Support Center via our on-line Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS). Measured values of control samples sent via the SNCS from customers’ instruments Academic Activities are received by the Customer Support Center, which checks to see if anything is wrong and then sends its analysis back to the Holding Scientiﬁc Seminars for Healthcare customers. The SNCS also helps customers to prevent instrument Professionals failure, as it detects signs of problems even before customers have Sysmex keeps healthcare professionals updated on cutting-edge become aware of them. Going forward, we will further advance this scientific information by sponsoring seminars and study sessions “prediction” and “prevention” support service and strengthen for doctors, nurses, and clinical technologists. In June 2010, our remote maintenance support by utilizing networks to cope venues in Kobe, Tokyo, Sendai, and Fukuoka were linked by with malfunctions. satellite relay to hold the 33rd Sysmex Scientific Seminar under the theme of “The Frontiers of Genetic Testing”. Testing instruments registered with The 13th Sysmex Scientific Seminar in China, which was the on-line quality control service (worldwide) held in October 2010, set a new record in participation with (units) more than 800 people attending. 20,000 16,595 10,659 11,700 10,000 8,532 6,595 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Preparing Instruction Manuals That Are Easy to Understand Instruction manuals that show users how to operate instruments Sysmex Scientific Seminar in China Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 18 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Employees Supporting Self-realization and Growth Aspiring to be a “company where each and every employee works on his or her own initiative, without any fear of taking up challenges”, Sysmex provides employees with opportunities for self-fulﬁllment by equitably evaluating and rewarding them for their accomplishments and oﬀering a diverse range of human resources development programs. We also strive to improve the workplace environment so that diverse individuals can concentrate on their work with conﬁdence. Treatment / Employment increase their job satisfaction. In fiscal 2010, we set employees’ first three years at the Equitably Evaluating Personnel Based on company as a compulsory training period and expanded our Abilities and Accomplishments human resource development programs for new employees in We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide order to provide basic business knowledge and improve their employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, skills. In fiscal 2011, we initiated various training programs for and reward employees fairly. managers and mid-level employees with the aim of improving Sysmex’s personnel management system is based on the their management capabilities and fostering personnel capable idea that “Sysmex, a global company based in Japan, promotes of working competently in a global business environment. the development and cultivation of diverse skills of employees based on long-term employment, and rewards employees for their abilities and accomplishments, which in turn contribute Health and Safety Considerations to the enhancement of corporate value”. Maintaining and Improving Both Physical and Mental Health Basic Principles of the Personnel Management System Sysmex Corporation encourages its employees to undergo 1) Ensuring long-term employment • Establishing a double-linear-type competence-based rating frame that thorough physical examinations and cancer tests for women, in enables a diversity of employees to maximize their skills, and providing addition to regular health checkups, for the early detection of illness. opportunities for self-realization and growth To improve employees’ mental health, the Company 2) Promoting the development and cultivation of diverse employee skills established a health consultation contact throughout the company, • Establishing competence-based rating standards and promoting cultivation of human resources and normalization of career advancement through where employees can have face-to-face visits with industrial clarification of promotion criteria • Evaluating not only accomplishments but also the processes of producing psychiatrists, public health nurses, and counselors. achievements (realization capability) in order to promote human resource development and the reform of corporate culture 3) Rewarding employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments Supporting Employees in Striking • Simplifying the relationship between evaluation and reward, and creating a remuneration structure that is easy for everyone to understand and a Balance between Work and Family that rewards employees in accordance with their contribution, role, competency and accomplishments Oﬀering Various Systems for Childcare Support Sysmex Corporation offers childcare leave and shorter work hour systems to ensure that parents can spend as much time together Holding Company Information Sessions and with their children as possible. To further support employees’ Employment Interviews on the Internet childrearing, we allow employees to take reserve paid leave days Sysmex Corporation recruits new employees based on the evaluation when necessary to attend to sick children. In addition, in order to of individuals, regardless of their gender, nationality, age or disability. provide employees who were forced to suspend their career paths In fiscal 2010, we began holding company information sessions and due to child raising with opportunities to resume their work, employment interviews on the Internet so that students studying we offer a “reemployment system”. These support systems are abroad would not have to interrupt their studies for job hunting. explained explicitly on a special site on the company intranet. We are also actively hiring temporary employees and We have also established the “Sysmex Kids Park”, an in-house contract employees as full-time employees. In fiscal 2010, we daycare center for pre-school children. This facility offers both employed ten such employees. full-time and short-term daycare. Users of work and family support systems (as of the end of March 2011) Human Resources Development System Shorter work hour system Number of users 14 users Leave of absence system Focusing on HR Development on a Global Basis (childcare leave, childbearing leave) 37 users Reserved paid leave system 5 users Sysmex Corporation offers a wide variety of training programs Reemployment system 0 users, 6 registered users that are designed to help employees develop their skills and In-house daycare center 17 children 19 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Information on the Web Breakdown of employees Occupational health and safety Cooperation between labor and management VQ Activities Promoting Dialogue on the Subjects of Work Efficiency Improvement and Work-Life Balance The “Team for pursuit of work efficiency through innovative the in-house lectures and workshops planned by the team at thinking”, which was formed in fiscal 2009, discussed ways Sysmex could effectively raise the awareness of work efficiency to raise the awareness of work efficiency improvement and improvement and work-life balance. Ms. Mohri stressed the work-life balance based on the slogan “Smart Work, Smiling importance of continuous Life”. In May 2011, we invited Naoko Mohri, who works on job efforts for raising diversity and extended work hour reduction systems at awareness, and proposed Senjukai Co., Ltd., and hosted a discussion with team members. posting case studies of In this discussion, Ms. Mohri introduced the efforts of work-life balance Senshukai for reducing extended work hours and promoting improvements achieved a better work-life balance. Participants then discussed how by employees. Comment of Naoko Mohri (Senshukai Co., Ltd.) In fiscal 2010, Senshukai organized a committee to address the creation of sound work environments through the “reduction of extended working hours in tandem with the improvement of work quality”. The committee repeated the process of Naoko Mohri “grasping the nature of issues”, “steadily implementing improvement measures” Diversity Promotion Team and “disclosing information”. I was inspired by Sysmex’s voluntary VQ Activities. Human Resources Dept. Management Planning Division I will continue to advance these activities. Thank you. Senshukai Co., Ltd. Comments of “Team for pursuit of work efficiency through innovative thinking” Yukako Kishimoto (Team Leader) Arisa Nakamura Human Resources and General Aﬀairs Division CSR Division Many books have been published on the subjects of work efficiency It was very informative to learn about concrete work efficiency improvement and work-life balance, but listening to a person actually improvement measures. I would like to incorporate these measures involved in carrying out such measures at a company provided me into our activities. with many ideas that will help me improve the plan drafted by our team, which I could not learn from reading books. I intend to use the Mai Morita information in the activities conducted by our team in the future. CSR Division Information concerning the efforts of another company for improving Yasuhiro Sakai work efficiency serves as a very useful reference. I would like to use Technology Development Division what I have learned in our future activities. I learned that Ms. Mohri has been working on the same issues as those that we extracted. Much of the information provided by Ms. Mohri can be applied to our VQ Activities. The session was very informative. Shunsuke Hazama Technology Development Division I realized that improvement of work-life balance can be achieved by promoting small changes in the awareness of each employee. Shinya Tabuchi Corporate Business Planning Division I gained good advice on the issues that we encountered in Back row from left: Shunsuke Hazama, Arisa Nakamura, Mai Morita and Shinya Tabuchi conducting VQ Activities. I would now like to put this into practice. Front row from left: Yasuhiro Sakai, Naoko Mohri and Yukako Kishimoto Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 20 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Business Partners Information on the Web Enduring Relationships of Strengthening partnerships in technological development Mutual Trust Sysmex hopes to grow and develop along with its suppliers and distributors. By building partnerships that are based on mutual trust, while maintaining fair and transparent trading, we strive to supply superior products that contribute to healthcare. Relationships with Suppliers Purchasing Policy Brieﬁng The annual Purchasing Policy Briefing is an opportunity for us to meet with suppliers and brief them on the course of our Procurement Policies business and purchasing policy, thereby forging even stronger To contribute to healthcare through the supply of superior products relationships with them. To achieve mutual growth and development based on mutual At the briefing held trust with business partners in February 2011, we Better partnerships Fair, transparent procurement described our business Compliance with applicable laws, confidentiality activities, mid-/longEnvironmental considerations term strategies and purchasing policy to about 370 people from Aiming to Improve the Quality of Supplied 220 suppliers. Purchasing Policy Briefing Parts and Raw Materials In order to supply top quality products to customers in a stable manner, it is essential to maintain and improve the quality of Strictly Observing the Act against Delay in supplied parts and raw materials. Toward this end, Sysmex supports Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., quality assurance of its suppliers in various ways, such as providing to Subcontractors them with checklists by which they can self-examine their own In order to comply with the Act against Delay in Payment of quality management systems, and sending Procurement and Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors, Sysmex provides Quality Management members to suppliers’ manufacturing education through companywide e-learning. In addition, we have plants to assist them in improving quality on the shop floor. established an electronic purchasing system to prevent We prepared a Quality Agreement that defines the quality unreasonable payment reductions and refunds. We also provide requirements, and have been encouraging suppliers to sign training to new employees who use the system. this agreement since fiscal 2009. By the end of fiscal 2010, the In fiscal 2010, 25 employees underwent this training. Kakogawa Factory had concluded the agreement with 115 out of 148 suppliers that it regularly procures parts and materials from. Sysmex has also produced and distributed guidelines aimed at Relationships with Distributors deepening the overall understanding of the agreement. Focusing on Compliance — A Key Issue Number of Suppliers* by Region Sysmex rigorously ensures compliance in order to build sustainable China Asia-Paciﬁc and fruitful partnerships with its distributors. We oblige 0.3% 1.5% employees to not abuse any dominant bargaining position, North America offer excessive entertainments or presents, or the like when 4.7% dealing with distributors. Europe At the same time, we take advantage of the opportunities 5.0% FY2010 Japan presented by product briefings, which are held on occasions Total : 88.5% such as new launches, in order to share our policies and 338 activities with our distributors so that we may help them to deepen their understanding of the importance of compliance. In fiscal 2008, we bolstered our drive to prevent corruption by * Suppliers of parts and raw materials establishing a Sysmex Promotion Code (SPC) in an attempt to involve distributors in the initiative to maintain fair business. 21 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Behaviors and Commitment toward Our Shareholders Information on the Web Interaction through Frequent Direct interaction with investors and Varied Communications Sysmex aims to sustain its growth by striking a balance between returns to shareholders and investment in growth opportunities. In order to achieve a greater understanding of our management and business operations among shareholders and other investors, we actively promote external information disclosure and direct interaction. General Meeting of Shareholders Information Disclosure Informal Meeting with Shareholders Further Enhancing Information Disclosure Sysmex encourages as many shareholders as possible to attend Sysmex makes it a rule to disclose any information that we believe the General Meeting of Shareholders, which is an opportunity will affect investment decisions in light of our own standards, as for us to interact directly with our valued shareholders. After well as to observe applicable laws and regulations concerning the General Meeting of Shareholders, we hold an informal meeting securities trading and the Rules on Timely Disclosure of Corporate with shareholders to further promote interaction. In fiscal 2010, Information by the Issuer of Listed Security and the Like we explained our activities in seven areas, such as environmental established by the Stock Exchange. conservation activities and R&D in the life science field, and In addition to biannual briefings on financial results (after held a question-and-answer session. At the meeting, we also year-end and after the second quarter), Sysmex has, since fiscal displayed our products and scientific information. 2010, held a conference call following the announcement of Shareholders who find it business results for the third quarter in an effort to further difficult to attend a shareholders’ enhance information disclosure. meeting may exercise their voting rights by mail or via the Internet. We also issue an Investor Relations English version of the notice of convocation and notice of A Key Tool for Direct Interaction Information meeting to promote resolutions. interaction with shareholders Sysmex creates as many opportunities as possible to directly interact with its investors and share management policies, business strategies, and the like with them. In fiscal 2010, we held Dividends a total of 300 one-on-one meetings with institutional investors and analysts around the world. Working toward Stable Dividend Payment In fiscal 2010, we held informational meetings with private Our basic policy on returning profits to shareholders is to ensure investors in Tokyo and Kobe, together with other companies. a regular level of stable dividends, with such distributions being backed up by successful business performance, while also taking into account our consolidated earnings results and payout ratio. Honored with the Gold Award in the World’s In order to sustain high growth into the future, we ensure Largest Annual Report Competition that our internal reserves are put to efficient use for R&D and Sysmex’s 2009 Annual Report received the Gold Award in capital expenditures. the Health Care (Equipment and Supplies) Class of the “2009 Vision Awards”, the world’s largest annual report competition Payout Ratio / Dividend per Share (Consolidated) held by LACP (League of American Communications (JPY) 31.9 (%) Professionals LCC) 29.4 100 26.8 27.0 30 and participated by 80 20.0 24 more than 4,000 56 60 companies in over 25 60 50 18 48 40 36 12 countries worldwide. 20 6 The Gold Award is the second highest 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) honor following the Payout ratio Dividend per share Platinum Award. Gold Award certificate Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 22 Behaviors and Commitment as a Good Corporate Citizen Contributing to a Global Society Fully aware of its responsibility as a corporate citizen, Sysmex is actively involved in a range of vibrant corporate philanthropic activities in such areas as education, sports and the environment, as well as healthcare. As a global company, Sysmex has been expanding those activities from Kobe, Japan, where the company was founded to various countries and regions around the world. Activities in Japan Healthcare Education Participating in the Kobe Medical Industry Ono Factory Bus Tour Development Project Sysmex International Reagents' Ono Factory was visited by The Kobe Medical Industry Development Project aims to create elementary school children and their parents/guardians living a focal point among healthcare industries in Kobe through in Ono City, Hyogo, who participated in the “Demand Bus Tour” industry-government-academia cooperation. Sysmex established organized by Ono City. After listening to a brief outline of the the Sysmex Asano Laboratory at the Translational Research company, they took a tour of the factory, observing robots and Informatics Center (TRI), one of the core facilities of this project. an unmanned warehousing system. Under the direction of Dr. Shigetaka Asano (Professor Emeritus, The University of Tokyo, and Professor of the Faculty of Science and Engineering, Waseda University), a leading expert on hematology, we are working on research that will improve the efficacy and safety of cell therapies such as bone marrow transplantation (BMT). In June 2010, Sysmex received a certificate of appreciation from Kobe City in recognition of its contribution to Participants of the bus tour Acceptance of the certificate of appreciation the Medical Industry for contribution to the Kobe Medical Development Project. Industry Development Project. Receiving Student Interns from Lomonosov Moscow State University In fiscal 2010, Sysmex received two students from an internship Support for Kobe University program with Lomonosov Moscow State University in Russia. Since fiscal 2004, Sysmex Corporation has contributed funds The students learned about Sysmex as well as the general to a course at the Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine. corporate culture, organizational structure and management of The course, entitled “Assessment of Clinical Testing”, aims to Japanese companies during their training period of about a month. establish methods of diagnostic testing that are based on scientific evidence in the area of autoimmune diseases. In fiscal 2010, Sysmex donated funds toward the construction of a hall at the Kobe University School of Medicine. The university has named one part of the facility “Sysmex Hall” in appreciation of the company’s funding support. Training session Farewell party Endorsing “Pink Ribbon” to Support Breast Cancer Patients Accepting JICA Trainees Since fiscal 2004, we have been continuously Every year, Sysmex Corporation provides training on the use of endorsing activities organized in the name of instruments to researchers from developing countries who visit Pink Ribbon, and provided cooperation for the Japan on a program offered by the Japan International Corporation holding of symposiums. Agency (JICA). 23 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Information on the Web Scientific support Support for local communities Sports Support for Disaster Areas Participating in the First Kobe Marathon as a Providing Support to Earthquake-devastated Special Sponsor Areas Sysmex is a special sponsor for the first Kobe Marathon, which Sysmex and other interested companies in Kobe formed a support is scheduled to be held on November 20, 2011, based on the network, called “Yell from KOBE”, for the areas devastated by theme of “Thanks and Friendship”. the Tohoku Region Pacific Ocean Offshore Earthquake in In addition to providing the bib numbers that the expected order to provide support based on their experience of Great 20,000 participants will wear during the race, we will exhibit a Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake as well as restoration activities. booth in the Kobe Marathon EXPO, which is being held In April 2011, each company sent shipments of its products to concurrently, and will also support Sysmex employees who will Kurihara City, Miyagi. volunteer to assist throughout the activities. Press conference for the Kobe Marathon 2011 Shipment of relief supplies VQ Activities Eco Team’s Environmental Preservation Activities An Eco Team formed by Sysmex employees who are interested in environmental preservation activities has been conducting various activities since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2010, the Eco Team carried out a cleaning operation at Suma Beach in Hyogo Prefecture and an afforestation project for Mt. Rokko, also in Hyogo. These activities were also participated by the family members of employees. Cleaning activity at Suma Beach Afforestation activity on Mt. Rokko Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 24 Behaviors and Commitment as a Good Corporate Citizen Overseas Activities Healthcare Donating Funds for the Renovation of a Hospital for Children with Serious Diseases Providing Support to Breast Cancer Patients Sysmex New Zealand donated funds to a hospital that actively Sysmex provides support to treats children with serious diseases. The funds were used to women fighting against renovate examination breast cancer by donating rooms and rooms for funds to Mamazone, a group patients and their families. involved in improving the This has helped quality of testing, treatment patients receive treatment and post-operative care for in a more comfortable breast cancer patients. Presentation of donation environment. Donation presented as a “Christmas gift” $30,000 Donated to Cancer Fighting Organizations Sysmex America has been supporting five organizations that Providing Support to Schools in Liberia support cancer eradication activities in order to fulfill a mission through an NPO aimed at improving the health of people around the world. In fiscal In fiscal 2010, Sysmex Europe provided funds for procuring 2010, Sysmex donated total of $30,000 to these organizations. uniforms, classroom chairs, etc., for school children through Bong Aid, an organization involved in helping children receive education in the Republic of Liberia in Africa. Education Holding a “Go Green!” Workplace Tour for Children In August 2010, Sysmex America held a workplace tour for children. Under a banner proclaiming “Go Green!”, Sysmex America invited 37 children ranging in age from 6 to 12 and provided opportunities to plant flowering plants, build birdhouses and conduct other activities for enhancing their global environment protection awareness. Children at one of the schools receiving aid Visiting Children in an Orphanage In fiscal 2010, employees of Sysmex Malaysia and their families visited an orphanage in Kuala Lumpur to help cheer up the children at the facility. Children participating in the tour program Supporting a Healthcare Research Project Sysmex India is a sponsor for awards presented to local hospitals that make excellent research achievements. In Calcutta, the company contributes to the development of healthcare education through a healthcare research program. Children at the orphanage 25 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Support for Disaster Areas Providing Support for Flood-damaged Areas Large-scale floods occurred in Thailand in October 2010. Sysmex Thailand sent food, beverages and water to the flood-damaged areas, and also encouraged employees to volunteer for Shipment of food and water Daily commodities sent restoration activities. to disaster areas (Thailand) to disaster areas (New Zealand) Daily Commodities Donated to External Evaluation Earthquake-stricken Areas in New Zealand A large earthquake occurred in Christchurch, New Zealand, in Earning the Companies That Care Award February 2011. Sysmex New Zealand sent daily commodities to In fiscal 2010, Sysmex America was placed on the Companies That the earthquake-stricken areas, in addition to relief money. Care Honor Roll for the third consecutive year. This annual award Moreover, some employees made their homes available to honors companies that exhibit the characteristics of a “Companies refugees and supported the people in the disaster areas. That Care”, through activities such as social contributions and good work environments. VQ Activities “Greener Sysmex” Activities Group companies in eight countries in the Asia-Pacific region have formed a team that energetically conducts environmental preservation and local social contribution activities with the slogan of “Greener Sysmex”. In fiscal 2010, the team cooperated in a charity event for the protection of endangered specifies in Singapore, New Zealand and Thailand. In the Philippines, it conducted afforestation activities. Preparation for a charity event for the protection of endangered specifies (New Zealand) Panel introducing “Greener Sysmex” activities Afforestation activities (Philippines) Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 26 Behaviors and Commitment toward the Global Environment Setting Long-term Objectives and Helping to Reduce Environmental Impact Moving ahead to become an “environmentally-advanced company” in the healthcare sector, Sysmex makes eﬀorts to reduce the environmental impact which may result from each stage of our business activities, from product design, development, procurement, and production, to logistics, sales, support, and product usage, in the pursuit of harmony with the global environment. Environmental Management Environmental Auditing In fiscal 2010, Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents Co., Ltd. evaluated overall compliance through a series Environmental Policy of self-assessments conducted by individual divisions themselves By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and internal environmental auditing performed by auditors in and healthy society. other divisions. External environmental auditing was also carried out by a third-party auditing organization. Core behavior The internal environmental audits found three 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. nonconformities, while the external environmental audits 2. We strive to provide eco-friendly products and services while discovered two nonconformities. Measures for rectifying these giving careful thought of environmental issues throughout nonconformities were promptly completed. their life cycles. 3. We strive to conserve energy and resources, reduce wastes, promote recycle and properly control chemical substances in all business activities. 4. We comply with all applicable national or regional environmental regulations, standards and agreements. 5. We continually improve our environmental conservation activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize the impact our products have on the environment. 6. We contribute to society through environmental conservation activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. 7. We establish environmental objectives and targets consistent External environmental auditing with this environmental policy, and measure our performance against them. External Evaluation May 7, 2009 Hisashi Ietsugu In October 2010, Sysmex was honored with the Kobe City Award President & CEO for Distinguished Environmental Activities in recognition of its The Environmental Policy was formulated in March 2000, and amended in May 2009. continuous environmental activities lasting more than ten years. Sysmex International Reagents’ Ono Factory was designated as a model facility for waste reduction and recycling in the Promoting Environmental Activities “Kitaharima Operation Forum for 20% Waste Reduction” held Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents Co., Ltd. by the Kitaharima Bureau of the Hyogo Prefectural Government are in charge of establishing policies and plans, managing the in November 2010. progress of planned activities, and evaluating their results as members of the Environmental Management Committee chaired by the executive officer in charge of CSR. In April 2010, Sysmex formulated the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020), which sets long-term environmental objectives toward the target year of fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2010, in order to grasp further the entire Group’s environmental activities, Sysmex appointed an environmental manager in each Group company in Japan and overseas, thus establishing a system to collect activity information and performance data. Kobe City Award for Distinguished Environmental Activities 27 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Information on the Web ISO 14001 certification acquisition Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Activities/Achievements in Fiscal 2010 Long-term Environmental Objectives (for Fiscal 2020) Reduce the power consumption of diagnostics • 20% reduction of power consumption in hematology analyzers scheduled for release in FY2011 instrument by 25% (in comparison with from conventional models conventional models) • Upgrading of compressors for refrigeration equipment and all air conditioner to eco-friendlier units (Seishin Factory) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions at business • Upgrading of all air conditioners to eco-friendlier units (Ono Factory, Sysmex RA) offices by 50% (per unit of consolidated sales) • Installing a photovoltaic system (Sysmex Europe, Neumünster Factory) Global • Rooftop construction and heat shielding curtains for improved heat insulation (Kakogawa Factory) warming Reduce domestic carbon dioxide emissions for • Changing the mode of transportation for products from Hyogo Prefecture to Hokkaido from countermeasures logistics by 11% (per unit of parent-only sales) trucks to trains (modal shift) • Establishing CO2 emission calculation rules for distribution of products between Japan and Set a target of reducing global carbon dioxide other regions (Americas, Europe, China, Asia-Pacific region), and implementing calculations emissions for logistics based on the rules Reduce carbon dioxide emissions from • Commencing the collection of data of driving distances and gasoline usage. domestic company cars by 50% Provision of eco-drive training. (per unit of domestic sales) • Examining a switchover to hybrid vehicles and fuel-efficient compact cars with less environmental impact Reduce domestic materials for containers and • Reducing product packaging materials packaging for products and packing for • Promoting to reduce packing materials for transportation and use of lightweight pallets transportation by 15% (per unit of parent-only sales) Set a global target of reducing materials for • Compiling data on the weight of packaging and packing materials used by the entire Group containers and packaging for products and (for FY2008 and FY2009) packing for transportation Eﬀective use of resources and • Installing garbage disposers for processing of raw garbage generated by company cafeterias and waste reduction Reduce waste, etc. emissions at business offices cut grass generated by mowing (Solution Center, Seishin Factory) by 15% (per unit of consolidated sales) • Enlarging raw material containers and using returnable containers with the cooperation of raw material suppliers (Kakogawa Factory, Ono Factory, Sysmex Europe) Domestic: Achieve a recycle rate of 99% or higher at all business offices covered • Expanding the waste sorting range, reviewing waste disposal companies Overseas: Achieve a recycle rate of 95% or higher at all business offices covered • Upgrading water purifying equipment to improve water purifying efficiency (Ono Factory) Eﬀective use of Reduce water usage at business offices • Upgrading refrigeration equipment from a water cooling type to an air cooling type to reduce water resources by 30% (per unit of consolidated sales) water consumption (Seishin Factory) • Utilizing water used in factory for watering trees and plants to reduce water consumption (Sysmex India) Develop products with no animal-derived • Promoting a switchover of protein raw materials used in reagents from animal derivatives to ingredients artificially synthesized protein • Installing filling equipment and others in reagent factories to change petroleum-derived containers Develop paper containers for reagents to paper bags Establish and operate guidelines for • Investigating regulated chemicals in various countries in order to reflect them in the draft of eco-friendly designing guidelines for eco-friendly design Achieve an environmental management system • Implementing awareness-raising activities for raw material suppliers toward the acquisition of Others development rate of 100% for major suppliers certification for environmental management standards Obtain the ISO 14001 certification at business • Promoting preparation activities toward the acquisition of certification in FY 2011 at Sysmex Europe offices covered (head office) and Sysmex India • Promoting an expansion of SNCS users especially in China and the Asia-Pacific region Promote eco-friendly service models • Commencing the development of an information system for transferring knowledge and know-how within the Group • Establishing calculation standards for previous hematology analyzer models, and implementation Promote life cycle assessment of evaluation Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 28 Behaviors and Commitment toward the Global Environment Global Warming Countermeasures Reducing CO2 Emissions for Logistics Since the rate of CO2 emissions for logistics is large, Sysmex is Reducing Power Consumption of addressing the reduction of CO2 emissions generated by logistics. Diagnostics Instruments In fiscal 2010, we changed the mode of product To ensure that our diagnostics instruments provide many years transportation from Hyogo Prefecture, where our warehouse of operation after they are delivered to customers, Sysmex is is located, to Hokkaido from trucks to trains. working to further reduce the power consumption of its products. For overseas operations, in fiscal 2010 we established Hematology analyzers scheduled to be shipped in fiscal CO2 emission calculation rules for the transportation of products 2011 offer a 20% reduction in power consumption as compared from Japan to various countries, and performed trial calculations. to previous models. CO2 emissions for logistics (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions at 2,400 2.05 2.4 Business Oﬃces 1,800 1.81 1.84 1.8 1,226 1,344 1,369 In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our business 1,200 1.2 offices, Sysmex is upgrading the equipment at each site. In fiscal 600 0.6 2010, greenhouse gas emissions were 4.4% lower than in the 0 0 previous year. (Eco-Vision results: Total emissions per unit of sales) 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Sysmex Europe installed a photovoltaic system at its Amount of CO2 emissions Per unit of sales Neumünster Factory in fiscal 2010. Since the system was installed Note) The above numbers indicate CO2 emissions resulting from the distribution of products from Japanese factories to distributors. in the middle of the fiscal year, the percentage of electricity generated by the photovoltaic system accounted for only 2.6% of the total electricity used by the factory. Estimates indicate that, when operating year-long, the system will supply 23% of Reducing CO2 Emissions from Domestic the total electricity required by the factory. Company Cars To reduce CO2 emissions from some 400 company cars in Japan, Greenhouse gas emissions from business oﬃces we provided information on the traveling distance and fuel consumption of each vehicle on the company intranet with the (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) 20,000 10.83 12.0 aim of raising the drivers’ awareness of CO2 emissions from our 10.08 10.35 company cars. 15,000 12,619 12,910 9.0 11,872 Reducing the number of vehicles in use lowered the CO2 10,000 4,192 4,488 4,440 6.0 emissions from company cars in fiscal 2010. We also plan to 5,000 3.0 switch company cars to eco-cars and promote eco-driving to 7,680 8,131 8,470 further reduce CO2 emissions. 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Japan Overseas Per unit of sales CO2 emissions from domestic company cars Note) See page 31 regarding the companies subject to the survey. (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) 3,200 5.1 6.0 4.9 2,400 4.2 4.5 1,920 1,891 1,740 1,600 3.0 800 1.5 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Amount of CO2 emissions Per unit of sales Note) See page 31 regarding the companies subject to the survey. Photovoltaic system (Sysmex Europe) 29 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Information on the Web Green procurement Eﬀective Use of Resources and Eﬀective Use of Water Resources Waste Reduction Reducing Water Usage at Business Oﬃces Reducing Materials for Containers and Packaging In fiscal 2010, the amount of water used per unit of sales for Products, and Packing for Transportation increased by 2% from the previous year due to the increased We are working to reduce the amounts of materials for containers, production of reagents. We are striving to reduce water packaging and packing for instruments, reagents and repair parts consumption by upgrading the water purifying equipment at the in an effort to reduce the weight of materials used. Ono Factory. In fiscal 2010, we designed simpler packaging for products sold in Japan. We also collected actual data to grasp the amounts Amount of water used at business oﬃces of materials used for containers, packaging and packing for (1,000 m3) (m3/¥100 million) products shipped overseas. 400 227.2 230.7 240 204.2 288 Amounts of materials for containers and packaging 300 264 180 for products, and packing for transportation 227 (t) (t/¥100 million) 200 120 3,200 3.2 2.32 2.33 2.50 2,400 2.4 100 60 1,573 1,861 1,600 1,525 1.6 800 0.8 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Amount of water used Per unit of sales Amount of materials used for containers and packaging for products, and packing for transportation Note) See page 31 regarding the companies subject to the survey. Per unit of sales Note) See page 31 regarding the companies subject to the survey. Others Reducing the Waste, etc. Emissions at Helping Suppliers Build an Environmental Business Oﬃces Management System Since some of the boxes that were used for transporting raw Sysmex has established green procurement standards and materials were of a disposable type, we gained the cooperation of introduced ISO 14001 and environmental management system suppliers to promote a change to returnable containers. We have specifications recommended by local administrations to our main also begun to use garbage disposers at facilities that produce large suppliers in order to ensure that they comply with the standards. amounts of raw garbage, such as company cafeterias. Amounts of waste, etc. emissions at business oﬃces Promoting Eco-friendly Service Models In addition to expanding the functions of the Customer Support (t) (t/¥100 million) 1,600 1.00 Center, we are minimizing downtime for diagnostics instruments 0.83 0.74 0.74 in use by constructing the Sysmex Network Communication 1,200 0.75 872 969 917 System (SNCS, see page 18 for details) to maintain interactive 800 143 170 195 0.50 communication with customers. This leads to reduced visits to 400 729 799 722 0.25 customer sites by our employees, thus reducing the amounts of gasoline used by company cars and the amounts of CO2 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) emitted by them. Total amount of waste, etc. emissions at domestic oﬃces In fiscal 2010, we implemented security measures in the Total amount of waste, etc. emissions at overseas oﬃces Asian region matched to the IT conditions of each country in Per unit of sales order to increase the number of SNCS users. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 30 Behaviors and Commitment toward the Global Environment Environmental Impact of Business Activities Period reported: April 1, 2010, to March 31, 2011 INPUT Unit FY2009 FY2010 Electricity*1 1,000 kWh 25,452 26,352 Fuel (city gas)*1 1,000 Nm3 800.9 793.5 Total energy input Fuel (LPG)*1 t 57.2 50.6 Fuel (kerosene)*1 kl 45.2 49.9 Fuel (gasoline for company cars)*2 kl 825.0 746.5 Printing paper (for use at oﬃces)*2 t 57.8 69.1 Total materials input Volume of PRTR*3 chemicals handled*2 t 38.2 8.9 Materials for containers, packaging and packing*2 t 1,525 1,861 Water Water consumption*1 m3 263,740 287,674 Sysmex’s business activities Design Production Sales Use Disposal OUTPUT Unit FY2009 FY2010 Volume of greenhouse gases emitted from business oﬃces*1 t-CO2 12,619 12,910 Volume of CO2 emissions from company cars*2 t-CO2 1,891 1,740 Volume of chemicals released (PRTR*3 chemicals)*2 t 1.6 1.0 Volume of waste*1 t 969 917 Volume recycled [recycling rate]*1 t [%] 772 [79.6] 815 [88.9] Waste water*1 m3 128,277 119,732 *1 Companies subject to survey: Sysmex Corporation and its domestic and overseas Group companies Sysmex Corporation, Sysmex International Reagents Co., Ltd., Sysmex RA Co., Ltd., Sysmex Medica Co., Ltd., Sysmex Logistics Co., Ltd. Sysmex America, Inc., Sysmex Reagents America, Inc., Sysmex do Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda., Sysmex Europe GmbH (Neumünster Factory), Sysmex Shanghai Ltd., Jinan Sysmex Medical Electronics Co., Ltd., Sysmex Wuxi Co., Ltd., Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd., Sysmex India Pvt. Ltd. *2 Companies subject to survey: Sysmex Corporation and its domestic Group companies Sysmex Corporation, Sysmex International Reagents Co., Ltd., Sysmex RA Co., Ltd., Sysmex Medica Co., Ltd., Sysmex Logistics Co., Ltd. *3 PRTR : Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system used to collect, aggregate, and disseminate data on the quantity of toxic chemicals that have been released into the environment and their sources including those which have been transferred outside of facilities in the form of waste. 31 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Independent Opinion On Reading the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2011 1. Establishment of Environmental Action Plan (Eco-Vision) In order to move forward toward an “environmentally advanced company” in the healthcare sector, Sysmex is Katsuhiko Kokubu making eﬀorts to reduce the environmental impact that Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University may result from the stages of its business activities, ranging from product design to usage, in a pursuit of harmony with the global environment. To that end, Sysmex formulated topics that Sysmex will focus on in the future. BOP business the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex enables Sysmex to fulﬁll its CSR through business operations, Eco-Vision 2020), which sets forth long-term environmental and the further advancement of this business model is objectives toward the target year of 2020. I evaluate this much anticipated. plan highly for its proactive initiatives for promoting global warming countermeasures, eﬀective use of resources and 3. Establishment of a CSR Management Framework waste reduction, eﬀective use of water resources and others. Sysmex has begun to establish a CSR management framework To achieve these long-term objectives, I look forward to by building a CSR promotion structure, reviewing high-priority Sysmex’s eﬀorts for establishing a system for incorporating CSR issues and holding CSR opinion exchange meetings, them as midand short-term targets and continuously in addition to participating in the United Nations Global disclosing the levels of achievement. Compact, Sysmex’s mid-term management plan has also incorporated strategic CSR activities as a high-priority 2. CSR Activities for Emerging Countries management topic. The next important step is to embark Sysmex is actively providing products and services that on eﬀorts to enhance bilateral communication with match the healthcare needs in emerging countries. These stakeholders in order to deepen the understanding of their activities are similar to a new business model called BOP needs. I trust that Sysmex will reﬂect its eﬀorts to respond (Base of the Economic Pyramid) business, which is expected to shareholders’ needs and set appropriate targets within to contribute continually to the resolution of various social its CSR management. issues pertaining to low income groups in developing I look forward to seeing further progress in Sysmex’s countries. They constitute one of the high-priority CSR CSR activities. In Reply First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt appreciation to Dr. Kokubu for his sincere and judicious opinions. Kenichi Yukimoto In order to accomplish our highly evaluated Eco-Vision Member of the Managing Board and Executive Officer 2020, we will formulate midand short-term targets and Senior Managing Director CSR plans, and then steadily promote corresponding activities. For emerging countries and developing countries, we will provide products and services that meet the needs giving the most serious consideration to the points described of each country so that our business activities will help in by Dr. Kokubu, and then examine high-priority issues and the establishment of local healthcare systems. In addition, set targets. we intend to actively address philanthropic activities. We are determined to steadily advance our CSR With regard to CSR management, we will respond activities in order to fully meet the expectations of Dr. to the requests and expectations of our stakeholders by Kokubu and our stakeholders. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 32 Corporate Data Corporate Overview Company name Sysmex Corporation Line of business Development, manufacture, sales, and export/import of laboratory testing Established February 20, 1968 instruments, reagents, and related software Paid-in capital ¥9,041 million Main customers National and other public hospitals, private hospitals, universities, research laboratories, Representative Hisashi Ietsugu, President and CEO other healthcare facilities, etc. Head Oﬃce 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Export destinations More than 170 countries Kobe 651-0073, Japan Consolidated subsidiaries 48 (7 in Japan, 41 abroad) Business Segments Diagnostics quality of laboratory operations. for predicting the eﬀects of anti-cancer The diagnostics ﬁeld involves instruments, drugs slated for commercial launch. Our reagents, and software for analyzing samples Life Sciences ultimate goal is to contribute to better of blood, urine, and cells. Our instruments for Tapping into the wealth of technological patient QOL. measuring the number and functions of blood know-how that we have amassed in the cells (hematology) and determining the diagnostics business, Sysmex applies the Other ﬁelds (Healthcare, etc.) activity of blood hemostasis (hemostasis) latest technologies for gene and protein We commercialize and sell devices that can enjoy a high reputation with customers, who analysis to the creation of innovative testing estimate hemoglobin levels without blood place us as the number one brand in each and diagnosis technologies. Our priority sampling, and a series of support software market segment. By combining quality R&D area here is the deﬁnitive diagnosis for health management and childcare instruments with a broad range of other and recurrence prevention of cancer, and services. We are also involved in the products and services, such as reagents, we are currently introducing technologies development of particle measuring analyzers software, instrument maintenance services, for rapid detection of cancer cell metastasis for industrial ﬁeld, utilizing the particle and scientiﬁc support, we are oﬀering in lymph nodes to markets around the world. analysis technology that was originally solutions that increase the eﬃciency and We are also involved in R&D of technologies developed in the diagnostics ﬁeld. Financial Data Consolidated net sales Consolidated operating income / Net sales by geographic region Consolidated net income Asia-Paciﬁc (¥ million) (¥ million) 7.3% 150,000 124,694 20,000 18,288 110,724 111,842 116,174 China Japan 101,041 15,033 15,134 15,708 100,000 15,000 12.1% Consolidated 30.9% 12,714 11,411 net sales EY2010 10,000 9,008 9,131 9,764 8,013 124,694 50,000 (¥ million) 5,000 Europe Americas 0 0 28.4% (U.S., Canada, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and Central and (FY) (FY) South America Operating income Net income 21.3% R&D expenditure Consolidated net assets Number of employees (Consolidated) (¥ million) (%) (¥ million) 9.6 9.7 9.9 18,000 8.9 10 150,000 5,000 8.3 130,059 4,248 118,521 120,702 3,913 12,380 8 101,225 109,027 4,000 3,333 3,550 12,000 10,771 11,238 100,000 2,971 9,026 9,221 6 3,000 4 2,000 6,000 50,000 2 1,000 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) (FY) (FY) R&D expenditure Ratio to net sales 33 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 Supporting the Activities of the Japanese Red Cross Society, Tokyo Metropolitan Oﬃce, through the Use of Red Cross Paper This document was printed on Red Cross Paper. Part of the proceeds from this paper is donated to the Tokyo Metropolitan Oﬃce of the Japanese Red Cross Society and used for humanitarian assistance activities. The Red Cross Society is the world's largest humanitarian organization, providing assistance to victims of disasters and disputes, without discrimination as to nationality, race, economic status or political opinions. The Red Cross Society network extends to 186 countries and regions worldwide. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 1 34 1-5-1 Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan A portion of the printing costs for For environmental consideration, vegetable oil ink this printing paper is donated to and a waterless printing method were used to the “Japanese Red Cross Society”. produce this brochure.
