ABOUT THE REPORT Publication Background Since 2009, aT(Korea Agro-fisheries Trades Corp.) has been publishing Sustainability report to communicate with stakeholders about our vision and accomplishments in economic, environmental and social aspects. Through the second publication of Sustainability Report, aT is to share information with stakeholders about its various on-going projects for the development of the agro-fisheries industry and the results. Especially, the report introduces activities to increase value of stakeholders and the results in the process of production, distribution and consumption of the agro-fisheries products and also the efforts to take corporate responsibilities in the environment and society. Publication Standards aT’s Sustainability Report is based on G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. The report contains economic, environmental and social activities of the aT headquarter and local branch offices from January to December of 2009 and will be issued every year. Some quantitative data shows three-year long report(2008~2010) about change in trend. Also, the contents of the report have been reviewed by the third party organization to increase its credibility. This report can also be accessed on our website [ www.at.or.kr ]. For more information and inquiries, contact us through the contact points below. 232 aT Center, Yangjae-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul 137-787 CS Management Team Korean Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation ● Tel : 82-2-6300-1043, 1046 ● Fax : 82-2-6300-1602 ● E-mail : csr@kati.net CONTENTS 2010 Sustainability Report About the Report 01 ECONOMY_1 11 ENVIRONMENT 25 1. Strengthening Global Competitiveness 5. Supporting Eco-Friendly Agro-Fisheries Industry Message from CEO 04 of Korean Agricultural and Fisheries Products 5.1 Facilitating distribution of eco-friendly agricultural products 1.1 Creation of export foundation 5.2 Spreading green food life aT Vision / Strategy and Leadership 05 1.2 Policy improvement and new business 5.3 Green management of aT Company Profile 06 1.3 Expansion of export growth engine 1.4 Overseas marketing Participation of Stakeholders 07 SOCIETY 28 ECONOMY_ 2 15 Process Overview 08 6. Fulfilling Social Responsibility 2. Maximization of Producer and Consumer Profit 6.1 Transparent aT through Efficient Distribution of Agricultural Products Materiality Test & Issues 10 6.2 Risk management 2.1 Facilitating producer-consumer direct transaction 6.3 Customer satisfaction 2010 Highlight 10 2.2 Strengthening competitiveness of distribution organization 6.4 Executives and staff in producing area 6.5 Contribution to the local community 2.3 Strengthening the function as a wholesale market and expansion of trust management 2.4 Collection of distribution information Financial Statement Summary 33 ECONOMY_ 3 19 3. Encouraging Mutual Growth of the Agro-Fisheries Industry and the Food Industry through Advancement of the Food Industry 3.1. Nurturing the food industry 3.2 Agricultural product consumption promotion business 3.3 Promoting internationalization of Korean food ECONOMY_ 4 22 4. Stable Supply of Staple Food and Price Stability 4.1 Stable supply/demand management of staple food 4.2 Import information GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report MESSAGE aT VISION STRATEGY FROM CEO AND LEADERSHIP About aT 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Vision Rewarding experience for farmers and ﬁshers Lead future agro-fisheries product industries based on export and Satisfaction to customers distribution Endless conﬁdence and happiness to people Become an organization that focuses on nurturing the growth of food industries that supports the agricultural industry. Construct integrated support system to farmers and distribution organization by introEconomy ducing a new distribution model. I would like to thank the stakeholders for your undivided support and interest. was focused on promoting Promote export of agro-fisheries products with innovative means. development of agro-ﬁsheries products even in unstable global economy of 2010. We will continue to supply Construct a Mecca of food industries and lead cooperation between North and South stable agro-ﬁsheries products to the public based on construction of grain distribution system and active supply Korea based on agricultural industries. management system. Also, be implementing internet trades center, we will continue to improve local distribuBecome an organization that leads the global market that can compensate with rapid tion system for agro-ﬁsheries products that will contribute in stabilizing domestic prices. climate changes throughout the globe. CEO Ha, Young-je Mission Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation Nu om Contribute to secure domestic and overseas competir Pr pr tur Environment od e f xp Increasing income uc oo ee of farming and Esteemed Stakeholders tiveness of agricultural products, increase the incomes ts d ot ort fishing household Secureing domestic of farming and fishing households and balance develand overseas competitiveness of Revolution in distribution of agro-fisheries ket. Also, we are in a process of promoting Korean food to the opment of national economy. agricultural products products a St Di Balanced world. We will also work with many related offices to increase bi e re stri vo bu development of liz lu tio su tio n national economy We will contribute in simplifying complex distribution system the value of Korean food products. pp ly n by promoting direct trades, B2B B2C internet trades center, fair trades and numerous financial support to many of the farmers Expand export routes for agro products Strategies in achieving the visions and fishers. We aim to introduce a natural revolution that will With a goal to accomplish 10 billion USD of agro-fisheries aT fully understands that the success of public offices is bound to successful improvement increase the efficiency of current distribution system. product export, we are focusing on constructing export supof nation’s life. By revolutionizing the distribution system and expanding the export system, port system for various goods. We will continue to implement we will continue to contribute to the nation’s economy and improve people’s lives. Stabilization of product cost with stable food aggressive strategies to support our companies in exporting Society supply their goods. Global grains market can be described as war due to rapid Vision World-class public corporation leading the future agricultural product industry through export and distribution climate changes and bio-energy developments. By conBecome nation’s leading public office structing national grains supply system, we will continue By establishing modern ethical management system, we are to stabilize food supplies with a long term plan. being praised as one of the cleanest public offices across the Vision Goal Financial Statement Summary 10 billion dollar export 10% reduction of 30% share of nation. Also, aT is focused on improving company efficiency of agricultural products distribution cost aT’s own projects Enhancing value by improving competitiveby working closely with the labor union. Based on our enviEstablishing Leading innovation Exporting Specialization of the food industry Nurturing future ness of food industries ronmentally friendly operations, we also aim to meet the govnurturing and of agricultural products distribution agricultural products supply/demand management growth engine Business Strategic Tasks supporting system We have been focusing on supporting food product compaernment’s goal in becoming a leader of green growth. We will Strengthening Establishment of Establishment of nies, providing global market information and nurturing procontinue to put out our best efforts in becoming the leading Establishment performance win-win labor sustainable management system management culture management system of Sustainable System fessional manpower to compete in the global food mar model of public offices across the nation. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 04 05 COMPANY PARTICIPATION OF PROFILE STAKEHOLDERS About aT 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Japan 1,883 USA By collecting all of the opinions from our stakeholders, we continue to implement changes that will lead to sustainable management of our offices. We will continue with our well-oiled communication with our stakeholders and implement changes that will improve our offices and stakeholder’s successes. EU 333 China 519 787 Participation of stakeholders Selection of major stakeholders and communication Rotterdam Economy In order to communicate with our stakeholders regarding sustainable management and numerous global issues, we have sysTokyo tematically selected our major stakeholders. Based on influence over our offices and importance, we have selected major stakeBeijing Tsingtao Osaka LA New York holders for each department in order to receive feedback regarding our operations. Shanghai Gangwon Hong Kong incheon <Selection process of major stakeholders> HongKong Seoul Gyeonggi-do Head Office 244 Chungcheongbuk-do Singapore Create a list of stakeholders Evaluate the importance level Selection of major stakeholders Daejeon Chungcheongnam-do and evaluate their inﬂuence of each stakeholder Jeollabuk-do Asean Create management cards for each stakeholder Evaluate the importance level of each stakeholdSelection of major stakeholders 720 Daegu Gyeongsangbuk-do by each department's representatives er based on interviews with each department based on analysis results Environment Government / Cooperating Gyeongsangnam-do Customer Employee Media / NGO Society Public organizations companies Gwangju Busan Ulsan Establish credibility Strengthen relationship Employee satisfaction win-win Cooperative Construct partnerships Events with the society Jeju from customers with related offices • Investigate customer • Satisfaction investigation • Periodical meetings with • Suggestion plan for • News • Conference with society satisfaction the government cooperative company officials • Employee-employer • Participate in seminars • Customer feedback workshop • Employee dispatch • Complaints registration and forum • 1:1 relationship with Leading the Future Agricultural Product Industry Board of Directors President Auditor board & providing feedbacks neighbors • aT News published by • Conference with related • Customer feedback through Export and Distribution Secretary’s Office Auditor’s Office • Customer feedback Employee-Employer offices • Subcontractor roundboard • Sharing proﬁt with the session Board table conference society • Business promotion • Participate in NGO Founded as the Agro-Fisheries Development Corporation in 1967, • Customer-oriented sug• Construction of intranet meeting • Business development partnership gestions for suggestions strategy meeting expanded and renewed as the Korean Agro-Fisheries Distribution Society Vice president and Export director Distribution • Management notice • Feedback solution policy Corporation in 1987, aT is a corporation which leads the future of planning director director • Sustainability report • Clean tea time the Korean agricultural product industry through export and disPlanning office Export Strategy Advanced Department Distribution tribution. Business Department <Major issues in different areas(partial)> Management aT supports the agricultural industry to enhance competitiveness Department Agro-Fisheries State-owned Marketing Trade Department Detailed issues in economic aspects Parts Detailed issues in social aspects Parts and grow as a full government-sponsored quasi government orgaFinance Department Develop prospective export products Promote export Listen to customer's feedback based on establishment Customer Food Management Management Nurture exporting companies Promote export of various boards and customer feedback system satisfaction nization. aT has 11 local branch offices and 9 overseas offices. aT Department Department Food Marketing Distribution Improve and evaluate customer satisfaction management Customer Financial Statement Summary Flower Evaluate public markets and nurture other public markets Department revolution based on customer feedbacks satisfaction supports not only export of agro-fisheries products but also innoEmergency Joint Market Planning Office Distribution Ethical Facilitate direct transaction between customers and producers Implementation of ethical management vates domestic distribution structure by supporting direct transacFood Industry Distribution revolution management aT Center Department Education Center Nurture food Improve transparent ethical management Ethical tion and wholesale markets. Also, it makes efforts to nurture the Establish competitiveness of food and restaurant business products based on employee survey management agriculture industry and to stabilize food supply/demand. Construct food industry infrastructure Nurture food Share with the society using professional experience Social products in agro-fisheries industries contribution As of late 2010, aT has 3 directors in the headquarter, Establish grains company and actively participate in the market Stabilize supply Social * The numbers are of export sales of agricultural products in 2010 by region Stabilize agro-fisheries price Stabilize supply Work with various society organizations contribution (Unit : million USD). 4 offices and 12 departments with 547 employees. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 06 07 PROCESS OVERVIEW About aT 2010 Sustainability Report Production Distribution Consumption 4 Distribution Organization 2 Economy Local Producer Consumer Market Local Consumer (Wholesale/retail) 1 5 3 10 11 Food Company (Process/food service) 9 Environment 7 Overseas Consumer Export Company (Agro-Fisheries products/food) 8 12 6 Society Distribution Export Promotion of Food Supply Innovation Support Food Industry Management 1 Supporting producers 5 Safety management of agro9 Nurturing and supporting 13 Export management Reserve Base fisheries exports food company • TRQ / MMA 2 Nurturing distribution organi14 zations in producing area • Establishing distributing organi6 Nurturing export organization • Supporting export organization 10 Consumer marketing 14 Storage and food management zation for cities and countries • Nurturing export professional 11 Distributing green diet guide • Import reserve Financial Statement Summary • Joint marketing workforce 12 Internationalization of Korean • Purchase reserve • Training food • Sales 7 Supporting export 3 Supporting wholesale mar• Organization of export council 15 Working to establish an Inter13 ket/consignment operation • Promotion of ewport item national Grain Company • Whimori 4 Operation of cyber exchange 8 Overseas marketing International • Host/participate in international Grain Company Overseas Producer fairs • Inviting buyers 15 GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 08 09 MATERIALITY DISCLOSURE ON TEST & ISSUES MANAGEMENT 2010 Sustainability Report APPROACH ECONOMY_1 Materiality analysis process Strengthening Global Competitiveness Confirm issue Materiality test of Korean Agricultural and Fisheries Products By going through a phase of confirming internal issues that are reMateriality of selected internal/external issues was determined lated with sustainable management, we were able to confirm varibased on various aspects. Total of 35 issues were analyzed by using ous internal and external issues that we had to deal with. We also an importance matrix. As a result, 11 important issues were selected focused on quantitative and qualitative evaluation of various issues as major contents for aT Sustainability Report 2010. Improve policies and new businesses based on different surveys. • Integrated customer-oriented revolution Selection of major contents for the report • Direct sales • Incentives to excellent regional oﬃces Determination of importance Sustainability Report has been created based on major issues se• Limit to export freight cost • Export exhibitions and export success guides Export/ Importance of determined issues was determined based on interest lected in economic, social and environmental areas. The aim of our distribution companies level of various stakeholders on determined internal/external issues publication is to clearly communicate with our stakeholders about as well as their influences. Total of 50 issues were selected from ecothe issue of sustainable business management, results of aT’s activiGlobal marketing Creating • International exhibition nomic, social and environmental areas. ties, and our visions. export foundation • Connection with large • Nurture export frontier group Export/ Export/ distribution companies distribution Global distribution • Nurture professional export talents • Cooperation with internacompanies market companies 2010 HIGHLIGHT • Manage export safety tional offices • Global market information • Invite buyers infrastructure • International advertisement marketing Export/ 2010 Sustainability Report distribution companies Expansion of growth engines • Operate export conference Highlight 1 Construction of national grains supply system age of Korean agro-fisheries products, aT has successfully overcome • Find prospective products • Manage integrated export brand Instability of international grains supply has been a global issue global export crisis in agro-fisheries industry. In year 2010, export of since the ag-flation. Most of the advanced countries have already agro-fisheries product has been increased by 22.3% and aT achieved Principle Our Approach constructed their own international grains distribution system. aT export of 5.9 billion USD. We support global expansion of our agro-fisheries product. Creating export foundation, Improving policy, Expanding also started the National Grains Supply System that will secure NaExport of Korean agro-fisheries product has reached 3 billion of growth engine, Overseas marketing USD in 1988. Since then, it took 20 years to reach 3.8 billion Our goals in 2010 were focused in creating export foundational Grains Supply System. We plan to construct our grains supHighlight 4 MOU with Korea Tourism Organization for transUSD of export in 2007. However, we have successfully reached tion export, impoving export policies, expanding growth ply system based on various aspects such as M&A of international parent inspection We have agreed to work with Korea Tourism 4.8 billion USD in 2009 and 5.9 billion USD in 2010 thanks to engines and expanding overseas marketing. The export grains companies and establishment of international grains compaOrganization for Korea’s first inter-office inspections amongst various export promotion policies. Korean agro-fisheries prodamount of agro-fisheries product is growing steadily and nies. We will continue to construct a stable system by working with public offices. We aim to open new era of public office inspecucts are a big hit in the global market and aT will aim its focus reached 5.9 billion USD in 2010, 1 billion USD growth since various companies such as Samsung, CJ, STX and Hanjin. tions based on our relationship with Korea Tourism Organizain expanding the global market for our products. last year. tion. Highlight 2 Construction of electronic school food supply system Main Achievements Classification Detailed Items Unit Our internet transaction market has made ‘Green Clean’ contract Highlight 5 Selected as excellent customer satisfaction office, 2008 2009 2010 with Busan, Incheon, Jeonbuk and Chungnam Education Offices for 4 years in a row aT was selected as excellent customer satisfaction Creation of export Developing leading organizations No. 13 21 foundation Export site experience No. 4 6 3 the supply of their school food. Our system will provide clean and office(scored 90 points or higher) by PCSI. We have scored 96.7 Expansion of export Supporting commercialization of export No. 30 38 43 safe food supply to more than 200 schools around the nation. points in 2010, the highest score in history of our office. Our on-site growth engine Developing world-class product export No. 8 8 customer service, customer experience center, WOW aT office and Overseas marketing Export support consultation and sales(*) Million USD 396 512 756 Highlight 3 5.9 billion USD of export in agro-fisheries products other distinguished customer service program played a significant Export Amount 100 Million USD 44 48 59 Based on our international network and our efforts to improve imrole in achieving the accomplishments. * Consulting to support exports and total sales: exhibitions, large-scale logistics company, buyer introduction consulting, total sales GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 1 Strengthening Global Competitiveness of Korean Agricultural Products Economic impact of agricultural product export and aT’s contribution aT have reached the final certification phase for Global Good Agricultural Practices(GAP). After being certified as Global GAP in early 2011, we will continue with the rest of Global GAP certification process. We also aim to publish and distribute international management standards and requirements for agricultural products to producers in order to promote Export status of agro-fisheries goods (Unit : million USD) 4,809 5,880 3,208 About aT 4,496 aT, which is in charge of supporting export of agricultural products, serves a comprehensive supporting implementation of modern farming system to local products. 2,559 2,373 function through consistent supporting system from domestic production to overseas market Develop1,799 ment. The export of agro-fisheries product has reached 5.9 billion USD in 2010. It has created production Information about agro-fisheries product trades(KATI) aT provides 1,448 1,511 amounting to 6.3 billion USD, additional value amounting to 2.6 billion USD, and 50,000 jobs. local and overseas news, publications, buyer trend and other major agro-fisheries Economy 874 739 trade news to the producers and consumers. Total of 21 export related departments 676 2008 2009 2010 of the headquarter and branches, 10 overseas aT centers and 22 international moniFresh agricultural goods Processed agricultural goods tors are utilized to provide accurate and valuable information to its users. (www. Fisheries good Created value kati.net) Export total in production 49,974 2010 Export amount in agro-fisheries product 6.29 billion USD Promote internet transaction It is a website utilized to advertise Korean agroAgro Trade website screen fisheries product to international buyers and entice other buyers to Korean produce. jobs created 5.88 billion USD Additional value Through AgroTrade e-commerce, we have created multi-lingual e-catalogue along with 2.575 billion USD various ticketing marketing, e-MP advertisement and Hong Kong Food Exhibition to Environment export sea weed from 25 companies and 17 other products to 23 different countries. * Reference: 2008 Industry Atlas, Bank of Korea 2010 (www.Agrotrade.net) 1.1 Creation of export foundation 1.2 Policy improvement and new business The export of fresh agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fisheries product has been increasing until 2010 thanks to our efforts in supporting local agro-fisheries exporting companies. We are continuing our efforts in creating grounds for Direct sales business aT added direct sales business that utilizes our global network to promote direct sales to global buyers. export of Korean agro-fisheries products by nurturing professional talents in export market as well as by providing global market Even though the business is at its early phase, we have successfully sold peaches (83,000 USD), ginseng (20,000 USD) and aquarium information and marketing strategies. fish (2,000 USD) to international buyers through direct sales. Developing export leading organizations aT is developing export-leading organizations, which deal with the whole Incentive support to leading export companies aT created incentive support system to award leading export comSociety export process from production to export, in order to expand exports by strengthening competitiveness of export. As to the exportpanies to promote export business by local producers. Based on evaluations of different producers, we have decided to support leading organizations, 6 products and 6 organizations were added to the former 10 products and 13 organization in 2009 and were leading export companies with incentives to promote export efforts in various organizations. summed up to a total of 16 products and 19 organizations in 2010. ‘Korean Zespri Organization’ has been formed to promote the Korean brand in the international market. In 2010, export was increased by 48.2% (estimated) amongst leading organization, which Publication of successful export stories aT decided to publish export success stories of 2010 (“Korean agro-fisheries was greatly higher than 22.5% (estimated) of national export growth in the related industry. produce, at the center of the global market) to advertise export success stories of fresh products, process products (Makkoli, Korean Financial Statement Summary brewed rice wine) and fisheries product (seaweed) to strengthen our global competitiveness and share information with other Training export professional workforce aT conducts export professional training courses for export leading producers. prospective exporting companies. In 2010, total of three courses were conduct including Netherlands PTC+ onsite visits. Also, early implementation of cutting-edge agricultural technology was promoted by introducing relay-consulting with overseas professionals. Host 11th Agro-fisheries Export Award and Exhibition aT hosted a large event at our aT center with 209 visitors to award our Export Award to leading exporting companies to congratulate 6.4 billion USD of export in 2010 and envision 10 billion Export safety management In order to compensate with the new paradigm in agricultural product safety management, USD of export by 2012. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 12 13 DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT 1.3 Expansion of export growth engine APPROACH ECONOMY_2 Maximization of Producer and Consumer Profit Organization/operation of export consultation body aT organizes and operates item-specific export consultation through Efficient Distribution of Agricultural Products body to prevent excessive competition among domestic companies in the export market and establish cooperation system among them. In 2010, export consultation bodies for vegetables, Korean brewed rice wine and apple are created separately to promote export of various goods. Total of 16 consultation bodies are created for different produces. We will continue to focus our exporting efforts with consulting bodies to support international export and integrated marketing. StrengtheningCompetitiveness Collecting distribution information of Distribution Organization • Investigating agro-ﬁsheries product prices • Operation of city and county distribution company Nurture distribution professionals Developing promising export item aT provides product development cost, overseas market test fees and promotion • Nurturing/supporting distribution company in producing areas • Developing producer joint marketing/brand • Specialized education course for each course expenses for overall agricultural products including fresh products and processed products. aT provides continuous support for (Distribution Education Center) three years based on the execution strategies for each stage (development of a new market – advancement into a local market – expansion of the market share). In 2010, 40 companies received the support from at and earned 16.08 million USD from export. Distribution in Wholesale/ Producer Management and operation of a joint brand(Whimori) aT promotes sophistication and standardization of the producing area retail market Consumer joint brand ‘Whimori’. With a single brand, aT enhances export competitiveness, encourages systematization and standardization Direct of the company, creates added value and increases brand value through execution of Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) transaction in the export market. Facilitating producer/consumer direct transaction Strengthening the function of the wholesale • Operate online exchanges Open direct transaction market and promote producermarkets and facilitating their operation consumer cooperative business • Entrusted operation of the public wholesale markets 1.4 Overseas marketing • Agricultural products direct transaction and fair trade supporting center • Evaluation and consultation of the wholesale markets • Operation of the ﬂower market Hosting and supporting international fairs aT participated in 30 fairs, in which 619 participating companies executed Principle Our Approach 681 million USD worth of export consultation. We established Korean exhibition and executed promotion activities to attract buyers 流通如水 Establishing optimal agricultural product distriExpansion of directtransaction and establishment of fair trade and provide export consultation to participating company. We have strengthened our buyer matching program this year. We hired bution system aT creates advanced distribution system including expansion of a local marketing company during our Ho Chi Minh Food Exhibition to maximize the marketing effect of Korean goods. Distribution of agricultural products is a national circulating producer-consumer direct transaction, settlement of fair trade, system which distributes food around the country. Products facilitation of distribution organization and creation of added valof producers are delivered to consumers through this flow ue of agricultural products. In 2009, it opened a new chapter of Establishment of direct export network of overseas large distribuAdvertisement Consumer experience marketing of distribution. aT will improve the framework of agricultural agricultural product e-commerce by operating online exchange tion companies aT focuses on securing stable overseas sales channel to expand the product distribution as it straighten water way and fix dams and establishing city and county distribution company to induce export of Korean agricultural products and also improve recognition of Korean goods for the happiness of both producers and consumers. systematization and standardization in producing areas. through promotion activites in the overseas market. We have made MOU contracts with 27 large distribution companies in 10 different countries as of 2010. Main Achievements Classification Detailed Items Unit 2008 2009 2010 Working with diplomatic offices We worked with 155 diplomatic offices around Facilitation of producer/ the world to advertise our agricultural products and food culture. We are planning to inOnline exchange B2B transaction amount 100 million KRW 52 1,755 consumer direct transaction ternationalize Korean food and expand the market for Korean produces. We hosted variCity and county distribution sales amount No. 6 12 ous food advertisement campaigns in 50 offices across 38 different countries. The event Strengthening competitiveness of distribution organization Developing joint marketing organization No. 22 26 31 that we held at Saint Petersburg, Russia led to successful export of Korea’s aloe drinks to Strengthening the function Entrusted management of the wholesale market No. 1 1 1 the Russian market. of the wholesale markets/ facilitation of their operation Auction record of the flower market Million KRW 75,425 83,839 GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 2 Maximization of Producer and Consumer Profit through Efficient Distribution of Agricultural Products 2.1 Facilitating producer-consumer direct transaction We have evaluated different companies based on their operation results to award leading companies with incentives and give penalties to lacking companies in order to promote enhanced competitiveness among the distribution companies. Also, by hosting monthly conference amongst city and county distribution companies and introducing bad and good cases of different companies, we have provided benchmarking opportunities to its participants. Not only that, but by providing education in About aT operation regulations, policy directions, organization management, advertisement and brand enhancement, we have supported the Construction and operation of cyber exchange By utilizing highly advanced IT infrastructure, we have created a members to cope with different environment that they are exposed to in various situations. We aim to reestablish business system of cyber transaction area for direct transaction of goods between consumers and producers. various city and county distribution companies and also work with producer distribution promotion business for synergistic effects. Results and expectation Cyber transaction has introduced various economical values by reducing the distribution system Economy significantly by allowing producers to directly sell their goods to the customers. Also, we have created a ‘fair adjustment office’ Nurture producer distribution organization Based on systematic and professional producer distribution facility supfor transparent and safe transaction of goods. The distribution system has been reduced into two steps from existing five steps, port that suits each product’s own feature, we aim to create a center of producer/distribution system in each region that represents thus reducing the overall cost of various goods. Also, it is playing a social role in working as a purchasing agent for middle sized different produce. We aim to nurture integrated organization, agricultural organization, legal agricultural companies, agricultural companies(supermarket, franchise, restaurant and others) to lower their purchasing cost as well. products processing center(APC) and/or produce distribution center. We are planning to provide long term/low interest loan to prospective organizations. We supported 282 producer distribution organizations as of 2010. Environmentally friendly agricultural goods Document inspection Integrated evaluation of producer distribution We are performing producer distribution evaluation to evaluate to Provide consumer promoted sales route Consumer competitiveness of producer distribution system. We evaluate distribution promotion business organization and agricultural prodHigh-quality Cyber agricultural products transaction ucts processing center(APC) based on their sales, sales increase, joint account rate and profit rate. We have evaluated 738 organizaEnvironment Consumer On site Consumer tions(617 agricultural organizations, 121 legal companies). The joint account rate has been increased by 21.6% in 2009, showing Traditional wine inspection active involvement of related policies in promoting producer distribution. Electronic food supply to schools We have supplied food amounting to approximately 3.5 billion KRW for four months Education of agricultural product distributors We have selected 32 education centers to nurture distribution profesto 115 schools under 6 different education office’s administration. We have improved the quality of school food as well as stability sionals in agricultural products. of food supply in many schools. Agricultural product marketing university Professional education courses in agricultural product marketing have been established to foster professional manpower in order to create advanced distribution system for the 21st century. Promotion and operation of direct and fair transaction support center for agro-fisheries product Nurture professionals in each region Total of 32 education centers across the nation including Kyungbuk University, Chun‘Direct and fair transaction support center for agro-fisheries product’ aims to expand direct sales from local producers to large conbuk University, Soonchun University and Nonghyup University to provide specialized professional education that suits local products. sumers and promote fair trade amongst consumers by having a fair price competition. The center has been operating since 2008. General education about distribution Promote distribution revolution of agricultural goods and agricultural business. Customized education that meets the needs Develop new education programs by working with local organizations to Society Strengthening the efficacy of direct and fair transaction support center for agro-fisheries product improve the quality of the products and marketing strategies. In order to strengthen the efficacy of ‘Direct and fair transaction support center for agro-fisheries product’, we have worked with Fair Trade Center to listen to feedback from producers and figure out the hazards of fair trade between consumers and producers. Joint marketing organization We provide mid-term/low interest rate distribution subsidy to promising organizations to nurWe also introduced 48 hours on-site experience, fair trade education course and other various new courses to expand the notion of ture them as key organizations in agricultural product distribution in a producing area and develop standardized and systematized joint fair trade amongst producers and consumers. marketing organizations to adapt to changes in the distribution environment to produce value added agricultural products other than Financial Statement Summary locally based small scale businesses. 2.2 Strengthening competitiveness of distribution organization in producing area Promoting brand aT enhances brand power with cost reduction, quality facilities and brand nurturing subsidy specializing in flower and farm product producing areas. Also, aT hosts agricultural product power brand fair every year as a part of brand proEstablishment of city and county distribution company In 2010, we have supported goods purchasing budmotion project. Selected companies are invited to our cyber transaction system and various events are promoted for marketing get(19.6 billion KRW loan) and operation budget(6.6 billion KRW) to promote operation of city and county distribution companies. purposes. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 16 17 DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT 2.3 Strengthening the function as a wholesale market Sales growth of the ﬂower market APPROACH ECONOMY_3 and expansion of trust management (Unit : million KRW) Encouraging Mutual Growth of the Agro-Fisheries Industry and the Food Industry through Advancement of the Food Industry 15,312 14,409 12,275 29,562 Wholesale market does not only function as a distributing platform but also functions as 23,087 17% 19,607 an important adjustment system between supply and demand based on information 11% 43,543 46,343 53,337 collected within the wholesale market. We aim to strengthen the function of wholesale market and introduce a model for an effective management system based on ChunDomestic 2008 2009 2010 Foliage Orchid Cut ﬂower consumers chon Wholesale Market. Promoting consumption of agricultural products Operation of joint ﬂower market In 2010, we provided free flowers to public Number of joint suppliers to the • Promoting authorized agricultural products ﬂower market • Providing statisitical information of food industry Restaurant restaurants and offices to promote the use of flowers in different businesses. We also intro(Unit : No.) business duced the campaign to indicate the producer's name on the wreath in order to prevent 350 368 330 reuse of flowers. In 2010, total of 98.2 billion KRW worth of foliage plants, orchids and cut Producers/ Overseas market flowers were auctioned, exceeding 90 billion KWR auction recod for the first time among distribution domestic flower wholesale market. The number of joint suppliers to the flower market has network Food Food been increased to 368 companies in 2010 from 330 companies in 2008. 2008 2009 2010 Processing export company company Nurturing the Food Industry Promoting internationalization of Korean food • Supporting education and consulting • Establishment of internationalization infrastructure 2.4 Collection of distribution information • Financing such as modernization of facilities • Education about Korean food and strengthening its • Encouraging ‘Green food’ campaign competitiveness Collection of distribution information We investigate distribution route and cost of major agricultural products. IncludPrinciple Our Approach ing rice, bean, potato, radish, pepper and other vegetables, we investigate 36 products and 48 types of agricultural products. We Leading modernization of the food industry Nurturing the food industry and internationalization of Korean food investigate producers, transaction cost per various distribution company, selection process, packaging process, distribution route Value-added agricultural product industry is a aT newly defined the food industry which used to be the subject of reguand cost per different routes that products take across the nation. The distribution cost will be collected by July of next year for new growth engine of the future agro-fisheries lation as a growth-engine industry and has made multifaceted efforts to publication. The results will also be posted in www.kamis.co.kr as well. industry. Especially, Korean food and traditional support the food By strengthening the role as professional nurturing orgafood are getting more attention from overseas nization of agricultural industry, we aim to construct an infrastructure that markets and add Korean flavor to the tables incorporates systematic consulting, funding and education support. Also, Investigate standard package We investigate whether the goods meet ‘Standard package for agricultural goods’ pubaround the world. The food industry including we have been promoting internationalization of Korean food based on lished by Ministry of Agriculture based on returned goods from 5 different public wholesales market(11 legal companies) and Yangstorage, process and restaurant businesses is a various promotions of Korean produces and food culture. We also publish jae Joint Flower Market. The investigation is held each year. It was found out that the standard shipment rate(76.8%) and package new power source for Korean agro-fisheries inand advertise through TV and books to educate Korean traditional food rate(93.8%) were recorded respectively in 2010. dustry to compete with the world. cultures to the people in Korea and promote consumption of local goods. Investigate cost of agricultural products We investigate and collect sales cost of nationwide agricultural prodMain Achievements ucts. The collected data is used to stabilize agricultural product cost as well as determine supporting plans for the producers. Classification Detailed Items Unit 2009 2010 In order for our investigation to represent a nationwide market, we plan to publish a representative average price based on Food/restaurant business consulting NO. 329 306 market transaction. Nurturing the food Training of the food industry Person 515 1,123 industry Supporting joint kitchen facilities NO. 3 3 Provision of statistics on the food industry Building Building and management Provide cost information We are providing monthly and weekly product cost to government offices. We also provide our Internationalization of Nurturing professional workforce in Korean Person 830 2,954 cost investigation results during major holiday seasons to the media to aid the consumers. Also, we post our results in www.kamis. Korean food food co.kr, DMB TV and restaurant recommendation websites. * Since 2009 started business. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 3 Encouraging Mutual Growth of the Agro-Fisheries Industry and the Food Industry through Advancement of the Food Industry 3.1. Nurturing the food industry forts to lead the boom in Korean rice wine industry, which reduces the inventory of residual rice, and enhance the value of traditional rice wine. We hosted ‘2010 Korean Brewed Rice Wine with Freshly Harvested Rice Festival(2010.11.18~21)’ and other special promotion events. The market for Korean brewed rice wine is 550 billion KRW, 31% increase from last Educate overseas Korean restaurant workers Education on Korean food by Drexel University Arirang TV broadcasting Teach Hong Kong hotel menu USA NRA Exhibition press day Promotion of Korean food in NY Central Park About aT (Hosted by NY Korean Restaurant Association) year. The export amount was increased by 203%, ranging around 1.91 million USD. Consulting service for food corporations We have strengthened our relationship with professional offices to provide in-depth consulting to food and restaurant industries. In 2010, 26 institutions participated in expert consulting for different sectors and we signed a business agreement with Korean Food Professional Engineers Association so that corporations could receive effec3.3 Promoting internationalization of Korean food Economy tive guidelines on food sanitization and systemic techno local training. We also added management consulting department to provide consultations in marketing and management strategies. 306 com‘Internationalization of Korean food’ refers to global acceptance of Korean food culture panies utilized such consulting service and many of them received HACCP certifications, secured efficient food corporation manaround the world. We aim to expand the export of Korean agricultural produce as well as agement and raised the quality of their food. promote international expansion of various Korean restaurants. Our efforts can be classified into construction of infrastructure, nurturing professional talent and providing conSupporting modernization of cooking facilities aT supported modernization of facilities used by food manufactursulting support for overseas Korean restaurants. ers, agricultural product suppliers, and traditional food producers. The subsidiary amount in 2010 was 42.4 billion KRW. The support provided to food manufacturers were used to meet the modernization standards required by certification organizations(HACCP, Building infrastructure and raising competitiveness of Korean food GMP, etc.), export companies, product development companies, etc. In 2010, aT built infrastructure required at the initial stage of globalization of Korean food. Environment We also supported traditional food producers in order to raise their competitiveness, and supported establishment of centralized We acted as center of ‘Korean Food Internationalization Promotion Center’ and worked cooking facilities for food material producers. The supported corporation is selected carefully based on assessments on their finanwith Korean restaurants in 9 major cities across the globe to act as a private headquarter cial structure, business performance, and business feasibility. for internationalization of Korean food. Live customer Integrated Financial support to Nurturing professionals in Korean food We have created a star chef training Visit companies One-point lesson feedback consulting(desired modernize facilities On-site inspection (2 times) program and traditional food professional program for local short term focused education communication companies) (desired companies) course. We also started supported food cooking schools specializes in Korean cooking. We raised 2,637 professionals(292% increase from last year) in 10 major cities. We also worked with Drexel University of USA and Hatori University of Japan to teach Korean cooking to Nurturing producer-owned companies We work to secure a stable food supthe foreigners. ply chain by building cooperative relationship between farmers and food manufacturers. Korea Food EXPO 2010 Society We have selected various companies owned by both farmers and food producers and Improving competitiveness of overseas Korean restaurants In order to supported 10 billion KRW in 2010. improve the competitiveness of overseas Korean restaurants, we have created a business management consulting system to aid their business. We also support subsidiary costs for rents, facilities, interior construction and others for a stable expansion into overseas 3.2 Food consumption promotion business market. Financial Statement Summary KOREA FOOD EXPO 2010 We currently host Korea Food Expo to reemphasize the value of food industry and introduce the global trend of current food industry. KFE 2010 aims to strengthen its business function to exhibit Korean food to the global market. Advertisement and promotion of traditional liquors We continue our efGREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 20 21 DISCLOSURE ON 4 MANAGEMENT APPROACH ECONOMY_4 Stable Supply of Staple Food and Price Stability About aT Stable Supply of Staple Food and Price Stability Economic contribution through product storage and import control The profit made from sales of stored products is 150 billion KRW. It is used to stabilize the cost of agricultural products, promote distribution of agricultural goods and nurture agricultural companies. As of 2010, 3903.2 billion KRW(98.7%) out of 3956.3 billion KRW were created with profit from stored agricultural products. Also, it was estimated that 1081.2 billion KRW of additional profit was made from increase in Economy cost of imported goods and 712 billion KRW of additional value was made for stabilizing the cost of local agricultural goods. The total amount of profit by storing agricultural product was estimated to be 1793.2 billion KRW. 4.1 Stable supply/demand management of staple food TRQ Storage Import control through Tariﬀ Rate Quota(TRQ) We have made significant improvement in introduction standard and management of imported agricultural goods. Overseas market Domestic market Minimum market approach(MMA) of rice and sales management MMA Rice import (Unit : ton) Environment aT controlled import of rice with Public Procurement Service according to the Minimum 306,964 Obtain 286,617 nternational Market Approach. In 2010, 306,964 tons of MMA rice was introduced and 18,972 tons were 245,922 MMA distribution web sold, 24% of expected amount(79,810 tons). International import information TRQ operation • International grains information analysis Establishment and operation • Stabilizing Prices Import control through TRQ under FTA In regard to TRQ under FTAs, we ob• Import information analysis of international grains company • Adoption of MMA on Rice and Sales tained the import control role from the Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisher2008 2009 2010 ies based on our experience with MMA of agricultural products pursuant to UR, and are * 1 year delay in annual plan due to delay in 2005 congress controlling imports under a quota auction. Society Principle Our Approach We work to secure stable food supply. Supply management and strategic storage aT is also in charge of import control on TRQs under Korea-Chile, Korea-ASEAN, Korea-EFTA Due to global financial crisis and climate change, agflation is taking aT controls food supply to stabilize supply of staple agreements. place worldwide and international grain prices are going up at fast food and prices by storing purchased or imported Sales compared to 2010 MMA rice plan pace. It is becoming all the more important to secure stable food supproducts. aT controls the amount of TRQ to supSales of stored agricultural products We are selling agricultural products pur(Unit : ton) plies and stabilize prices of basic food materials. In such difficult times, ply stored agricultural products, and has secured chased domestically, imported, or purchased in North Korea. Pepper, garlic, onion, etc. are aT will act as the buffer that protects the domestic food market by rea grain procurement network to efficiently provide Result 18,972 lieving the shocks from fast-changing overseas agricultural markets. overseas food resources. produced abundantly in Korea, so the stored products are released in the market when in Financial Statement Summary periods with short supply and high prices. However, sesames, beans, red beans, etc. have Plan 79,810 low domestic supply rates, so stored products are sold in the market all year long. In 2009, 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 Main Achievements aT released 373000 tons(681.1billion KRW) of government stored products in total. Classification Detailed Items Unit 2008 2009 2010 Sales of stored products Hundred million KRW 3,950 4,741 5,049 Controlling TRQ Amount of MMA in rice Tons 266,270 286,617 306,964 Introduction of clean beans The production of Non-GM beans is decreasing very rapidly. However, we are continuing our Utilization of storage facility % 51.9 37.0 73.5 efforts in obtaining clean and safe beans by working with producers and purchasing early in the market. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 22 23 DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT 4.2 Import information APPROACH ENVIRONMENT Supporting Eco-Friendly Agro-Fisheries Industry Analysis of international grains information aT is issuing monthly reports International grain analysis association with information on international grains such as rice, soybean, corn, and wheat, their production, consumption and trade by collecting and analyzing relevant data. Since 2000, the production of international grains has become highly unpredictable due to climate Green Green Product Green Consumer change, exacerbating the instability of their supply and demand. In 2009, we have created an integrated monitoring system to predict international grains supply market trend. In 2010, we have expanded our system by introducing weather forecast monitoring system Expansion Green food Eco-friendly aT of eco-friendly consumption End to End to further investigate into international trend of grains market. agricultural Eco-friendliness products Overseas import information Reporting imports of overseas agricultural products aT conducted oververification meeting seas monitoring to research and report the local price, production and distribution trends, export trends and possible prices of 12 subject to state trading, including pepper, garlic, Efforts to save energy Increase Eco-friendliness in distribution of agriaT’s efforts to spread green food onion, ginger and others to publish monthly reports. We also investigate flow of Chinese • Energy saving programs Green management system cultural products • Development of green dietary life • Management system pursuant to green manage• Support GAP certiﬁcation guideline agricultural products through traveler’s luggage in order to prevent the damage to the loment index • Operate online shopping mall for green agricultural products • Green dietary life essay contest • Implementation of green management including • Support training to facilitate distribution of green agricultural • Green dietary life symposium cal agricultural industry. We also analyze the import of spices and other agricultural goods facilitation of green purchase system products to utilize them in stabilization of local agricultural market. Principle Our Approach Started the construction of National Grains Supply System Instability of international grains supply has been a We pursue green management in all of our business Distribution of eco-friendly products and green dietary life global issue since the ag-flation. Most of the advanced countries have already constructed their own international grains distribuMore and more people are interested in organic food, aT supports eco-friendly agricultural products, and pursues green tion system. aT also started the National Grains Supply System that will secure food supply of Korea. We plan to construct our grains and are focusing on ways to secure health and food management that minimizes environmental damage. We are also safety. Agricultural products have direct impact on conraising environmental sustainability through active responses against supply system based various aspects such as M&A of international grains companies and establishment of international grains comsumers not only through production and distribution climate change. We have introduced many measures to enhance panies. We will continue to construct a stable system by working with various companies such as Samsung, CJ, STX and Hanjin. but through consumption. Thus, aT tries to minimize eco-friendliness in distribution and are sparing no efforts to enable environmental impact in production, distribution, and green food consumption in every meal. Furthermore, we work to <Major businesses regarding overseas import information investigation> consumption of agricultural products, and places high strengthen green management and to reduce energy consumption priority on delivering safe products to consumers. in operation of the aT center. Investigation on information about major grain importing/exporting countries Theme Investigation on MMA rice import and rice negotiation countries Investigation Main Achievements Investigation on Chinese agricultural productivity prospect to manage import of foreign goods Classification Detailed Items Unit 2008 2009 2010 Number of farms with GAP certification 676 920 1,170 Distribution of green agricultural Distribution and consumption training products 127 168 Analysis on international grain supply and its cost(once/month) for green agricultural products Periodic Operation of ‘International Grain Information Analysis Association’ to cope with food crisis Green food life Main achievements in green food life investigation Investigation on distribution and possible cost of traded food products(once/month) Amount of energy use TOE 4,983 4,949 4,828 Operate information verification meeting to inhibit faulty imports by private companies Efforts to save energy Amount of greenhouse TCO2 10,398 10,330 10,081 Eco-friendly aT gas emissions Green Purchase of green products % 77.7 83.2 91.1 Emergency information investigation when issues such as price drop and distribution status change of major management Issue investigation agricultural goods * We have fixed in this report errors in calculation of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use of 2008 and 2009 recorded in the 2009 report. * When converting into TOE, the gross heating value of <energy heating conversion standard> was used and for the calculation of TCO , the emission coef-2 ficient created by IPCC was used. For the calculation of CO2 emission, the lower heating value was applied. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 5 Supporting Eco-Friendly Agro-Fisheries Industry 5.1 Facilitating distribution of eco-friendly agricultural products 5.3 Green management of aT aT is a governmental institution responsible for sustainability and eco-friendly management of agricultural products. Thus, aT also recognizes the responsibility for the energy we use at our institution. About aT Reckless use of energy and water played a critical part in triggering global climate change and shortage of resources. Therefore, aT is Supporting certification of GAP GAP(Good Agricultural Practices) was established Number of GAP certified farms implementing a systematic energy saving solution, through which we control the energy use of our headquarters and offices, and (Unit : farm) to secure food safety from the farm to the household and to preserve good agricultural en1,170 implement specific energy saving solutions for buildings, lightings and transportation. 920 vironments. Thus, GAP controls harmful matters such as pesticides, heavy metals, and living 676 Economy organism, and notifies consumers of its activities. Energy consumption status The total amount of energy used at aT in 2010 were 2010 aT energy usage status 4,828 TOW (Ton of Oil Equivalent). The amount of direct CO2 gas emission was 2,293 CO2 tons Classification Amount TOE TCO2 Operation of environmentally friendly agricultural products distribu2008 2009 2010 and the amount of indirect CO2 gas emission was 7,788 CO2 tons. Electricity 17,509,383 3765 7788 Kwh tion course We are working with GAP representatives and producers wanting to be Gas 941330 m3 993 2099 certified as GAP producers to promote certification of environmentally friendly agricultural CO2 emission status The total amount of CO2 emitted by aT in 2010 were 2,293 TCO2 for Fuel 48,931ℓ 39 104 products to increase the credibility of goods and provide sustainable profit to the producdirect CO2 gas and 7,788 TCO2 indirect CO2 gas. The emission rate of aT Center alone was 3,993 Diesel 34,806 31 90 Total 4,828 10,081 ers. TCO2. The amount of emitted CO2 is decreasing steadily since its foundation three years ago. Input Operation of major education courses that meets government’s low CO2 green growth policy We Environment Direct energy(fuel, diesel, gas) Emission of CO2 gas have added the government’s low CO2 green growth policy during our producer distribution promotion course and post-harvest Output for past three years from aT center 1,063TOE Processing (Unit : TCO2) management course that is open to opinion leaders, distribution professionals and leading producers in order to expand the knowl4828TOE Environment 10,398 10,330 management 10,081 edge of our government’s green growth policy. 10,081TCO2 of aT Indirect energy(electricity) 3,765TOE Public advertisement 2008 2009 2010 Green eating experience center for children 5.2 Spreading green food life Symposium Home eating diary Green management of aT We have constructed a process and management system to execute green management system Education material Green food life is a new concept that promotes ecothroughout the office. We will continue to improve and inspect our green management system based on systematic approach to friendly traditional meals, made by saving energy and various fields that can be reduced to achieve green growth. We will purchase environmentally friendly products to reduce pollution resources and minimizing environmental pollution and minimize the use of polluting agents. We also created a policy of purchasing environmentally friendly products if available in throughout the process of food production and conthe market. More than 85% of our goods are environmentally friendly and we spent 430 million KRW in purchasing environmentally Society sumption. friendly goods in 2010. aT is supporting the development of green food life <2010 Energy reduction result> infrastructure, and is also leading the promotion of Reduction of electricity by replacing metal and halogen lamps Lighting control in areas not used for business purposes this new concept. As a result, our efforts to save enwith LED lamps Limitations on use of elevators Financial Statement Summary ergy, preserve the environment, and provide highly Reduction of electricity by installing electricity inverter control Adjustment of temperature within aT center nutritious meals will enable a brighter future for all. Driving limitations of workers based on weekdays Reduced water use in female bathroom We are continuing to promote the expansion of green <2011 Energy reduction plan> Constant identification and removal eating life based on ‘Eating life education support law Installation of electricity inverter control in aT center 2nd of energy waste situation (2009.11.28)’. exhibition hall(controls 16 units) GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 26 27 DISCLOSURE ON 6 MANAGEMENT APPROACH SOCIETY Fulfilling Social Responsibility About aT Fulfilling Social Responsibility 6. 1 Transparent aT Board of directors The board of directors is the ultimate decision making organization of aT. It is composed of four company directors including the CEO and five non-company directors. The percentage of non-company directors is maintained about 50% to inspect the management of our organization. It is composed of professionals in various areas. Total of 13 director conferences were Economy held in 2010 and 47 proposals were evaluated. The evaluation standards have been set to promote the active involvement of board of directors in the management process. The evaluation standards include the number of proposals, participation rate and the ratio Strengthening Enhancing Execution of of comments made by non-company directors. Internal Capability Stakeholder Value Social Responsibility Management inspection through internal and external inspections We have created an independent inspection office to inspect our office with independent decisions and authority. Along with inspections from the National Assembly and • Clean Corporate Culture • CS Inspection Office, we also get inspected by Ministry of Agriculture for a transparent management of our offices . • ERM • Employment Beneﬁts • Local Community Contribution Ethical management With continuous implementation of ethical management, we became the best clean government offices Environment for five years in a row since 2004. We were ranked at the top amongst 478 public offices in 2009 and were relieved of inspection in 2010. Principle Our Approach We fulfill our social responsibility as an advanced pubStrengthening capabilities for socially-responsible management Ethical management promotion organization We operate ethical management board that runs the ethical managelic institution and raising value of stakeholders ment of our offices. We also operate an office called clean revolution promotion office that fights bribery and other dirty manageaT seeks opportunities to raise sustainability of public As the institution in charge of agricultural product distribution, transments that might happen throughout our offices. Our e-inspection system has been selected as a benchmarking model for other institutions through constant exchanges with various parent management is at the heart of aT’s business operation. Thus, stakeholders, and pursues active improvement meawe place high priority on transparent management of our board of public offices. We were selected as the best transparent management public offices by Anti-Corruption Civil Rights Commission. sures based on such factors. directors, ethical management, and anti-corruption activities. FurWe recognize co-development with the society as thermore, to enhance the value of our various stakeholders, we have Operation of aT ethical management index In order to monitor and evaluate our ethical management results, we deone of our responsibilities, and work to grow togethdeveloped many channels to exchange opinions, and have reflected cided to implement ethical management index since 2009. It is calculated based on surveys from the employees. The survey includes er with our major stakeholders–our staff, customers, some of them in management to raise customer satisfaction, extend Society evaluation of CEO’s ethical management and strategies, ethical regulations and guidelines, ethical management organization system and local community. employment benefits, and contribute to the local community. and ethical educations. Weak points will be strengthened after the survey to strengthen the ethical management of our offices. <Social Performance> Main Achievements Classification Detailed Items 2008 2009 2010 6.2 Risk management Cleanness 61.9 63.8 64.7 Ethical management Education support for each employee ERM establishment aT is implementing Risk Management Guidelines to emplace systemic ERM(Enterprise Risk Management). 912 923 912 Financial Statement Summary (in thousand KRW) We have developed effective solutions by identifying potential risks and setting different management processes for different types Customer satisfaction(CS) Level of CS 93.1 94.7 96.7 of risks. Our vice-president is also serving as the CRO(Chief Risk Officer), and is supervising daily risk management practices. In times Employee satisfaction level* 787 384 Employee benefits of contingency, a risk management commission comprised of our CEO and executive officers take place. Sarang Nanum Fund(in million KRW) 106.1 164 437 Contribution to local Exemption from evaluaNon corrupt management 9.25 9.48 community tion of non-corruption Strengthening risk management of major agricultural product supply The instability of agricultural product * The number of participants in social contribution activities has been calculated since 2009 by introducing the ‘CSR mileage system’. supply is getting greater due to rapid climate changes. We are more focused on managing the risk of various agricultural product 28 29 About aT supplies. In order to prevent inflation of some vegetables and spices, we have assigned different departments to deal with supply Preventing discrimination aT clarifies in its employment rules that we do not discriminate employees in terms of salary or management function and investigate distribution information to stabilize the product cost. promotion based on gender. We are expanding the number of female employees and have also established a midto long-term employment plan for female experts. With efforts such as female leadership development programs, more female employees in critical departments, and abolishment of discriminative employment conditions, the number of female managers is steadily increased 18 managers in 6.3 Customer satisfaction 2008, and 17 managers with 1 senior manager in 2009. We are slowly expanding with 26 managers and 2 senior managers in 2010. Our stakeholders are positioned at every part of manufacturing and distribution chain. We will listen to the voice of our customers Education We understand that education is the most important factor that runs the organization in a sustainable way. We have and act upon the feedback based on customer’s needs. identified four different categories that suits the talent of our organization and we aim to achieve them through education. Economy Customer satisfaction strategy Welfare To cope with low-birth rate of Korea, we are in process of reviewing expansion of birth promotion incentives and introduction of children care center (installed by 2011). Also, we ensure leave of absence for birth in order to relieve the burden of work CS Vision Global public office in customer service hat creates value for the customers from working parents. Also, gender non-discrimination policy has been implemented to make sure that nobody is discriminated • Construct VOC management • Customer satisfaction experience Detailed • Start Wow aT system . Publish service manual education • Host customer satisfaction at work. We also provide funeral services to our employees to deal with their pain when they loose their loved ones. We publically Strategic • O  perate Oh! Happy day B/P competition • Monitor service standards being • Host CS management workshop announce the employment of 1-2th grade directors for a transparent employment process. We also allow employees under 3rd Challenges program implemented • Publish good CS cases • Evaluate ’10 customer satisfaction result grade to submit their desired department to allow them to maximize their talents in their desired fields. Customer satisfaction activities Labor management relations The labor and management of aT recognize the importance of a stable relationship in order to Environment WOW aT office aT established the WOW aT Office led by our vice president on July, 2009, in order to abolish the authoritarian imachieve aT’s vision and business objectives. Therefore, labor and management both agreed on three major values in labor-management age and to provide more customer-oriented services. We review the collected VOC through monthly meetings and seek to improve partnership and has co established and implemented improvement strategies. As a result, aT is setting a good example with an ideal solutions throughout the whole corporation. labor-management relationship which enabled no labor protests for 22 years since the establishment of its labor union in 1989. Everland on-site CS experience By working with Everland, one of the best private companies that leads the C/S industry, we allowed our employees to experience the customer’s feedback onsite and hosted ‘Everland Cast Experience and Feedback Workshop’. Employees participated in the event learned that they must be happy and positive in order to spread he positive energy to the customers. 6.5 Contribution to the local community Introduction of customer experience management(CEM) system Customer experience management system was constructed for our joint flower market that lacked in C/S department. We have found 21 improvement issues and implemented Sharing love We share our love to the society. aT Share Love runs 16 different programs to donate various things funded by CEM system for further improvement. employees and awards. Introduction of private CS management solution aT has been selected as an outstanding company for four consecutive Supporting disabled We have participated in donating blood to the disabled and sick to the hospital. We have been awarded years (over 90 points) in terms of customer satisfaction as a public organization by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. In the 2010 by numerous organizations for our support. Society evaluation, we earned 96.7 points, the highest in the history of aT. We have concluded that this is due to the management of a Book donations We have collected 1,800 books from our employees and donated them to the National Library. We also donated differentiated CS program unique to aT. our books to four libraries including Jeju Island Library that are in need of the books. Identification and introduction of best practices(B/P) in CS We shared best practices that illustrated innovative improvements in customer service or those that introduced new services upgraded customer satisfaction. 66 B/P cases were identified by 43 teams. Environmental campaign We run 1 department 1 road clean campaign, used cell phone collection campaign, clean ChunVOC management We are focused on improving the service starting with the customer contact point. In order to receive voice ggye Mountain campaigns and many others to clean the environment. Financial Statement Summary of customers (VOC), we have created electronic suggestions, customer center, customer proposal and praise aT center. Information security By introducing I-PIN system, we have created a safe online environment for our customers to trade various Volunteer work We donate to help children of families without parents, share Kimchi Event and many other organizations. We goods. Customers should enter both I-PIN and their social security numbers to use the site. also open our stock centers to the community to share our love with the neighbors. Creating jobs for multi-culture families We started hiring ‘Multi-Culture Love Share Employee’ who works in Multi-Culture Family Support Center around agro-fisheries towns. The fund was raised by donation from employees and cutting department 6.4 Executives and staff costs. We have created 56 jobs in 2010 with our specialized program. GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report 30 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY 2010 Sustainability Report Balance sheet summary Unit : million KRW Classification 2008 2009 2010 Asset 909,595 1,000,647 1,055,032 Current asset 658,563 729,101 732,608 Noncurrent asset 251,032 271,546 322,424 Liability 782,074 865,928 911,074 Current liabilities 612,608 638,108 653,245 Noncurrent liabilities 169,466 227,820 257,829 Capital 127,521 134,719 143,958 Capital 66,200 66,200 66,200 Capital surplus 168 168 168 Other loss(loss from overseas business) -142 -322 Surplus 61,153 68,493 77,912 Income statement summary Unit : million KRW Classification 2008 2009 2010 Sales 158,864 190,037 217,701 Cost of sales 145,161 170,792 197,019 Gross of profit on sales 13,702 19,245 20,682 Maintenance and distribution cost 12,406 11,593 12,150 Business profit 1,296 7,652 8,532 Other income 14,826 4,327 5,663 Other cost 1,358 695 802 Profit before subtracting corporate tax 14,763 11,284 13,393 Corporate cost 6,168 2,885 3,134 Profit 8,596 8,399 10,259 Major management index Unit : % Classification 2008 2009 2010 You may download the report in PDF file Current ratio 107.50 114.26 112.15 from our Web site(www.at.or.kr). If you have any comment or question related Safety Debt ratio(policy fund not included) 33.67 33.97 40.36 to the Sustainable Business Management Ratio of owner's equity 14.02 13.46 13.64 Report of the Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Ratio of operating profit to the net sales 0.82 4.03 3.92 Corporation, please kindly contact us at the Ratio of net profit to net sales 5.41 4.42 4.71 contacts below. Profit Net income to total assets ratio 0.94 0.84 0.97 232 aT Center, Yangjae-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul Net income to equity capital 6.74 6.23 7.13 137-787 CS Management Team Ratio of net equity increase 5.14 10.01 5.43 Korean Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation Tel. 82-2-6300-1043 Growth Ratio of net sales increase -33.65 19.63 14.56 Fax. 82-2-6300-1602 Ratio of net profit increase 53.15 ∆ 2.29 22.15 E-mail csr@kati.net Web site. www.at.or.kr GREEN DREAM aT 2010 Sustainability Report
