sUstAInABILItY RePoRt ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 i Shell Sustainability Report 2010 Introduction contents ABOUT SHELL INTRODUCTION Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical i ABOUT SHELL companies employing 93,000 people in more than 1 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO 90 countries. Our aim is to help meet the energy needs of society in ways that are economically, OPERATING RESPONSIBLY environmentally and socially responsible. 2 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY UPSTREAM 3 OUR PROJECTS and OPERATIONS Upstream consists of two organisations, Upstream International 4 SAFETY and Upstream Americas. Upstream searches for and recovers oil and natural gas, extracts heavy oil from oil sands for conversion 5 ENVIRONMENT into synthetic crudes, liquefies natural gas and is active in gas-to6 COMMUNITIES liquids technology. It often works in joint ventures, including those 7 Living by our principles with national oil companies. Upstream markets and trades natural gas and electricity in support of its business. Our wind power SECURING DIVERSE ENERGY activities are part of Upstream. Upstream International co-ordinates sustainable development policies and social performance across 8 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SYSTEM the company. 9 KEY PROJECTS 10 PRODUCING CLEANER ENERGY DOWNSTREAM Natural Gas Downstream manufactures, supplies and markets oil products and Liquefied Natural Gas chemicals worldwide. Our Manufacturing and Supply businesses include refineries, chemical plants and the supply and distribution 14 deLivering Energy ResponsiBly of feedstocks and products. Marketing sells a range of products Deep Water including fuels, lubricants, bitumen and liquefied petroleum Oil Sands gas for home, transport and industrial use. Chemicals markets Iraq petrochemicals for industrial customers. Downstream trades crude Nigeria oil, oil products and petrochemicals primarily to optimise feedstock The Arctic for our manufacturing activities. The business also includes our 21 raising living standards through enterprise activities in biofuels, and it co-ordinates CO2 management activities Shell Foundation across the company. 22 MAKING TRANSPORT MORE SUSTAINABLE Biofuels PROJECTS & TECHNOLOGY Fuel Efficiency Projects & Technology manages the delivery of Shell’s major Energy Efficiency projects and drives its research and technology development Road Safety programme. Projects & Technology provides technical services and technology capability to the Upstream and Downstream businesses. 26 IMPROVING OUR PRODUCTS It oversees safety and environmental performance and manages Chemicals contracting and procurement across the company. Lubricants Sulphur www.shell.com/about Bitumen OUR PERFORMANCE 28 2010 IN REVIEW Economic Environmental VIDEO INTRODUCTION Social FROM THE CEO Watch the video introduction 32 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL DATA to this report online by 34 EXTERNAL REVIEW COMMITTEE typing the link into a web 36 ABOUT OUR REPORTING browser. Alternatively, use a 37 ABOUT OUR Data smartphone with a QR reader app to scan this symbol. www.shell.com/sustainabilityreport Key to symbols related  information online, such as on www.shell.com telephone number Introduction INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO “AT SHELL WE BELIEVE THAT IN MAKING OUR CONTRIBUTION, THERE IS NO TIME TO WASTE. WE ARE WORKING ON WHAT WE CAN DO TODAY TO CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE.” Welcome to the Shell Sustainability Report helps us to do this. In 2010 a number pilot work on grievance procedures. We for 2010. In this report we show how of our major projects came on-stream plan to introduce similar approaches for consideration for safety, the environment or continued to perform well. Others communities near other major projects and and communities lies at the core of our approached completion for start-up facilities in the coming years. operations and the development of our in 2011. We continued to raise our future energy projects. production of natural gas – by far the In Nigeria, Shell Petroleum Development cleanest-burning fossil fuel – that will Company (SPDC) took a significant step The event that dominated the year for our account for over half our energy output in forward in transparency for our industry. industry showed the critical importance of 2012. We believe natural gas will play SPDC has set up a publicly accessible getting our approach to safety right. The BP an essential role in managing the carbon website to report on oil spills from the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of dioxide (CO2) emissions caused by the facilities it operates. This allows the tracking Mexico and the oil spill that followed will world’s rising energy demand. of the response to every spill, whether it have repercussions for many years to come. is operational or the result of sabotage Tackling climate change remains urgent or theft. The incident became an environmental and requires action by governments, disaster that affected communities, but it industry and consumers. The UN climate I am proud to have signed up to the UN began as a tragic accident: 11 people change conference in Cancun, Mexico, Global Compact LEAD, an initiative which died, and others were seriously injured. produced a more encouraging outcome reinforces the commitment of business to the Safety has always been the first priority than expected. But with so many countries principles of the Global Compact. Shell was at Shell. A major incident like this serves involved, the process of addressing climate a founding member of the Global Compact as a warning to all to guard against change through international agreements is in 2000 and we support its principles in complacency. inevitably slow. human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. The Sustainability Report 2010 It will take time for our industry to recover At Shell we believe that in making our reports on our progress in these areas. credibility. But I believe Shell’s technical contribution, there is no time to waste. We expertise, safety culture and rigorous are working on what we can do today to I would like to thank the members of global standards demonstrate that we are contribute to a sustainable energy future: the External Review Committee for their capable of operating responsibly, however producing more natural gas for power important contributions in producing the challenging the conditions. generation; focusing on sustainable Sustainability Report 2010. Once more biofuels; helping to develop carbon capture their valuable insights have helped shape SECURING CLEANER, DIVERSE ENERGY and storage technology; and making our this report. With the world now out of recession, energy own operations more energy efficient. Our demand is again increasing. All energy advanced fuels and lubricants are helping Finally, I invite you to send your comments sources will be needed to meet this demand, our customers save energy. on the report to: but in the decades ahead the bulk of the sustainabilityreport@shell.com world’s energy is expected to continue to SUSTAINABLE PRINCIPLES come from fossil fuels. Producing oil and Delivering energy involves meeting other gas from deep waters will remain crucial. complex sustainability challenges. Strong These resources are a vital part of the secure principles and building trust underpin and diverse supplies of energy the world our approach. Respect for human will need, as are energy resources from rights, for example, is embedded in the other technically challenging environments. Shell General Business Principles. Shell Peter Voser Shell’s responsible approach and continued contributed to the work of Professor John Chief Executive Officer investment in technology and innovation will Ruggie, the UN special representative help us to deliver this energy. for business and human rights, whose guiding principles were published in early As an energy company we must meet 2011. The grievance mechanism at the our customers’ needs, and our ability Sakhalin 2 liquefied natural gas project in to work with joint-venture partners Russia formed part of Professor Ruggie's Operating responsibly Operating responsibly SHELL WORKS WITH PARTNERS, COMMUNITIES and GOVERNMENTS TO HELP MEET RISING ENERGY DEMAND MORE SUSTAINABLY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. OUR GOVERNANCE AND THIS APPROACH HELPS US OPERATE IN ECONOMICALLY, ENVIRONMENTALLY AND STANDARDS SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE WAYS AND EMBED THESE ASPECTS IN OUR BUSINESS Overall accountability for sustainable development within Shell rests with our DECISIONS. OUR PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS GOVERN THE WAY WE WORK. Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee. They set priorities and standards in sustainable development SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND that help shape our business activities. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY The CEO chairs our Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) Executive, Sustainable development for Shell means of oil equivalent (boe) a day in 2012, up which reviews how we manage our considering both shortand long-term 6% on 2010, and 3.7 million boe a day in sustainability performance. interests, and integrating economic, 2014, up 12% from 2010. In Downstream, environmental and social considerations we will continue to pursue growth in Our business leaders – those who into our decision making. The company’s emerging markets, in biofuels, and through manage projects or facilities – are reorganisation in 2009 helped to strengthen major integrated facilities such as our new accountable for delivering their this approach. Sustainable development petrochemicals complex in Singapore. projects and running their operations helps govern the way we develop new responsibly. To do this they work with projects and run our facilities, how we We are also working on the next generation communities, partners, NGOs and manage our supply chains, and how we of projects for growth to the end of the others to address potential social and share benefits where we operate. It also helps decade. They include producing natural environmental impacts and share us to make better products for our customers. gas trapped in dense rock – known as benefits. tight gas – and liquefied natural gas, and Sustainable development underpins our developing oil and gas resources from All Shell companies and Shell-operated strategy. Our production of cleanerchallenging locations such as deep water joint ventures are required to comply burning natural gas is growing. We are and, potentially, the Arctic. with the standards and requirements also investing in biofuels that are more set out in the Shell HSSE & SP Control sustainable, in technology to capture and As our business grows and production Framework. Our HSSE & SP specialists store CO2, and in ways to improve the becomes more energy intensive, we expect are responsible for implementing energy efficiency of our operations. our direct greenhouse gas emissions in the these standards to help improve our coming years to follow an upward trend sustainability performance. These Building strong relationships with that began with increased production in specialists are connected through communities, customers, governments and 2010 (page 29). We continue to take global discipline teams that focus on non-governmental organisations (NGOs) action now to help build a sustainable specific areas such as process safety. – all of whom have a role to play in building energy system for the future (page 8). a sustainable energy system – is fundamental The Corporate and Social to how we approach our business. Our research and development (R&D) Responsibility Committee of the Board programme helps us develop the advanced of Royal Dutch Shell plc assesses Our business strategy focuses on three technologies to unlock energy resources our policies and performance with ways to deliver more energy to meet the more sustainably, improve efficiency and respect to the Shell General Business needs of our customers: performance in offer customers better products. In 2010 Principles, Code of Conduct, HSSE the near term; growth in the medium term; we spent $1.0 billion on R&D. Over the & SP standards, as well as major and further projects for the longer term. past five years we have spent $2.1 billion issues of public concern on behalf on developing alternative energies, carbon of the Board. The committee was Today, we are continuing to improve the capture and storage, and on CO2 R&D. chaired from 2005 to 2011 by performance of our operations, including We work increasingly in partnership with Wim Kok, former Prime Minister of our approach to safety, communities and scientific institutes and other companies to the Netherlands. It is made up of four the environment. Our net capital investment develop sustainable energy technologies for Non‑executive Directors, meets four in 2011 to bolster energy production will the future. For example, in 2010 we pledged times a year, and in addition visits be around $25–27 billion. $25 million to support a five-year research Shell facilities. partnership with Massachusetts Institute Between now and 2014, we will deliver of Technology. Projects include biofuels, www.shell.com/standards growth from new projects as they come onnanotechnology and CO2 management. stream. In our Upstream business, production is expected to average 3.5 million barrels www.shell.com/strategy Operating responsibly SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN OUR Testimonial PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS “I joined the Groundbirch project team as the sustainable development integrator when Shell decided to grow Through experience we have learned that we must integrate early in its gas operations in north-east British our decision-making the interests and concerns of others, including our Columbia. The community near this neighbours. This helps us deliver better projects, securing much needed project is primarily agricultural, and energy for our customers and creating lasting benefits for communities. many of our neighbours were looking for employment and contracting opportunities with Shell. I helped Project delays in the energy industry throughout the project and the lifetime of the management team produce can be due to factors such as lack of the operation. We often publish impact an economic development plan to support from local communities and assessments to share the information they encourage local hiring and buying. landowners, or the presence of a fragile provide more widely. For example, Shell At workshops and public information ecosystem. Incorporating early the views of Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) in sessions I shared with potential communities and recognised environmental Nigeria published the impact assessments suppliers the safety standards we and social experts can help us design and of its major projects on its website in 2010. require and how our contracting deliver projects with local support. process works. Some 150 suppliers BUILDING THE RIGHT MINDSET were successful in bidding for contracts OUR APPROACH Throughout a project and during its and getting jobs. We expect our local Any major new business opportunity we operations, we assess the lessons learned spend to continue to rise in 2011 work on follows a process that helps us and share them systematically among with five First Nations businesses plan and deliver the project. It includes five HSSE & SP specialists and business leaders. and other local enterprises replacing review points at which we decide whether We incorporate these experiences in other non-local suppliers. Our suppliers to proceed with the project or not (see projects and in a comprehensive training are expected to support Shell’s local diagram below). programme in sustainable development development objectives through their for those who manage our projects and hiring practices. I have seen a lot of Before we begin substantial work on facilities. This training draws on best enthusiasm both inside and outside major projects or existing facilities we practice examples and lessons learned Shell for this approach, and it has been assess regulatory, environmental and from outside Shell. In 2010, staff from rewarding to see local spending and social impacts alongside commercial 19 countries completed this programme. hiring grow each year.” and technical considerations. This We also train technical and commercial includes conducting environmental, staff in sustainable development through social and health impact assessments to other learning programmes, such as our help understand and manage risks and Project and Commercial Academies. All opportunities. staff can take part in online training in how to approach sustainable development We also consider the potential cost of challenges and CO2 management. Rebecca Nadel, Shell a project’s CO2 emissions in all major sustainable development investment decisions, using a price of In particularly complex projects or integrator $40 per tonne of CO2. operations, we have started to appoint Groundbirch project, Canada specialists in social and environmental We consult communities, governments, challenges known as sustainable NGOs and environmental experts to development integrators. An integrator help develop our plans and inform our influences project planning and decisions, approach. Such early engagement has and helps gain local support and regulatory led, for example, to re-routing pipelines, approvals. We have successfully piloted adjusting the schedule of seismic activities, the use of such specialists in major projects and increasing our local contracting. in Canada and the USA, and are working to apply the approach globally. We check that the recommendations of the impact assessment are being adopted www.shell.com/sd PROJECT DELIVERY – REVIEW POINTS TAKE PLACE BETWEEN EACH STAGE OF THE PROJECT IDENTIFY FEASIBILITY STUDY CONCEPT PROJECT CONSTRUCTION RAMP-UP TO OPPORTUNITY SELECTION SPECIFICATIONS FULL CAPACITY Operating responsibly local laws and the terms of relevant permits SAFETY and approvals. Events in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 served as a stark reminder of why We are reinforcing a culture where safety is we invest so much time and effort to plan and execute our operations a core value, and each person understands responsibly. This means preventing incidents that harm people and the their role in making Shell a safer place environment, and preparing to deal effectively with any that may occur. to work. Everyone responsible for tasks that may carry safety risks is assessed for the necessary training and skills. On our In the BP Deepwater Horizon explosion in Safety continues to be our top priority. annual global Safety Day for all employees April 2010, 11 industry colleagues died Our goal is to have zero fatalities and and contractors around the world, we ask and a number were seriously injured. The no incidents that harm our employees, staff to make personal pledges to work incident led to the largest offshore oil spill in contractors or neighbours, or put our in a safer way. We continue to enforce US history. The environment was damaged facilities at risk. We continued to make our mandatory 12 Life-Saving Rules with and people’s livelihoods suffered. Following progress towards that aim in 2010 with our employees and contractors to prevent the accident, Shell supported the response our best safety performance to date serious injuries and fatalities. We have effort by providing equipment, technical (page 30). started to see improvement in areas such as expertise and facilities to BP. We also took road safety (page 24). immediate steps to confirm and reinforce We manage safety across our business the safety of our offshore operations around through a combination of rigorous systems We continue to invest in maintaining the world. Our review of deep-water and culture. This requires three behaviours process safety. For example, since 2006 drilling and safety procedures confirmed from everyone working for us: complying we have been engaged in a $6 billion that Shell's approach is robust. with the rules; intervening in unsafe programme to improve the safety of our situations; and respecting people and the wells, pipelines and other Upstream Our industry is determined to learn from environment. Our global standards and facilities. In our Downstream business, what happened to prevent something operating procedures define the controls we continue to improve the safety and similar occurring again. We are reviewing and physical barriers we require to prevent reliability of our refineries, chemical plants recommendations coming forward from incidents. All Shell companies, Shelland distribution facilities, investing some investigations into the Deepwater Horizon operated joint ventures and our contractors $1 billion alone in 2010. incident and considering them against our must manage safety risks in line with the standards and operating practices. Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP, www.shell.com/safety DEEP‑WATER SAFETY cause an explosion or spill. We have a series of safeguards in Deep-water safety starts with ensuring people are trained place to minimise the likelihood of a safety or environmental and competent. Shell drilling engineers undergo a rigorous incident (see diagram). We also use sophisticated sensors so programme that includes field training, course work and that our wells can be monitored in real time by specialists at our mandatory examinations. We have continually updated this global operations centres 24 hours a day. internationally recognised programme over the past three decades. All our installations have detailed plans to respond to a spill in an effective and timely manner in the unlikely event Preventing incidents is critical to deep-water safety. Before work that multiple barriers fail and a spill occurs. We are able to begins on drilling a well, we undertake a detailed and lengthy call upon significant resources such as containment booms, planning process to be sure that the right equipment and the collection vessels and aircraft. We conduct emergency response most robust procedures are in place. We use what is known as a exercises throughout the year to ensure these plans remain “safety case” approach. It requires us and our drilling contractors effective. to clarify accountabilities and to thoroughly assess, document and decide on ways to mitigate risks before drilling begins. Shell is part of an industry consortium building new undersea containment equipment for use in the Gulf of Mexico. We We have strict standards for designing and drilling deep-water are also involved in work with members of the International wells. They require wells to have at least two independent Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) on improvements to physical barriers to minimise the risk of a “blowout”, which could the industry’s global spill response capability. SAFEGUARDS MINIMISE THE LIKELIHOOD OF A SAFETY OR ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENT TRAINED AND SAFE SAFETY CASE TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT AT LEAST TWO ZERO SAFETY OR COMPETENT BEHAVIOURS MANAGEMENT STANDARDS TESTING AND INDEPENDENT ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYEES AND AND CULTURE OF MAJOR AND CERTIFICATION PHYSICAL INCIDENTS CONTRACTORS RISKS PROCEDURES BARRIERS [A] [A] Independent physical barriers can include blowout preventer, cement, plugs, casing and drilling mud. Operating responsibly biofuels, helping to conserve wetlands ENVIRONMENT in the Gulf of Mexico, and a multiindustry initiative to produce a plan for Environmental challenges are growing as the world’s need for energy responsible development of the Arctic increases. We are sharpening our focus on environmental management in (pages 22, 15 and 20 respectively). our projects and operations. Our work with leading environmental experts is helping to improve our approach. www.shell.com/environment Considering the impact on water, air and We continue working to reduce continuous land early in projects will become even gas flaring in Nigeria (page 19). In new MANAGING WATER USE more important as the search for oil and gas projects, we consider sensitive areas early, By 2025, two out of three people takes us to more environmentally sensitive developing biodiversity action plans and may live in areas that suffer shortages locations. So will improving the way we run collaborating with experts to protect rich of water, according to the UN. The our day-to-day operations to use less energy ecosystems. We are also preparing for energy industry is becoming one of and fresh water, and prevent spills. longer-term environmental challenges, such the larger industrial consumers of as potential local water shortages. fresh water globally as it seeks to meet We are working to better manage our energy demand with resources that are environmental impact, drawing on our We work in partnership with leading more water intensive to develop, such experience of improving Shell’s safety environmental organisations to support as tight gas, oil sands and biofuels. performance through safer behaviours and conservation, and to help improve The way Shell designs and operates enforcing rules. We are focusing on key standards and practices in environmental facilities helps to reduce their use of areas such as CO2, flaring, spills, water, management in the energy sector. In fresh water. For operations in waterand environmentally sensitive areas. For 2010, we worked on more than 30 constrained areas, we prepare a water CO2, this includes investing in programmes projects with the International Union for management plan that identifies ways to make our refineries and chemical plants Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Wetlands to recycle water, use less fresh water more energy efficient (page 24), and International, The Nature Conservancy and to closely monitor its use. developing carbon capture and storage and Earthwatch. These included technology (page 11). working to improve the sustainability of Advanced technologies help us better manage our use of fresh water. For example, our new petrochemicals complex in Singapore uses Shell’s proprietary OMEGA technology to make mono-ethylene glycol, a chemical used in products such as polyester and anti-freeze. It uses 20% less steam compared to conventional processes. We are also using technology that increases the recycling of water at other facilities, including our oil sands operations in Canada (page 16). Shell works with local water authorities to use recycled household waste  Rainforest rich in biodiversity near the Rabi oilfield in Ogooué-Maritime province, Gabon. water. At both the Schoonebeek oil field (Shell interest 30%) in the WORKING IN ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS Netherlands and the SAPREF Refinery The UN declared 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity to increase awareness (Shell interest 37.5%) in South Africa and encourage conservation. Considering potential effects on biodiversity has long there are agreements with local water been part of the environmental, social and health impact assessments we carry authorities that allow the reuse of out for new major projects or expansions to existing operations. We were the first household waste water for industrial energy company to adopt standards for how we work in areas rich in biodiversity. purposes. We are building water We continue to embed requirements for how we manage risks to ecosystems and the treatment plants with the regional water livelihoods that may depend on them. In 2010, we took the further step of including authority near our Geelong Refinery the possible impact on benefits that ecosystems provide such as purifying water and in Victoria, Australia, to recycle our air, and sustaining food and fuel supplies to communities. Shell has biodiversity action process water; and with the city of plans in place at nine major installations and pipelines in areas of particularly high Dawson Creek in British Columbia, biodiversity value, such as in Australia and Gabon. We are working on new plans Canada, to supply our tight gas for activities in Iraq, Nigeria and South Africa. operations at Groundbirch (page 11). www.shell.com/biodiversity www.shell.com/water Operating responsibly COMMUNITIES Wherever we operate we are part of a community. Our energy projects and facilities bring jobs and other benefits, but they can also raise concerns. We work with communities to help develop local economies and improve how we operate. SHARING BENEFITS initiatives that benefit society and relate Being part of a community means sharing a to our business activities, such as road range of benefits with those around us. They safety and local enterprise development. include local jobs and training, contracts More than 1.3 million people are killed for goods and services, and the investments on the world’s roads every year. We have  Shell-sponsored road safety training, we make in community programmes. put considerable effort into preventing Jakarta, Indonesia. road accidents in our operations and are We hire and buy locally to support working with industry, governments and and where possible avoiding involuntary development in countries where we work. non-governmental organisations to help resettlement. We also require all our major In 2010, more than 90% of Shell staff address this challenge globally (page 24). facilities and new projects to have in place worldwide were nationals. We recruit and a specialist on social issues responsible train local staff in countries with lower We also work in partnerships with local for assessing impacts and finding ways to incomes where we operate. In some cases, and national governments to help build mitigate them. governments require us to do this. But in skills that meet development needs. Through most cases it is our voluntary policy. the Shell LiveWIRE programme – active In 2010, we trained around 250 specialists in 21 countries – we support young in our new social performance requirements We spent over $13 billion on goods entrepreneurs in setting up businesses and will expand our efforts in 2011. We and services in 2010 from companies in (see opinion). also established exchange programmes for countries with lower incomes. We also these specialists to share their experiences increased our sourcing of goods and BUILDING TRUST with others in Shell and with our jointservices in China, India and Russia where Our business success depends more than venture partners. we have teams in place to assess potential ever on our neighbours’ trust. Listening to suppliers. Our major contracts include and engaging with our neighbours helps www.shell.com/society requirements to follow the Shell General us identify and respond to concerns, and Business Principles, Code of Conduct and improve how we operate. For example, HSSE standards. we hold open days and community engagement sessions when we plan and OPINION More than 400,000 contractor staff and develop new projects. At most of our “Before I joined Shell LiveWIRE a huge number of suppliers work with refineries and chemical plants, we work business coaching, I could only sell Shell. To help local suppliers compete through local advisory panels to discuss our 50 litres a month of my cholesterol-free for contracts, we provide training in our activities and any issues of concern (page cooking oil ’Sahara’, which is made global tendering and contract management 25). We also conduct community surveys from locally-sourced coconuts. From process and support in achieving the to better understand our impacts and find the coaching session I learned a lot standards we require. In Nigeria, for out what matters most to local people. about how to market my product, reach example, Shell Petroleum Development For example, in 2010 we interviewed customers and manage cash flow. Company has had a dedicated team 300 residents near our Scotford refinery, Media exposure through LiveWIRE since 2007 to help local businesses, upgrader and chemical plant in Canada. means many people know my product, entrepreneurs and young people win The responses helped us better understand which has also helped me to grow my contracts. By the end of 2010, they had concerns so we could respond more business. Now I can sell at least 1,000 trained nearly 2,000 service providers in effectively. litres a month across 12 big cities in the contracting process, and more than Indonesia, and demand for my product 3,000 people in a range of skills including We continue to build the skills of staff is increasing remarkably.” entrepreneurship, project management, who regularly interact with communities. catering, scaffolding and welding. In 2010 we launched mandatory global requirements for managing how We have invested in community we perform in our relationship with programmes for many years, and are communities – our “social performance”. working to put our funds and resources to We have clear rules and expectations for more effective use. Our social investment how we work and engage communities that Ridho Arindiko, winner of Shell projects aim to benefit society in tangible may be affected by our operations. This can Indonesia LiveWIRE Business ways and be sustainable beyond Shell’s include, for example, minimising our impact Start-Up Award 2010 support. In 2010, we updated our global on indigenous peoples’ traditional lifestyles Yogyakarta, Indonesia social investment strategy, which supports (page 20) and cultural heritage areas, Operating responsibly REVENUE TRANSPARENCY LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES In the interests of transparency and accountability, we believe in the disclosure Our business principles govern how we operate. We expect everyone of revenues that extractive industries working for us to uphold our core values of honesty, integrity and respect pay to host governments. In 2010, Shell for people. We continue to find practical ways to respect human rights paid $15.4 billion in corporate taxes, related to our business activities. and $2.2 billion in royalties globally. We collected $81 billion in excise duties and sales taxes on our fuel and other We were one of the first global companies of business. Our employees are expected products on behalf of governments. to state and share our beliefs when we to understand human rights issues that may We are a founder and board member published the Shell General Business exist where they work and to follow Shell’s of the Extractive Industries Transparency Principles in 1976. Our principles require commitments, standards and policies in Initiative (EITI). Shell companies have been compliance with all applicable laws and this area. directly involved with governments, NGOs support for human rights. They forbid and industry peers in EITI implementation bribery and anti-competitive behaviour Environmental, social and health impact in Cameroon, Gabon, Iraq, Kazakhstan, and include our commitment to contribute assessments are conducted with Nigeria and Norway. to sustainable development. All Shell external experts before we start major employees and contractors are expected to new projects. We also consider specific www.shell.com/payments apply these principles. In joint ventures that human rights aspects. we do not control, we use our influence to ANTI‑BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION encourage our partners to adopt and apply We are active in efforts to improve Fighting bribery and corruption is an principles consistent with our own. understanding of the relationship between integral part of living by our core values. business and human rights. We took part Any Shell employee or contractor who Our Code of Conduct describes the in consultations with Professor John Ruggie, is found to be giving or taking bribes, behaviours expected of our employees the UN special representative on business participating in money-laundering activities and contractors and how they relate to and human rights, as he developed the or any other acts of corruption, will be our business principles and core values. Protect, Respect and Remedy framework. subject to disciplinary action, up to and It covers areas such as fighting corrupt We worked with Professor Ruggie’s team in including dismissal. practices, national and international trade, piloting community grievance mechanisms and safeguarding information and assets. on Sakhalin Island (page 17). We co-operated fully with the US All staff must complete training in our government during investigations into Code of Conduct. The Voluntary Principles for Security and improper payments to customs officials Human Rights (VPSHR) guide the human in Nigeria made by Panalpina, a subwww.shell.com/values rights aspects of security arrangements contractor for Shell and other companies. for our operations. We provide training As part of a wider settlement relating to HUMAN RIGHTS for relevant employees and contractors Panalpina´s activities, seven companies Governments have a duty to protect human globally on how they should apply these were fined a total of $236 million, with rights. Companies have a responsibility principles. All new security contracts Shell agreeing to pay $48 million. to respect human rights when doing contain a clause to comply with the VPSHR. Separately, Shell also agreed to pay business. Our business principles require We aim to have this clause included in all $10 million to the Nigerian authorities. us to respect the human rights of our security contracts by 2012. We conducted an extensive internal employees and to support fundamental investigation leading to disciplinary human rights in line with the legitimate role www.shell.com/humanrights actions, including dismissal of staff.  Shell employees and partner company staff at the Ormen Lange gas plant, Norway. We implemented improved requirements on anti-bribery and corruption across Shell in 2010. This included strengthening due diligence of suppliers, contractors and government intermediaries. ANTITRUST We expect all employees to compete fairly and ethically and in compliance with antitrust laws in all the markets where we do business. We have had a globally co-ordinated antitrust training programme since 2000. Failure to comply with antitrust law will result in disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal. www.shell.com/integrity Securing diverse energy SECURING DIVERSE ENERGY SHELL TAKES A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH TO SECURING DIVERSE ENERGY FOR OUR market would encourage the adoption of CUSTOMERS. WE ARE PRODUCING MORE CLEANER-BURNING NATURAL GAS and lower-CO2 approaches that are faster to USING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES TO DEVELOP NEW RESOURCES. WE ALSO implement and less costly – such as natural gas instead of coal for power generation. WORK TO MAKE TRANSPORT MORE SUSTAINABLE WITH LOW-CARBON BIOFUELS This would discourage governments from AND MORE EFFICIENT FUELS AND LUBRICANTS. WE WORK WITH PARTNERS, favouring technologies that need support COMMUNITIES AND GOVERNMENTS TO DELIVER THIS ENERGY MORE SUSTAINABLY. from subsidies. It would also create an incentive to develop commercially viable technologies to reduce CO2 emissions. BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SYSTEM Shell’s own scenarios, updated in early 2011, describe the profound developments Energy powers economic growth, raising will be needed to meet demand, including expected in the world’s energy system living standards and lifting millions from cleaner fossil fuels and more renewables. to 2050. They call for heightened poverty. Demand for energy is increasing, collaboration between civil society, but so are the global environmental stresses Shell believes the best way to secure a more public and private sectors to address the linked to meeting this demand: rising sustainable energy future is to take action economic, energy and environmental CO2 emissions and pressure on natural today. We are producing more cleanerchallenges the world is facing. resources, such as water (page 5). burning natural gas for use in power generation (pages 10–11); focusing on HELPING TO BUILD COMMUNITIES Increasing global population and rapid sustainable biofuels to cut CO2 emissions Communities will also play a vital role. economic growth in the developing world from road transport fuels (pages 22–23); Creating a sustainable energy system are driving the surge in energy demand. developing technology to capture and means finding ways to share the benefits of China has now overtaken the USA as the store CO2 emissions (page 11); and energy to improve life for as many people world’s largest consumer of energy. By working to improve the energy efficiency as possible, especially those living close to 2050 there are expected to be around of our own operations (pages 24 and 29). our operations. A lack of access to energy, 9 billion people, over 2 billion more than The advanced fuels and lubricants we for example, traps hundreds of millions today. Energy demand by then could have develop help our customers use less energy of people in poverty. Their communities doubled, according to the International (page 24). struggle to create jobs, raise standards of Energy Agency (IEA). education and improve health. The use of more natural gas for power is a A transition to a sustainable energy system critical pillar of a new sustainable energy Shell is working on ways to help overcome is beginning, but it will take decades. Fossil system. A third of the world’s CO2 emissions these challenges. Wherever we operate fuels provide around 80% of the world’s come from power generation. Given that we aim to train and employ local people energy today and they are expected the power sector is such a vital part of the and to buy goods and services from to remain the cornerstone of the global energy system that helps economies grow, local suppliers. In many cases this helps energy system for many years to come. we believe it must be the top priority for communities develop successful businesses Even with continued long-term government cutting global CO2 emissions. Generating and creates job skills that will improve longsupport, renewables and nuclear power power from natural gas produces 50–70% term employment prospects. may account for around a third of the less CO2 than a coal-fired plant. Combining global energy mix by mid-century. New natural gas with carbon capture and We are looking at how, through our technologies can take 30 years to achieve storage could reduce CO2 emissions by operations, we can support the provision just 1% of the global market – wind power, 90% compared to coal. Replacing ageing of electricity to local communities. For for instance, is expected to reach this point coal-fired power stations with new gasexample, in Nigeria we have made it in the next few years. fired plants could therefore significantly possible for communities to be connected reduce CO2 emissions from the power to power supplies near the Gbaran-Ubie LIMITING CO 2 EMISSIONS sector. Natural gas is also abundant, with project (page 18) and close to the Bonny The need to tackle climate change 250 years of supplies at current production Island LNG plant (page 12). remains urgent. At the UN climate change rates. Natural gas will account for over half conference in Cancun, Mexico, more than our total production in 2012. Our approach also includes helping to 190 nations agreed that to avoid the worst make cleaner-burning cookstoves available effects of climate change, the world must Many governments are already developing that will significantly reduce the indoor air limit the rise in global temperature by midnational, regional and sector-based CO2 pollution that kills nearly 2 million people a century to 2°C. Greater energy efficiency regulations. These practical approaches year in the developing world (page 21). will help, but the challenge is to find ways could eventually link to form a global to produce more energy with significantly market that would provide the most effective www.shell.com/newenergyfuture lower CO2 emissions. All forms of energy way of tackling climate change. Such a www.shell.com/scenarios Securing diverse energy key projects GJØA CORRIB AOSP EXP 1 SCHOONEBEEK KASHAGAN PH 1 NORTH AMERICA TIGHT GAS MAJNOON WEST QURNA PORT ARTHUR PERDIDO BAB QATARGAS 4 MARS B, WEST BOREAS SAS & SOUTH DEIMOS PEARL GTL AMAL STEAM GBARAN-UBIE PH 1 HARWEEL BONGA NW QARN ALAM GUMUSUT-KAKAP SINGAPORE CHEMICALS KEY n Deep water PLUTO (WOODSIDE) n Refining/Chemicals NORTH RANKIN 2 BC-10 PH2 GORGON n Heavy oil/EOR n Integrated gas n Sour oil/gas n Tight gas n Traditional  On-stream as of March 31, 2011 key pro j ects — P O ST F I N A L I N V E ST M E N T D E C I S I O N Shell interest Peak production LNG 100% Shell On-stream as of Start‑up Project Country (%) 100% (kboe/d) [A] capacity (mtpa) [B] Category operated March 31, 2011 2010–2011 AOSP expansion 1 Canada 60 100 Heavy oil/EOR [C]   Gbaran-Ubie phase 1 Nigeria 30 250 Integrated gas   Gjøa Norway 12 105 Traditional  North America tight gas USA/Canada Various ~150 [D] Tight gas   Pearl GTL Qatar 100 320 [E] Integrated gas  Perdido USA 35 100 Deep water   Pluto LNG T1 (Woodside) [F] Australia 22 140 4.3 Integrated gas Qarn Alam Oman 34 40 Heavy oil/EOR Qatargas 4 LNG Qatar 30 280 7.8 Integrated gas  Schoonebeek Netherlands 30 20 Heavy oil/EOR   Shell Eastern Petrochemicals Singapore 100 [G] Refining/Chemicals   2012–2013 Amal Steam Oman 34 20 Heavy oil/EOR 1.8 Bab Thg & Hb2 UAE 9.5 80 Traditional BC-10 phase 2 Brazil 50 30 Deep water  Corrib Ireland 45 55 Traditional  Gumusut-Kakap Malaysia 33 135 Deep water  Harweel Oman 34 40 Heavy oil/EOR Kashagan phase 1 Kazakhstan 16.8 300 Sour oil/gas Majnoon FCP/West Qurna IPT Iraq 45/15 >30 [D] Traditional  North Rankin 2 Australia 21 268 Integrated gas Port Arthur Refinery Expansion USA 50 325 Refining/Chemicals SAS Abu Dhabi 9.5 115 Traditional 2014+ Bonga North West Nigeria 55 45 Deep water  Gorgon LNG T1-3 Australia 25 440 15 Integrated gas Mars-B, W. Boreas & S. Deimos USA 72 100 Deep water  [A] Thousand barrels of oil equivalent a day. [E] Pearl GTL is expected to produce 140 thousand barrels a day of GTL products and 120 thousand barrels of [B] Million tonnes per annum. oil equivalent a day of natural gas liquids and ethane. [C] Enhanced oil recovery. [F] Shell's indirect position via its 24% shareholding in Woodside. [D] Shell share. [G] Shell Eastern Petrochemicals is expected to produce 800 thousand tonnes a year of ethylene. Securing diverse energy US homes. In 2010, we made several PRODUCING CLEANER ENERGY acquisitions of tight gas resources in the USA that will contribute to our growing Cleaner-burning natural gas is essential in meeting demand as the world global production of natural gas. We builds a sustainable energy system. Natural gas for power generation also produce tight gas in China and are significantly reduces CO2 emissions compared to coal and produces fewer developing new projects there. We are in pollutants. Most of Shell’s natural gas production comes from conventional the early stages of assessing potential tight fields. But our production of gas trapped in dense rock – tight gas – is gas resources in Australia, Europe and rising rapidly. Shell is a leading supplier of liquefied natural gas. We apply southern Africa. innovative technology to help us use energy and water more efficiently. We also work with partners to help build local skills and businesses. Developing tight gas poses technical and environmental challenges, but the NATURAL GAS from homes and settled areas. The Corrib method used has been refined over more Shell has a number of major natural gas project has created jobs for local people. than 60 years and applied safely around projects around the world. For example, the It has also provided around $5.4 million the world. A process known as hydraulic Shell-operated Ormen Lange development so far in funding for a range of community fracturing forces the gas out of the rock (Shell interest 17%) off the coast of Norway projects including health support groups using a fluid consisting of more than 99% is one of the world’s most complex gas and a scholarship programme. water and sand with a small amount of projects. It sends gas by pipeline directly chemical additives. This mixture is pumped from the seabed 120 km to an onshore Tight gas into deep formations under high pressure, processing plant. The gas is then piped Just a few years ago, North America’s fracturing the rock and freeing the gas. across the North Sea to the UK through gas production was expected to decline. The additives used in the fluid are in low the world’s longest offshore gas pipeline. Instead, production has increased concentrations. Shell supports moves in Ormen Lange supplies around 20% of the significantly due to advanced technologies the USA and elsewhere to require drilling UK’s gas needs. that are able to unlock gas trapped in contractors to disclose these additives to oil densely packed rock deep underground. and gas regulatory authorities. The Shell-operated Corrib project (Shell Improvements in drilling and production interest 45%) in north-west Ireland will technologies over the past decade have As production of tight gas increases, produce natural gas from wells over made it more economical to produce some local communities are becoming 80 km off the coast. Gas from Corrib is these resources, known as tight gas concerned over fracturing and the expected to replace about two-thirds of (see diagram). possibility of ground-water contamination. the gas Ireland currently imports. In 2010 The tight gas we produce typically lies consultations with the local community led We are active in six major tight gas over a thousand metres below fresh-water to an agreed plan – awaiting approval projects in the USA and Canada, and aquifers. We prevent fracturing fluid from in 2011 – to route the pipeline through a are currently producing enough tight coming into contact with ground water tunnel built beneath a bay, further away gas to meet the needs of nearly 5 million by lining the wells with multiple steel and TIGHT GAS PRODUCTION WATER FRACKING FLUID LINED RECYCLING WATER TREATMENT DELIVERED INJECTION PIT 4 – 20,000 m3 of water are required per well. Water is typically treated casings 0_ and re-used. drilling mud 500 _ Water table Our wells are lined with multiple layers of casing 1,000 _ cement and are cemented from the surface to below the water table. 1,500 _ Sand keeps 2,000 _ fracture open We use sophisticated techniques to monitor the 2,500 _ fracturing process. Fractures caused by the pressure of ﬂuids pumped Gas ﬂowing from the surface Metres into well Securing diverse energy concrete barriers. We also use advanced gas fields. Where possible we cluster wells underground sensors to monitor the in a small area to limit our footprint. CARBON CAPTURE AND fracturing process. STORAGE (CCS) Gas trapped in deep coal seams is also A wide-scale capability to capture Studies by the US Environmental Protection a form of tight gas. In eastern Australia, carbon dioxide from industrial plants Agency (EPA) and the Ground Water Arrow Energy (Shell interest 50%) plans and store it deep underground will be Protection Council have shown that to convert coalbed methane (CBM) into crucial to reducing CO2 emissions. hydraulic fracturing is safe. We have liquefied natural gas for export to Asia’s fast Rapid deployment of CCS by 2020 decades of experience with this process growing gas markets. We are also involved could account for 19% of the total CO2 and we continue to follow strict measures in producing CBM from the North Shilou reductions needed by 2050, according to protect drinking water supplies. field in China. to the International Energy Agency. Fracturing uses more water than www.shell.com/tightgas For CCS to be widely adopted, conventional production processes. But the support of communities will be we recover some of this water for reuse WIND essential. Government support is also – for example, typically 20–40% at Wind has a growing role to play in a diverse vital as demonstration projects to Groundbirch, one of our tight gas projects energy mix. Our wind energy business is develop CCS technologies are costly in Canada. Increasingly it comes from mostly in North America, where we are and generate no revenue for industry. sources other than local water supplies, involved in a number of onshore projects. One of the positive steps taken at the such as treated waste water from nearby Currently, Shell’s share of the energy UN climate change conference in communities. capacity from wind-power projects amounts Cancun was to encourage technology to 550 megawatts. We are also considering growth by making CCS demonstration Developing tight gas resources can also some potential new developments. and development projects eligible involve drilling hundreds of wells compared for support under the UN Clean to the few needed for conventional oil and www.shell.com/wind Development Mechanism. Technologies needed for CCS are proven, but work is under way to advance them further. Shell is involved in a number of CCS research and demonstration projects. For example, with partners and government support we are helping to develop an advanced test centre at Mongstad, Norway. We are also involved in plans for full-scale CCS projects. The Gorgon LNG project (Shell interest 25%) will include the world’s largest CCS project. It will capture nearly 3.8 million tonnes a year of CO2 produced with the natural gas, and store it more  Working at Groundbirch, Canada. than 2 km underground. The CCS project has received A$60 million in MANAGING WATER USE AT GROUNDBIRCH financial support from the Australian The hydraulic fracturing process used to produce tight gas needs water. Sometimes government. water supplies are scarce in areas where we are operating. Trucking water to remote sites can raise local concerns about safety, traffic and emissions. At our Groundbirch In Alberta, Canada, the federal and tight gas development in north-east British Columbia, Canada, we are finding ways provincial governments have pledged to reduce the amount of fresh water we use from local sources. C$865 million to the Quest project to capture and store over 1 million We built and started operating a water storage and recycling facility in 2010 to store tonnes of CO2 a year from our Scotford fracturing and gas processing water for reuse. Pipelines transport the water to where Upgrader, which processes heavy oil it is needed in the field, limiting truck movements. Shell is also studying the size and from our oil sands operations. In late quality of deep saline aquifers in the area to possibly reduce the need for fresh-water 2010 we filed a regulatory application resources in the future. for Quest. Moving ahead will depend on factors including the outcome of this In 2010 we agreed to fund a water recycling plant for the nearby city of Dawson application, economic feasibility and Creek. We will provide C$9.75 million towards the cost of the project and the city community support. will provide C$1.75 million. The plant will treat water so that it can be reused in our operations and for other industrial and municipal uses, such as water for sports fields. www.shell.com/ccs Securing diverse energy LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG) LNG innovation plants, reducing the impact on the Some of the world’s largest resources of Cooling natural gas in a hot climate takes environment. natural gas lie far from customers who need more energy than in colder areas. We cleaner energy to power their homes and have found innovative ways to reduce In 2010, we received environmental businesses. Transporting it by pipeline would the energy needed for LNG operations in approval for our proposed Prelude FLNG not be practical. But by cooling the gas to regions with high temperatures, and others project off the north-west coast of Australia. -162ºC we turn it into liquid and shrink its with low temperatures. Our joint-venture If we proceed with building this FLNG volume by 600 times, enabling us to ship LNG facilities in Oman, for example, use facility, it will be around 480 metres long it around the world. At its destination, the seawater for cooling, reducing the power and 75 metres wide, and would be moored LNG is turned back into gas for piping to needed to refrigerate the gas. These plants in water around 250 metres deep. The customers. Shell helped pioneer the supply have lower CO2 emissions than other LNG Prelude development would be one of of LNG more than 40 years ago. Today we plants in hot climates. the first deployments of FLNG in the world. are one of the world’s largest LNG suppliers with facilities in Australia, Brunei, India, At Sakhalin 2, the cooling processes take www.shell.com/lng Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, advantage of subarctic temperatures that Russia and the USA. Construction continues can plunge to -35°C in winter. A two-stage Working with our partners on other LNG projects in Australia. liquefaction process cools the natural gas Building strong relationships with our using a special refrigerant mix and an airpartners, contractors and suppliers is The Gorgon LNG project (Shell interest cooling process. Sakhalin 2 uses 6% less essential to delivering new projects and 25%) at Barrow Island off Western energy than a similar Shell facility in the running our operations. Our partnerships Australia will produce 15 million tonnes a Middle East and 9% less than a Shell LNG in Qatar and Oman are good examples of year of LNG for around 40 years – around plant in the Asia-Pacific region. how we work in joint ventures to produce 8% of current global LNG capacity and energy for our customers. Such partnerships enough to power 38 million homes a year. We have also developed an advanced help develop local skills. Gorgon will include the world’s largest liquefaction technology, where heat can be carbon capture and storage (CCS) project, recovered and used for process heating and Qatargas 4 (Shell interest 30%) shipped reducing the project’s overall CO2 emissions power production. We plan to incorporate its first LNG cargo in early 2011. It has by around 40%. CO2 will be separated this technology in designs for future onshore opened up a new market for Qatari LNG from the natural gas and injected into a LNG plants, where suitable. in Dubai, adding to existing markets that saline rock formation deep underground. include China and the USA. In Dubai, Floating LNG LNG can be used to replace some of the We aim to share benefits with the Many offshore gas fields are too small or oil normally burned to generate power communities close to our LNG plants, and too remote to be accessed economically. for businesses, water desalination plants work to protect the local environment. In Shell is developing floating LNG (FLNG) and air conditioning. Qatargas 4 – Shell’s Nigeria, for example, regular power cuts capability to reach these resources. Gas first involvement in Qatar’s LNG sector – disrupt businesses and restrict activities in is extracted to a floating facility above produces gas from the world’s largest single schools and hospitals. Shell companies the field, then processed and liquefied gas field, the North Field, which holds more have helped set up a local utility company on board. It can then be immediately than 900 trillion cubic feet of gas. Shell that supplies affordable and reliable transferred to a carrier and shipped helped develop the Qatargas 4 plant in electricity to the community near the to markets. This eliminates the need Ras Laffan, an industrial zone on Qatar’s Bonny Island LNG plant operated by for pipelines and onshore processing coast. Our partner is Qatar Petroleum Nigeria LNG (NLNG, Shell interest 26%). Power generated by gas turbines at the  The Oman LNG facility. NLNG plant and an oil export terminal on the island operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company is sent to a grid that serves businesses and homes in the area, benefitting thousands of people. In India we have helped replant mangroves near the Hazira regasification terminal to improve coastal ecosystems and counter soil erosion (page 13). We continue to work with experts to help protect endangered Western Gray Whales close to the Sakhalin 2 LNG plant (Shell interest 27.5%) in Russia’s far east. Following advice from independent scientists on the Western Gray Whale Advisory Panel, we shut down seismic survey operations off Sakhalin Island several times in 2010 when whales were nearby. Securing diverse energy with a 70% interest. Shell’s development and Europe. As with all joint ventures we Almost 90% of its workforce are Omani programmes are helping Qataris move do not operate, Oman LNG applies a nationals and most of its top management into technical and commercial leadership set of business principles and HSE policy positions are filled by Omanis. In 2010, positions within the venture. materially equivalent to our own. In 2010, the company spent more than $5 million Oman LNG implemented Shell’s Life-Saving on the training and development of staff. Shell, with a 30% interest, has been Rules, which contributed to 1.5 million Over the last 10 years, Oman LNG’s involved with Oman LNG since the project hours worked without an injury that led to social investment programme has spent started in 1994. The Oman Government time off work. $90 million on more than 270 projects in has a 51% interest and other private education and health. industry partners have 19%. Shipments Oman LNG also uses our guidelines for of LNG go mostly to Japan, South Korea employing and developing local staff. RESTORING mANGROVES IN INDIA Hazira, in north-west India, is one of the country’s major industrial hubs and biggest ports. Heavy industry such as manufacturing companies, steelmakers and power plants have set up business there. But rapid development in recent years has affected the environment. For example, the wide tidal mudflats along the coast are devoid of the plants and trees that once grew. An LNG regasification terminal (Shell interest 74%) at Hazira supplies natural gas to many of the industries in the area and to homes and businesses farther afield. As part of efforts to rejuvenate the local environment we have been working with village communities, the regional government, NGOs and academic  World Heritage Site staff assisting in field research at Danum Valley, Malaysia. institutes to revegetate the mudflats of Hazira’s coast by planting mangroves. WORKING WITH EARTHWATCH These play an instrumental role in For over 10 years, Shell has worked with international environmental charity sustaining healthy coastal ecosystems Earthwatch to help our employees improve their understanding of major sustainability and countering soil erosion. In turn, challenges. By the end of 2010, more than 450 Shell employees had participated in this helps fish thrive and can help local Earthwatch’s global research and conservation projects for up to two weeks at a time. fishermen earn a living. In 2010, 49 Shell volunteers worked on projects that ranged from ecosystems research in the mangrove forests of Kenya to monitoring how Arctic ecosystems in Canada Over the past seven years, we have are responding to climate change. These experiences help employees gain a greater organised – in partnership with local awareness of the sustainability impacts of their work. The programme helps to reinforce villages – the planting of around Shell’s sustainable development culture as employees actively share their experiences 1,100 hectares with more than with colleagues and communities outside the company. 6 million mangrove trees. Active involvement by people living in the To extend this approach, we co-founded the Business Skills for World Heritage area has helped the mangroves to programme with Earthwatch and UNESCO in 2009. It pairs Shell employees with thrive. This programme helps build World Heritage Site managers for one year. Site managers learn business planning skills and create jobs by training skills and ways to better manage natural areas, while Shell employees improve their workers in mangrove planting and understanding of sustainable development. To date, the programme has been held maintenance. As a result of our work for managers from nine sites in South-East Asia. For example, at Puerto Princesa at Hazira, the Indian Ministry of Subterranean River National Park in the Philippines, World Heritage Site managers Environment and Forests invited us worked with their Shell partner to develop a five-year management plan to help to join an IUCN initiative to monitor maximise tourism benefits while protecting the site’s natural resources. In 2011, the the growing and maintenance of programme will be run for managers from six sites in Africa. We are also funding a mangrove forests in India to protect research project on biodiversity with Earthwatch scientists in Danum Valley, Malaysia, coastal habitats. where training for the Business Skills for World Heritage programme has taken place. www.shell.com/hazira www.earthwatch.org Securing diverse energy Parque das Conchas to bring another field Delivering energy responsibly into production. We are also involved in industry organisations seeking to increase The world’s easy-to-access oil is becoming more scarce. To help meet local hiring and buying of local services in rising energy demand, we are exploring in and increasing production future projects. from locations that can pose complex technical, environmental and social challenges. We also use advanced technology to extract more from existing Some of the deep-water service companies fields. We work with partners, communities and governments to access we work with have adopted Shell safety energy resources responsibly. programmes across their operations. For example, in 2010 one of our contractors at Parque das Conchas, SBM Offshore, DEEP WATER As well as community development, we launched life-saving rules across the Shell has been in the forefront of deepsupport environmental conservation company based on ours (see opinion). water exploration and production for programmes in Malaysia. These include more than 40 years. We have a strong research and conservation projects in The Gulf of Mexico continues to be essential record of operating safely (page 4). Danum Valley, through our relationship for energy supplies and we expect it to We use innovative technologies to with Earthwatch (page 13), and a dolphin remain a significant part of our production. unlock resources off the coasts of countries conservation programme along the Our Perdido platform (Shell interest 35%) including Brazil, Malaysia and Nigeria, Sarawak coast. is moored in nearly 2,500 metres of water, and in the Gulf of Mexico. making it the world’s deepest production More than 100 km off the coast of Brazil, platform of its type. It was built and installed Our Gumusut-Kakap deep-water project our Parque das Conchas project (Shell without a serious injury recorded. Perdido (Shell interest 33%) off Malaysia is due interest 50%) was producing around began producing oil and gas in 2010 and to start production in 2012 using a large 70,000 barrels of oil a day at a depth is ramping up to full production. Gumusutsemi-submersible platform anchored in more of 1,800 metres of water by the end of Kakap, Perdido and Parque das Conchas than 1,200 metres of water in the South 2010, its first full year of production. The will contribute more than 300,000 barrels China Sea. We have helped to build job project achieved a number of technological of oil equivalent (boe) a day to the world’s skills among local people and encourage firsts and provided many opportunities energy supplies. growth in local businesses that will sustain to build local expertise. We worked long-term success for them and for us. A in partnership with Petrobras, Brazil’s We have a further 100,000 boe-a-day Shell-sponsored welder training programme, part-national oil company and another capacity deep-water platform development for example, seeks to address a regional pioneer in deep‑water technology. Most under construction in the Mars basin in the industry shortage in this critical skill. of the major undersea equipment and Gulf of Mexico. Gumusut-Kakap was the first deep-water machinery used was built in Brazil. We semi-submersible platform built in Malaysia. are moving ahead with a second phase of www.shell.com/deepwater  Perdido, the world’s deepest offshore oil drilling and production platform of its type, Gulf of Mexico. OPINION “We share the same objective as Shell, which is to ensure the safety of all people working on our projects. The Shell Life-Saving Rules are integral and visible in our management of safety, from onshore offices and construction sites to the fleet of marine units worldwide. We will continue to ensure that the safety message does not diminish, but is robustly driven and executed for the continuation of a safe working environment throughout all of our operations.” Tony Mace, CEO of SBM Offshore Schiedam, the Netherlands Securing diverse energy ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY It is estimated that on average only about a third of a reservoir’s oil is normally recovered. But by using enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques, we can extract more from existing resources, extending the life of declining fields. The International Energy Agency estimates that 300 billion barrels of oil could be unlocked globally by using techniques such as injecting steam, gas or chemicals to recover more oil from the ground. Shell has been at the forefront of EOR development since the 1930s, when we first applied steam recovery in California. In Texas in the 1970s we were also one of the first companies to inject CO2 to enhance oil recovery. We conducted successful field trials in Syria with an EOR technique that involves injecting low-salt water to alter the rock’s properties, including its permeability. Oil recovery has increased 14% since these  Restoring oyster beds in the Gulf of Mexico. trials began in 2008, and our joint venture in Syria is now using this technique to CONSERVING WETLANDS IN THE GULF OF MEXICO produce more oil from large projects. Around 90% of the erosion of all coastal wetlands in the USA is taking place in Louisiana. Overfishing, rapid development and pollution have added to the impact In Oman, where some of the fields are on the coastline of flood control projects for the Mississippi River. These projects have 40 years old, Petroleum Development reduced the natural replenishment of marshes and estuaries that comes from silt in Oman (PDO, Shell interest 34%) will reflood waters. inject sulphur-rich gas produced with oil at its Harweel development to boost recovery A healthy Gulf Coast ecosystem is critical to the communities who live and work there. of more oil. In its first phase this EOR project South Louisiana is home to some of our refineries, offices, pipelines and more than will add 18,000 boe a day to Harweel’s 4,000 employees. We have long worked with universities, NGOs, governments and output. others to raise awareness of the loss of Louisiana’s wetlands and support conservation efforts. We have supported The Nature Conservancy (TNC) since 1990, contributing Our Smart Fields® technology can increase over $2.5 million toward environmental restoration projects and other initiatives. the amount of oil recovered from a field by 10%, and gas by 5%. It can also boost Restoring oyster reefs is such a project. With Shell’s financial support, TNC is installing the rate of production. We use sensors artificially engineered oyster reefs along nearly 8 km of Louisiana coast. These reefs and fibre-optic cables to relay digital will not only protect the shoreline from wave erosion and storm damage, but also many information on temperature, pressure and square kilometres of adjacent marshland that is home to fish, shrimp and crabs. The other field conditions to our control centres. oysters filter water when feeding, with a single oyster filtering up to 190 litres of water Engineers continuously monitor the flow of each day, improving its quality and clarity. oil to maximise production. Scientific monitoring will assess the project’s shortand long-term success by measuring We are applying this advanced technology reef establishment and shoreline changes. The goal is to encourage the use of oyster in Oman. In the Natih field, Smart Fields® reefs as a sustainable way of protecting the shoreline. technology enables PDO to better control the ratio of oil and gas coming from the www.nature.org wells. As a result, over the past two years PDO has reduced the production of this gas – that was previously flared – by over 300,000 cubic metres a day. PDO has been able to stop flaring in the Natih field with no loss in oil production. www.shell.com/eor Securing diverse energy OIL SANDS Canada’s oil sands are one of the world’s largest potential sources of crude oil. If developed responsibly they can make an increasing contribution to meeting the world’s energy needs. But developing and processing oil sands is energy and water intensive. At our oil sands operations we are tackling these challenges by finding ways to improve our energy efficiency and limit fresh-water use through recycling. We are also working to develop a large-scale carbon capture and storage (CCS) project. We work with neighbouring communities, supporting local and aboriginal businesses. By the end of 2010, we had contracted nearly $1 billion of business to aboriginal companies since 2005. We also work with aboriginal groups to gather and incorporate traditional ecological  Giant trucks used to mine oil sands, Canada. knowledge into our operations. measures integrated into our design. In hydrocarbons that remain once the bitumen Oil sands contain bitumen, a heavy oil 2010, direct emissions from our mining, has been removed. They are stored in mixed with sand, clay and water. At the upgrading process and in situ operations tailings ponds until we can dry them out Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP, Shell were 3.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. for use in land reclamation. In late 2010, interest 60%) we use giant shovels and This was around 4.9% of Shell’s global Shell and a number of other companies trucks to extract oil sands at our Muskeg direct greenhouse gas emissions from the agreed to work together to improve River and Jackpine mines. We separate out facilities we operate. tailings management. We have shared the heavy oil with warm water, then dilute our tailings research and technology with it with a solvent for piping to the Scotford We are taking a number of steps to manage these companies and will collaborate Upgrader and conversion into synthetic CO2 emissions from our operations. We on future research to make earlier crude oil. AOSP’s production capacity was are using technology that saves energy in reclamation possible. 155,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) processing bitumen. We are piloting a new a day in 2010. This will rise by 100,000 blend of diesel in some of our large trucks The tailings ponds at the Muskeg River and boe a day following an expansion project, to improve their fuel efficiency. We are also Jackpine mines cover an area of 24 km2. Jackpine Mine, that started operations in investigating the potential for large-scale Tailings contain concentrated naturally 2010 and an expansion of the Scotford carbon capture and storage through our occurring chemicals that are toxic so we Upgrader due to come on-stream in 2011. proposed Quest project (page 11). continually monitor, assess and manage In 2010, we produced around 21,000 boe them to protect the surrounding ground a day from in situ operations where the Water and surface water. We also operate a bitumen is too deep to be mined. At some Separating bitumen from oil sands uses radar-based system, similar to that used sites steam is injected into the reservoir to water. While Shell has permits to withdraw at commercial airports, to detect flocks heat the bitumen, allowing it to be pumped about 0.6% of the Athabasca River’s of migratory birds and deter them from to the surface. average annual flow, we used less than landing on the tailings ponds. 0.1% in 2010. During the year, 74% of Our share of production from oil sands the water used in the bitumen extraction When dried, tailings are used in the was 2.7% of Shell’s global oil and gas process at the Muskeg River and Jackpine process of reclaiming the mined area. production in 2010. mines was recycled. No process water is Normally this process takes several years. discharged into the external environment. But we have invested more than C$100 Greenhouse gas emissions We are involved in work with aboriginal million in research that has led to a new Processing oil sands takes more energy than groups, NGOs, government and other oil technology to speed up the drying of for some lighter crude oils found around sands operators to reduce the combined tailings from years to weeks. This involves the world. Taken as a whole – from mining impact of the industry on the Athabasca adding chemical additives to tailings on a to processing to use in transport fuels – River. This approach encourages new ways sloped surface to improve water extraction, CO2 emissions from oil sands are 5–15% to manage water use, particularly during with the water then being recycled. In higher than from conventional crude oil, winter low-flow periods. 2011, we expect this pilot project to according to Cambridge Energy Research produce 250,000 tonnes of sand and clay Associates (CERA). Heavy oil from our Tailings and land reclamation suitable for use in reclamation. mining operations is at the lower end of Processing oil sands generates tailings, this range as a result of energy-efficiency a mixture of water, sand, clay and residual www.shell.com/oilsands Securing diverse energy IRAQ aimed at students, teachers and parents. partners, we are assessing the most effective After years of conflict, many people in The drivers who work for us are trained ways of capturing this gas for use, possibly Iraq have to manage with just a few hours in line with our global approach to road in power generation. of electricity a day. They are in need of safety (page 24). more jobs, clean drinking water, working We have also been working with the oil sewage systems, better health facilities Production from Majnoon involves the ministry to establish a joint venture between and functioning schools. continuous flaring of natural gas produced Shell and the South Gas Company. The with the oil. In 2010, flaring from Majnoon joint venture would gather, treat and With the development of the Majnoon accounted for around 1% of the global direct process gas produced with oil in several field in southern Iraq, one of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions from the facilities fields, which is currently flared. It would biggest oil fields, Shell is contributing to we operate. We expect this flaring will rise be available for the export and domestic the country’s recovery. Greater revenues as production increases in line with our markets, and could help boost power for the government from oil production are contract with the Iraqi government. With our supplies to communities. expected to help regenerate the country’s infrastructure, including power grids. More gas supplies will also help produce more electricity. Access to reliable power will help LISTENING TO OUR SAKHALIN NEIGHBOURS the people of Iraq rebuild their communities. Sakhalin 2 in eastern Russia is one of the world’s largest oil and gas operations. On Sakhalin Island, the development and operation of this project was estimated to Shell is the operator at Majnoon with a impact directly or indirectly nearly a quarter of a million people – almost half of the 45% interest. Our partners are Petronas population – including some 3,800 indigenous people. (30%) and Iraq’s state-owned Missan Oil Company (25%). We are working to To help identify and address concerns among neighbours and community members raise production from 45,000 barrels of on the island, the operating company Sakhalin Energy (Shell interest 27.5%) adopted oil equivalent (boe) a day in mid-2010 to an innovative community grievance mechanism. Sakhalin Energy publicised – through 175,000 boe a day by 2012. The aim is leaflets, advertising, company community liaison officers and public libraries – the to raise production in the coming years to opportunity to file a complaint or a concern. The company committed to addressing all 1.8 million boe a day. By the end of 2010, the grievances in a fair, transparent manner, and within a set time frame. Majnoon was producing 66,000 boe a day. In the last five years, more than 330 individual complaints have been received and investigated. Many complaints centred on the impact of construction which ended in Unemployment, especially among the 2008, such as traffic noise and restricted access to farm land. Sakhalin Energy acted young, is high, and security remains on the concerns raised. a challenge. We are working with our partners to create opportunities for The Sakhalin grievance mechanism contributed to Professor John Ruggie’s UN local and national contractors and to framework for the role of businesses in human rights (page 7). In the coming years, build job skills. In 2010, we trained we plan to pilot similar community grievance mechanisms at other locations, using our 15 environmental specialists working experience from Sakhalin. for Iraq’s South Oil Company in how to conduct environmental, social and health www.sakhalinenergy.com impact assessments. We also hired local specialist companies working under strict  Engaging with Nivkh community members at the traditional Fishermen Day festival on Sakhalin Island. safety procedures to clear unexploded ordnance from the surface of the Majnoon oil field before work started. Shell is helping to restore local amenities. We worked with local contractors and the NGO Mercy Corps to install solar lighting and refurbish a park in Al Nashwa, the nearest community to Majnoon. The lighting will help make the town’s streets safer at night. We also provided funds to help buy equipment and train medical staff in the Al Nashwa health clinic. The development of Majnoon poses social and environmental challenges. For example, road traffic through local towns and villages will continue to increase. We are working with a local women’s group to develop a road safety awareness campaign Securing diverse energy NIGERIA Gangs kidnapped 26 SPDC employees and Another example is gas flaring. We regret contractors in 2010, and one contractor was that SPDC has been unable to meet targets killed in a related assault. People remain to end continuous flaring. Militant violence An open letter from trapped in poverty in the delta. Criminal had prevented safe access, and a lack Mutiu Sunmonu, gangs continue to steal oil from pipelines at of funding from our government partner Chairman of Shell an estimated rate of 100,000 barrels a day. delayed progress. Once conditions Companies in Nigeria Theft and illegal refining cause extensive improved, however, we began work in and Managing Director environmental damage. Sabotage and theft early 2010 to install more equipment that of Shell Petroleum together accounted for more than 80% of the will reduce gas flaring from SPDC facilities. Development Company spill volume from SPDC facilities in 2010. This drive to replace sabotaged facilities to  Mutiu Sunmonu of Nigeria Ltd (SPDC). gather gas, or to install new equipment, will In the face of such difficulties people ask help us reach our goal of ending continuous me many questions. What has SPDC flaring. It will cost over $2 billion, in “The Niger Delta experienced relative learned over the years? What are we doing addition to $3 billion previously spent to stability in 2010. A continued government differently to bring improvements? Can the reduce flaring. Progress will depend on amnesty for militants who had been problems in the delta ever be solved? continued government partner funding attacking oil facilities in recent years helped and a stable security situation. improve security. This allowed important I tell them that SPDC creates a great deal projects to move forward. We were able to of value for Nigeria, but it operates in an SPDC’s better approach to funding renew infrastructure, such as pipelines, and extremely challenging environment. We community projects is a third example. build facilities to collect gas produced with have made mistakes, but we listen and Community involvement in the way these oil that is normally burned, or flared. try to learn from the past to improve our projects were developed used to be limited. performance today and in the future. Some projects failed partly because of this. SPDC supplies around 70% of Nigeria’s In 2006 SPDC began to let communities domestic gas, which is mostly used to Take our actions in just three areas. In recent decide on and develop these projects for produce power. Our major new energy years most spills from SPDC facilities have themselves. The results are encouraging. project at Gbaran-Ubie in Bayelsa State been caused by sabotage and theft. But began to help meet this need by providing some are operational spills due to equipment Only concerted action by all parties will gas to generate electricity, and for export. failure or human error. No operational overcome the deep-rooted challenges in This project has created 300 permanent spill is acceptable and we recognise that the Niger Delta. Government must lead jobs and helped many to develop skills such we have to improve our performance in the way. The best contribution SPDC can as welding and scaffolding. A related social this area. We are investing in an ongoing make is to grow and sustain our business investment scheme is under way to connect maintenance programme. For example, in a responsible way: this will maximise 200,000 local people to the electricity grid in 2010, SPDC completed construction of revenues to the government, protect tens for the first time. SPDC’s Afam VI power a $1.1 billion replacement pipeline, the of thousands of jobs, provide valuable plant in Rivers State continued to contribute 97-kilometre Nembe Creek Trunkline. We contracts to Nigerian companies, and almost 20% to the country’s total electricity are also determined to be more transparent develop industry skills. We must remain generating capacity. in our response to oil spills. In January responsible in dealing with the challenges 2011, we launched a public website which our business faces, making sure we learn Such progress is welcome. Yet serious tracks our response to, and investigation from them to improve our performance. I problems remain. Although the number and clean-up of, every spill from SPDC am hopeful that if improvements in security of violent attacks on our employees and facilities, whether operational or the result and funding can be maintained, we will contractors fell in 2010, they still occur. of sabotage. continue to make progress in 2011.” SHELL’S ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION  $31 billion: revenues from SPDC to Nigerian government Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd (SPDC) is from 2006 to 2010. the operator of a joint venture between the government-owned  $3.5 billion: Shell share of royalties and taxes paid to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC, 55%), Shell Nigerian government in 2010. (30%), Total (10%), and Agip (5%). Partners fund the joint venture  95%: share of revenue after costs that goes to the Nigerian based on their ownership share. Since the government-owned Government from each barrel of oil SPDC produces. NNPC owns 55%, the joint venture’s activities depend on the  $947 million: value of SPDC and SNEPCo contracts awarded government providing this share. to Nigerian companies in 2010.  6,000/35,000: estimated direct/indirect jobs created by SPDC Shell Nigeria Exploration & Production Company (SNEPCo) and SNEPCo in Nigeria. operates and has a 55% interest in the offshore Bonga field,  90%: proportion of employees that are Nigerian. Nigeria’s first deep-water project. Shell also has a 26% interest  $161.1 million: SPDC and SNEPCo funds to the Niger Delta in Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG), which exports LNG Development Commission in 2010 (Shell share $59.8 million). around the world.  $71.4 million: 2010 contribution from SPDC and SNEPCo to community development projects (Shell share $22.9 million). Securing diverse energy Continuous gas flaring Since 2002, flaring from SPDC facilities OPINION has fallen by over 50%. This decline “It is not the first time Shell has has been due to our work to collect the experimented with investment in gas produced with oil, as well as lower communities, but this approach, the production as a result of militant violence. global memorandum of understanding As security in the Niger Delta improved (GMOU), is working. The communities and production rose in 2010, the volume of are now driving their own progress gas produced and flared rose accordingly and development. In my cluster, the from SPDC facilities. In early 2010, SPDC Degama One cluster, we have executed began work on new projects to install gasa large number of projects. We have gathering equipment at 27 gas separation touched the lives of our people. The  Monitoring blood pressure under the new facilities. This will extend the proportion GMOU scheme provides funds which health insurance scheme in Nigeria. of potential SPDC production where we the communities themselves use to can gather gas to over 90%, increasing drive the development of projects, ImPROVING COmmUNITY the gas available for the domestic market and no projects are embarked upon INVESTmENT and for export. Progress on these projects unless there are funds to execute Each year SPDC and its partners depends on continued stability in the delta them. Therefore the incidence of contribute hundreds of millions of and funding from partners. SPDC is looking abandoned projects is no longer there. dollars to development in Nigeria. at possible solutions for the remaining The communities handle their own Some of this is required by law, for gas, including supplying communities and development so that no accusing finger example our contribution to the Niger businesses that need gas for local power will be pointed at anyone else, for Delta Development Commission. SPDC generation or industrial uses. example SPDC. I say that the GMOU also invests directly in health care, scheme is the best thing that has roads, water projects, small businesses, Theft and illegal refining happened to communities in the Niger training, education, and other social Crude oil theft and illegal refining are Delta.” initiatives. widespread in the mangrove swamps of the Niger Delta. At hundreds of sites, stolen In the past, communities did not always crude is heated in barrels to produce raw have the opportunity to plan and fuels that are sold locally. The land and execute such projects. As a result some waterways around these sites are polluted were abandoned and others failed to by oil, and fires are common. In an area provide the intended benefits. In 2006, with few jobs, this dangerous activity is Iyalla Gabriel Igani, barrister SPDC introduced a different approach, seen as a way to earn money. It devastates from Opu Okira community known as a global memorandum the environment because the thieves spill oil Bille Kingdom, Rivers State, Nigeria of understanding (GMOU), to put and discard residues from illegal refineries. communities at the centre of planning But it is only part of a wider problem of and implementation. Communities highly organised crime worth hundreds of identify their own needs, decide how millions of US dollars a year. SPDC believes www.shell.com/nigeria to spend the funding provided by SPDC that until organised large-scale oil theft and and its joint-venture partners, and illegal refining are stopped, there can be directly implement projects. By the end no lasting solution to the pollution of some of 2010, SPDC had GMOUs in 244 areas of the Niger Delta. communities.  Illegal refining contributes to pollution in the Niger Delta. In Port Harcourt the GMOU model was used to launch the Niger Delta’s first community health insurance scheme. More than 8,000 people had signed up by the end of 2010. Many have now received previously unaffordable medical treatment including vaccinations, maternal care and operations. Annual premiums are around $50, with GMOU funding subsidising half that amount. This compares, for example, to the $300-350 women in the Niger Delta typically pay for care during pregnancy. Other communities are expected to establish similar schemes. Securing diverse energy THE ARCTIC The Arctic could be essential to meeting growing demand for energy in the future. It holds as much as 30% of the world’s undiscovered natural gas and around 13% of its yet-to-find oil, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Of these resources, about 84% lie offshore. We have plans to explore in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas off north Alaska in the near future. The Arctic’s environment is already undergoing change due to global warming. It is home to indigenous peoples who depend on the land and sea for their livelihoods. Developing the region’s rich resources will mean meeting and balancing economic, environmental and social challenges. More than 50 years of safely delivering projects in Alaska, Canada,  Pipeline inspection in the Russian Arctic. Norway and Russia has given us valuable experience in how to work responsibly in PROTECTING THE ARCTIC ENVIRONMENT Arctic and subarctic conditions. Some climate experts predict that as sea ice shrinks and permafrost melts as a result of climate change, access to Arctic resources will increase. Commercial activity is We work with indigenous peoples, expected to grow in many sectors, including mineral extraction, shipping, fishing and governments, NGOs, industry bodies, tourism. This should result in social and economic benefits for people living in the Arctic universities and environmental region, but it must be balanced by work with local communities to protect indigenous organisations to share knowledge and culture and the environment. improve our approach to working in the Arctic. For example, the relationships We work with environmental organisations in the Arctic. With the International Union we have built with Inupiat, Inuit, Dene, for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), we started a project in 2010 to understand the Komi and other native peoples through potential cumulative effects that development may have on the Arctic. We are working regular meetings have enabled us to with NGOs, local communities and representatives from the oil and gas, mining, gather traditional ecological knowledge. shipping, fishing and tourism industries. The goal is to produce a plan for responsible We can use this to operate responsibly development in the Arctic to help shape regulations for all industries with the region’s and invest more effectively in community people and its environment in mind. projects. With Wetlands International we are working on ways to protect Arctic wetlands and Many Alaskan native populations depend local livelihoods that may be affected by oil and gas activities. In 2010, the project on hunting caribou, seal, whales and other started assessing the impact of infrastructure, such as pipelines, on these wetlands and species for subsistence, as their ancestors ways to protect and restore such areas. Our aim is to use the project’s findings as the have for generations. Shell ecologists basis for operational guidelines for oil and gas development in the Arctic. consulted native subsistence advisers and local hunters in choosing the location of www.iucn.org our exploration and production support www.wetlands.org facilities. We planned our activities so as not to interfere with the villagers’ caribou and other hunts. research into significant environmental monitor the ice from aircraft. Our marine Since returning to Alaska in 2005, Shell challenges connected with developing fleet uses ultra-low sulphur diesel fuel. has worked with industry partners and energy resources in the region. This Alaska’s relatively low-pressure and regulators to conduct many new scientific programme aims to balance traditional shallow-water oil fields differ from those in studies into the unique ecosystem of the ecological knowledge with science to the deep-water Gulf of Mexico. Arctic. The understanding we have gained answer key questions and concerns of local will help us to work in a limited open water residents, which are centred mainly on Since we returned to Alaska we have season without affecting the activities of subsistence. been investing in an oil spill response local people. It will also help us to protect programme that will be in place before we the environment. Shell uses advanced technologies to reduce start exploratory drilling. It will include an our impact on the environment, such as air oil spill containment system designed for In 2010, Shell and Alaska’s North emission control systems on our drilling rigs. Arctic waters. Slope Borough entered into a long-term We also use advanced satellite imaging to agreement to collaborate on further track ice movements, reducing the need to www.shell.com/alaska Securing diverse energy Raising living standards CLEAN COOKSTOVES through enterprise Each year, nearly 2 million people worldwide die as a result of prolonged exposure to smoke from traditional Around 1.5 billion people, mostly in Africa and Asia, have limited access to cookstoves. The smoke leads to chronic reliable energy that could help improve the quality of their lives. In millions and acute diseases, especially among of homes in the developing world, families also rely on smoky traditional children and women who are most cookstoves that produce indoor pollution that can be deadly. Recognition exposed. Shell Foundation launched its is growing that entrepreneurial thinking applied widely could help solve Breathing Space programme in 2002 problems of this magnitude. to develop and market affordable clean cookstoves in countries such as Brazil, China, Guatemala, India, Kenya and Uganda. Breathing Space’s SHELL FOUNDATION partner, Envirofit International, has sold Shell Foundation is an independent charity that seeks to tackle poverty and more than 200,000 stoves. environmental challenges through an enterprise-based approach. In India, for example, 500 million people live without electricity. Shell Foundation is working In 2010, Shell helped launch the with a small company in Bihar, one of India’s poorest states, to provide homes Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves and businesses with affordable electricity from processing rice husks. Husk Power with Shell Foundation, the UN, Systems was set up in 2008 in partnership with Shell Foundation and is now NGOs and other public and private providing renewable energy to more than 100,000 people in over 270 rural partners. Our involvement builds on villages. The company is working to build on these achievements over the next Shell Foundation’s work to improve five years. cookstove standards and support local businesses in building and selling The partnership with Husk Power Systems is the latest example of Shell Foundation’s such stoves. Through the Alliance, approach. For 10 years the charity – funded over this time with $410 million from we contribute our business experience Shell – has been applying business thinking, models and disciplines to tackle key and $6 million in funding to help development challenges. It has created several successful partnerships and build a cleaner-burning cookstoves programmes in sustainable transport, building small enterprises in Africa, reducing industry. The initiative aims to place indoor air pollution and promoting ethical trade. these cookstoves in 100 million homes by 2020. All of Shell Foundation’s partners strive for financial self sufficiency, aiming to generate enough income to break the reliance on grant funding. They all plan to expand their Cookstoves that burn fuel more operations and extend their benefits to the maximum number of people. They also efficiently significantly reduce fuel work very closely with Shell Foundation staff to develop their business knowledge and use and harmful emissions. With our strategies. Alliance partners, we are working to develop global production standards Another good example of the way Shell Foundation operates is in the area of for cleaner-burning stoves. We are sustainable transport. In the last 20 years the urban population of the developing world also focusing on raising awareness of has grown by an average of 3 million people each week. Today, 40% of the world’s the health and environmental benefits population live in cities with over 10 million inhabitants, with the poor particularly of improved stoves with government vulnerable to traffic congestion and pollution. policymakers and the public. In 2002, Shell Foundation and the World Resources Institute created EMBARQ, a  Using cleaner-burning cookstoves in India. global network of transport experts that creates sustainable ways to overcome local transport problems. These include Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems, retrofitting existing buses with environmental improvements, and developing cycling and pedestrian routes as well as transport safety measures. In Mexico City, for example, a 20 km BRT corridor – the network’s first initiative – now serves 500,000 passengers a day, halving previous travel times for its passengers. EMBARQ has expanded its operations to run projects in 22 cities around the world and has attracted $880 million in investment. More than one billion passengers have benefitted and it is estimated that the scheme has saved 720,000 tonnes of CO2. In 2010 Shell Foundation released a new report, Enterprise Solutions to Scale, to highlight lessons learned from successes and failures. The report aims to encourage transparency among organisations engaged in similar work so that lessons may be shared more effectively. download Enterprise Solutions to Scale at www.shellfoundation.org/reports Securing diverse energy clauses into new and renewed supplier MAKING TRANSPORT MORE SUSTAINABLE contracts since 2007. These clauses require suppliers to respect human rights in the Over the next few decades the number of vehicles on the road will rise production of their biomass and biofuels. significantly, increasing CO2 emissions. Powering so many cars and trucks They also require suppliers not to cultivate, will need a range of energy sources including petrol and diesel, electricity, produce or manufacture biofuels in areas and potentially hydrogen fuel cells. We believe the most practical, rich in biodiversity. Suppliers must be commercially viable way to reduce CO2 from transport fuels over the next able to trace supply chains, and they must 20 years will be lower-carbon biofuels. belong to relevant international bodies promoting sustainable biomass production. In 2010, 83% of the volume of biofuels we BIOFUELS We also continue to invest in developing purchased was from suppliers signed up to The number of cars on the road is expected advanced biofuels for the future. these clauses. to triple to 2 billion by 2050. There are likely to be twice as many trucks then as Sustainability challenges We are working with the International now. Sustainable biofuels are expected Today’s biofuels pose some sustainability Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to to play an increasingly important role in challenges. From cultivation to production learn more about helping to protect areas helping to meet customers’ fuel needs and to use, some biofuels can emit significantly rich in animal and plant life. We have reduce CO2 emissions. less CO2 than conventional fuels. But the been working to influence the industry to CO2 benefits of biofuels vary depending adopt more sustainable biofuel production The international market for biofuels is on factors including the raw materials processes. In 2010, we developed a joint growing, due largely to the introduction of used, and how they are processed and approach to encourage governments to new energy policies in Europe and the USA distributed. recognise and offer financial incentives for that call for more renewable, lower-carbon better management of land use. We have fuels for transport. Today, biofuels make up If land used for biofuels crops is not been engaging with other energy around 3% of the global road transport fuel carefully managed, concerns can arise companies and environmental nonmix. This is expected to rise to 9% by 2030. over competing directly with food crops governmental organisations – such as or displacing these crops into sensitive WWF and Conservation International – to In 2010, Shell sold 9.6 billion litres of areas, such as forests rich in biodiversity. investigate ways to promote sustainable biofuels in petrol or diesel blends. We are Other challenges include contested land production of biofuel crops on underused one of the world’s largest distributors. We ownership, labour rights, and the water land, without displacing existing farming are now investing in the production of the used in producing biomass and processing activities to other areas. lowest CO2, most sustainable and costsome biofuels. competitive of today’s biofuels – Brazilian We also work with industry, governments sugar-cane ethanol. This can reduce CO2 Our approach and voluntary organisations towards emissions by around 70% compared to We support international certification the development of global sustainability petrol. In 2010, we agreed to form the schemes that require biofuels to come standards for biofuels. We are active in a $12 billion Raízen joint venture with from sustainable sources. We have also number of roundtable organisations that Cosan, Brazil’s largest producer of ethanol. been introducing our own sustainability have developed sustainability certification  Trucks transporting sugar cane to a Cosan mill, Brazil. Securing diverse energy schemes. For example, we belong to Bonsucro, formerly the Better Sugar FUELS FOR THE FUTURE Cane Initiative, which works to reduce Shell was one of the first energy companies to invest in developing advanced biofuels environmental and social impacts of sugarfrom non-edible plants and crop waste. We continue to invest in a range of projects, but cane production. Bonsucro has developed scaling up the technology from the laboratory to commercial viability can take many industry standards for the certification of years. Not all projects will succeed in becoming technically and commercially viable. biofuels from sugar cane. In our work to develop advanced biofuels we have partnerships with leading Soy and palm oil accounted for less biotechnology companies and academic institutions. With Iogen Energy, a Canadian than 5% of the biofuels we bought in company, we are developing technology that uses enzymes to break down the cellulose 2010. We take part in the Roundtable on in plant walls and turn it into sugars. These are then fermented and distilled into ethanol. Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), which checks Iogen Energy opened a demonstration plant in Ottawa in 2004, which produced over and approves claims for sustainable palm 430,000 litres in 2010. We continue to make progress towards possible investment in a oil production and assures the transparency full-scale commercial cellulosic ethanol plant. and traceability of supply chains. We are also a member of the Roundtable Our research programme with Codexis in the USA develops natural enzymes on Responsible Soy, which promotes into “super-enzymes” for faster conversion of non-edible crops or plant waste to responsible soy production and has been ethanol, as well as directly into components similar to petrol and diesel. With US developing a certification system for use company Virent, we are working on the conversion of plant sugars directly into highfrom 2011. performance liquid transport fuels. In 2010 this partnership started production at a demonstration plant that has the capacity to produce up to 38,000 litres of biogasoline Producing low-carbon biofuels a year. We have also started research into producing diesel and aviation fuel using Brazilian sugar-cane ethanol is the most this approach. sustainable biofuel available today. From cultivation through to use, it produces less In early 2011, Shell transferred its interest in Cellana, a joint-venture company CO2 than any other commercially available researching the conversion of algae into biofuel, to partner HR BioPetroleum. The biofuel. Our partnership with Brazilian decision allows us to focus on other advanced biofuels options that better suit our company Cosan is our first involvement portfolio and strategy. in producing biofuels on a large scale. The Raízen joint venture, to be finalised in Electric and hybrid vehicles that can switch to petrol or diesel offer the potential to 2011, will have the capacity to produce reduce CO2 emissions from road transport, although this depends on how the electricity over 2 billion litres of sugar-cane ethanol is produced. If the electricity is generated by gas-fired plants or by renewable energy, a year, with significant potential to grow. the overall CO2 emissions will be significantly lower than if generated by coal. Sugar cane used in the process is grown Hydrogen fuel cells are expected to play a role in the longer term transport energy on land hundreds of kilometres from the mix. Car makers, fuel suppliers and governments will need to work together to invest Amazon rainforest. Shell supports the work in new vehicles and distribution points in order to establish a hydrogen market and of the Brazilian government to implement infrastructure that will bring down costs. We have invested in a number of hydrogen effective land use policies and address filling stations around the world as part of a demonstration programme. There were nine concerns over sugar-cane production of these at the end of 2010 in the USA, China and Japan. displacing other crops to areas rich in biodiversity. We also support government efforts to protect the land rights of indigenous peoples. Cosan uses liquid derived from the crushed sustainability standards and procedures cane as natural fertiliser on its land. Other that must be followed. They include sound Cosan’s approach uses waste material residues from filtering the cane and ash land, water management and labour from sugar cane to power its own plants, left from burning cane for power are also practices. In the coming years, Raízen aims delivering electricity it does not need to the used to nourish the soil, limiting the use of to have its mills and all ethanol produced national grid. This further reduces overall chemical fertilisers. from its own sugar cane certified under CO2 emissions from the process. the Bonsucro scheme. It also plans to Cosan is planning to phase out most of its have certified all ethanol produced from Brazilian sugar cane needs virtually manual harvesting by 2014 in advance of suppliers’ sugar cane. no irrigation to grow because of high São Paulo state requirements. Mechanical seasonal rainfall. With recycling, the harvesting is more efficient and removes Raízen will include our interest in Codexis production process uses around 10 litres the need for first burning the straw from and part of our interest in Iogen Energy – of water to produce each litre of ethanol. the cane. Cosan is training some staff for two advanced biofuels ventures. We expect In 2010, Cosan recycled about 90% of the new opportunities under mechanisation, as Raízen to provide plant residue for water used in 19 of its 23 mills, and there well as to gain new skills for employment feedstock, power, and technical expertise, are plans to install the same technology elsewhere. which could help these advanced biofuels in the remaining mills by 2013. New processes achieve commercial scale. technology that air dries sugar cane is also As part of our agreement with Cosan, reducing the need for water. we have drawn up a series of robust www.shell.com/biofuels Securing diverse energy FUEL EFFICIENCY Road transport emits 17% of the world’s CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. With the number of cars and trucks on the road expected to reach well over 2 billion by 2050, limiting CO2 emissions from transport will be a major challenge. Shell is combining innovation with its long-established technical expertise in fuels to help develop more energy-efficient road transport. Shell FuelSave – our most efficient fuel  More advanced lubricants help customers save energy. ever – is now available in 10 countries across Europe and Asia. In 2010 we We continue to develop and offer take part in wider industry and community started selling it in Denmark, Germany, advanced lubricants to increase efficiency. initiatives. With industry partners we are Norway, Thailand and the UK. Shell For example, our synthetic lubricant, Shell helping fund the second phase of a $10 FuelSave can save up to one litre of fuel in Helix Ultra, can achieve up to 2.2% greater million programme through the Global a 50-litre tank at no extra cost to the driver fuel efficiency by reducing friction more Road Safety Partnership to develop local using a formulation that reduces energy effectively in the engine. road safety programmes in Brazil, China, loss in the engine. We estimate that by India and parts of Africa. the end of 2010, almost two years since www.shell.com/fuelsave its launch, motorists using Shell FuelSave We also support road safety awareness had saved over 350 million litres of fuel. ROAD SAFETY programmes. For example, Shell in Shell also offers online tips to help drivers In 2010, drivers working for Shell travelled Indonesia started an initiative to strengthen improve their fuel economy through better more than 1.3 billion kilometres to deliver road safety training in schools, as 20% driving. fuels and other products to our customers of road accident victims in Indonesia are or to keep our operations running. That is children between the ages of 5 and 12. Shell FuelSave Partner is a new fuel equivalent to circling the world around 100 Students and teachers in the capital, Jakarta, management system that combines times every day. We had 25% fewer road take part in training that simulates real monitoring fuel consumption with accidents in 2010 compared to 2009, situations to help develop road sense. By information on vehicle and driver but sadly seven contractors died in driving the end of 2010, more than 4,000 children performance. Fuel accounts for up to 30% incidents. This was four more than in 2009, and over 200 teachers had completed the of operating costs in the commercial road but fewer than in previous years. programme. We are also preparing a road transport sector. Shell FuelSave Partner was safety student handbook and teachers’ launched in 2010 to help truck owners Shell takes a range of steps to improve manual as road safety becomes further cut costs by using less fuel, reducing CO2 safety standards among our drivers. But integrated into Jakarta’s school curriculum. emissions. It produces reports that truck road safety is also a challenge for society. operators can use to improve their fleet’s We support the UN’s Decade of Action to What Shell is doing fuel efficiency by up to 10%. help reduce the 1.3 million deaths on the We use in-vehicle monitoring systems world’s roads each year, and continue to to help our drivers improve their performance. These systems track actions such as speeding, harsh braking, sharp acceleration, and use of seat belts, showing ENERGY EFFICIENCY drivers how they can drive more safely It takes energy to make our transport fuels, lubricants and chemical products. Saving and more economically. In 2010, 25,000 energy in our operations helps to reduce our CO2 emissions. It also reduces costs. drivers used these systems in regions where Energy typically accounts for around half of all costs at refineries and chemical plants. driving poses most risk such as Africa, We are working to improve our energy efficiency to reduce CO2 emissions and make Asia, South America, and the Middle East. products that are more cost competitive. In 2010, our refineries used energy slightly We will continue to roll out these systems more efficiently than in 2009, while our chemical plants improved significantly in 2011, along with training programmes (pages 29–30). in how to drive with better anticipation of potential hazards and more thorough Customer demand affects energy efficiency at our plants as they do not run as efficiently planning of journeys. when operating below capacity. We continue to make underlying progress in our energy efficiency. Our global CO2 and energy management (CEM) programme drives Our Life-Saving Rules are also improving this improvement. It includes focused capital investments and brings common tools driver behaviour. The rules forbid speeding, and technologies across our operations to optimise energy use. For example, the and the use of alcohol, drugs and mobile CEM information system monitors energy efficiency by identifying potential energy phones, even hands-free, while driving. savings within production units so operators can make adjustments to the plant and its They also require wearing seat belts and equipment. We continue to implement this programme at our plants globally. planning for longer or more hazardous journeys. Those who break the rules Securing diverse energy face consequences up to and including dismissal. At the end of 2010 – 18 months BEING ACTIVE IN COMMUNITIES NEAR OUR OPERATIONS after the rules came into force – violations Two of the facilities where we make oil products and chemicals in the USA have were down by 20%. been an active part of their local communities for many years. Martinez Refinery and Catalyst plant (Shell interest 100%) in California opened in 1915, and Deer Park Some of our new upstream projects, for Refinery and Chemical plant (refinery Shell interest 50%, chemical plant Shell interest example in China and the Middle East, add 100%) in Texas opened in 1929. Martinez is in the heart of a residential community to the amount of driving we do each year. in the San Francisco Bay area, while Deer Park is in an industrialised area facing the We are finding ways to reduce the need to Houston Ship Channel. Their settings may differ, but both have faced challenges with drive, or to make it safer. The locations of their local communities in the past. The City of Martinez threatened to sue Shell for drilling sites at our Changbei joint-venture damaging the community’s reputation after a series of hydrocarbon releases in 2001. gas project in China were chosen to reduce At Deer Park, regulators and some local politicians and environmental organisations the distance our trucks have to travel on have raised air-quality concerns in recent years. more hazardous rural roads. Bussing workers to our Pearl gas-to-liquids project in Through significant investment in emission reduction projects and flare management Qatar each day during construction helped processes, both plants have improved their environmental performance. They have avoid journeys amounting to 24 million received ISO 14001 certification for implementing robust environmental management kilometres that workers would have made systems. In 2010, Deer Park achieved the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® in 2010. This is an approach we have 14001 standard for continuous improvement in health, safety and environmental also encouraged on Sakhalin Island and performance. in Nigeria. To improve community relations at Martinez, we set up an advisory panel made up of www.shell.com/roadsafety representatives from the community, local government and public services. They meet monthly and have open discussions on the plant’s environmental performance. The refinery also sponsors events such as the Shell Run for Education, held in 2010 to raise money for projects at local schools. OPINION “My focus is on the safety of our Being active in the local community is also central to Deer Park’s approach. It is community and the environment. involved in an independently-run community advisory council where local residents Our county has five oil refineries and organisations can voice concerns. Staff volunteer in the site’s Partners in Education and several chemical companies, and SERVE programmes, where they mentor local students and help clean up public including Shell’s. There was a poor land or plant trees. The site also funds educational programmes though the Deer Park relationship between industry and our Education Foundation and the Strides for Schools fun run. community. Times have changed. Our relationship with Shell has improved Local community surveys confirm that Deer Park’s programmes are improving its considerably. We have not had a reputation as a respected employer and community leader. Martinez is also seeing major incident in the county in the past improved relations with the city. This was recognised in 2010 when the mayor of the 10 years. The county’s Industrial Safety City of Martinez declared the first Shell Oil Products Day to mark Shell’s contribution to Ordinance is considered to be a major the community. factor, as well as active community involvement. Unlike some of the other  SERVE volunteers help clean public land in the Houston area, USA. refineries, Shell supported changes in regulations that have resulted in more vapour recovery systems and a significant reduction in flaring. Shell is a significant contributor to our community, both financially and through its employee participation in community projects. Shell and the community must continue to work together to resolve issues affecting our health and the environment.” Ralph Sattler, member of the Shell Community Advisory Panel Martinez, California, USA Securing diverse energy LESS PACKAGING Improving our PRODUCTS The EcoboxTM is a new approach to packaging motor oil developed by Shell. Offering products that use less energy or reduce the resources used in Instead of using plastic bottles, the EcoboxTM packaging are two ways we help our customers and reduce environmental houses oil in a flexible plastic liner encased impacts. We also work to deliver safer products and find innovative uses in cardboard. It simplifies transport and for by-products. storage, leaves less residual oil behind in the container, minimises spills and reduces waste. The EcoboxTM plastic liner generates SAFER PRODUCTS BETTER DRILLING FLUIDS 89% less plastic landfill waste than the Demand for consumer goods that Shell continues to develop its range alternative 24 quart (22.7 litre) plastic include foams, such as mattresses and of NEOFLOTM drilling fluids to support bottles, while the carton is fully recyclable. seating, is growing significantly in responsible offshore drilling. Compared developing countries. Some producers to those based on traditional oils, By the end of 2010, the EcoboxTM add high quantities of a chemical called NEOFLOTM drilling fluids are virtually free was being used in more than 3,600 toluene diisocyanate (TDI) to the foam of aromatic hydrocarbons and are more vehicle service centres in the USA and mix. However, TDI vapours can rise to biodegradable, minimising possible harm Canada, following its trial in around 200 levels that may not be safe for workers. to marine life. They comply fully with the Walmart sites in 2009. Walmart named offshore discharge requirements set by the Shell Lubricants supplier of the year for Shell makes polyols – key ingredients in US Environmental Protection Agency without sustainability in 2010, citing EcoboxTM as foam manufacture – at our chemical plants compromising technical performance. a key factor. High demand prompted a in Singapore and the Netherlands. A team multi-million dollar investment by Shell in at our technology centre in Bangalore NEOFLOTM fluids use the same basic the first EcoboxTM production line at one of developed a new polyol to help customers chemical ingredient as detergents. They our lubricants plants in the USA. in developing countries make low-density circulate to cool and lubricate the well foams more safely. The result is a new during drilling, and help remove the debris. We have also redesigned our fourand grade of Shell CaradolTM that can make five-litre plastic containers, 265 million of higher quality foam more reliably and We are producing NEOFLOTM drilling fluids which are sold each year. The amount of safely using less TDI, reducing the risk of at our Geismar plant in Louisiana to meet plastic used in these containers has been releasing toxic vapours during production. rising demand from customers running cut by 10.5%, or 2,500 tonnes per year; The new CaradolTM grade came onto the drilling operations in Australia, Brazil, equivalent to the weight of more than market in 2010, with first sales in India. Brunei, the USA and West Africa. 2,000 small cars.  Testing new foam formulations, Shell Technology Centre, India. Securing diverse energy COMPLYING WITH REACH The European Union’s REACH regulation came into force in 2010. REACH stands for the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals. These requirements improve transparency standards for the known health, safety and environmental effects of chemical products. European manufacturers and importers are required to assess the safety of their chemical substances for registration with the European Chemicals Agency, and provide this information to customers. REACH is one of several new laws that supplement industry initiatives to improve the management of chemicals globally. By the end of 2010, we had registered some 260 chemical substances we produce, ensuring continuity of supply to our customers for fuels, chemicals, lubricants, bitumen and other products. Shell companies have engaged with many different suppliers, seeking assurances that all procured materials  Sulphur from refining processes at Bukom Refinery, Singapore. meet the REACH requirements. Customers have also been consulted MAKING USE OF SULPHUR with polymer modified bitumen during the to make sure products are registered in Sulphur is a naturally occurring element that upgrade of a highway in Missouri, USA, line with their use, and to deepen the is used in many industrial processes. With creating a mix designed to make stronger understanding of how different ways new oil and gas fields increasingly rich in roads. This trial is part of our efforts to of using products can affect people sulphur, there is a growing surplus. Shell is achieve certification for its use on this and and the environment. We will provide finding innovative uses for this by-product, other US highways. We have also trialled further guidance to customers on for example to enrich fertilisers and to Shell ThiopaveTM on roads in China, Europe safely managing products in 2011. build roads. and the Middle East. www.shell.com/reach Sulphur is an essential nutrient for crops. ROADS WITH A LIGHTER CO 2 FOOTPRINT Trials have shown that Shell ThiogroTM, Road builders around the world face a sulphur-enhanced fertiliser technology, increasingly tough environmental can increase crop yields in some types of regulations that include reducing CO2 uses 60% recycled material and works soils. We have licensed Shell ThiogroTM emissions. At the same time, some builders at 50–60°C below conventional asphalt in Australia, India and the USA. In 2010, are choosing to include recycled asphalt mixing temperatures, without compromising farmers started to use these sulphurin their mixture. These two requirements quality. The lower temperature reduces enhanced fertilisers to improve their crop typically conflict as asphalt containing energy use by 25–35% and results in yields. We continue to work closely with the a high percentage of recycled material reduced CO2 and other air emissions. fertiliser industry to extend this technology generally needs a higher processing to other markets around the world. temperature. This can result in higher CO2 www.shell.com/solutions emissions than are produced by making Another sulphur-based product, Shell conventional asphalt. ThiopaveTM, can reduce the amount of energy used in road making and In 2010, we worked with a Dutch strengthen road surfaces. It uses less energy construction company to combine our as the asphalt can be mixed at lower established Shell WAMTM (warm asphalt temperatures. Shell ThiopaveTM replaces up mixture) process with recycled asphalt to to 25% of the bitumen in the asphalt with make roads at lower temperatures. The sulphur. In a new development in 2010, Shell WAMTM process is already in use Shell ThiopaveTM asphalt was combined in a number of countries. The process Our performance Our performance FOR SHELL, 2010 WAS A YEAR OF GOOD ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND Norway (Shell interest 12%) also started INCREASED OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION. WE DELIVERED MAJOR PROJECTS up in 2010. Our Downstream business THAT WILL HELP SUSTAIN OUR FUTURE GROWTH. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL started production from the Shell Eastern Petrochemicals Complex in Singapore PERFORMANCE SAW IMPROVEMENTS IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND IN REDUCING (Shell interest 100%), at our largest THE NUMBER OF OPERATIONAL SPILLS. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ROSE integrated refinery and petrochemicals AS PRODUCTION INCREASED across the company. we ACHIEVEd OUR facility. Other major projects, such as BEST SAFETY RECORD TO DATE AND WE CONTINUED TO HELP BUILD LOCAL Pearl GTL (Shell interest 100%), the world’s ECONOMIES THROUGH OUR HIRING AND BUYING PRACTICES. largest gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar, continued to move towards completion. Shell scorecard 2010 IN REVIEW In 2010, sustainable development (SD) continued to account for 20% of the ECONOMIC a day. We increased our sales of liquefied company’s scorecard, which helps Our income in 2010 was $20.5 billion natural gas (LNG) by 25% to 16.8 million determine the annual bonus levels for and we delivered $10.2 billion to our tonnes. Our refineries and chemical plants employees, including members of Shell’s shareholders in dividends. We made net saw an increase in their overall utilisation. Executive Committee (EC). For the EC capital investments of $23.7 billion to build We reduced our underlying costs by a in 2010, SD measures were split evenly and sustain our business for the future. further $2 billion. Our exploration efforts between Shell’s safety performance and We also spent $1.0 billion on our research led to nine notable oil and gas discoveries our rating in the Dow Jones Sustainability and development programme. in 2010. Additions to our proved reserves Indexes (DJSI). According to the assessment exceeded our production volumes for of Sustainability Asset Management We continued to focus our efforts on those the year. (SAM), the company used by DJSI, our markets where we see the best potential SD performance improved in 2010. for growth. For example, we bought Six major projects started production in However, we were excluded from the businesses in countries including the USA 2010. Our Upstream business brought into DJSI World Index as a result of the index (East Resources, Shell interest 100%) and operation the 100,000 boe-a-day Perdido committee’s view of the operations of Australia (Arrow Energy, Shell interest platform in the USA (Shell interest 35%), the Shell companies in Nigeria, leading to EC 50%). We also made good progress 250,000 boe-a-day Gbaran-Ubie oil and members receiving no bonus for the DJSI in establishing our Raízen joint venture gas project in Nigeria (Shell interest 30%), component of the scorecard. For 2011, the (Shell interest 50%) with Brazilian ethanol the 100,000 boe-a-day Jackpine Mine oil Remuneration Committee of the Board of producer Cosan. sands expansion in Canada (Shell interest Royal Dutch Shell plc set the SD component 60%), and several tight gas developments of the EC scorecard based on targeted In 2010, Shell’s oil and gas production (Shell interest varies) in North America measures covering safety, operational increased by 5% over 2009, to 3,314 that together we consider as one project. spills, energy efficiency, and use of thousand barrels of oil equivalent (boe) The 107,000 boe-a-day Gjøa project in fresh water. PRODUCED 2% OF THE WORLD’S OIL... ...AND 3% OF THE WORLD’S GAS $1.0 billion SPENT ON R&D 3.3 million BARRELS OF OIL EQUIVALENT ...over 48% OF WHICH WAS NATURAL GAS SOLD 7.6% OF THE WORLD’S LNG PRODUCED A DAY... $23.7 $2.1 $20.5 BILLION SPENT BILLION billion ON ALTERNATIVE ENERGY,  INCOME NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT CCS, AND CO2 R&D IN THE LAST 5 YEARS Our performance ENVIRONMENTAL Flaring Outside Nigeria and Iraq, the few facilities Greenhouse gas emissions In 2010, the flaring – or burning off – of that continuously flare amount to less than The direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions natural gas in our Upstream business rose 1% of our total direct GHG emissions. from facilities we operate were 75 million by 32% compared to 2009, to 10.3 million Some of these facilities are at ageing oil tonnes on a CO2-equivalent basis in 2010, tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This was mainly fields where the associated gas pressure is a 9% increase on 2009. The main reason due to increased oil production in Nigeria too low to power the compressors used to for this rise was increased production and the start of our contract in Iraq. Flaring gather the gas and avoid flaring. across the company, including higher made up nearly 14% of our total direct production in Nigeria due to an improved GHG emissions in 2010. Our HSSE & SP Control Framework requires security situation. that all of our new facilities are designed Around 20% was operational flaring for not to flare or vent continuously. Around 60% of our GHG emissions came safety reasons and during the start-up of from the refineries and chemical plants in Upstream facilities. We aim to minimise Energy efficiency our Downstream business. The production this operational flaring. One of the ways we can manage our of oil and gas in our Upstream business direct GHG emissions is to improve the accounted for around 35% of our GHG The remaining 80% was continuous energy efficiency of the facilities we operate. emissions, and our shipping activities for flaring from facilities where there is no the remaining 5%. We continue to work on infrastructure to capture the gas produced In 2010, our Upstream business improved improving operational performance and with oil, known as associated gas. Around its overall energy efficiency for the energy efficiency to reduce GHG emissions. 80% of this continuous flaring takes place production of oil and gas. This was due to in Nigeria where the security situation and a combination of increased production, In 2010, we met the voluntary target we set a lack of funding from the government new fields coming on-stream and improved in 1998 for our direct GHG emissions from partner has previously slowed progress techniques in field management. All our facilities we operate to be at least 5% lower on projects to capture the associated major Upstream operations have energy than our comparable 1990 level. Shell’s gas (pages 18–19). Around 10% of the management plans in place. Nevertheless, GHG emissions in 2010 were around 25% continuous flaring came from the Majnoon we expect that the improvement will be lower than our comparable 1990 level. field in Iraq where we became the operator difficult to maintain as existing fields age in 2010. We expect that flaring in Iraq will and production comes from more energyThe indirect GHG emissions from our rise in future years as production increases intensive sources. purchases of energy (electricity, heat and before equipment to capture the and steam) were 10 million tonnes on a associated gas can be installed (page 17). In our Oil Sands business, energy intensity CO2‑equivalent basis in 2010, 11% higher When we acquire or become the operator in 2010 worsened slightly compared to than in 2009. We estimate that the CO2 of an existing facility that is already 2009, as efforts to improve the energy emissions from the use of the products we flaring or venting (releasing gas into the efficiency of our operations were offset made were around 670 million tonnes atmosphere) it takes time before these by the start of production at our mining in 2010. activities can be stopped. expansion, the Jackpine mine (page 16). DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FLARING – UPSTREAM ENERGY INTENSITY – UPSTREAM (EXCLUDING OIL SANDS) Million tonnes CO2 equivalent [A] Actual Million tonnes CO2 equivalent Gigajoules/tonne production Target 120 30 0.9 1990 Baseline 90 98 60 15 0.7 30 0 0 0.5 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 [A] Target and baseline adjusted to reflect portfolio changes ENERGY INTENSITY – OIL SANDS ENERGY INTENSITY – REFINERIES ENERGY INTENSITY – CHEMICAL PLANTS Gigajoules/tonne production [B] Reﬁnery Energy Index [C] Chemicals Energy Index 10 110 105 5 100 95 0 90 85 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 [B] Includes mining and upgrading operations [C] Indexed to 2002; based on 2006 Solomon EIITM methodology Our performance In 2010, the overall energy efficiency at the Montreal East Refinery in Canada. SOCIAL for the manufacture of oil products at our We continue to learn from such spills to Safety refineries improved slightly compared to improve our performance. We achieved our best ever safety 2009, helped by our CO2 and energy performance in 2010. We had the lowest management programme and increased The number of operational spills was down ever rate of injuries per million working refinery utilisation. The energy intensity of significantly to 193 in 2010, from 275 in hours – total recordable case frequency – our refineries remained high compared 2009, continuing the improvement trend down 15% from our previous best in 2009. to previous years as a result of continued of recent years. This was in part due to Our rate of injuries that led to time off work reduced demand for oil products. Higher our continued investment in improving the was also the lowest ever in 2010, down energy intensity levels are experienced at reliability and maintenance of our facilities. around 25% from the year before. reduced output as the energy needed to run refineries does not decrease significantly In 2010, sabotage and theft in Nigeria Sadly, however, 12 people working for at lower production levels. remained a significant cause of spills, Shell lost their lives in 2010. This was eight totalling 3.0 thousand tonnes. This fewer than in 2009. One was the result The overall energy efficiency of our was a decrease in volume from recent of an industrial accident while welding. chemical plants improved in 2010 years. However, the number of these Seven were fatalities related to road compared to 2009. Our chemical plants spills increased from 95 in 2009 to 112 transport, including three vehicle rollover benefitted from running at higher output in 2010. See pages 18–19 for more incidents. A drowning incident resulted in due to increased demand for chemicals information on spills in Nigeria. two fatalities, and security related incidents products. They also had less planned and on the road caused two fatalities. Our fatal unplanned maintenance work. Water accident rate – the number of fatalities per Fresh-water management is especially 100 million hours worked – was the lowest Our refineries and chemical plants important wherever these resources are recorded and down over 30% on 2009. continue to implement the CO2 and energy constrained due to limited supplies or management programme (page 24) extensive use. We assess the availability of We continue to build our safety culture to to improve their energy efficiency water where we operate, and design and improve our performance. In 2010, our performance. run our facilities in ways that help reduce major construction projects continued to their water use. break safety records. For example, our Spills Pearl GTL project in Qatar reached 77 Shell has clear requirements and In 2010, our use of fresh water was up million working hours without an injury procedures to prevent spills, and multislightly to 202 million cubic metres, from that resulted in time off work. At peak billion dollar programmes under way 198 million cubic metres in 2009. Our construction, the project employed around to maintain and improve our facilities Downstream business accounted for 52,000 employees and contractors from and pipelines. However, spills still occur around 75% of our fresh-water use for the more than 70 countries. for reasons such as operational failure, manufacture of oil products and chemicals; accidents or corrosion. our Upstream operations used around 25%. Social investment We aim to make our social investment In 2010, our operational spills of oil and oil projects beneficial to society in measurable products totalled 2.9 thousand tonnes, up ways and to be sustainable beyond Shell’s from1.4 thousand tonnes in 2009. About involvement. In 2010, we spent more than 35% of this volume was from a single spill $121 million on voluntary social investments SPILLS – OPERATIONAL [A] SPILLS – SABOTAGE [B] FRESH WATER USE Volume in thousand tonnes Volume in thousand tonnes Million cubic metres Number of spills Number of spills 20 800 20 800 300 10 400 10 400 200 0 0 0 0 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 [A] Over 100 kilograms [B] Over 100 kilograms EMPLOYED PEOPLE 93,000 OPERATED IN COUNTRIES 90+ SOLD FUEL CONTAINING 9.6 BILLION LITRES OF BIOFUEL Our performance worldwide, compared to $132 million in these countries, Shell companies spent over where we operate, local nationals filled 2009. We estimate that $61 million of our 90% of this $13 billion with local companies. more than half the senior leadership spend in 2010, compared to $54 million in We check that our suppliers comply positions – down 1% from 2009, but up 4% 2009, was in countries that, according to with key sustainability criteria, including from 2008. In 2010, more than 90% of our the UNDP Human Development Index 2010, working conditions. In 2010, we conducted employees worldwide were nationals. have a gross domestic product (GDP) of less 34 independent assessments of suppliers than $15,000 a year per person. In 2010, in China, India and Taiwan on their Our annual Shell People Survey measures our social investment increased in countries compliance in areas such as human rights, employees’ views of the inclusivity of their such as Nigeria and Brazil, and decreased labour practices and business integrity. workplace. In 2010, 66% felt positive in others including the USA and Canada. about this, down 3% from 2009 and down Our figures do not include investments that External voluntary codes 1% from 2008. 13% felt negatively about are part of contractual agreements with host The Shell General Business Principles inclusion in the workplace, up 2% from governments. We also provide significant and Code of Conduct guide the business 2009 and up 1% from 2008. support through donations of equipment and activities of Shell companies. But we voluntary work by Shell employees. also support a number of external Training voluntary codes. These include the We continue to invest in the training and Social performance UN Universal Declaration of Human development of our employees and jointWe continued to implement new companyRights, the Organisation for Economic venture staff. Our focus is on building wide standards for social performance in Co‑operation and Development Guidelines technical capability and safety critical 2010 that were launched the previous year for Multinational Enterprises, and the competencies and skills. In 2010, we with our HSSE & SP Control Framework International Labour Organization provided over 375,000 training days for (page 2). They include requirements for Declaration on Fundamental Principles employees and some of our joint-venture the way we engage with neighbours of our and Rights at Work. In early 2011, Shell partners. This included training more than major facilities. By the end of 2010, all of joined the new UN Global Compact 4,000 people in leadership skills. We also these facilities had assessed their status LEAD programme which strengthens our certified 430 supervisors in drilling and against the requirements and during 2011 leadership in the Global Compact and well completions as part of our rigorous will put plans in place to close gaps. We also our commitment to its principles. drilling training programme (page 4). More trained 250 social performance specialists in than140 senior project engineers completed the new requirements in 2010 (page 6). Diversity and inclusion our externally accredited Project Academy Our ability to deliver our business strategy programme to improve the delivery of our Local procurement while addressing environmental and social major oil and gas projects. Where possible, we try to buy goods and challenges depends on the quality and services from local businesses. In 2010, our diversity of our people. We aim to create Code of Conduct violations total spend on contracting and procurement an inclusive work environment with equal Shell employees, and contractors working worldwide was over $60 billion. More opportunities. We measure diversity and for Shell, must abide by our Code of than half of this was spent in Canada, the inclusion (D&I) in part by the representation Conduct. In 2010, there were 205 violations Netherlands, UK and USA, but we estimate of women and local nationals in senior of the Code of Conduct reported (compared almost $13 billion was spent in countries leadership positions. By the end of 2010, to 165 in 2009 and 204 in 2008). As that, according to the UNDP Human the proportion of women in senior positions a result we ended our relationship with Development Index 2010, have a GDP of was 15.3%, up 1.3% from 2009 and up 77 employees and contractors (compared to less than $15,000 a year per person. In 1.7% from 2008. In 36% of countries 126 in 2009 and 138 in 2008). TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE FREQUENCY LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY FATAL ACCIDENT RATE Injuries per million working hours Injuries per million working hours Fatalities per 100 million working hours 4 2 8 6 2 1 4 2 0 0 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 SUPPLIED TONNES OF 11,000 ...ENOUGH TO RESURFACE 350 $13 Billion spent WITH LOWER-INCOME BITUMEN PRODUCTS EVERY DAY... KILOMETRES OF ROAD COUNTRIES Our performance ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL DATA E N V I R O N M E N TA L DATA 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) [A] Total GHGs (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 75 69 75 82 88 93 101 102 96 93 Carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes) 72 66 72 79 85 89 96 97 92 87 Methane (CH4) (thousand tonnes) 125 127 126 119 124 173 192 187 196 261 Nitrous oxide (N2O) (thousand tonnes) 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 4 3 Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) (tonnes) 24 25 23 28 24 20 13 9 11 4 Flaring [B] Flaring (Upstream) (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 10.3 7.8 8.8 9.7 14.3 20.8 24.6 24.1 20.6 28.9 Flaring (Upstream) (million tonnes hydrocarbon flared) 3.5 2.6 2.8 3.4 4.8 7.0 8.1 8.1 6.8 9.5 Energy intensity Upstream excluding Oil Sands (gigajoules per tonne production) [C] 0.81 0.83 0.79 0.81 0.80 0.73 0.71 0.72 0.75 0.69 Oil Sands (gigajoules per tonne production) [D] 6.9 6.8 6.8 5.8 5.3 5.2 5.8 10.0 n/c n/c Refineries: Refinery Energy Index [E] 101.8 102.2 98.9 98.6 98.4 98.0 96.7 97.8 100.0 n/c Chemical plants: Chemicals Energy Index 89.3 92.0 93.0 92.6 92.5 95.8 93.3 98.3 99.7 101.4 Acid gases and VOCs Sulphur dioxide (SO2) (thousand tonnes) 139 141 175 212 233 226 247 257 240 236 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) (thousand tonnes) 159 142 150 145 154 157 172 193 195 191 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (thousand tonnes) 133 126 130 148 185 199 213 226 324 309 Ozone‑depleting emissions CFCs/halons/trichloroethane (tonnes) 0.0 0.4 1.4 0.6 0.3 0.8 2.3 3.0 7.7 4.5 Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) (tonnes) 20 24 26 27 35 35 42 44 57 45 Spills and discharges [F] Sabotage spills – volume (thousand tonnes) [G] [H] 3.0 14.0 6.5 3.4 1.9 1.5 1.1 0.9 2.5 5.2 Sabotage spills – number [H] 112 95 115 197 123 111 101 105 128 114 Operational spills – volume (thousand tonnes) [G] 2.9 1.4 8.8 3.5 3.9 3.4 3.4 5.0 4.2 9.6 Nigeria 0.7 0.3 7.1 1.6 1.4 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.2 5.2 Rest of world 2.2 1.1 1.7 1.9 2.5 3.3 3.4 4.6 4.0 4.4 Operational spills – number [G] [I] 193 275 275 392 465 560 711 678 784 n/c Nigeria 30 37 42 52 41 63 48 48 66 110 Rest of world 163 238 233 340 424 497 663 630 718 n/c Hurricane spills – volume (thousand tonnes) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.9 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Oil in effluents to surface environment (thousand tonnes) 1.6 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.8 2.3 2.1 2.3 2.4 2.8 Fresh water use Fresh water use (million cubic metres) [J] 202 198 224 235 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Waste disposal Hazardous (thousand tonnes) 921 962 688 907 716 631 714 675 781 n/c Non‑hazardous (thousand tonnes) 1,079 1,139 996 1,899 1,154 632 421 443 480 n/c Total waste (thousand tonnes) 2,000 2,101 1,684 2,806 1,870 1,263 1,135 1,118 1,261 n/c [A] Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Greenhouse Gas Estimate, December 2003 (API, IPIECA, OGP), indicate that uncertainty in greenhouse gas measurements can be significant depending on the methods used. CO2 equivalent is a term used to express the total emissions of the major greenhouse gases, including CO2, methane, nitrous oxide and hydrofluorocarbons. In 1998 we set a voluntary target for 2010 of 5% lower direct GHG emissions from facilities we operate than our comparable 1990 level. Direct GHG emissions for the 1990 Base Year for our major facilities have been adjusted in accordance with the requirements of ISO 14064‑1. It has not been technically feasible to determine the 1990 emissions for some recent acquisitions. We have updated our 2009 figures following recalculation of the data. [B] The rise in flaring emissions in 2010 is primarily due to increased production in Nigeria, as well as inclusion of flaring in Iraq following the start of our production contract with the Iraqi government in 2010. Flaring in Iraq amounted to 0.3 million tonnes of hydrocarbon in 2010. We have updated our 2009 figures following recalculation of the data. [C] Data reported in accordance with IPIECA guidelines. We have updated our 2008 and 2009 figures following recalculation of the data. [D] We have updated the last five years of data to reflect the operation of cogeneration facilities. The data includes mining and upgrading operations. It does not include in situ production. [E] We have indexed our refinery energy intensity data to the year 2002. This allows for easier comparison of current performance to our starting point. The index is based upon the Solomon Associates Energy Intensity Index 2006 methodology. [F] All spill volumes and numbers are for spills over 100 kilograms. [G] We have updated our 2009 figures following completion of investigations to confirm spill volumes. [H] All sabotage and theft related spills have occurred in Nigeria except in 2007 (0.7 thousand tonnes outside Nigeria) and 2006 (0.6 thousand tonnes outside Nigeria). [I] We have updated our 2009 figure following review of the data. The number of operational spills reported for the years 2004 and 2005 also contain a small number of hurricane spills. [J] We have updated our 2007 figure following review of our data and portfolio. n/c Not calculated. Our performance www.shell.com/performancedata See page 37 for more information about our data. S O C I A L DATA 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Fatalities Total number 12 20 26 21 37 34 31 45 51 35 Employees 0 1 2 1 2 3 2 5 8 2 Contractors [K] 12 19 24 20 35 31 29 40 43 33 Fatal accident rate (FAR) Fatalities per 100 million working hours (employees and contractors) 1.6 2.3 3.4 3.1 5.6 5.0 4.6 6.1 6.8 5.1 Injuries Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) Injuries per million working hours (employees and contractors) 1.2 1.4 1.8 1.9 2.1 2.5 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.9 Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) Lost time injuries per million working hours (employees and contractors) 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.3 Illnesses Total recordable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) Illnesses per million working hours (employees only) 0.8 0.6 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.0 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.3 Security Using armed security (% of countries) 9 17 17 16 15 19 18 22 16 18 Using armed company security (% of countries) 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 1 2 Using armed contractor security (% of countries) 6 10 9 12 9 11 11 22 12 12 Gender diversity [L] In supervisory/professional positions (% women) 26.3 26.4 24.7 24.6 23.2 21.8 20.7 19.5 18.9 17.7 In management positions (% women) 17.0 16.1 15.3 17.7 16.2 12.9 12.2 11.3 9.2 9.3 In senior leadership positions (% women) 15.3 14.0 13.6 12.9 11.6 9.9 9.6 9.6 8.8 7.9 Regional diversity [L] % countries with majority of local nationals in senior leadership positions 36 37 32 33 25 36 n/c n/c n/c n/c Staff forums and grievance procedures % staff access to staff forum, grievance procedure or other support system 100.0 99.1 100.0 100.0 99.2 100.0 100.0 99.9 99.9 99.9 Child labour (% countries with specific procedures in place) Own operations 99 98 100 99 95 88 83 78 86 89 Contractors 98 89 69 61 57 56 57 96 97 99 Suppliers 96 82 62 63 50 42 41 Integrity Code of Conduct violations [M] 205 165 204 361 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Contracts cancelled due to incompatibility with Business Principles 40 24 49 35 41 63 64 49 54 100 Joint ventures divested due to incompatibility with Business Principles 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Contracting and procurement Estimated expenditure on goods and services from locally owned companies in lower-income countries ($ billion) [N] 13 12 12 13 10 9 6 5 n/c n/c Social investment [O] Estimated voluntary social investment (equity share) ($ million) [P] 121 132 148 170 140 127 106 102 96 85 Estimated social investment spend (equity share) in lower-income countries ($ million) [Q] 61 54 61 65 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c [K] We have updated certain types of contractor road fatality for 2004, 2005, and 2006 to align with industry reporting practice and our HSSE & SP Control Framework. [L] Diversity data gathered by our human resources system. [M] Code of Conduct violations gathered by our global helpline and through internal channels. [N] Estimated expenditure in countries where gross domestic product amounts to less than $15,000 a year per person (source: UNDP Human Development Index 2010). For consistency we have updated this data back to 2007 to match the latest index. [O] Social investment spending varies from year to year depending on business climate, locations and type of activities under way. This is voluntary social investment and does not include social investments made through contractual agreements. [P] In 2010 overall voluntary social investment spend decreased due to increasingly stringent classification of the data. On a comparable basis, voluntary social investment increased by 4% in 2010. [Q] Estimated voluntary social investment spend in countries where gross domestic product amounts to less than $15,000 a year per person (source: UNDP Human Development Index 2010). Social investment and contracting and procurement data collected via our financial system since 2007. Data obtained from an internal survey completed by the senior Shell representative in each country. n/c Not calculated. Our performance EXTERNAL REVIEW COMMITTEE Shell, for the sixth successive year, has invited an External Review Committee to assess the content of its sustainability report. This letter provides our assessment of Shell’s 2010 Sustainability Report. We express our views as individuals, not on behalf of our organisations. Rebecca Adamson INTRODUCTION in a responsible manner. This reflects Shell’s PRESIDENT AND FOUNDER, The Terms of Reference of the External recognition of the strategic importance of FIRST PEOPLES WORLDWIDE USA Review Committee (ERC) are to review operating responsibly, acknowledging the the Shell Sustainability Report for content, growing importance of social performance, credibility and balance, by reference to whilst developing energy from multiple the AA1000 APS Principles of inclusivity, sources. materiality and responsiveness. 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The 2010 review process changed to allow In addressing the 2010 Report, the ERC motoko Aizawa the ERC to hold its first face-to-face meeting reflected on the comments made in our SUSTAINABILITY ADVISOR, with Shell earlier than in past years, in opinion letter in the 2009 Report. We took INTERNATIONAL FINANCE October 2010. Planning for the report’s note of the progress made as well as the CORPORATION JAPAN structure and content were still taking further challenges faced by the company in place, and the ERC discussed inclusivity 2010. and materiality of issues with senior management during our meetings. Nigeria In 2009, the ERC suggested that Shell The Committee welcomed this opportunity should more clearly explain the difficulties for early engagement, which was of doing business in such a challenging Rafael Benke supplemented with a second face-to-face operating environment. SENIOR EXECUTIVE, CORPORATE meeting in January 2011, and a series of AFFAIRS AND SUSTAINABILITY, conference calls. During these engagements The 2010 Report begins to address this VALE BRAZIL we continued to focus on the issues through the frank open letter from Mutiu identified, as we reviewed and commented Sunmonu, Chairman of Shell Companies in on successive drafts of the report. Nigeria. This is supported by information on Shell’s economic contribution to Shell senior management are very engaged Nigeria, and further detail on improving with the ERC. They are open and frank in local community connections through discussion, and listen to ERC suggestions. active engagement, especially the global Philippa Foster Back OBE This gives a welcome robustness to the memorandum of understanding (GMOU) DIRECTOR, THE INSTITUTE FOR ERC’s role. It is from these interactions and approach. Shell has also committed to BUSINESS ETHICS UK our own knowledge that ERC judgements greater transparency regarding operations are drawn in commenting on this year’s in Nigeria, as detailed in this report. report. The ERC welcomes the attention given in the The backdrop to Shell’s 2010 Sustainability 2010 Report to the important issue of how Report was the tragedy of Deepwater Shell companies operate in Nigeria. Whilst Horizon and the subsequent oil spill in the progress is noted, the ERC recognises Christine Loh OBE the Gulf of Mexico. Shell assisted BP and that many challenges remain to achieving CEO, CIVIC EXCHANGE CHINA took immediate steps to review, confirm lasting solutions. and reinforce its own safety procedures at all offshore facilities worldwide. Safety Social Performance and Community remains a key priority for Shell and further Development progress has been evident in the past year In 2009, the ERC called for further evidence as the mandatory 12 Life-Saving Rules have of how Shell was integrating social been embedded. However, there is now performance and community engagement a wider duty-of-care expectation from the in the development of its projects. The 2010 Dan Sperling PhD public about how oil and gas operations Report covers the first full year following the DIRECTOR, INSTITUTE OF are undertaken. reorganisation of sustainable development TRANSPORTATION STUDIES, activities within the company. While the UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, Shell’s 2010 reporting theme is meeting report does not refer to the reorganisation DAVIS USA energy demand by securing diverse energy in detail, an illustration is given of how Our performance integration is happening through the Shell is actively committed to playing its emerging role of sustainable development part in the move to a lower-carbon energy ERC OVERVIEW integrators. This role has arisen in part from future. Shell’s commitment is described The Committee met in person twice in the recognition that when some of Shell’s through raising the production of natural The Hague, the Netherlands, and on projects have been delayed it is often due gas, focusing on sustainable biofuels, and other occasions by teleconference. We to a lack of local community support. The developing carbon capture and storage held meetings with key Shell senior company is seeking to address this through technologies. management and other personnel building its capability in this area. to discuss in detail Shell’s approach Shell is also looking at increasing the to sustainable development and its As the process of assessing social energy efficiency of its own operations. In sustainability reporting. performance continues to evolve during 2010 there were some improvements in 2011, the ERC expects that Shell will energy efficiency but direct greenhouse gas Our review did not include verification develop a more comprehensive social emissions and flaring both increased in line of performance data underlying the performance strategy against which key with higher production levels. The increase report, or the information on which the metrics will be identified to strengthen this in flaring occurred primarily in Nigeria and case studies in the report were based. aspect of Shell’s sustainability reporting. with the inclusion of Iraq in Shell’s portfolio. In addition to our comments on the The current absence makes it difficult company’s reporting, we separately to assess Shell’s social performance While the ERC feels that Shell demonstrates provided Shell with our observations implementation and impact. Today, industry leadership in addressing climate on the company’s sustainability external expectations for Shell’s social change, it encourages Shell to take further performance. In recognition of our performance are as high as those for its actions in its operations, investments and time and expertise, an honorarium environmental performance. The ERC public engagements to help society move was offered, payable either to us seeks more information in future reports towards a more sustainable future. individually, to our organisation, or to a on the impact of Shell’s investments and charity of our choosing. We were also future intentions in communities where it is FURTHER COMMENTS AND CONCLUSION offered reimbursement for the expense active, especially in the light of the reported The ERC welcomes Shell’s publication in this of our travel and accommodation. declining voluntary contributions to social report of the CO2 price of $40 per tonne investment for a third year, though the which is used in all of its major investment ERC understands this in part reflects the redecisions. It is hoped that other companies categorisation of such investment. Current will follow this openness. approach to operating responsibly, results as reflected in the 2010 Report are articulating the challenge of developing mixed. The evidence of a strategy around Another arena where Shell is showing new energy supplies in an environmentally social investment and its impact needs leadership is in the area of human rights, and socially responsible manner, and to be developed and explained in future piloting the human rights framework the importance of working with others to reports. developed by Professor John Ruggie of successfully address the world’s current and “Protect, Respect and Remedy”. The ERC future energy needs. The 2010 Report contains more vignettes looks forward to learning in future reports of Shell’s activities and work with how Shell will further develop its approach www.shell.com/erc communities, which are welcome. The to human rights. ERC expects that the learning from these and other experiences will be more widely This year’s Report includes details of the shared throughout Shell. We also hope that planned new sugar-cane ethanol joint “speak up” facilities will be set up for local venture with Cosan in Brazil. Whilst communities, as at Sakhalin, wherever Shell environmental issues are reported on, the operates. ERC recommends that social issues related to greater mechanisation, human rights Shell and the Energy Future and land use be expanded upon in future In the 2009 Report the ERC found the reports. report’s theme of Shell’s contribution to the global transition to a lower-carbon energy The ERC notes the collaboration between future and the “six pathways” to be useful. Shell and other companies in 2010 to In 2010, Shell continues to use the six improve tailings management in oil sands pathways to plan and manage internally processing using new technology. Shell has its efforts on climate change, whilst developed this technology to reduce the externally communicating their substance. drying time of tailings from years to weeks. So in the 2010 Report the subjects of the The ERC welcomes Shell’s leadership and six pathways are individually referred transparency in sharing this intellectual to and developed. This is also linked to property. Shell seeking to communicate a broader approach to sustainability by describing The ERC sees the 2010 Report as its environmental footprint in a more representing a transition in Shell’s integrated manner, for example. sustainability reporting. It clarifies Shell’s 36 Shell Sustainability Report 2010 Our performance External Review Committee of independent We provide more infomation about our ABOUT OUR experts helps make sure our reporting sustainability reporting on our website. REPORTING is balanced, relevant and responsive to stakeholders’ interests. Lloyd’s Register www.shell.com/sdreporting Quality Assurance Ltd has provided We began reporting voluntarily on our limited assurance of our direct and indirect This report is supported on the Shell website environmental and social performance with greenhouse gas emissions data for 2010. by more detailed information on our the first Shell Report that covered 1997. approach to sustainable development Our reporting focuses on the environmental We report in accordance with the Global and related issues. and social challenges that most affect Reporting Initiative (GRI) and in line business performance and matter most with the International Petroleum Industry www.shell.com/sustainability to our key stakeholders. These include Environmental Conservation Association local communities, non-governmental (IPIECA) guidelines. GRI confirmed our organisations, shareholders, investors, A+ reporting level for the information customers, partners, governments, contained in this Sustainability Report, employees, media, academics, contractors the Royal Dutch Shell plc Annual Report and and suppliers. We use a thorough Form 20-F 2010, and on www.shell.com. process to select content for our reporting (see diagram). www.shell.com/gri www.shell.com/ipieca Throughout the year we also provide information to the Dow Jones Sustainability Shell supports the UN Global Compact and Indexes, FTSE4Good, the Carbon its 10 principles covering human rights, Disclosure Project and other organisations labour, environment and anti-corruption. that help investors understand the Sections of this Sustainability Report cover economic, environmental and social Shell’s progress in 2010 in these areas. performance of companies. Further details of our contribution to the UN Global Compact are on the Shell Internal controls such as audit trails and corporate website. statistical checks help assure the accuracy of the Shell Sustainability Report. An www.shell.com/globalcompact CONTENT SELECTION PROCESS Our reporting focuses on the environmental and Higher SIGNIFICANCE TO social challenges that matter most to our key INCLUDED IN STAKEHOLDERS stakeholders. We use a thorough process to select SUSTAINABILITY content for our reporting based on information from External Review Committee’s external and internal sources. This process includes: previous opinion letter REPORT Higher weight in STEP 1: Identify and understand topics of signiﬁcance Civil society dialogue sustainability to our stakeholders through a range of stakeholder context Global media review engagements and reviews. Shell public policy review STEP 2: Identify topics of signiﬁcance to Shell’s INCLUDED IF HIGH Medium business strategy through our established internal Investor feedback and indexes SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT weight in processes. OR COVERED ON THE WEB sustainability Reputation tracker survey context STEP 3: Combine the results into a matrix and Website visits assess each topic in terms of its wider economic, environmental and social impact. Each topic is then Reader feedback and social media assigned a weighting according to its signiﬁcance in NOT Lower “sustainability context”. To determine “sustainability REPORTED weight in Lower sustainability context” we review authoritative research and context forecasts on environmental and social topics published by public institutions and governmental organisations. Lower Higher STEP 4: We include all the highest priority topics SIGNIFICANCE IN SIGNIFICANCE TO SHELL STRATEGY in our report. Those at the next level of importance SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT are included if they have a higher weight in Resulting topics are considered in Risk management process “sustainability context”, otherwise they are covered their broader sustainability context on the Shell website. based on: Reputation management process  UN Millennium Development Goals STEP 5: Our External Review Committee reviews the  Planetary boundaries research Projects key to Shell strategy content selection to ensure that coverage is complete,  WBCSD Vision 2050 report  Shell business environment outlook Sustainability priorities relevant and balanced. Shell Sustainability Report 2010 37 Our performance occur after preparation of this report, they SHARE YOUR OPINION ABOUT OUR DATA will be updated in the following year’s If you have any views on issues raised in this publication. Data marked in the social report, or on the report itself, please email: There are inherent limitations to the data table come from an internal survey accuracy of environmental and social completed by the senior Shell representative sustainabilityreport@shell.com data. We recognise that our environmental in each country. The accuracy of and social data will be affected by these environmental and social data may be report SPECIFICATIONS limitations and continue to improve the lower than that of data obtained through The paper used for this report is Satimat integrity of our data by strengthening our our financial systems. Green, a Forest Stewardship Council internal controls. (FSC) certified paper, produced from 60% Data provided are subject to internal FSC-certified recycled fibre and 40% FSCAll non-financial data in this report are controls. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance certified virgin fibre. All virgin fibres are reported on a 100% basis for companies Ltd has provided limited assurance of our Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) bleached, and joint ventures where we are the direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) without using chlorine gas. The inks used operator. Environmental data are for our emissions data for 2010. Limited assurance are vegetable oil-based. The laminate used direct emissions unless otherwise stated. means nothing has come to the auditor’s for the cover is eco-friendly and allows the We report in this way, in line with industry attention that would indicate that the data report to be fully recycled. practice, because these are the data we are not correct. For GHG emissions we can directly manage and affect through provide more detailed data on our website. The printing of this document was carbon operational improvements. neutral: certified carbon-offset projects www.shell.com/ghg compensated for the CO2 emissions. Operations acquired or disposed of during www.natureoffice.com the year are included only for the period we Unless otherwise noted, estimates of the NL–001–088802 had ownership. Other data are collected number of homes served are based on from external sources, staff surveys and the electricity consumption of an average other internal sources as indicated. European household. Conversions into US dollars are based on the average We only include data in this report that exchange rates for 2010. have been confirmed by the end of March Designed by Studio Dumbar 2011. If incidents are reclassified or Printed by Tuijtel under ISO 14001 confirmed, or if significant data changes Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and with governmental entities, delays or advancements in and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement In this publication “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal or events to differ materially from those expressed or for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where implied in these statements. Forward‑looking statements All forward‑looking statements contained in this references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its include, among other things, statements concerning publication are expressly qualified in their entirety by subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market the cautionary statements contained or referred to in “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in risks and statements expressing management’s this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on general or to those who work for them. These expressions expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections forward‑looking statements. Additional factors that may are also used where no useful purpose is served by and assumptions. These forward‑looking statements affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s identifying the particular company or companies. are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as 20‑F for the year ended December 31, 2010 (available ”Subsidiaries”, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell ”anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, at www shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These companies” as used in this publication refer to companies “goals”, “intend”, ”may”, “objectives”, ”outlook”, ”plan”, factors also should be considered by the reader. Each in which Royal Dutch Shell either directly or indirectly ”probably”, ”project”, ”risks”, ”seek”, ”should”, ”target”, forward‑looking statement speaks only as of the date has control, by having either a majority of the voting ”will” and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of this publication, April 14, 2011. Neither Royal Dutch rights or the right to exercise a controlling influence. The of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation companies in which Shell has significant influence but Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ to publicly update or revise any forward‑looking not control are referred to as “associated companies” materially from those expressed in the forward‑looking statement as a result of new information, future events or “associates” and companies in which Shell has joint statements included in this publication, including (without or other information. In light of these risks, results could control are referred to as “jointly controlled entities”. In limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred this publication, associates and jointly controlled entities gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) from the forward‑looking statements contained in this are also referred to as “equity‑accounted investments”. currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; publication. We may have used certain terms in this The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to (e) reserve estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry publication that the guidelines of the United States indicate the direct and/or indirect (for example, through competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly our 24% shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Ltd.) associated with the identification of suitable potential prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership acquisition properties and targets, and successful Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in or company, after exclusion of all third‑party interest. negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) our Form 20‑F, File No 1‑32575, available on the SEC This publication contains forward‑looking statements the risk of doing business in developing countries and website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms shell.com concerning the financial condition, results of operations shell.com countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, from the SEC by calling 1‑800‑SEC‑0330. and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed measures addressing climate change; (k) economic to be, forward‑looking statements. Forward‑looking and financial market conditions in various countries statements are statements of future expectations that and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of are based on management’s current expectations and expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts otHeR sHeLL RePoRts WWW.SHELL.COM/ANNUALREPORT AnnUAL RePoRt ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2010 A comprehensive operational and financial report on our activities throughout 2010. ALL INFORMATION FROM OUR REPORTS IS AVAILABLE FOR ONLINE READING AND FOR DOWNLOADING AS A PDF FILE The webpages contain interactive chart generators, downloadable tables in Excel format, hyperlinks to other webpages and an enhanced search tool. Sections of the reports can also be downloaded separately AnnUAL ReVIeW ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2010 or combined into a custom-made PDF file. Annual Review and summary Financial statements 2010 A summarised operational and financial overview of Shell. AVAILABLe FRoM InVestoRs’ Royal Dutch Shell plc HAnDBooK ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL INFORMATION 2006–2010 +31 (0)888 800 844 Investors’ Handbook order@shell.com 2006–2010 Five years’ detailed financial and operational information, Annual Report/20-F service including maps. for US residents +1 888 400 7789
