Global Presence CONTACTS Datamatics India Knowledge Center, Street No.17 Suyojit Datamatics Knowledge Centre Crompton House Alphine Arch No.19 Corporate Social Responsibility Suyojit I.T. Park, Survey No. 804 Dr. M.G.R. Salai (K.H.Road) SF-3, Langford Road Program MIDC, Andheri (East) Mumbai – 400 093 Unit No. S1-S3, Mumbai Agra Road Nungambakkam Bangalore – 560 025 Tel +91 (22) 6102 0000-09 Mumbai Naka, Nashik – 422 002 Chennai – 600 034 Tel: + 91(80) 6531 0067 Fax +91 (22) 2834 3669 Tel: +91 (253) 6617 222-333 Tel:+91(44) 3911 3333 Fax:+91 (253) 6617 271 Fax: +91(44) 3911 3334 May 2011 USA BOSNIA Suite #400 Suite #100 Suite #210 Ulica Svetosavska 22 31572 Industrial Road 510 Thornall Street, Edison 56 Middlesex Turnpike Glamocani – 78252 Livonia, MI – 48150 New Jersey – 08837 Burlington MA – 01803 Tel: +387 (51) 586624 Tel: +1 (734) 525 4400 Tel: +1 (888) 772 5532 Tel: +1 (781) 425 5248 Fax: +1 (734) 525 4455 Fax: +1 (732) 635 0600 Fax: +1 (781) 425 5242 UK Switzerland Germany Australia 8 The Square MSJG Rechtsanwalte & Notare Im Leuschnerpark 3 Monash Business Centre Pty Ltd. Stockley Park, Uxbridge Vorstadt 32, 6302 Zug 64347, Griesheim 468 Blackburn Road UB11 1FW Tel: +41 (41) 725 2525 Tel : +49 (06155) 79537 40 Glen Waverly, Victoria 3149 Tel: +44 (208) 610 6105 Fax: +41 (41) 710 0585 Fax: +49 (06155) 79537 39 Tel: (03) 9803 8722 Fax: +44 (208) 610 6870 Fax: (03) 9887 8539 website: www.datamatics.com | email: un-io@datamatics.com Datamatics Corporate Social Responsibility Program May 2011 Table of Contents From the CEO’s Desk ..............................................................................................................2 Knowledge Associate Program @ Datamatics ................................................................3 Rural Employment Through Rural BPO ..............................................................................3 Women Empowerment ..........................................................................................................5 Commitment to Environmental Good ...............................................................................7 Social Contribution Program – ASHA .................................................................................8 Anti-corruption Policy ............................................................................................................9 Monthly Training Programs on Social Initiatives .............................................................9 PHILOSOPHY ON SOCIAL INITIATIVES Summary ....................................................................................................................................9 At Datamatics, we firmly believe that inclusive growth is an absolute necessity for consistent growth at a corporate & also economic level. We are committed to community development & are persistently working towards building a better tomorrow. Our focus is on building symbiotic, self-sustaining initiatives to drive social inclusivity in close synergy with corporate growth. CSR POLICIES @ DATAMATICS Women empowerment policies Inclusive employment opportunities for physically disabled Opportunities for senior citizens to contribute to corporate growth & earn their self-reliance Rural employment generation synergistic to corporate profitability goals Employee contribution to social causes through salary giving programs Green initiatives to reduce carbon foot-print Anti-corruption policy for responsible corporate citizenship From the CEO’s Desk Knowledge Associate Program GREETINGS FROM DATAMATICS ! those physically challenged or senior citizens or women who cannot take up full-time jobs but are in need of income @ Datamatics As an integral part of the society around it, every or rural employees – all contribute directly towards Senior Citizens – Housewives & Students – Physically Disabled – Rural Employment corporate entity carries the responsibility to contribute profitable growth for Datamatics, creating a Win-Win meaningfully to the growth of the society, from which it situation of contribution & growth. INCLUSIVE GROWTH WITH EMPLOYMENT out once the charity funding dries out. For this reason, all of draws its resources, revenues and profits. OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE UNDER-SERVED ! our CSR initiatives are integrated into our corporate We are also committed to being an environmentally objective of inclusive & profitable corporate growth. The Knowledge Associates Program launched by Our ‘Knowledge Associate’ program integrates At Datamatics, we believe in creating initiatives that are friendly enterprise & have initiatives focused on reducing Datamatics has opened-up hundreds of gainful employment creation for the disadvantaged & self sustaining to ensure their long-term survival & the carbon footprint at corporate & employee level, in employment opportunities for the under-served in the underserved while enabling steady availability of growth. Invariably, our initiatives are linked office & at our residences. Our initiatives are aimed at actual society, especially those disadvantaged by physical resources with low attrition for the company synergistically with our business goals of profitable corporate actions towards improving environmental disabilities. This program is aligned with the UN Global Over 1500 knowledge associates have benefitted from growth, ensuring they get the necessary serious friendliness of our enterprise & also educating our Compact guidelines for human rights & equal the program over the last 10 years attention & managerial bandwidth to sustain them for employees on how to lead a greener life in office and at opportunities for labour. Our initiative in the mining town of Bellary has created the long term. home. employment for over 30 women so far & the number is growing fast. These women from the families of mineOur CSR initiatives are focused on making the We view our CSR initiatives not as charity but long-term, PHYS I CA beneficiaries of these initiatives an integral part of the self-sustainable business initiatives that synergistically E’S LL Y workers who work on back-office projects for IF SE A Datamatics, suitable for their qualifications. We are ever-growing family of Datamaticians, by aligning their contribute to social development. W CH HO efforts with profitable growth for Datamatics. U LL E working on replicating the Bellary model in other similar D NG E remote locations to multiply the impact Individuals benefiting from these initiatives – students – Rahul L. Kanodia More than 50 physically challenged individuals have working part-time to support their own education or Vice Chairman & CEO KA found gainful employment from our Knowledge Associate Program, making them financially independent Many housewives & senior citizens who are qualified, but are unable to take up regular jobs due to family priorities are often left without opportunities for gainful employment. Our Knowledge Associate program taps into such untapped potential for talent where those CSR initiatives with significant positive ROl for the enrolled get an opportunity to leverage their talent & organization receive strong support from all the stakeearn significantly without having to commute regularly, holders & hence become self-sustained for the long-term while Datamatics gains from access to talent with as against initiatives funded by charity that often wither consistent performance. A Win-Win for both Rural Employment from Rural BPO BRIDGING THE RURAL – URBAN DIVIDE Our rural sourcing initiatives are generating employment opportunities in rural & semi-urban villages and towns for an inclusive growth. Datamatics benefits from the good-will and availability of quality human resources that have shown low attrition rates & a high level of dedication to work. This initiative also aims at reducing the pressure on the already overcrowded & over-stressed metropolitan infrastructure of big cities where jobless persons from the rural areas usually migrate to in search of employment. By making gainful employment available to qualified rural candidates, we offer them an opportunity to live a life of dignity in their home-towns with a much better life-style than what they would expect as jobless migrants in the cities. This initiative thus aligns with the UN Global Compact guiding principles of human rights to fair employment opportunities for labour. Women Empowerment Datamatics is committed to the promotion of gender equality & the empowerment of women in society GENDER EQUALITY Aat Datamatics, we believe gender equality is an integral eouality right to the development of human society. Our hiring policies & career growth opportunities ensure earnings & our growth prospects are strictly based on performance without a gender bias. We are committed to meritocracy & equal opportunities for all employees. As per numbers dated March 31, 2011, the share of women in ‘Senior Leadership’ of the organization (Associate Vice president & above) is 9%. WORK-LIFE BALANCE We understand that it is important to provide women flexibility during work times & hence we at Datamatics encourage women to use the flexi-time policy. To manage the day-to-day activities, women are also allowed to workfrom-home & all the essential facilities are provided to women viz. net access, basic hardware & software set-up, etc. on a case-by-case basis. REGULAR MEDICAL CHECK-UPS Regular camps are set-up in association with large hospitals for women employees to provide free medical check-ups. This initiative is managed by a committee of women, with members spanning across all the grades in the organization. Our equal opportunities policy thus aligns with the UN Global Compact guidelines for human rights to fair & nondiscriminative employment opportunities. Commitment to Environmental Good Senior Citizens – Housewives & Students – Physically Disabled – Rural Employment In alignment with the environmental protection keeping staff is trained on waste-management with guidelines of the UN Global Compact, Datamatics adopts appropriate segregation of bio-degradable waste from non“Green” practices to ensure harmony with the nature. We biodegradable waste. We track the volume & type of waste do a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) every year generated & tracked how & where it is recycled, re-used, & actively look for opportunities to improve the treated or disposed. Further this is reported to sensitize all environment friendliness of our operations. employees to the importance of proper waste disposal in minimizing individual & organizational carbon foot-print. ENERGY EFFICIENT PRINTERS Some of the Green initiatives we have started recently are We encourage employees not to print documents unless it showing good traction which includes: is absolutely necessary. In cases where one needs to print, Deliver software online through downloads & web-based we encourage dual-side printing to cut paper usage to applications, which avoid wasting CDs, DVDs & packaging half. We have replaced all the printers in our organization Provide user manuals online to avoid wasting paper with the new, energy efficient printers. Encourage online training to avoid use of cars, gasoline, airplane travel & other travel GREEN HOUSEKEEPING Push for an online & telephonic sales process to the extent possible with travel limited only to the final stages The housekeeping staff is well trained to understand & of negotiating the deal, to minimize usage of cars & other implement good hygiene with environmental sensitivity vehicles across all locations. We ensure all the employees & Responsible use of lighting & air conditioning in office & visitors alike are informed of the importance of at residence maintaining good hygiene at workplace. The houseEye On Carbon Foot Print POWER CONSERVATION At our global headquarters (in Mumbai, India) we have achieved over 45% reduction in power consumption per employee from the year 2008-2009 when the power conservation drive was started, to the year 2010-2011 which was the last financial year ended March 31, 2011. Significant drop in per-employee consumption of power was achieved through various initiatives like conversion from traditional lighting to energy efficient lighting & from employee awareness programs. We are expecting improvement over time as more employees are getting aware on the importance of power conservation & ways of leading a more energy efficient life. We expect to see significant improvements at an organizational level as the power conservation drive is extended to other locations globally.. MASS COMMUTING ARRANGEMENTS Over half of our employees in Mumbai are availing of the mass commuting facility provided by the company. This has taken at least a few hundred private vehicles off the roads, as employees prefer to travel in comfortable company buses instead of driving through peak-hour traffic. Employees also end up saving significant money on the fuel they would otherwise have to burn for commuting. In Mumbai alone, we currently have over 750 employees using our masscommute arrangements consisting of 15 buses. This is clearly 750 two-wheelers or four-wheelers off the roads, clubbed into just 15 buses plying across Mumbai. We also conduct awareness programs towards the benefits of carpooling for those who cannot leverage the mass-commuting option. Social Contribution Anti-Corruption Policy Program ASHA Datamatics firmly believes in the importance of a noncorrupt business environment & hence follows the UN company’s view on what is acceptable & what is not as per the value-system adopted by Datamatics. The code of ASHA is a program at Datamatics that tries to ignite hope for less privileged communities of the society. This is a social Global Compact’s Anti-Corruption Guidelines. Values conduct has been laid down by the Board of Directors of contribution activity for employees to raise funds for social welfare causes. Through employee fundraisers & community encapsulate the spirit of Datamatics & form the essence the Company as a testimony of the Company's contributions, Datamatics & its employees contribute to social welfare facilities nationwide. Moreover, all through the of Datamatics. These values guide us through commitment to adhere to the standards of loyalty, honesty, year, employees enthusiastically volunteer to participate in seasonal & holiday events at a variety of social welfare challenging situations & moral dilemmas by defining integrity & the avoidance of conflicts of interest. The initiatives in an around the workplace. norms of right & wrong action. They are the cornerstone policy is aimed at gaining a commitment from each of our principles. A code of conduct is shared with employee to adhere to a standard of behavior that rejects employees & a signed commitment demanded from any form of moral or financially corrupt activities. them to ensure every employee is aware of the Monthly Training Programs on Social Initiatives CSR WORKSHOPS AT OUR OFFICES GLOBALLY GREEN INITIATIVES TRAINING PROGRAM CSR Workshops have been introduced at the end of 2009 At Datamatics we try to generate awareness on the as part of our efforts to provide professional training to all importance of practicing Green Policy. All the training our employees. The CSR Workshops consists of a series of programs & initiatives are structured by identifying needs intensive training programs structured to provide for specific groups in the organization. Some of the Training guidance on Business Ethics & CSR, monitoring & Programs carried out in the recent past are: Awareness on reporting on the CSR program, & Ethics Management & maintaining Clean & Green Desk, Waste Management CSR. training, Safety Training Program & many others. Our workshops provide managers & staff with the practical insights & skills development necessary to lead & embed sustainability practices at Datamatics. Summary Aligning with the guiding principles of the UN Global Compact, the overall aim of CSR initiatives at Datamatics is to drive meaningful long-term sustainable contribution to the society & environment by linking this contribution to the inclusive, profitable growth objective of the organization. Our focus is on generating employment for those who need it but are unable to undertake regular commute to office, to reach out to the under-served with employment opportunities to help them become financially independent. Our goals are aligned to empower women with gender equality policies at the workplace & to contribute to the environment by training employees to lead a low carbon foot-print lifestyle at home & in office. Hundreds of individuals have benefitted from our employment generation initiatives while our sustained efforts towards a greener existence have achieved significant success in imbibing an environment friendly culture in our organization. ASHA the employee social contribution program has contributed a great deal towards social welfare by helping the less privileged communities of the society.
