Communication on Progress Year : 2011 Hindustan Platinum Pvt. Ltd. has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 17th July 2008. We are committed to the ten principles of the compact which promote better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Summary of the progress made in these principles is attached Shashikant Choksi Managing Director. Contact: 022 27683006 Email: Shashikant.choksi@hp.co.in P 1/5 Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Global Compact Principle for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Commitment/ Policies : We are following the international declaration of Human Rights. respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Action Taken : We have two separate Human resource and Employee relation departments. rights Executive Director is the head of these departments. Employee concerns are discussed and addressed on a one to one basis. . Outcomes : All employee grievances, if any are addressed on priority. 2: and make sure that they are not Commitment/ Policies : We have separate working committees to address these issues. complicit in human rights abuses. Action Taken Our company has a strict policy of registration of all employees with the provident fund, Employees state insurance. We follow guidelines of the workers minimum wages act. Company provides conveyance to all employees from all parts of the city. Mediclaim policy for all the employees and their family member from this year onwards. Outcomes The working committee discusses all issues related to the employees with the employee relation team and finds a solution. If required the issue is brought to the notice of Executive Director for a solution. Provision for better facility in case of medical emergency. Cost will be reimbursed by the insurance provider. Plans for the Upcoming Year.: Plan for a third party audit for all factors related to sustainability. 3: Businesses should uphold the Commitment/ Policies Our company has a recogonised employees union. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Action Taken Office bearers of the employees union discuss with company management on collective bargaining; various issues including wages. Wages are revised in discussion with the union. Outcomes Last revision in wages took place in April 2011 (beginning of financial year) as per agreement with the union. Plans for the Upcoming Year P 2/5 4: the elimination of all forms of Commitment/ Policies : Our recruitment is defined and and our HR team recruites based on forced and compulsory labour; application received. Action Taken : Above policy is strictly followed. Outcomes : No forced labour Plans for the Upcoming Year : Plan for third party audit. 5: the effective abolition of child Commitment/ Policies : The policy on selection, recruitment and confirmation of employment labour; includes only person above 18 years to be recruited. Action Taken The company recruitment policy ensure that there is no child labour is recruited. Outcomes : The age of all employees is more than 18 years. Plans for the Upcoming Year : Third party audit is planned. 6: and the elimination of Commitment/ Policies : The policy on selection, recruitment and confirmation of employment discrimination in respect of includes no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality or religion. employment and occupation. Action Taken : The company recruitment policy ensure that there is no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality and religion.. Outcomes: We have women working as manager, and general manager. Plans for the Upcoming Year : 7: Businesses should support a Commitment/ Policies : Company has an environment policy. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Action Taken : 1. The company has made a procedure to check aspect and impact on environment of new activity. If it exceeds to certain value it will be taken seriously and precautionary measures will be taken to reduce its impact on the environment. 2. Company has installed scrubber for melting furnace, 3. Installed exhaust system for plating plant P 3/5 4. Company has its own effluent treatment plant, where water is treated before release it to drain. 5. Company has rain harvesting system, The water collected by rain harvesting system is used for plantation and 6. Company has sewage treatment plant, after treating sewage water, it is released to root zone. 7. Third party testing of our water is done periodically. Air samples are also checked by third party periodically. Noise level of the company is also checked periodically. 8. Mass transportation is being provided to our staff as well as our workers to reduce pollution. 9. We have maintained green garden in our premises and also maintain garden outside our compound wall. 10. Company has installed Organic Waste Converter System to convert biomass / waste in to bio-organic soil enricher and conditioner. 11. Installed rain water harvesting system. Outcomes : We reduced adverse impact of our activities on environment. Plans for the Upcoming Year : This year, we have a plan to get ISO : 14001 certificate for one of our division. 8: undertake initiatives to promote Commitment/ Policies : To reduce water / power consumption greater environmental responsibility; Action Taken : 1. We have changed water distribution system 2. We have installed overhead tank to save consumption of power. 3. We monitor water and power consumption every month. Outcomes 13,500 units of power saved annually. Plans for the Upcoming Year To keep targets for saving water consumption and power consumption. 9: and encourage the development Commitment/ Policies To reduce use of natural resources by using eco-friendly technology, and diffusion of environmentally To reduce adverse effect on environment by using advance machines friendly technologies. Action Taken 1. We have started using silicon carbide heaters instead of kanthal A1 (Cr, Fe and Al alloy) heaters for our furnaces 2. Used grinding machine instead of hand brushing to reduce air pollution. Outcomes : P 4/5 Plans for the Upcoming Year 10: Businesses should work against Commitment/ Policies : Code of conduct for suppliers has been developed. all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Action Taken : Code of conduct has been sent to suppliers, which also covers corruption and bribery. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year P 5/5
