United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress In 2010, Owens Corning was honored to join the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. With its emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, the U.N. Global Compact is well-aligned with our company values. It also provides Owens Corning with a strong platform for embracing and enacting good corporate principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The accompanying “Communication on Progress” document provides an overview of Owens Corning’s recent activities in support of Global Compact objectives. Statement of Support As the attached report illustrates, Owens Corning is committed – in both belief and action – to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. This commitment extends beyond simply making our products and operations more sustainable. It involves understanding and embracing the broader objectives of sustainability as we seek to balance economic growth with social progress and environmental stewardship. In short, we believe that what is good for people and good for our planet is also good for Owens Corning. Sustainability is also about caring for our employees and the communities in which they live and work. Owens Corning provides our people with clear guidance on how to conduct business ethically and comply with all laws through our Code of Business Conduct and Corporate Governance policies. These guidelines reflect our values as a company and are incorporated into the way our employees work every day — with customers, colleagues, suppliers, and the broader public. Another key dimension of caring for our employees is our continued quest for an injury-free workplace. I am immensely proud that Owens Corning has achieved nine consecutive years of safety improvement. The dedication of our global team in pursuing the goal of zero injuries reflects our commitment to caring for employees. Owens Corning made a strong commitment to our global communities by joining the United Nations Global Compact in 2010. One year later, we are proud of our continued progress in the sustainability arena, and pleased to renew our dedication to conducting business responsibly throughout the world. Michael H. Thaman Chairman and CEO Owens Corning 2010 Communication on Progress The following information is an overview of our 2009/2010 progress against the Ten Principles and is supplemented by information contained on our external website, http://www.owenscorning.com/. Principles 2009/2010 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Owens Corning human rights Employee Excellence and respect the protection practices are embedded in of internationally our Code of Business Conduct. Labor and Work Practices proclaimed human rights. Owens Corning respects all international human rights Code of Business Conduct standards throughout our global operation. 2. Make sure that they are Owens Corning has a Supplier Code of Business Conduct not complicit in human Code of Conduct which is rights abuses. mirrored from the employee Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Business Conduct. Owens Corning began its supplier program in 2010 and will be embarking on surveying suppliers for compliance. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold Owens Corning recognizes the Labor and Work Practices the freedom of rights of its employees to seek association and the union representation or to effective recognition of remain self represented, and the right to collective honors their choices. The bargaining. company has forged productive relationships with unions and work councils throughout the world, and we value their partnership. Approximately 50 percent of our hourly employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 4. The elimination of all Owens Corning’s Code of Code of Business Conduct forced and compulsory Business Conduct and labor. Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct specifically indicate that there will be no tolerance for forced or compulsory labor. 5. The effective abolition of Owens Corning’s Code of Code of Business Conduct child labor. Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct specifically indicate that there will be no tolerance for child labor. Owens Corning defines “child labor” as work or service extracted from anyone under the age of sixteen (16), the minimum age for employment in that country, or the age for completing compulsory education in that country, whichever is higher. 6. The elimination of Owens Corning employees or Code of Business Conduct discrimination in respect employees of suppliers are of employment and expected to work in an Supplier Code of Conduct occupation. environment free from harassment on any basis including, but not limited to, harassment on the basis of race, color, sex, age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, cultural affiliation, religion, physical or mental disability, and personal characteristics or circumstances. Environment 7. Businesses should support Owens Corning seeks to Product Stewardship a precautionary approach ensure that our products and to environmental technology comply with or Greening Our Products challenges. exceed all applicable laws, regulations and approval standards to protect the environment and human life or health. Our product stewardship programs are designed to ensure the integrity of our products and the processes used to develop, produce and manage them. 8. Undertake initiatives to Owens Corning has a Vice EHS promote greater President and Chief environmental Sustainability Officer, as well Environmental Footprint & responsibility. as, a Vice President of Goals Environmental, Health and Safety. These individuals are responsible for setting strategy and leading the company in their efforts to reduce the environmental footprint. Owens Corning has seven environmental goals which they are working towards achieving. 9. Encourage the Owens Corning is continually Greening Our Products development and seeking better technologies diffusion of for producing products as well Environmental Footprint & environmentally friendly as the characteristics of the Goals technologies. products it sells. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work Owens Corning has an antiCode of Business Conduct against corruption in all its corruption policy and expects forms, including extortion all employees and suppliers to Supplier Code of Conduct and bribery. comply with it. Each year all employees are required to go through a training course on the Owens Corning Business Code of Conduct and attest to their adherence to it.
