2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS NMT CONSULTANCY AND TRAINING CENTER 1.12.2011 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message of Managing Director 3 About NMT 4 NMT’s Commitments 5 NMT’s Vision and Mission 5 NMT’s Values and Principles 6 Corporate Memberships 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Projects 8 NMT’S Actions for Global Compact Principles in 2011 10 1-Human Rights 10 2-Labor 13 3-Environment 15 4-Anti Corruption 17 NMT’s Plans for 2012 19 LIST OF TABLES Table 1.0………………………………………………………………………………………………………..12 Table1.1…………………………………………………………………………………………………………14 Table 1.2………………………………………………………………………………………………………..16 Table 1.3………………………………………………………………………………………………………..18 2 / 19 MESSAGE OF MANAGING DIRECTOR After one year of our participation to Global Compact initiative, NMT resumes a more holistic presence within business life. While internalizing the ten principles into our daily business practices, our professionalism got enriched with a global perspective and awareness. The social and political developments within country and our region, made us very much sensitive to the issues of human rights and good governance practices. In 2011, NMT celebrated its 15th anniversary. It has been a long way since we first established our company on the ideal of bringing New Management Techniques to our clients to the point that we are standing today. By enhancing our international commitments, we manage to develop a culture of corporate responsibility not only within our organization but also in our clients’ organizations. We are aware of the fact that we must work harder to increase awareness about global compact principles among our sphere of influence. In the upcoming year we are planning to increase our dialogue with the local network to develop better projects. Didem Esen Managing Director-CMC NMT Consultancy and Training Center 3 / 19 ABOUT NMT NMT Consultancy and Training Center had been founded in 1996 in order to maintain direct and tangible management solutions for small and medium sized enterprises in manufacturing industry. During this initial period, NMT’s consultants have serviced over 100 companies and directly supported their clients’ in developing their industrial capabilities. In 1998, NMT Consultancy becomes the member of association of management consultants (YDD). In 1998, on demand of its clients NMT Human Resources group had been established to support clients in their search and selection processes. In 1999, NMT Training Center had been established so as to provide professional training programs on quality management. In 2000, NMT had been added into the UNIDO database. In 2001, NMT started its institutionalization projects for family owned businesses. In 2002, NMT undertook the consultancy project of EU Business Centers in Turkey. In 2004, NMT Training Group developed various new programs in strategic management, business continuity management and personal development. In 2005, NMT divided its activities into two corporate bodies as NMT Consultancy and Training Center and NMT Human Resources. In 2007, NMT adopted the vision of internationalization and thus NMT Human Resources signed the partnership contract with Feige Business Advisors GmbH. In 2011, NMT celebrates its 15th anniversary. 4 / 19 NMT’S COMMITTMENTS  Provide High Quality Services  Respect Confidentiality of Clients’ Information  Impartiality and Independence  Promote the Ultimate Interest of the Clients  Maintain Sustainability and Good Governance Practices  Maintain Measures Against Anti-Discrimination and Respect To Human Rights  Protect and Promote Environmental Friendly Solutions In All Operational Processes NMT’S VISION Become an internationally recognized institution that transforms the concept of “quality” into a way of life. NMT’S MISSION Continuously and apparently improve the value that we add to our clients’ organizations, to our employees, to the society and environment by means of our efficiency, honesty and dynamism. 5 / 19 NMT’S VALUES AND PRINCIPLES Honesty NMT embraces the principle of honesty and mutual trust in all dimensions of its operations. NMT believes that developing realistic and sincere solutions that would best fit to its clients’ corporate culture and industrial position is the utmost way of value creation. Innovation NMT Team is dedicated to develop original solutions instead of duplication. By developing tailor-made solutions we are trying to frame up the future. The Value of “One” NMT Team is aware of the fact that unless we hear the voice of an individual, we will not be able to hear the voice of the group. Continuous Development NMT Team’s major concentration is to keep on developing services and do our job better than yesterday. By promoting a culture of continuous development among the agents and organizations in our sphere of influence we believe to develop a culture of continuous quality. 6 / 19 CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS KALDERTurkish Quality Association NMT, as a company which contains the idea of quality in its founding principle, is the member of Kalder and joined various occasions concerning process and quality management PERYONTurkey Personnel Management Association NMT becomes the member in 2010 and NMT Consultants participated to the national occupational standards project team for recruitment job group YDDTurkish Association of Management Consultants NMT is the member of this organization since 1998 and Mrs. Didem Esen became Certified Management Consultant in 2009 7 / 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS IN 2011 NMT sponsored a seminar on Toyota Production System at Bosphorus University on March 2011. With the valuable contributions of Mr. Tetsuye Yamazaki, Toyota Boshoku’s Turkey Plant President. students and professionals got the chance to learn the details of culture of efficiency and lean management. Mrs. Didem Esen, Managing Director of NMT Consultancy and Training Center, had given a seminar on Enterpreneurship to the employees of logistics association (LODER) on May 2011. NMT, for its 15th year anniversary will sponsor a childrens’ theatrical performance held in December 2011. Whole profit of this performance will be donated to Leukemic Childrens’ Foundation (LÖSEV). On December 2011, Managing Partner of NMT, Mrs. Angela Teresi will give a seminar on improving management skills to LÖSEV employees. 8 / 19 NMT Team organized a charity campaign for the students of Dagarcik Primary School in Mutki/Bitlis. Within the framework of this campaign, NMT employees worked to provide necessary stationery supplies to the children. We are planning to reorganize this campaign next year in order to maintain our support for the teachers and children in the region. NMT Team joined the charity campaign of Kadikoy Municipality organized for helping victims of Van Earthquake. Within a very short period of time we manage to collect necessary sanitary materials and clothing. Members of our team also worked voluntarily to allocate materials in the municipality. 9 / 19 NMT’S ACTIONS FOR GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN 2011 In our second year of participation to Global Compact initiative, we aim to internalize common values in our daily business operations and corporate principles. Last year we have established various work groups among the employees who would act as informative agents for their colleagues. This year, work groups functioned more like formal reference groups. They organize meetings regularly and provide an atmosphere of interaction among the employers which everybody come together and share their ideas and experiences on global compact values and principles. This mutual knowledge sharing activity not only make our employees more concerned about global issues but also make us more careful in our business practices. We are now more concerned about the results and effects of our business decisions on environment and on our corporate culture. 1-HUMAN RIGHTS NMT supports and protects internationally proclaimed principles of human rights and works to eliminate actions or practices that might give way to complicity to human rights abuses. The issue of human rights abuses has always been publicly discussed in Turkey concerning the malpractices in public sphere. However, this year the issue become more popular under the light of human rights abuses in the neighboring countries. Last year, we have taken couple of steps to maintain human rights in the workplace. For this, we have established Human Rights Awareness Group to make necessary research on what could be done to maintain this principle into our workplace. As a result of their efforts, we have embedded human rights principles into our corporate human resources hand book and included a two hours long seminar on “Human Rights and Business” into the corporate orientation program. Throughout 2011, NMT Human Rights Awareness Group organized quarterly meetings in which they share recent developments in the world and discuss the alternatives to maintain a culture of equality and respect within the workplace. 10 / 19 As a result of these efforts, NMT employees become very much aware of social and political developments about human rights in the world and in the business life. On the basis of their proposal, NMT will celebrate Human Rights Day on 10 December 2011. For this, NMT employees are planning to place a poster in the office entrance to inform the visitors and a special message will be broadcasted on corporate web page. This trend, started last year in which NMT employees evaluated human rights among first 3 subjects thay they think very important to learn in 2010 in NMT Employee Satisfaction Survey. Currently, we are working to develop further projects to combat against child labor and discrimination. 11 / 19 Table 1.0 GLOBAL COMPACT NMT’S COMMITTMENT RESULTS PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN *Total degree of Businesses should *NMT Human Rights awareness on human support and respect the Awareness Group rights issues developed protection of organized quarterly among the NMT Team. internationally meetings proclaimed human rights * NMT will celebrate *Continuous feedbacks Human Rights Day on 10 on best practices are December 2011. NMT given in regular meetings employees are planning to place a poster in the Businesses make sure office entrance to inform that they are not the visitors and a special complicit in human rights message will be abuses broadcasted on corporate web page. 12 / 19 2LABOR NMT declares its adherence to the principles of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. NMT is against all forms of compulsory labor and supports all civil initiatives for abolition of child labor. We are eager to put forward all the necessary measures that would foster the application of ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. NMT is fully aware of its obligation in developing the standards of working life within its sphere of influence. NMT complies with all legal requirements arising from the Turkish Labor Law and embraces the principle of being an “equal opportunities employer” In all human resources processes. Especially in alternative areas that might involve complicity to discrimination, NMT human resources team developed effective safe guards within their code of conduct. In terms of recruitment; our recruiters avoid asking questions about race, religion or socio-political views of the candidates and in vacancy advertisements of NMT we do not mention items referring to gender, age or physical condition of the candidates. By this way, NMT has always enjoyed the chance to work with great talents who had enriched our team and inspired our business. In terms of remuneration; NMT is applying equal pay for equal job principle for all of its employees. Moreover, NMT is providing maternity protection for the personnel who have children. NMT is encouraging its personnel to stand against maltreatment and/or mobbing. Managers are obliged to take necessary actions within 2 days after they have received written or oral complaint of an employee. In terms of occupational health and safety; NMT guarantees to provide right tools and working conditions to all of its employees. We have established our rules and procedures according to the international occupational health and safety standards and we are planning to get OHSAS18001 certification in 2012. 13 / 19 Table 1.1 GLOBAL COMPACT NMT’S COMMITTMENT RESULTS PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN Businesses should *NMT adhere to *NMT enjoys working uphold the freedom of principle of association with talents to enrich its association and the and right of collective team and inspire its effective recognition of bargaining business the right to collective bargaining; *NMT is against all forms *Employees enjoyed of compulsory labor working within a safe and democratic *NMT is against child labor environment that respect and promotes Elimination of all forms *Anti discriminatory human dignity and of forced and clauses are being individuality compulsory labor detached from vacancy ads and recruitment * NMT, established processes corporate rules and procedures according to *Promoting the idea of Effective abolition of the international health Equal Opportunities child labor and safety standards Employer *Promote Equal Pay For *NMT will get Equal Job OHSAS18001 Eliminate discrimination in respect of certification in 2012. employment and *Corporate policy occupation against mobbing is applied 14 / 19 3-ENVIRONMENT NMT embraces the environmental dimension of Global Compact initiative and declares its adherence to the principles set on Agenda 21. We believe and support the idea that; policies and operations of business and industry can play a major role in reducing the impacts on the use of resources and the environment. NMT, with its entire employees, works to promote greater environmental responsibility in our business practices and promoting green office applications internally. NMT is supporting projects that would maintain the use of environment friendly technologies. In order to maintain the above mentioned principles, NMT established a green office project team at the beginning of 2010. As a result of their efforts, we managed to save %2 of electricity consumption and reduced our office wastes by 10%. In 2011, we have completed the implementation of enterprise resource planning program and transferred all our documentation into electronic database. Currently, use of paper in our daily operations had been diminished by %76. Besides these, we are still continuing to classify office wastes for effective recycling. On the basis of this increased interest, we have prepared all corporate procedures according to the environmental management system standards and we are planning to get ISO14001:2004 Environmental Management System certification in 2012. 15 / 19 Table 1.2 GLOBAL COMPACT NMT’S COMMITTMENT RESULTS PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN Business should support *NMT staff had been a precautionary trained on approach to transformation to green *Use of paper in the environmental office applications daily operations had challenges been diminished by %76. *Enterprise Resource Planning program had been implemented. Undertake initiatives to promote greater *NMT will get *Whole corporate ISO14001:2004 environmental documentation had Environmental responsibility been transferred into Management System electronic platform certification in 2012. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 16 / 19 4ANTI CORRUPTION NMT is aware of the fact that corruption has played a major part in undermining the world's social, economic and environmental development which leads ultimately to the improper and unfair allocation of resources and prevents development of societies. NMT supports all the national and international efforts to fight against corruption and declares its full commitment to the anti corruption principle of Global Compact. NMT reaffirms that; fighting against corruption at every stage of our business operations and values is not only the key to develop an understanding of belonging to the global corporate citizenship initiative but also it is a contemporary necessity of good governance. NMT promotes the idea of transparency and tries to develop a democracy culture among its staff and within the organizations of its clients. Consultants who are working for the institutionalization of family businesses projects are obliged to inform their clients on the necessity of adopting anti corruption principles into their corporate practices. 17 / 19 Table 1.3 GLOBAL COMPACT NMT’S COMMITTMENT RESULTS PRINCIPLES AND ACTIONS TAKEN *NMT supports all the national and international efforts to fight against corruption and declares its full commitment to the anti corruption principle of Business should work Global Compact. *Corporate culture against corruption in all its forms including against anti*NMT management assures extortion and bribery corruption had been that all decisions are open to legal and corporate developed audits and they accept to be held fully accountable of their actions. *Consultants who are working for the institutionalization of family businesses projects are informing the clients on necessity of adopting anticorruption principles into their corporate practices. 18 / 19 NMT’S PLANS FOR 2012 2011 had been an enriching period for us to develop our vision and global understanding. In 2012, NMT will continue its support for the global compact principles and we are planning to develop our corporate policies and practices in compliance with these principles. We are eager to enhance the effects of the corporate practices into a wider sphere of influence to our suppliers and clients Through applying the standards of ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System we are expecting to achieve an advanced level of commitment to environmental protection and good working conditions. In 2012 we would like to foster our commitment to Global Compact principles more than last year. As an organization which %90 of employees is female, NMT Team is planning to put forward its support for women rights issues and anti discrimination at its corporate social responsibility projects. 19 / 19
