COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2010 Period Contents The Chairman’s Statement 4 About Bersay 6 Why did we participate? 6 What happened after our participation? 6 Our mission 7 Our vision 7 Our values 7 Our notion of service 10 Our Companies 11 Bersay Communication Consultancy 11 Saydam Communication and Event Management 19 Kesisim Publishing and Design Services 23 Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication 24 Bersay Communications Institute 28 Our Education Programs 30 Publications 34 Conference and Meetings 36 Facilities 37 Scholarships 40 Our Support Units 43 Human Assets Department 43 Communication on Progress 2010 |2 Operational Processes 50 Administrative Affairs 51 Information and Document Management 53 Our Memberships 53 UN Global Compact Principles 57 Performance Indicators 60 Communication on Progress 2010 |3 The Chairman’s Statement As the Founder and Chairman of the Board of Bersay Communication Group, the leader enterprise in communications sector, it is my pleasure to declare our activities which we have realized in parallel with our commitment to UN Global Compact and its 10 principles and our continuous improvement targets in these areas. Bersay Communication Group that is accepted as the role model of the sector celebrated its 20. year in the year of 2010. In 2010, we did not only lead our customers, social stakeholders and business partners in the field of corporate social responsibility but also did continue our activities that serve as model in this field with Bersay Communication Institute which is a respected enterprise of Bersay Communication Group. A non-profit enterprise Bersay Communication Institute has been founded within the structure of Bersay Communication Group which has started out with the philosophy of ‘Built to last’ and has been structured according to this, at a time at which the biggest economic crises has arose, gave its first scholarships in 2010. In addition my book ‘How to Lose Your Wife and Customer’ was published and its income was granted to Bersay Communication Institute, by doing so we targeted to contribute to the sector in both intellectual and substantial ways. Our two companies Bersay Communication Consultancy and Saydam Communication and Event Management as being members of ICCO and its Turkey representative IDA completed their Communication on Progress 2010 |4 annual audits successfully. We developed new projects and made both new technical and intellectual investments in the field of Corporate Memory as a result of our sensivity to share the knowledge. Our Human Assets Department that represents our view which sees the people as ‘assets’ not ‘sources’ carried on its operations with its new name. Today, ‘BIG’ which comprises of initials of Bersay Communication Group serves to more than 100 customers with its organization that includes 5 companies and its 130 employees at a 2000 square meters office place. BIG which individuates its service approach with three concepts, ‘Marbling – Charm – Engineering’, has always increasingly maintained its belief to its business, sector and country. Growing by increasing its international service standard and quality is an integral part of the future designing... so BIG has directed its sources to 4 fields: 1. Human Assets 2. Research and Development 3. Marketing 4. Structural Processes With this report in your hands we share our corporate social responsibility activities for the period of the year 2010 and declare our commitment to UN Global Compact and its principles one more time. Ali Saydam Chairman of the Board Communication on Progress 2010 |5 About Bersay The Bersay Communication Group, which was founded in 1990 as Bersay Communication Consultancy, is comprised of Bersay Communication Consultancy, Kesisim Publishing and Design Studio, Saydam Communication and Event Management, Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication and Bersay Communication Institute companies. Bersay Communication Group was founded in 2005 to answer the Communication needs of its clients from a single source through the integrated solutions it offers. Bersay Communication Group is a member of Pleon/Ketchum, one of the leading communication consultancy companies in the world. Bersay also carries out projects for Pleon/Ketchum’s international clients in Turkey. Why did we participate? Bersay Communication Group has decided to join UN Global Compact because Corporate Social Responsibility is an essential part of the mainstream business practices. As a corporation, we always emphasize the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility and encourage our clients to practice it in their business activities. Thus, we believe that our mission, vision and values overlap with Un Global Compact’s overall corporate perception. In addition, our company is willing to enhance its business performance and gain different perspectives through practicing 10 universal principles of GC, which we gladly embrace. What happened after our participation? As Bersay Communication Group, we signed The Global Compact on 13th of December, 2007, at the ceremony held by Turkish Quality Society (KalDer) with the cooperation of Koc Holding. As Bersay Communication Group, we have put all our efforts in the spread of the 10 principles of Un Global Compact among our employees and customers who now become more conscious about it. We made GC principles visible in common employee spaces. Communication on Progress 2010 |6 Our Mission Creating value for our customers locally, nationally and internationally through communications solutions relying on knowledge and creativity, and effective application services; thus contributing to the development of the industry. Creating value for our customers locally, nationally and internationally through both knowledge and creativity based communications solutions and effective application services; thus contributing to the development of the industry. Our Vision To be the most effective communication group of Turkey in the national and international markets, by integrating the universal understanding of communication with local culture and values through its expertise. Our Values • We are proud and excited to be a member of Bersay • We believe in the power of knowledge and creativity • We believe in continuous development and innovation • We understand the differences and respect them • We act socially responsible • We understand local-universal values and the relation between them, and • accordingly develop our intellectual capital • We believe in “growing together” with our clients and industry. Companies that create their own corporate values based on the traditional values of their society and place these values in the “heart” of the corporation can change both themselves and the world. What makes corporations stronger and provides them with competitive edge is their strict loyalty to these values. When determining its corporate value system, Bersay believes that it should re-define, re-interpret and re-direct the deep-rooted value system inherited from the ancient history of Turkish society. Communication on Progress 2010 |7 For Bersay, this value system is the guide for every decision taken by the corporation and its employees. It is a compass orienting the corporation and a complementary part of its ideology. Bersay is essentially human-centered, and its corporate structure is human oriented. Guided by the principle that the employee is a “valuable”, Bersay conducts all its business, relation and communication processes in accordance with the human values that are part of its corporate value system. Bersay employees: • Volunteer for risk, as well as victory. The Bersay employee has the courage and confidence to risk loss in order to achieve heroism. The Bersay employee acknowledges that risk can involve fear, anxiety and uncertainty; and is willing to experience those feelings in order to move forward. • The Bersay employee competes with himself. He knows that thinking outside the the existing competitive environment will add a new and different perspective to any situation. He always works to surpass previous achievements. His greatest inspiration is his own individual development; he is self-motivated and self-encouraging. Today, he strives to become better than yesterday, and tomorrow, he will strive to be better than today. • Neither does he judge or discriminate. He makes no judgment about people, situations, events or concepts, whether positive or negative He does not take sides, knowing that loss of objectivity leads to a loss of awareness and perception dimension. He considers and respects others’ world views and perspectives He is humble. • He does not cling to negative emotions and thoughts. • He always asks questions. He knows that creativity and innovation can only be achieved with curiosity and inquiry. He believes in asking questions in order to evolve and remain dynamic. He knows that creativity requires challenges and obstacles.. • He looks for meaning in his work. He believes that his work must create added value for himself, his clients and society. Communication on Progress 2010 |8 Communication Engineering and Computation The strategic perspective on communication is based on a five-stage process that includes the following steps: analysis, planning, implementation, computation and evaluation. Within the framework of Bersay’s proprietary Communication Engineering approach, computation – currently the fourth stage becomes an integral and integrated element of each of the other stages. The framework of this approach encompasses output (e.g. media coverage) as well as outcomes related to business objectives (purchasing trends, perception management, etc. in the target demographic) and is the foundation in every step of the planning and implementation stages. Previous communication performance is analyzed and the measurable performance criteria of future communication proposals are defined (planning stage). Using these criteria, every detail of the completed communication strategy is computed, down to the micro criteria of the proposal. This approach ensures the right strategy, the right planning and efficient implementation. It adds more communication value to our customers and to the brands. Analyzing the results of our strategy at every stage, along with highly effective management of the return on the communication investment, provides our customers with an advantage: maximizing limited resources of money, time and human resources. Magical Customer Relationship Bersay Communication Group employees establish charmed relationships with their clients. A magical client relationship has two elements: optimal service quality and the functional/technical factors; the emotional dynamic based on these interpersonal relationships. Bersay Communication Group employees • Fully understand the client’s needs and attributes • Know and understand resources of both the client and their own corporation • Have expertise in evaluating situations Communication on Progress 2010 |9 • Have highly efficient communication skills • Are team players and team builders • Possess good planning and problem solving skills • Have excellent project management capabilities BCG employees love learning, set examples for each other, motivate themselves and have the ability to influence others. Our Notion of Service We have adopted the “Integrated Communications” approach which offers various communications disciplines (Consultancy, Public Relations, Event Management and Organization, Corporate Publishing, Advertising and Design, Education) from a single source. Communication on Progress 2010 | 10 Our Companies Bersay Communication Consultancy Bersay Communication Consultancy was founded in 1990 by Ali Saydam. Attempting to raise the quality standards in the communication industry as a member of ICCO (International Committee of Public Relations Consultancies Association) and IDA (Communication Consultancies Association) its representative in Turkey, Bersay became the first company in 1999 to receive ISO 9002 certificate in the communication industry in Turkey. In order to actualize its customers’ business goals, Bersay strategically plans, manages, and applies communication within the framework of “Reputation Management.” With its resultoriented communication approaches and solutions, the company gives its customers the opportunity to be unique and helps them to gain competitive advantage. Thanks to our corporate strength, Bersay Communication Consultancy aims to become a leading communications consultancy in Turkey by combining a universal understanding of communications with local culture and values in both national and international markets. Bersay Communication Consultancy has been providing services to leading companies in Turkey and around the globe for twenty years, shaping communications strategies that contribute to their business goals. We create and execute projects as well as developing models to evaluate how our communications programs contribute to the business activities of our customers. Services 1. Consultancy Services (Communication Engineering) • Strategic Planning and Computation Communications is one of the most important processes that must be managed by companies, brands or people to achieve their goals in today’s climate, where global and local economic policies, competition, and consumers are constantly evolving. Communication on Progress 2010 | 11 Coherent, creative and consistent communications processes – planned and managed with a strategic approach – play an unequivocal, vital role in establishing a company’s image. Evaluating and sharing communications projects in terms of expediency and potential contribution is critical. At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we attach great importance to evaluating, improving, and sharing communications strategies as well as to the projects that are created as a result. We not only stay abreast of industry developments and innovations but also create evaluation methods that suit the needs of both our current and potential customers based on our 20 years of experience. • Leadership Communication Planning Are leaders born or made? No one knows exactly when this discussion first started but there is no doubt that the main objective in leadership communications planning is to establish a corporate image. The word ‘corporation’ may describe a company, a political organization or a small activist group. However, those without the proper perspective in searching for a corporate image or identity do not become leaders but directors. So, how does one become or be transformed into a leader? Who doesn’t want to move forward without having to constantly circulate their own image or transform it into a walking logo, achieving sustainable and positive added value to one’s individual and corporate perception, shouldering the responsibility without being overwhelmed by it? Who doesn’t want to forge ahead without getting lost in the delicate, yet critical balance between action and fact, opportunities and possibilities, capacity and messages? At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we correctly analyze the matrix organization of each gap in a wide vector network. We create the right strategies and action plans, leaving nothing to chance. • Investor Relations Management The perception of investors is an overriding concern in forming a company’s market value. How and to what extent the company’s performance is communicated to investors is no less important than the performance itself. The company’s stock Communication on Progress 2010 | 12 performance or market value is directly related to this corporate perception. As a part of investor relations management here at Bersay Communication Consultancy, we manage projects to communicate improvements in a company’s performance to investors. In doing so, we adhere to the principles of coherence and consistency. • International Projects Counseling Communications consultancy is a global profession in our interconnected world. With each passing day, companies penetrate new markets and meet new targets based on evolving trends and national economies. As is the case in their own domestic markets, these companies need to understand and listen to their customers and social partners and to establish and sustain strong relations in these new markets as well. At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we walk side-by-side with our clients on their new journeys and prepare global strategic road maps as business partners who intuitively know who they are and what they need. In the preparation of our plans, we benefit from the power of Ketchum. • Corporate Social Responsibility High brand awareness and a corporate image is what everyone wants. However, this begs the question: What makes us distinct from the competition? In an attempt to respond to this question, we see that social responsibility projects are one important starting point as they are in and of themselves a fundamental approach. A company that not only makes profit but also benefits society and can persuade its shareholders that its “responsible” perspective is a “sincere attitude” will undoubtedly distinguish itself from the competition and make a lasting contribution to a corporate image. Even if a “what’s in it for me” approach may be beneficial to stakeholders, such as employees, customers, suppliers, partners, and investors in the short term, brands which achieve the “magic touching that reaches the heart” create a true distinction in competition, with loyal customers, confident business partners, and dedicated employees. Communication on Progress 2010 | 13 2. Applied Communication Solutions • Media Relations The current state of communications tools and information technologies compels both people and companies to establish healthy and sustainable relations with the media and to manage these relations appropriately. Today, scores of facts, press releases and news items are sent to media organizations by various institutions and public relations agencies, making it paramount to differentiate which messages are communicated to the media in this communication chaos. Therefore, Bersay Communication Consultancy  defines media relations strategies parallel to communications strategies  prepares media plans based on corporate agenda in line with created strategies and  coordinates relations between the company and the media, according to a media plan As a result, messages are conveyed by corporate spokespeople to their target groups and social partners, efficiently and on time, in line with a strategic communications approach designed to achieve the company’s communications goals in keeping with its business goals. • Marketing Communication As a result of a shrinking global economy, companies need marketing-focused solutions in their communications projects with strategies aimed at building up their market shares and strategic planning focused on hot sales in addition to advancing their market values – this is marketing communications. Previously described as advertising, public relations, promotion and personal sales, today marketing communications encompasses a much wider concept, ranging from a product’s characteristics and packaging to sales and after-sales service. Communication on Progress 2010 | 14 At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we characterize marketing communications as determining a company’s communications goals and long-term core activities to include allocating the necessary resources to accomplish these goals and to focus on these activities. To sum up, we evaluate the marketing communications opportunities of our customers and develop alternative strategies in line with their goals and offer marketing communications consultancy in both product benefit and positioning strategies. • Issue Management Issues emanating from a crisis could do irreparable harm to a company’s corporate image, financial assets, and relations with target groups and social partners. To avoid permanent damage to a company’s corporate image, a crisis must be managed rapidly with no room for failure. Of course, sometimes a crisis is unpredictable, mainly because a situation which is susceptible to crisis have not been managed properly and proactively. Issue management is one of the tools in communications planning that helps foresee and manage these situations to stave off a crisis in the making. However, issue management modules are deployed not only to avoid a possible crisis but to place these on the company’s agenda as issues of medium and long-term concern and to shape public opinion so that it supports corporate perception. • Crisis Communications Without a doubt, the most efficient way to manage a crisis is to predict and solve the crisis before it happens. However, this is not always possible. At Bersay Communication Consultancy, as a part of our crisis management services, we prepare alternative scenarios and action plans based on a customer’s areas of potential crisis. We offer consultancy services and application projects to provide a rapid assessment of the extent of the damage caused by the crisis. We work with the Communication on Progress 2010 | 15 company’s crisis management team to implement action plans and to constantly control and communicate the most accurate information to their stakeholders through the best channels. • Sponsorship Projects Communication With billions of dollars being spent in this area around the globe, sponsorship is an important marketing technique and when used efficiently improves product perception. Moreover, sponsorship projects are highly efficient communications tools in conveying messages to the right stakeholders through the right channels and in creating targets for corporate perception. At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we believe that conducting sponsorship projects without proper communications is simply throwing away good money. To us it’s of great importance that companies sponsor the right projects in areas that support their communications goals, making the most of these projects as part of their communications strategies. In this respect, we either help our customers develop the right proposals for projects that add value to their communications activities or help them manage current sponsorships to reap the highest ROI in communications. • Internal Communications At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we contend that internal communications is one of the most important pillars supporting a corporate image. Communications with employees is a key factor in increasing the quality of a service or a product, thus gaining customer satisfaction. Every research study on perception invariably reaches the same conclusion: “the most secure information resource” for public opinion and stakeholders is corporate employees. Once you are properly managing your own internal communications as your most important information source, then you’ll have a “communications army” at practically no cost. Let’s use an example to bring home the point: Think of a company that has 3,000 employees. Predictably, 3,000 people contact at least 10 people each or 30,000 people, who each contact four people in the second layer of the chain or 120,000 total people – your communications army, an army that has a Communication on Progress 2010 | 16 direct and powerful impact on your company’s business of communicating messages directly to your target groups. At Bersay Communication Consultancy, we structure our internal communications services to improve a company’s employee satisfaction – employees who are dedicated and efficient with intellectual added value. • Event Management We define all activities organized by our clients as events that include launches, press conferences, road shows, dealer meetings and exhibitions. Before we settle on how, we first decide whether the event is even appropriate. We do this with our clients. Then we ask, how do we do this? At that point our event management services come into play. What we mean by event management is the planning and management of all processes, before, during and after an event. These processes are many and varied: concept development, project design, budgeting, design, supply, planning, production, management, and information-sharing. If we are not directly responsible for organizing an event, we provide coordination with third parties and the necessary quality control, as well as helping the company reach their primary goal. • Financial Communications Services A company’s performance indicators include market value, profitability, efficiency, the market share of both the product and the company, production, growth, new investments, exports, their added value to the economy and the workforce they create, and profitability from scale economies – just to name a few. Bersay Consultancy’s financial communications looks at these indicators as clues to a company’s future and current standing. We help our customers position their companies in terms of accountability and sustainability, even when they have no intention of going public or of selling blocks of shares. Communication on Progress 2010 | 17 3. Online Communications Consultancy The debate regarding how social media communities or online networks – the fastest growing new communications platforms – have increasingly become more important for companies and their brands is still raging. However, serious confusion exists over the dynamics of these online networks and corporate brand positioning. At this point, the attitudes of many companies influence the perception that online communications is all about digital marketing projects. However, Bersay Consultancy is committed to managing corporate and brand perceptions not only through strategic planning but through online networks. We have adopted the “listen, join, produce” approach, which is essential to establishing and maintaining a presence in online networks and especially in the social media. Thus, we first listen to and follow what’s talked about all around us regarding companies and brands and, of course, their main competitors. We conduct detailed analysis and reporting on this data and create strategies based on these analyses. We develop and implement projects based on these strategies to improve perception in these networks. In this sense, we offer our customers the most proper and efficient way for a company to manage their relations with opinion leaders in the social media. Moreover, we evaluate sponsorship projects that we believe will contribute to a brand’s communications. We also evaluate cooperation opportunities resulting from a company’s extended online presence. In other words, we evaluate and design projects to complement a customer’s strategic approach. Communication on Progress 2010 | 18 Saydam Communication and Event Management Established in February 2005 for the purpose of offering 'Integrated Communication Services' and affiliated with Bersay Communication Group, Saydam Communication and Event Management offers expert services in the area of communication management, event management and design and application services. Saydam Communication and Event Management which is the member of ICCO (International Committee of Public Relations Consultancies Association) and the member of IDA, its representative in Turkey, (Communication Consultants Association), adds value to the companies and brands that take services from Saydam and make a special difference in the sector in parallel with the entegrated Communication approach. Services 1. Communication Management • Reputation Management • Leadership Communication Planning • Brand Management • Marketing Communication • Crisis Communications • Issue Management • Internal Communications • Sponsorship Management • CSR Communications • IPO Communications • Media Relations • Content Consultancy Communication on Progress 2010 | 19 2. Event Management • Event and Concept Consulting  Event design, planning and application consulting  Events that are adapted for brand recognition  Marketing events  In-house communication events  Sales improving events  Sponsorships relations management • Event Applications  New product and project launches  VIP events  Press conferences  Dealers meetings  Internal communication  Sales and motivation meetings  Domestic and abroad press tours  Congress and seminars,  Road show  Concert organizations  Domestic and abroad show groups organizations  Performer, celebrity and announcer organizations  Product promotion activities  Managing fair stands  Competition and draw organizations • Production Services  Stage/stand/showroom design and production  Space decoration  Branding activities  Sound, video and lightning systems  Technical equipment and office systems  Digital printing materials Communication on Progress 2010 | 20  Video / animation / documentary / trailers  Custom design and production giveaways  Promotion materials  Graphically designed and printed materials • Logistic Services  Delivering invitations and RSVP follow up  Team organization (cleaning, catering, hostess, security, animation etc.)  Camera and photo shooting  Transfer and transportation services  Shipping services  Direct posting services 3. Design & Application Services • Corporate Identity Works Corporation/brand name works, logo design, slogan writing, determining the design standards of all kinds of printed materials and creating corporate identity manuals. • Interactive Solutions Creating the content of website, mailing and flash animation works, design and software of those. • Corporate Introductory Film Writing scenario of corporate introductory films, production and post-production works. • Press Campaigns Design of newspaper and magazine advertisements; preparing radio spots and TV advertisement films; and media purchasing. • Outdoor Designing and renting of billboard, megaboard, racket, on-car and on-wall advertising etc. Communication on Progress 2010 | 21 • Promotion works Creating and producing of promotion materials that are suitable for all kinds of projects. • Printed promotional materials Creating, designing and producing of all kinds of printed promotional materials like catalogues, brochures, activity reports, posters etc. • Event Designing Creating concepts; designing and producing the branding, stage, stand materials that will be used for all kinds of events. Communication on Progress 2010 | 22 Kesisim Publishing and Design Services Kesisim is a company with 15 years of experience in advertising and publishing industry. As a custom publishing company with its expert editorial and design team, Kesisim provides B2B corporate magazines, prestige books, and annual reports for corporate clients, using creative techniques and original layouts. Kesisim offers the followings as a “full service advertising agency”: • Creating corporate identity, • Creating advertising campaigns including TV commercials, radio spots, press ads, outdoor and indoor advertisements, etc, • Preparing promotional materials such as brochures, flyers, advertorials, • Creating promotional POP and POS products, • Developing web sites and interactive solutions. Kesisim’s first principle is to develop and execute custom projects for its clientele. This approach puts Kesisim on top of the list as a well known company among its clients, through its “value-added creativity.” Services • Corporate Publishing • Corporate/Prestige Books • Activity Reports Communication on Progress 2010 | 23 Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication was set up in January 2010 under the leadership of Dr. Aydın Dortok and in partnership with Bersay Communication Group. Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication; • aims to introduce a new perspective to healthcare communication. • has the international and local expertise necessary for such a specific field of activity. • implements project-based sustainable business models up to Bersay Communication Group’s quality standards, making best use of measurable methods. • operates as an affiliate of Bersay Communication Group, and is part of the Ketchum network. Sectors we offer services The increase in the average life expectancy, diversifying needs for health care and unhealthy living conditions give rise to an increase in chronic diseases, makes it a priority for individuals to live longer, maintain a high quality of life, and aging healthier. Under these circumstances people expect various institutions to bear responsibility in meeting their needs regarding their wellness and health priorities. These are: • Public Institutions • Governments • Health Institutions/Healthcare Units • Non-Governmental Organizations • Physicians and Scientists • Pharmaceutical Industry • Food Industry Communication on Progress 2010 | 24 • Personal Health Care Industry • Wellness Sector • Health Tourism These are the areas of activity where Dörtok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication is committed to offer its value-added consultancy services. What makes us different? • International Experience In-depth knowledge and experience of Dörtok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication team in innovative business, business relations and communication models in the global health industry and futuristic marketing approach. • Creativity Competence in offering creative and innovative projects and ideas to the communication professionals in healthcare industry. Dörtok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication, although operating in an area limited in terms of communication, adopts an understanding based on the principle that nothing is impossible to achieve and delivers effective results. • Evidence Based Communication Capability to develop a scientific, analytical and evidence and fact-based approach due to its expertise in health communication, as well as its comprehensive experience in the field. • Global Service Standards High standards of Bersay Communications Group as the biggest communication group in Turkey and being a member of Ketchum which is the world’s biggest communication consultancy network; and a global communication and marketing consultancy competence with Dr. Aydın Dörtok’s international healthcare communications experience. Communication on Progress 2010 | 25 Services Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication provides customized healthcare communication consultancy and application services to all institutions, organizations and individuals active in the healthcare industry. Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication portfolio covers all types of communication services that a business or an institution carrying out activities in the healthcare industry may need. 1. Communication Management • Corporate Reputation Management • Corporate Identity • Social Responsibility • Issue Management • Internal Communication and Training Programs • Public Affairs • Stakeholder Relations • Crisis Communication • Leadership Communication • Event Management 2. Media Relations • Media Relations Management • Local Media Relations • Media Training 3. Marketing Management • Marketing Strategies Management • Product Communication and Brand Management • Sponsorship Relations Management • Event Management in Marketing • Advertising Services • Social Media Consultancy and Applications Communication on Progress 2010 | 26 4. Training Programs • Executive Training • Employee Training 5. Corporate Publications • Prestige Books • Corporate Magazines • Periodical Bulletins • Scientific Publications Communication on Progress 2010 | 27 Bersay Communications Institute Bersay Communications Institute (BIE) was established in January 2008 within our group as a nonprofit Institute. We aim to respond to the qualified human resources need of the sector through conferences and training programs. BIE also offers its business profits as a scholarship opportunity to master and doctorate degree students. There are three concepts in one space. BIE has embarked upon with a brand new understanding to create new “species”. Education, entertainment, esthetics... All in one in the BIE. Our aim 1. To outclass permanently by creating the difference through knowledge 2. Considering the fact that the world view can be build upon ‘Qualification in education, aesthetic, entertainment’, to constitute scientific, artistic, cultural, occupational education programs through which life, society, human can be read 3. With the income that will be gained through said programs, to create a scholarship fund and to encourage and support the graduate and doctorate studies in communication field 4. To serve for the need for qualified human resource in sector 5. To add value to the sector 6. With an approach that complies with the identity which expresses being the reputation entity, to position as an institute which bases on and produces the knowledge in Public Relations and Communication sector Our social partners  Business and finance world  Academic world  Media / Communication sector  Media and Communication Sector Trade Bodies (TUHID, IDA, KID, Press Trade Bodies etc.) Communication on Progress 2010 | 28  Communication sector professionals  Young communication expert candidates of the sector  Public opinion which is affected from communication sector services  Bersay Communication Group companies Services • Certificate Programs • Seminary and Conferences • Panel and Meetings • Personal Development Trainings • Performances • Stand-up Shows • 4 Seminary/Meeting Rooms • BIE Multi-purpose Hall with a Capacity of 115 People Bersay Communications Group’s reputation entity BIE has undertaken the duty and responsibility of becoming a pioneering company in its track with the activities focused on communications world professionals, young candidates and service recipients of the communications world. Globalization and rapid dissemination of communications technologies have forced us to confront the requirement to acquire new information in many fields from interpersonal daily communications to inter-enterprise and corporate communications, to comprehend the new world and solve cultural codes, and construct business, relationships and communications ways in contrary fashion. For this very reason and with an eye on sharpening our worldview while producing information and knowledge specific to the needs of the communication sector that change and amplify every day, Bersay Communication Institute was brought into life. With a view to become the reference point of the sector in terms of trained human resources, our Institute offers not only occupational programs that add qualification, but also programs that allow people to meet, discuss and re-produce, which in short serves the art of living. Communication on Progress 2010 | 29 Our Institute directs its efforts to frame in communications foundations with a “worldview” in daily life, as well as business life, and serves as an Institute where “future’s design” is combined with “art style”, concepts and experience in this field are discussed from this perspective forward. Bersay Communications Institute is not for profit, and gives back its operation profit to young communication students as a graduate study and doctorate study scholarship. Our Education Programs Excellence in Communication Program  “World View” Program – 2008 / 2009 In accordance with its basic mision, in 2008 Bersay Communications Institute has designed ‘Excellence in Communication Program’ which consists of a think-tank that includes experts who are high-qualified in their fields. The program which has been realized under the title of ‘World View and Excellence in Communication’ included 19 seminars/conferences in total. The speakers of the program: 1. Prof.Dr. Deniz Ulke Arıbogan (Academic Member/ Istanbul Bilgi University) 2. Prof.Dr. Caglar Keyder (Academic Member/ Bogazici University) 3. Prof. Dr. Aydin Ugur (Academic Member/ Istanbul Bilgi University) 4. Ducane Cuceloglu (Writer) 5. Dr. Sahin Alpay (Academic Member/ Bahcesehir University) 6. Prof. Dr. Haluk Sahin (Academic Member/ Istanbul Bilgi University, Writer, Journalist) 7. Prof. Dr. Haluk Gurgen (Dean / Bahcesehir University) 8. Prof. Dr. Ahmet Davutoglu (Foreign Affairs Minister /Turkish Republic) 9. Dr. Paul Doany (General Manager / Turk Telekom) 10. Prof. Dr. Tevfik Dalgic (Academic Member/ Texas University) 11. Prof. Dr. Yilmaz Esmer (Rector / Bahcesehir University) 12. Tugrul Kutadgobilik (Board Chairman / Confederation of Turkish Trade Unions) 13. Aclan Acar (Board Chairman / Dogus Oto) 14. Jan Nahum (General Manager / Petrol Ofisi) Communication on Progress 2010 | 30 15. Dr. Yilmaz Arguden (Board Chairman / ARGE Consultancy) 16. Ustun Barista ( Director) 17. Oya Unlu Kizil (Corporate Communication Manager / Koc Holding) 18. Dr. Levent Hatay (Executive Committee Member / Vestel Group of Companies) 19. Prof. Dr. James Grunig (Academic Member/ Maryland University)  Designing the Future Program 2009 / 2010 With the aim of becoming an Excellence Cent in communications, in 2008 BIE has designed the Excellence in Communication Program. In 2009, BIE brought the leading names of their sector business, art, popular culture, sport, science world and art of living together in the Excellence in Communication Program under the title of “Designing the Future”. The speakers of the program: 1. Ali Taran (Advertiser) 2. Prof. Dr. Tosun Terzioglu (Rector / Sabanci University) 3. Sinan Cetin (Director) 4. Prof. Onder Kucukerman (Academic Member/ Halic University) 5. Resit Soley (Architect) 6. Elif Safak (Writer) 7. Prof.Dr. Tarik Yilmaz (Academic Member / Kadir Has University) 8. Faruk Malhan (Architect) 9. Muzaffer Yildırim (CEO/ Mars Entertainment) 10. Ufuk Tarhan (Futurist, Economist) 11. Acun Ilıcali (Broadcaster) 12. Enis Batur ( Poet, essayist, publisher) 13. Mehmet Gurs (Chef) 14. Hulya Avsar (Performer, Singer) 15. Ahmet Hakan (Journalist) 16. Ali Agaoglu (Board Chairman / Agaoglu Group of Companies) Communication on Progress 2010 | 31  “Outliers” – 2011 Bersay Communications Institute that serves for art of living, encourages reproduction, creates discussions and platforms is continuing to serve to the communication world with the third Excellence in Communication Program. This year the title of the Excellence in Communication Program, which has been reshaped with a different concept and point of view, is “Outliers”. With this program BIE will bring together the names, who have created differences with their world views and who have prominent character types, and its visitors. BIE aims to add value for world views of its visitors to gain depth. Analysis of Outliers: Target Group Middle and upper management Current and potential customers of BIG BIG employees Current and potential immediate surroundings Management team of sectoral enterprises Management team of communication faculties ‘Outlier’ Character set: 1. Difference 2. Encounterer – followed (having a sustainable stand) 3. Known by the target group 4. A prominent character type 5. Having rhetoric skills The speakers of the program: 1. Cem Yilmaz (Comedian) 2. Prof.Dr. Miktat Kadioglu (Academic Member, Istanbul Technical University) 3. Prof. Dr. Sevil Atasoy (Academic Member, Istanbul University) Communication on Progress 2010 | 32 4. Nihat Gokyigit (Founder and Chairman of Board of Trustee, The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) 5. Kursat Basar (Writer) 6. Nasuh Mahruki (Founder Member and Chairman, Search and Rescue Association) 7. Prof. Dr. Celal Sengor (Academic Member, Istanbul Technical University) 8. Erdil Yasaroglu (Caricaturist) 9. Yilmaz Erdogan (Director, Performer, Writer) 10. Levent Erdem (CEO, Euro RSCG Turkiye) 11. Kerem Erginoglu (Architect) 12. Prof. Dr. Osman Muftuoglu (Medical Advisor, Founder, Yasasin Hayat Clinique) 13. Ayse Ege (Fashion Designer) 14. Ece Sukan (Fashion Designer) 15. Mehmet Turgut (Photographer) Media Relations Management Program Together with Excellence and Professionalism in Communication Programs another program which is realized in institute is Media Relations Management. This program which is executed by expert journalists aims to give basic media knowledge to attendants. The role of media relations in the crisis management: How to be in the news in media? Relations or communication with media? How to prepare a media plan? Is it possible to make “friends” with a journalist? Bahcesehir CO-OP Project The “Excellence in Communication Program” organized by BIE based on the CO-OP Education Model applied by the Bahcesehir University with the slogan of “My Campus is My Office” was given as a selective course at the university in 2009 Fall Semester. This program still continues in Bahcesehir University actively. Our consultants are giving lectures in the context of this program. Communication on Progress 2010 | 33 Cinema Conversations with Ali Saydam (Film Reading Seminars) The program which is held monthly for 9 months realized its first meeting in 2nd October 2010. The education program which has 28 participants in total seems like a cinema subjected training but actually it was positioned to read life, human, society, history and causality. Publications Magazines NPQ (News Perspectives Quarterly) Turkiye which is a magazine that is published in every 3 month periodically is accepted as a magazine at which the intellectual world meets. Books One of the books that were published by BIE in 2010 was ‘BIE World View’. This book was forming the main theme of the first conferences of Excellence in Communication programs. The book consists of the conferences one more valuable than the other. The second book which was published by BIE in 2010 was ‘BIE Designing the Future’. This book was forming the main theme of the second conferences of Excellence in Communication programs. It consists of the conferences one more valuable than the other too. Communication on Progress 2010 | 34 In 2011 we will publish the third book, ‘Outliers’ which consists of the third conferences of Excellence in Communication programs and also NPQ will continue to be published. We would like to talk about the most important media organ BIELOG. BIELOG is a knowledge and meeting platform for communication sector and the ones who receives service from sector. It is also an open platform for our employees to write articles about their specialties or what subject they choose (Principle 1). www.bielog.com In addition to this, our founder Ali Saydam has donated his new book’s, ‘How to Loose Your Wife and Customer’, income to BIE. Communication on Progress 2010 | 35 Articles The most important aims of BIE is to create knowledge, to make searches and to share those with the sector. For this purpose the articles written below has been published: 1. New Normal (Deniz Saydam & Asli Duran) 2. Word of Mouth Marketing (Ferhal Sencan & Melis Yuruten) 3. Relational Marketing / Public Relations Marketing Communication Model for Civil Society Organizations (Deniz Saydam) 4. Speking Brands Term ( Mine Turkun) 5. Emergency Action Plan for Food Sector: Health and Wellness Communication (Gulden Ohri) Conference and Meetings Conferences At Bersay Communication Institute conferences serial the first guest was Prime Minister Key Advisor of North Iraq Local Management, Khaled Salih. Mr. Salih gave a lecture about ‘Investment Potential of North Iraq and Its Opportunities for Turkish Business World’ in 17th September 2009. BIE Meetings At ‘BIE Meetings’ BIE hosts people from business, art, popular culture, sport, science world and all fields that serves for art of living and who has been opinion leader in his/her field. The first guest of the BIE Meetings was Ertugrul Ozkok, the Editor-in-Chief of Hurriyet Daily on 19th November 2009. At the night attended by many people from business and academy world, Mr. Ozkok evaluated the last 25 years by explaining the relation between the politics and media in Turkey. Communication on Progress 2010 | 36 Another guest of the BIE Meetings was Ali Poyrazoglu, the Theater Artist and Director. At the second BIE Meeting held on 27th January 2010, Mr. Poyrazoglu talked about “The Person Making a Difference”. In his speech, Mr. Poyrazoglu stated that creative thinking could only be achieved by freeing one’s mind and returning to the source of information. Third guest of meeting was Hakki Devrim in 25th August 2010. He gave a lecture about Turkish Grammar. As the fourth guest Gianni Catalfamo / Ketchum Social Media Director gave a seminar about online communication to different groups for two days at the dates of 8-9th November 2010. Lastly in 3rd December 2010 Ketchum New Business Responsible Director Peter Flesicher’s seminar about ‘New Business Development Processes’ was realized. Facilities Library Bersay Communication Institute (BIE) Library has been established to meet information needs of the communication professionals, acamedicians, and students by adding eligible and up-to-date information resources to its collection. In our collection classified according to the Dewey Decimal Classification System, there are about 4 thousand 660 materials, printed or provided in audio-visual and electronic format, related with communication areas such as communication consultancy, public relations, marketing communication, media, advertising, and event management. Communication on Progress 2010 | 37 Who Can Use The Library? 1. Our customers to whom we provided service before and are currently providing service, 2. All the higher education students, 3. Academicians in the field of communication, 4. Media members, 5. People working in communication sector, 6. Attendants of the BIE Education Programs, 7. Employees of the Bersay Communication Group. The ones who are not meeting these conditions but willing to become a member of our library may get information by calling the institute. How to Become a Member of BIE Library? It will be sufficient to fill in the membership application form and apply in person to our library with the copy of an identity card. Sources in our Library 2410 books 386 DVD 40 magazine subscriptions 412 internal and external members BIE Meeting Rooms BIE Meeting Rooms provide exclusive opportunities for companies who would like to organize meetings in a spacious and respectable atmosphere and host their guests or clients in the best manner possible. Each one of 4 rooms with 8, 10, 12 and 14people capacity offers a Board, A4 Printer, Wireless Internet, Plasma TV and Air-conditioner. Different not only with its ambience and technical facilities but also with the treats offered during the meeting, BIE Meeting Rooms are an affordable choice for companies. Communication on Progress 2010 | 38 BIE Multi-Purpose Hall With a 115 people capacity, BIE Multi-purpose Hall will be available for music, cinema, theater shows and activities as well as training, seminary, meeting and presentation purposes. BIE Multi-purpose Hall fully-equipped with technical fixtures and personnel to more than satisfy any need is a place to enrich any organization. BIE provides place for its customers’ any activities and rents its conference rooms and hall. The income that is gained from meeting rooms are donated for scholarships. However BIE can give its rooms for free for exhibitions, meetings and the other activities that can contribute to development of awareness in environmental issues, sector and any kind of activities that are serviceable for society. (Principle 8-9).  Green Steps Exhibition At Green Steps Environment Education Charity exhibition, 24 pieces took part which have been transformed into the artworks by using waste products. The said exhibition was making reference to environmental awareness and the themes that say ‘waste is art’. Communication on Progress 2010 | 39  Underwater Photography Exhibition The exhibition that consists of the underwater photographs which has been taken by Asim Dumlu in the different places of the world, met with the photograph lovers in BIE between the dates of 25 June – 25 July 2010.  E-Seed Meetings Bersay Communications Institute provides facility and beverage support for E-Seed meetings. E-Seed is an organization intending to bring together internet entrepreneur and investors. Scholarships BIE is our main corporate social responsibility initiative. With the aim of supporting/encouraging searches which could provide added value to communication sector, at the beginning of 2010 BIE started a promotional activity to give its first scholarships. For this purpose the prepared posters were sent to the Communication Faculties and Social Sciences Institutes. We asked for a letter of intent, reference letter and transcript from the candidates. In total we received 25 applications. Our scholarship commission which includes 5 people from academic environment evaluated the applications and selected 6 thesis subjects 4 of which are graduate and 2 of which are doctorate theses. Communication on Progress 2010 | 40 The winners’ theses will be being examined by one of the commission members in every 3 months and the students will make presentations to the commission in every 6 months. We will make 400 TL payment for each winner every month for 12 months. BIE Post GraduateDoctorate Scholarships / Candidate Evaluation Criteria BIE scholarships aim to support not the people themselves who are graduate or doctorate students but their searches and thesis studies. Criteria: 1. The applicant should be a graduate or doctorate student. 2. He/she should determine his/her thesis subject clearly. 3. In her/his letter of intend, the thesis should be presented at all points and the object, target and processes should be explained effectively. 4. The thesis subject should have a content which adds value scientifically and practically. 5. The candidate should deliver all documents which are asked from him/her, completely. 6. If the candidate is a graduate student his/her undergraduate academic degree, or if the candidate is a doctorate student his/her undergraduate and graduate academic degrees should be high. Communication on Progress 2010 | 41 BIE scholarships BIE 2011 SCHOLARS TABLE No NamePost University / Post Thesis Subject Surname Graduate/ GraduateDoctorate Doctorate Program 1 Asli Tosuner Post Graduate Istanbul University Social Increasing the Knowledge Sciences Institute / Public Through Social Media Means Relations to Change the Role of Knowledge in Consumption and Consumer Behavior in More Productive Way 2 İlgin Cakiroglu Post Graduate Marmara University Social The Effect of Brand Balance Sciences Institute / of Political Parties to Voting Production Management Intention and Marketing 3 Ozge Gursoy Post Graduate Marmara University Social Changing Family Values in Sciences Institute Respect of Reflection to Visual Media 4 Ozlem Taskent Doctorate Istanbul University Social Turkish Journalists in the Erkmen Sciences Institute / Field of European Union Journalism Media – The Effect of National Area to Journalism Practices 5 Seckin Cetin Post Graduate Presidency of General Stuff Perception Management in War Academy / Strategic Intelligence and Counter Researches Institute Intelligence Department 6 Selin Bitirim Doctorate Ege University Social Social Marketing and Sciences Institute Communication in Creating Social Benefit Communication on Progress 2010 | 42 Our Support Units Human Assets Department In 2010, with the thought of ‘human is an asset that has a brain, has feelings, and its yieldto-cost performance ratio is highly unpredictable unlike that of buildings, equipment, and money’, Bersay Communication Group led the way and transformed Human Resources Department into Human Assets Department. Bersay Communication Group always had an initiator role for its sector and had implemented different practices for its employees’ welfare since its foundation. In 2010 Group decided to gather those practices under the ‘Human Assets Department’ roof. Bersay Communication Group guides its clients about this concept and represents a role model for its suppliers, customers and social stakeholders (Principle 1-2). Employee Satisfaction As a communication consultancy group, Bersay primarily give importance to its internal communication and wants hear from its employees about their thoughts and wishes for working conditions, job descriptions, career plans, relations with management etc. For this purpose Bersay makes a survey every year and asks its employees about their satisfaction with working the company (Principle 1-2). The survey is executed by a third party research firm and the answers are kept confidential so employees feel free to answer the questions truly (Principle 1). After receiving the results, Bersay takes actions for business improvement activities according to the results. In July 2009 an internal communication survey had been carried out to measure our employee’s satisfaction in Bersay. The survey was implemented to 83 employees. According to the results, 49.4% of the employees agreed and 29.1% of the respondents strongly agreed that they are satisfied with working Bersay Communication Group. For the year of 2010 although we prepared a brand-new survey of which content is more comprehensive, it is still in progress. Our 2010 survey will be completed at the end of February 2011. The new survey asks employees’ satisfaction about these subjects: Communication on Progress 2010 | 43 • Feeling for the company • Corporate image • BIG culture, mission, vision, values and strategies • BIG management team • Direct manager • Job description • Authorization-Responsibility Balance • Internal Communication • Education • Team work • Wage and social benefits • Rewarding systems / Motivation • Career opportunities • Working Environment and Physical conditions • Customer satisfaction and service quality • Satisfaction with service that is given by administrative departments • Positive and negative thoughts about the company (open ended question) Recruitment In Bersay Communication Group recruitment process is determined clearly and the procedures in it are applied strictly. When writing the recruitment process it has been given a lot of importance to treat every employee candidates fairly when selecting the new employees, for this purpose some standards has been developed to be applied (Principle 12). We follow the below written procedures during recruitment process: • Receiving employee needs • Determining the asked candidate qualifications • Placing job ads to newspapers and career databases • Selecting candidates • Structured interviews (1. interview: Human assets department, 2. interview: Direct manager, 3. interview: COO) • Ability test • Reference check (at least 3 reference) Communication on Progress 2010 | 44 • Job offer • Contract In addition, our employee advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age. Our employees are free to report incidents of workplace discrimination. In Bersay Communication Group we do not discriminate our employees by their gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, color, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, organizational membership, opinion, health status, sexual orientation, marital status, birth or civic, social or political characteristics (Principle 6). Bersay provides equal employment opportunities. 63.24% of our employees are women (Principle 6). Bersay does not recruit anybody below the legal age of 18. Bersay is against the child labor and complies with the minimum age provisions of Turkish labor laws and regulations (Principle 5). Bersay is strictly against forced labor considered as a potential risk also in service sector. Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts can not be against the labor law. The contracts state the actual working terms and conditions and their rights clearly. In addition to employment contracts our employees are given a booklet which includes all administrative processes, discipline code, dress code and other employee related issues, by Human Assets Department at the beginning of their recruitment process. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights (Principle 4). During the recruitment process we pay attention to answer the job application timely and properly. In 2010 our application responding rate was %70 (Principle 1-2). Reward System Bersay employees are rewarded for their works through the Finder fee/Success fee processes, career plans (Principle 1-2). Communication on Progress 2010 | 45 Finder Fee/Success Fee Bersay employees receive bonuses at a specified ratio of service charge when they find a new business or make a successful work for their current customers. Career Plans Bersay Communication Group has a proper promotion system and evaluates its employees in every 6 months through its performance assessment system. The employees who make difference, succeed and show good performance are promoted properly. In addition to this, the employees working as a ‘consultant’ and ‘customer director’ for at least 3 years have the right to be a shareholder if they show outstanding performance. Every year, shareholders are getting an increasing percentage of company shares. The annual profit is apportioned among the shareholders according to their share rate. Internships In Bersay we give degree and graduate students internship opportunities and we have a written internship procedure. The students who do internship within Bersay Communications Group get the opportunity to make their academic knowledge into practice in place. The purpose and content of internship programs include matters that support the development of students. The students have the rights provided in Labor Law. In 2010, 33 students did internships in Bersay Communication Group companies. Education In Bersay Communication Group, there is a system which will be used as a base for supporting the individual development of all employees (Principle 1-2). There are two types of education programs in the system: 1) The education programs bought from third parties (Corporate trainings), 2) Optional trainings (Individual based trainings). While employees do not pay for corporate trainings, the company pays only half of the cost of optional trainings. The corporate trainings which will be organized are determined at the end of the performance assessment terms according to the results by Human Assets Department. This Communication on Progress 2010 | 46 means that in Bersay education need analysis is realized twice a year (at the end of the each performance assessments). After receiving the training programs our employees evaluate the education service they receive and according to the results of evaluations Human Assets Department decide whether or not to work with the same education companies the next time. In 2010, we organized 4 corporate trainings for all of our employees and the number of optional trainings was 13. In 2011, we plan to increase these numbers. Bersay employees are encouraged to attend the seminars, conferences and meetings which are held in BIE. Internal Communication In Bersay Communication Group as a communication consultancy company internal communication activities are highly important for our management team and all employees. We organize dinners, activities and create social networking opportunities. In 2010 we made two big organizations due to our 20.year celebration. One of them was held in Ciragan Palace with the participation of Turkey’s President of Republic and the other one was a dinner for 130 people capacity. In 2011 we plan monthly dinners with our employees. On the other hand, to enable internal communication, we built an online platform called ‘BIG Journal’ from which our employees can make and follow up some demands and which includes internal and external agenda. Communication on Progress 2010 | 47 BIE CAFÉ which has a library within itself and in which our employees can take a break and rest in the day gives service for our employees during the working hours. Bersay Communications Group aims to create a platform for its companies’ employees to share internal information, to make sharing the information efficient, in time and at the highest degree and to create a system that explains the principles and methods regarding this aim. For this purpose, all Bersay Communication Group employees (Bersay Communication Consultancy, Saydam Communication and Event Management, Kesisim Publishing and Designing Services, Dortok & Bersay, BIE and Support Units) gather to share the cases of the past and next weeks’ in BIE Meeting Hall between the hours of 08.30-10.00 am every week on Friday. Bersay Communications Group starts to the new working year with a big opening event called ‘Kick-off’. Bersay Kick-off meetings are organized in January every year. The purpose of this big meeting is for the group companies to share the cases, analysis and financial situation of the past year and the targets for the next year. Communication on Progress 2010 | 48 Wages and Benefit Package In Bersay Communication Group salaries depend on the job description and experience of the employees. There is no difference between the basic salaries of men and women (Principle 6). In Bersay Communication Group the weekly working hours is 40 hours and our employees are given reasonable breaks and rest periods (Principle 1). The company has a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee. The company grant employees paid holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in accordance with national law. In addition to this, on the day called “quilt vacation” all Bersay employees have right to take one day off in addition to their annual leave. Bersay maintains a policy of strong commitment on health and safety issues (Principle 1). Although all Bersay employees are covered with Governmental social security insurance policy, we supply extra private health insurance policy for the employees who completed their first year within the company. Due to our company’s data in 2010, 63 of our employees were insured and in 2011 we target to insure 91 of our employees. We can list the other items of Bersay benefit package as written below: • Coiffeur: There is a hairdresser who serves for half of the day for our female employees. Employees can get this service for free. • Lunch: We have a cafeteria that gives service for all of our employees every day between the hours of 12.00 am – 02.00 pm. • Transportation: There are private vehicles each one of which has a driver are at our employees’ disposal all the day between the working hours, so employees can make their business visits comfortably in the day. • Mobile phone: We provide for each of our employees a mobile phone. Our employees can talk at their company mobile for business purposes and they do not need to pay for it. • Tea House: Our employees can get coffee, tea service all the day whenever they want. There are kitchen staffs who give service to employees. Communication on Progress 2010 | 49 Operational Processes Customer Satisfaction It is aimed to question and develop the positive aspects of the service quality and customer satisfaction of Bersay Communication Group companies, to take precautions for the negative situations timely and efficiently, to take proper steps for keeping the customer satisfaction and service quality optimized. For this purpose, we were making a customer satisfaction survey every year. In 2010 we revised our customer satisfaction assessment process. According to the revised process, every beginning of the year Bersay Communication Group COO (Chief Operating Officer) makes face-to-face interviews with the highest level person (General Manager, Assistant General Manager, CEO etc.) at the customer’s side and take notes for about one hour. The interviews include the below mentioned main matters: 1. Do you have any suggestions concerning to improve the quality of the service you receive? 2. Are you satisfied with the content of the service you receive? What kind of value does the service we gave you add to your business? 3. Are you satisfied with the team that gives you service concerning the following matters: a) experience/technical knowledge b) artistic skills c) the number of the team personnel Do you receive sufficient service from our team? 4. Do you have any suggestions/expectations that you want to share with us? After receiving feedback about the content and teams, customer is informed that the upper management team is ready to improve the said negative matters (if any). On the other hand, the required improvement works are started in company in parallel with the feedbacks received from the customers. Communication on Progress 2010 | 50 Timesheet The company has a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee called ‘Timesheet’. All Bersay Communication Group employees (Bersay Communication Consultancy, Saydam Communication and Event Management, Kesisim Publishing and Designing Services, Dortok & Bersay, BIE and Support Units) enters the timesheet addresses in the system every week on Friday or following Monday and report the hours that they worked past week. The employees fill the timesheets by dividing the working hours which is about 40 hours weekly, according to both ‘Customers’ and ‘Job Descriptions’. Human Assets Department prepares an efficiency report based on mentioned timesheet reports using the data like personnel costs, fees and working hours. Administrative Affairs One of the priorities of Bersay Communication Group is to create environmental awareness first for our employees and all of our customers, suppliers and social shareholders. Administrative Affairs Department of our group is the responsible unit for electricity, water, paper, natural gas usage and waste handling processes and application of the environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9). Our Chairman of Board, Ali Saydam, discusses issues such like climate change in the newspaper and journal columns he writes to increase awareness. Also environment related issues are mentioned by our editors at the journals that Kesisim publishes. Bersay developes either Corporate Social Responsiblity projects and the projects aiming to promote greater environmental responsibility.The clients are encouraged to apply those projects as their environmental and Corporate Social Responsibility projects (Principle 8). Paper Usage Bersay encourages its staff to communicate via electronic devices and to use less paper. Communication on Progress 2010 | 51 Electricity Usage We apply energy conservation technique (detecting lighting) in all our bathrooms and the batteries are being recharged by administrative affairs. Our natural gas usage in 2010 was 2221 kw/h. Water Usage In 2010 we started to use washing machine rather than making hand wash. In addition to this, for our company cars we preferred to use flooding system for washing them. By doing so, we targeted water saving. Our natural gas usage in 2010 was 1169 m3. Natural Gas Usage Our natural gas usage in 2010 was 4904 m3. Wastes Bersay wastes are clustered into categories according to their raw materials. Glass, plastic, battery and metal recycling bins are placed in the company. These bins are collected by the Sisli Municipality every Thursday. In 2010 we used 562.500 pieces paper and 252 boxes waste paper were sent to Sisli Municipality. Food left over from the cafeteria are being collected and sent to Yedikule Shelter. Every day, our waste oils are put in sealed bags and delivered to Sisli Municipality (Principle 7). Communication on Progress 2010 | 52 Security Our building is protected by a private security firm. We also have an alarm system and security cameras at each floor (Principle 2). Information and Document Management Corporate Memory Bersay Communication Group gives a lot of importance to information and document management and makes investments for developing the corporate memory. It is aimed that all kinds of documents which come out of the activities of the companies and which are better thought to be recorded, are classified, archived and accessible when needed. In 2010 we targeted to use the systems and sources we have more efficiently to develop corporate memory and started to check the systems whether or not the information are recorded. In 2011 our purpose is to refresh the corporate memory completely (Principle 1-2). Our Memberships ICCO (International Communications Consultancy Organization) Our group companies Bersay Communication Consultancy and Saydam Communication and Event Management are members of ICCO (International Communications Consultancy Organization). ICCO adopts IPRA’s Charter on Media Transparency. Due to the charter Bersay is committed to ethical behavior, objectivity and accuracy. As a result of the membership, both companies are audited in every two years in respect of being suitable to Consultancy Management Standard (CMS). CMS combines elements of ISO 9000 and Investors in People with criteria specific to public relations consultancy. Developed by the Public Relations Consultants Association of the UK, it was introduced in 1997 as the industry’s first quality certification system for public relations firms and is now being rolled out worldwide. Communication on Progress 2010 | 53 The assessment process is conducted by independent auditor and covers 8 key business areas: • Leadership & Communications • Business Planning • Business Improvement • Financial Systems • Campaign Management • Client Satisfaction • New Business • People Management The re-assessment period for maintaining CMS certification is every two years. In 2010 both Bersay Communication Consultancy and Saydam Communication and Event Management went under audit. After a 2 days audit for each company, the results were satisfying: Bersay Communication Consultancy: 94,9% success average Saydam Communication and Event Management: 95,1% success average http://www.iccopr.com Communication on Progress 2010 | 54 IDA (Communication Consultancy Companies Association) The objective of IDA; • To develop, expand the public relations sector in which the member companies are and increase prestige of it, • To raise awareness against the unethical behaviors, unrecorded activities and unfair competition in sector, • To enable the companies that receive service from sector to reach the right information, To enable its members; • to act together without damaging the competition environment and to provide solidarity against the problems of profession and market, • to serve as a model by complying to international service standards and ethical codes, • to increase their service quality through enhancing their professional performances and management skills. Our group companies Bersay Communication Consultancy and Saydam Communication and Event Management are member of IDA. http://www.ida.org.tr/ TUHID (Turkey Public Relations Association) / (Individual Based Memberships) Our 4 company partners are members of TUHID (Turkey Public Relations Association) individually. http://www.tuhid.org/tr/ TBV (Turkey Informatics Foundation) / (Individual Based Memberships) The main objective of foundation is to contribute to prepare substructure for helping Turkey to become an information society, and for enabling the informatics sector to have a bigger Communication on Progress 2010 | 55 share from economy to make economic and social practices, create projects and try to enable them to be applied by realizing scientific research and developments. Our founder Ali Saydam is a member of TBV individually. http://www.tbv.org.tr/ TUSIAD (Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association) / (Individual Based Memberships) TUSIAD aims to prevent the attitude and behaviors which do not comply with business ethics and argues that the sensibility of all members of society and public/private enterprises should be increased. TUSIAD has issued the report titled as ‘Business Ethics’ in 1992 and has been leader in this field by adding business ethics principles in its regulation. Our founder Ali Saydam became a member of TUSIAD individually in 2010. http://www.tusiad.org/ Communication on Progress 2010 | 56 UN Global Compact Principles Bersay Approach Bersay Practices Principle 1: -Recruitment process Bersay Communication Consultancy -Rewarding System (Finder believes that every people has right fee/Success Fee) Business should support and to work, to choose his/her job, right -Employee Satisfaction respect the protection of to freedom of expression, right to Survey internationally proclaimed liberty and security, right to health Health Insurance human rights care and right to equality. Bersay -Education also consults its suppliers and clients Internal Communication to support the same principles. Internship Program Customer Satisfaction Principle 2: Bersay policies on harassment, -Employee Satisfaction Business should ensure that employment equity, safety, health all Survey they are not complicit in ensure that basic human rights are Employee Contract and human rights firmly respected. Confidentialty Principle 3: Bersay policy on employment equity ensures the provision of good working conditions in which all Business should uphold the employees could express their ideas. freedom of association and These principles are -Accessable management team effective recognition of the integral parts of Bersay Charming Open Communication right to collective values. Participative management barganining Information Sharing Profit sharing Bonuses Principle 4: Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts can not be against the labor law. Business should support the Bersay is strictly against forced labor The contracts state the elimination of all forms of considered as a potential risk also in actual working terms abd forced and compulsory labor service sector. conditions and their rights clearly. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights. Principle 5: Bersay is against the child labour and Business should support the complies with the minimum age Bersay does not recruit effective abolition of child provisions of Turkish labor laws and anybody below the legal labor regulations. age of 18. Communication on Progress 2010 | 57 Principle 6: Bersay believes every individual has Business should support the to be treatened fairly without elimination of discrimination considering what their gender is, in respect of employment what their contract type is, what Recruitment process and occupation their job is and so on. Discipline Code Principle 7: Bersay, like the rest of the society, faces the global challenge of Business should support a ensuring a healthy and sustainable Waste Handling precautionary approach to environment in the future. By signing Applications environmental challenges the Global Compact Bersay commits itself to approach more carefully to environmental issues. Principle 8: Bersay developes either Corporate Social Responsiblity projects and the projects aiming to One of the priorities of Bersay promote greater Business should undertake Communication Group is to create environmental initatives to promote greater environmental awareness first for our responsibility.The clients environment responsibility employees and all of our customers, are encouraged to apply suppliers and social shareholders. those projects as their environmental and Corporate Social Responsibility projects. Principle 9: Business should encourage Water, Paper, Electricity, Bersay encourages its staff to use the development and Natural Gas, Energy Saving environmentally friendly diffusion of environmentally Supporting Recycling techonologies. friendly techonologies Process Communication on Progress 2010 | 58 Principle 10: Bersay’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice is a reason for ending employment contract. Bersay Memberships are: ICCO (International Communications Business should work against Consultancy Organisation), Bersay is against all forms corruption in all its forms, TUHID (Turkey Public of corruption, including including extortion and Relations Association), IDA extortion and bribery. bribery (Communication Consultancy Companies Association) Individual Based Memberships: TBV (Turkey Informatics Foundation), TUSIAD (Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association) Communication on Progress 2010 | 59 Performance Indicators What was our aim in 2010 actual 2011 Targets & Main Items 2010? results Plans To have satisfied and motivated employees 70% employee who are happy with their In progress satisfaction Employee working and living Satisfaction Survey conditions To have satisfied and Bonuses: We will sustain our motivated employees Finder/Success fair and proper who are happy with their Fees=14.696 TL policy in 2011 Rewarding System rewards for their work 70% Application 100% Application responding rate answering rate The recruitment (We will sustain our process was fair and proper Recruitment Process Fair treatment revized policy in 2011) 4 corporate 7 corporate trainings trainings 13 optional 15 optional To give indiviual trainings trainings development BİE meetings and BİE meetings and opportunites to our education education Education employees programs programs 12 monthly dinner 1 year end organizations with Human organization / COO / 1 year end Rights Weekly Bizbize organization / Motivation / Participation Meetings / 1 year Weekly Bizbize Internal to company processes / end Kick-off Meetings / 1 year Communication Information sharing end Kick-off To give students We will continue to opoortunities to develop create internship 33 internships themselves and find job opportunities in Internships opportunities 2011 To satisfy our customers 70% customer Customer with the service given to In progress satisfaction Satisfaction them by us We aim to have The process was under record all revised and an To have an accessable, kinds of document action plan was effective and functional that are considered created Corporate Memory corporate memory as important We aim to report our efficiency To have a system to The process was report and to make plan, record and monitor revised and an business hours worked by each action plan was improvement employee created activities according to the results if Timesheet required Communication on Progress 2010 | 60 A revized Discipline We sustained our Code fair and proper (We will sustain our policy in 2010 fair and proper Non-Discrimination Fair treatment policy in 2011) Number of Woman 63.24% of our We will sustain our Employees / Labour employees are fair and proper Number of Total Standards women policy in 2011 Employees Fair treatment Health Care: 63 Health Care: 91 Employees' welfare and employees were employees will be motivation Benefit Packages insured insured We sustained our We will sustain our fair and proper fair and proper Wages Fair treatment policy in 2010 policy in 2011 AntiEmployment We will continue our way of living with Corruptio Contract Ethical Business Practices n high loyalty to our ethical values. Memberships Ethical Business Practices Water Usage 1169 m3 We aim to reduce Paper Usage 562.500 pieces Environmentally friendly our consumption Environm Electricity Usage 2221 kwh applications and less and continue to ent Natural Gas Usage 4904 m3 consumption support recycling 252 boxes waste process in 2011 Wastes paper 6 scholarships / 8 scholarships / For our nonprofit 400 TL for each 400 TL for each enterprise BIE to deliver scholar by month scholar by month Scholarships its first scholarships for 12 months for 12 months 4 education programs: Media Relations Management Excellence in 5 education Communication programs Volunteer Designing the Activities To create and sell Future education programs of Bahcesehir CO-OP which profits will be Project Film Education Programs given as scholarships Reading Seminars 2 books / 'BIE World View' 1 book / 'Outliers' To publish nonprofit 'BIE Designing the 1 magazine / NPQ books supporting the Future' 1 1 online platform / development of the magazine / NPQ BILEOG sector and to donate 1 online platform Publishes their income (BILEOG) Communication on Progress 2010 | 61 4 meetings / Peter Fleischer'New Business Development Processes’ Ali Poyrazoglu-'The Person Making a 6 meetings To support the Difference' development of sector by Hakki Devrimorganizing seminars, 'Turkish Grammer' conferences, meetings Gianni CatalfamoConference and for free and to produce 'Online Meetings depth knowledge Communication' To produce depth 5 articles 3 articles Articles knowledge for the sector To make donations and 1 book: Ali Saydam Ali Saydam / 'How grants to the sector / 'How to Loose to Loose Your Wife through our individual Your Wife and and Customer?' / Donations and and corporate social Customer?' / 6.edition grants responsibility activities 3.edition 3 activities: Green Steps Exhibition E-Tohum Meetings 4 activities Underwater Library: (2800 Photography books, Exhibition 450 DVD, 1 Public Library: 50 magazine (2410 books, subscriptions, 386 DVD, 440 internal and To support other social 40 magazine external members) responsibility activities by subscriptions, providing facilities for 412 internal and Facilities them for free external members) Communication on Progress 2010 | 62
