U.N. Global Compact Principles U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES POLICIES, ACTIONS AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS UN 14 U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT POLICIES, ACTIONS AND PRINCIPLES PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Keeping children healthy and happy, the company spearheaded the Flores de Mayo for 104 kids at U.N. Global Compact Initiatives Purok Tonggo, the Annual Summer Theater Arts workshop for 30 kids and 16 teens, and the annual Pamaskong Handog sa mga Bata and gift giving for 130 kids from Purok 13, Tonggo and 30 members of 2010 Communications on Progress Report Kabataang Purok 13 (a youth club organized by MVC, and 85 kids at Barangay Digkilaan, Iligan City). Values enhancement sessions were also held for a youth group from Purok 13. Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation (MVC) is actively Mr. Edwin Ll. Umali, MVC President and COO, engaged in the United Nations Global Compact, reaffirms the company’s support: “The annual posting LABOR ‘a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are of the Communication on Progress is Mabuhay Vinyl Principle 3: MVC management involved the company’s unions in the strategic planning session of the Industrial Uphold the freedom of association and Peace Council and Plant Central Safety Council, chaired by Mr. Wilfredo Rosell, the 2010 president committed to aligning their operations and strategies Corporation’s statement of commitment to the UN the effective recognition of the right to of the Rank & File Union. Management also signed a 2-year CBA with the Rank & File Union. with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas Global Compact and its values. We seek to uphold and collective bargaining. Our CBA provides a grievance procedure that gives voice to employees to raise and settle issues and of human rights, labor, environment, and antiadvance the principles and sustainability solutions by Principle 4: concerns about their terms of employment, working conditions, and work schedules. corruption’. rallying our stakeholders for effective implementation.” Elimination of all forms of forced and We ensure that our employees receive the mandated benefits. MVC was named 2010 SSS Balikat ng compulsory labor. Bayan Awardee for Top Employer-Northern Mindanao Cluster for its compliance with the Social Principle 5: Security Law and participation in SSS programs. As one of the pioneer signatories in the Philippines, The 2010 Communications on Progress reports Effective abolition of child labor MVC is committed to collaborating with management support of and employee participation in governments, civil society, labor, and the United the company’s collective efforts to integrate the UNGC Nations through the Global Compact. principles into its business operations. Principle 6: MVC conducts business only with suppliers and contractors who do not engage in child labor. Elimination of discrimination in respect Our contracts for outsourced services require contractors and suppliers to comply with all regulatory of employment and occupation standards including rates of pay, personal safety equipment, and legal benefits. Monitoring is done to U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT POLICIES, ACTIONS AND ensure that these contractual provisions are implemented. PRINCIPLES PERFORMANCE INDICATORS To encourage professional growth, it is company policy to promote from within the organization. HUMAN RIGHTS MVC is proud that all department managers, including our SVP for Manufacturing Operations, rose Principle 1: MVC Management and Union address issues and concerns in the Industrial Peace Council, a labor from the ranks. Support and respect the protection of management cooperative scheme. Together with the Plant Central Safety Council, a meeting is held International Human Rights within MVC’s every month to provide employees with a venue to discuss concerns, suggest solutions to work ENVIRONMENT sphere of influence problems, and present improvement ideas. Principle 7: As an ISO 14001:2009-certified company and Responsible Care practitioner, MVC manifested its Employee Relations Support a precautionary approach to commitment to environmental protection through a lecture forum for fishermen on aquatic resources In case of infraction, employees are given the opportunity to present their side and the rationale for environmental challenges conservation and the legal aspects of fisheries management, tree planting activities and a creek and their actions. Our procedure for implementing discipline is designed to correct undesirable conduct coastal clean-up by employees, community residents, and local government representatives during Principle 8: and reform erring employees for the sake of efficient operations and organizational good. the Environment Month. MVC also donated plastic drums to Barangay Buru-un for their marine Undertake initiatives to promote greater protection project. Corporate Social Responsibility environmental responsibility MVC upholds its commitment to community and nation building through Corporate Social MVC employees are the company’s beacons for environmental awareness and protection. Towards Principle 9: Responsibility activities. Our employees empowered neighboring communities with basic first aid the upgrade of their skills and knowledge, we conducted product-handling training for employees of Encourage the development and diffusion training, free medical clinics, and dengue information drive. To augment sparse equipment and our accredited truckers. of environmentally friendly technology supplies in the Gregorio Lluch Memorial Hospital, a government hospital in Iligan City, MVC In recognition of his efforts, a MVC Pollution Control Officer was recognized as one of the Top Ten donated much-needed steel cabinets, trashcans, and disinfectants (sodium hypochlorite). Outstanding PCO of the year by the Pollution Control Association of the Philippines, Inc. (PCAPI). Principle 2: Every quarter, employee volunteers donate blood to the Philippine National Red Cross through ANTI-CORRUPTION It is the company’s policy to comply with all government requirements and standards. Make sure MVC is not complicit in human the PNRC’s mobile blood donation program. For Women’s Month, MVC donated and distributed rights abuses. personal hygiene items, baby clothing, and food items to the women and children sheltered by the Principle 10: MVC was once again awarded as one of the Top Ten taxpayers of Iligan City during the Araw ng Religious Sisters of Mercy. Work against corruption in all its forms, Iligan celebration. including extortion and bribery Towards supporting the educational pursuits of local youth, MVC conducted Brigada Eskwela and The Brotherhood of Christian Businessmen and Professionals (BCBP) in Iligan City awarded MVC a feeding program, and distributed school supplies at the Francesca Paradela Memorial School in with a Plaque of Recognition for its “Be Honest” campaign which exhorts all employees to be fair Ditucalan, Iligan City. Through employee contributions, MVC extended the scholarship program to and honest in all their dealings. include 7 elementary-age children from Purok 13 in Iligan City.
