GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 Company Name The Consortium for Purchasing Date 31 December 2010 and Distribution Ltd. Address Hammond Way Membership date 20/09/2004 Trowbridge Wiltshire BA14 8RR Employees 240 Contact name Mark Barnett Contact Position Chief Operating Officer Sector Commerce & Distribution Contact telephone no. +441225771390 Brief description of nature of business The Consortium is a national procurement and fulfilment business focussed on meeting the needs of its many customers in the Education, Elderly Care and Early Years markets. Our customers are tasked with providing key services to the community within tight budget constraints; our aim is to make it as easy as possible for them to do so. We use our expertise to ensure they always have the right products and services, at the right time and at a price they can afford. Statement of support The United Nations Global Compact is a network of companies in more than 120 countries that support the ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the UNGC with the publishing of this year’s COP. I am delighted with the progress we have made over the last year or so. The values we apply to the way we do things, and the people we recruit, mean that we can deliver on our ambitious responsible business agenda in genuinely practical ways. In an increasingly challenging economic climate, we remain committed to improving our understanding of the impact we make on society and will continue to manage that impact in a responsible manner. We believe that, not only is this the right thing to do, it is also commercially sensible. I am pleased that our Chief Operating Officer, Mark Barnett, has actively supported the UN Global Compact UK Network by operating on the Steering Committee for the last 6 years. Signature Name and Position Melanie Teal Chief Executive PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium operations are in the United Kingdom and comply with and often exceed the protection offered by legislation in the UK. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our Board of Directors ensures that we protect the human rights of our employees through establishing and implementing various policies that support our company values. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for this year Again a ‘no incident’ year on the back of significant expansion in overseas sourcing. All suppliers have signed up to our Global Sourcing Principles. Audit visits have been made to Chinese and Indian suppliers producing product. Measurable Results or Outcomes No incidents of non conformance and stronger relationships built with our overseas partners. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy In order to ensure that we are not complicit in Human Rights abuses all purchasing contracts stipulate that suppliers must work towards full implementation of our Global Sourcing Principles which are based upon the Ethical Trading Initiative. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for this year. We still are committed to not sourcing from any country where there are UN trade sanctions or embargoes. Measurable Results or Outcomes No issues to report. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium provides employees with the freedom to join Unions of their choice. Members are in Unison and the GMB. All employees are appraised at least annually, and roles and achievement of outcomes against BBS targets are reviewed. A benchmarking process is undertaken to deliver competitive salaries. Departmental forums are held on a regular basis with representative teams selected by employees. There is an effective grievance and dispute settlement process. The Sunday Times Best Companies scheme is used as the catalyst for annual two-way dialogue with staff to improve their working environment and ensure they have their full rights. Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for this year. For the second year we undertook the Sunday Times Best Company scheme to evaluate our employees perception of working for The Consortium. Results continue to be good and we were described as ‘One to Watch’. We continue to ensure our employees are well informed and contribute to the development of the business through a combination of weekly, quarterly and annual briefings. Measurable Results or Outcomes Staff forums and quality circles continue to work well in establishing good dialogue and communication This years Sunday Times Best Company Award has delivered some positive feedback but also some areas for improvement. Specifically Corporate actions are to reinstate company events, clarify more fully pay review process, more clearly recognise long service and provide more support to managers when implementing structural change. Number of staff in a trade union as a proportion of total staff – 10%. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium has a policy to issue all staff with contracts of employment when they join the organisation. stating their terms and conditions of service, their freedom to leave, affirming the voluntary nature of their employment and providing clarity for the terms associated with departure or cessation of work. We are committed to the principles of achieving a good work –life balance for all our employees and overtime and working hours in excess of the contracted hours is discouraged. Actions implemented in the last year No new actions undertaken. Measurable Results or Outcomes Over 30% of staff continue to take advantage of flexible working in The Consortium. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy The Consortiums Global Sourcing Principles support our commitment to the effective abolition of child labour. This policy is universally applied independent of local laws. A brief description of the relevant parts of our Labour practices Management System The Consortium ensures that employees are above the compulsory school age. Identification is required from the employee to confirm their age. Actions implemented in the last year We have continued to educate our supply base through supplier audits in 2010. In 2011 this will continue and will be reinforced outside of the UK with overseas audits by our newly-recruited buyer. These are taking place in tandem in 2011 so that more buyers are skilled in overseas audits. Measurable Results or Outcomes Continued audits of suppliers have indicated no issue with regard to Child Labour principles and a full understanding of our requirements. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium is committed to ensuring that job applicants and employees receive equality of opportunity. The aim of this policy is to ensure that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins, sex or marital status, disability, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justifiable or be subjected to any form of bullying, harassment or hostile treatment. The Company will ensure equality of pay and will promote flexible working to achieve a work life balance which is consistent with the needs of the business. Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year The Consortium continues to employ flexible working arrangements for working fathers and mothers at all levels in the organisation. Several senior managers in the business are now employed under flexible working arrangements enabling them to progress their career and continue to add value to the business whilst raising their families or progressing other life aspirations. The Consortium operates a childcare voucher scheme enabling staff to take advantage of the Government financial assistance available. We introduced a subsidised heathcare scheme alongside our existing subsidised health screening for all staff in 2010. Measurable Results or Outcomes Around 1/3 of staff make use of flexible working arrangements and 60% of all staff have taken advantage of health screening in the last 2 years. All staff are able to take advantage of our subsidised healthcare scheme. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium commits to ‘support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges’. The Consortium has an Environmental Management System that is accredited to the ISO14001 standard. As part of this we review our Aspects and impacts on the environment and take action that is necessary to reduce our environmental impacts. We are active members of the steering committee for the Wessex Environmental Business Network. Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year The environmental management team has continued to perform environmental aspects evaluations throughout the business. Measurable Results or Outcomes Ongoing successful external audit of our Environmental Management system. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium operate an environmental management system that will deliver continuous improvement in setting of appropriate objectives and targets which are made available to all persons who work for or on behalf of the company Actions implemented in the last year / Planned for next year In order to reduce the amount of packaging product used plastic void fill was replaced by cardboard void fill generated by shredding waste cardboard boxes. Water sensors have been placed in the gents toilets to reduce reflushing and reduced water usage by over 10%. All printing has been set to default to duplex and customers are encouraged to sign up for e-docs eliminating paper altogether. A reduction of 10% has been achieved. Disappointingly usage of gas for heating increased by over 20% last year despite several initiatives to reduce. Our main success story in the year of having the warehouse heating working throughout the winter period delivered a more motivated workforce but did nothing for our environmental impact! Better uses of thermostatic controls are planned for next year. Measurable Results or Outcomes Results: As a result of shredding we have reduced waste to landfill by over 30% We have had no pollution incidents. We are investigating car share/ shuttle bus schemes. Our targets for this year are: Water usage 5% reduction Electricity usage 10% reduction Paper usage 20% reduction Gas usage 5% reduction PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium encourages the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies. The Consortium is committed to expanding the range of environmentally friendly products that we offer. The Consortium seeks to develop new environmentally friendly products with our suppliers. The Consortium will, if necessary and prudent, reduce margin on products that are more environmentally friendly in order to stimulate demand for the product with our customer base. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We partnered with a supplier of renewable technologies in 2010 to be able to provide this range of products to our educational customers. Measurable Results or Outcomes / planned for next year As detailed above. PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy The Consortium is committed to work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. We invest in the training and development of procurement staff to ensure that always follow the CIPS ethical code of practice. Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year As part of our initial supplier audit we undertake a risk assessment of our supply base to determine if there are any areas of trading, particularly upstream of our first tier suppliers, where there is a possibility of corruption in existence. We then focus on the areas of high risk and undertake appropriate education and action if necessary. We are exporting more product and have recruited an export sales team. Therefore there is a need to be more authoritative regarding the actions of possible agents that we deal with. All this against the backdrop of exceeding the requirements of the tne Bribery Act to be introduced in 2011. We will be producing a separate clear Anti-Bribrary and corruption Policy, amending our Global Sourcing principles accordingly and re-education our supply base and sales teams during 2011. Measurable Results or Outcomes As we extend our overseas supply base we are educating a larger group of suppliers to comply with our requirements. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Our COP will be accessible to our staff, customers and suppliers, and the general public on our website www.theconsortium.co.uk. In the About Us section. Our annual Responsible Business report will indicate our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the UK Local Network. We will seek to publicise our membership of Global Compact within the local community and encourage them to review our C.O.P on our website or apply for a copy.
