CIB Group Sustainability Report 2010 OUR VALUES Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Our values Integrity We pursue our goals honestly fairly and responsibly, in full compliance with the statutory provisions, professional standards and the signed conventions and contracts. Excellence Our objective is continuous improvement, farsightedness, the effective anticipation of challenges, creativity that serves innovation and that extends to all fields of our endeavours, as well as the recognition and rewarding of merit. Transparency We are committed to ensuring that transparency serves as the basis for our activities, our marketing communication and contracts, so as to enable all our stakeholders to make independent and informed decisions. Respect for local characteristics and differences We seek to achieve the appropriate balance between the global nature of our operation and the special requirements of the local market and, while maintaining a broad vision, to never lose sight of these. Equal treatment We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination, and to respecting differences in gender, age, race, religion, political and tradeunion alignment, and differences in language, and to respecting the rights of those with disabilities. Individual qualities The value of every single person serves as a guide for our modus operandi: we use listening and dialogue as tools for continuously improving our relationships with all our stakeholders. Responsible use of resources We aim to use all our resources sparingly. In this regard we promote conduct that is based on the best use of resources and on the avoidance of waste and ostentation. We give priority to solutions that have been designed with sustainability in mind. 2 Key performance indicators of the CIB Group Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Key performance indicators of the CIB Group 2008 2009 2010 Number of customers 727 110 720 8511 717 247 Number of our employees 3 657 persons 3 279 persons 3 091 persons Percentage of female employees 66% 66% 66% CO2 emissions from energy consumption per 3.24 tonnes 3.18 tonnes 2.31 tonnes employee Energy consumption per employee 35.7 GJ 30.44 GJ 19.79 GJ Total waste generated 29 688 kg 63 682 kg 66 548 kg Amount allocated and paid in support of publicHUF 62.6 million HUF 51.7 million HUF 34.6 million benefit organisations (CIB Foundation) Total economic value distributed HUF 85.029 billion HUF 50.636 billion HUF 31.768 billion Percentage of domestic suppliers 98.17% 98.11% 97.75% Number of trade union members 355 persons 311 persons 323 persons As of 31 December. 1 Adjusted in 2010. 3 Our most important commitments for 2010 and their fulfilment Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Our most important commitments for 2010 and their fulfilment The commitments listed below are described in detail in the sections presenting our individual stakeholder groups. Implemented and closed Largely implemented successfully, but not yet closed Partially implemented and in progress or actually closed Implementation has begun Implementation has not begun Fulfilment Commitment status Corporate governance Elaboration of a new, three-year CSR strategy • No decision has been made to the effect that the CSR strategy be redefined. Further improvement of group-level governance (corporate governance) • The bank group’s governance functions are operating with increasing efficiency, making use of central resources. Incorporating sustainability considerations into the credit policy • Significant work has begun on revising our risk management practice. Further improvement of the new organisational model • We have in large part succeeded in establishing an organisation that is in line with the principles set out in the strategic plan, and in reorganising the various tasks. For our employees Raising employee satisfaction • Building on the results of the employee climate survey, the bank took a number of steps, the success of which was confirmed by the survey held at the end of 2010. Elaboration of a CIB nursery school program • The concept has been drawn up and implementation is expected to take place in 2011. Introduction of a new employee incentive and remuneration system • The system is operating successfully. Introduction of an employee suggestions scheme • The system is operating successfully. Maintenance of existing social benefits • In spite of the crisis, in keeping with HR objectives, in 2010 the bank provided employees with the same social benefits as in 2009. Increase in the number of employee training courses • The number of training hours, as well as the number of employees participating in training, grew at the rate of previous years. Introduction of international, intra-group sporting events and leisure programs • With the assistance of our parent bank, we introduced a large number of new programs. For our customers Further steps to alleviate the impacts of the crisis Barrier-free conversion of additional branches • The barrier-free conversion of branches is progressing in keeping with the renovation schedule. Installation of bicycle racks • The bank has installed bicycle racks at five branches. Creation of children’s areas in more branches • Some 10% of the branches now have children’s areas. 4 Our most important commitments for 2010 and their fulfilment Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank For our suppliers Procurement policy • The bank approved the new procurement policy. Integration of sustainability and ethical considerations into the supplier selection process • We incorporated ethical procurement principles into our procurement policy. Community relations Review of the CIB Foundation’s operation • The Board of Trustees resolved to introduce a new tendering and administration system. Determination of new directions for donation and sponsorship • The CIB Foundation’s new directions for donation and sponsorship from 2010: children’s health protection / social integration / protection of cultural heritage. Establishment of a new tendering system • In autumn 2010 the “We Can Do” system for tendering support applications was introduced. Holding of a voluntary-work day • The CIB Voluntary Work Day was held at the Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage). Holding of charitable events, exhibitions • We held an exhibition and fitted out a gallery in our head office in Medve utca. For our environment Introduction of a CIB bike-sharing scheme to promote environmentally friendly travel between our main offices in the capital • The system was launched, with eight bicycles. Elaboration of workplace and bespoke travel plans • Bespoke travel plans were not drawn up, for supplier-related reasons. Expanding the scope of selective waste disposal • The project was launched at the small office building in Medve utca. 5 Our commitments for 2011 Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Our commitments for 2011 Commitment Corporate governance Continuation of simplification and rationalisation steps Comprehensive review of the Lending Framework System For our employees Strengthening of employee engagement Launch of initiatives to strengthen employee commitment Raising of employee satisfaction Further increase in the number of training courses For our customers Launch of new products Simplification of the product range Engagement of our customers For our suppliers Further incorporation of sustainability and ethical consideration into the supplier selection process Introduction of prequalification and post-performance rating system Development of a suppliers’ portal Community relations Forging of new strategic partnerships Launch of local community initiatives Stepping up of efforts to protect cultural heritage Strengthening of dialogue Holding of a voluntary-work day Holding of charitable events, exhibitions For our environment Launch of an energy project Further communication of our environmentally-aware operation Expanding the scope of selective waste disposal 6 Message from the Chairman Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Message from the Chairman maintaining a high level of risk awareness and reinforcing our sense of responsibility towards customers, and also entails the development and enhancement of our risk management capabilities. Our strategic objective for 2012 is to evolve into a well-differentiated, leading retail bank with strong microenterprise and SME divisions. This, the CIB Group’s fifth sustainability report has been compiled in accordance with international guidelines. The report this year reflects a long-term, strategic approach, the basis for which is a harmonious balance between our business operations and long-term sustainability. When compiling our Report, we applied the new set of criteria of the previous year: we included a section detailing our responses to the crisis, followed by a description of the long-term initiatives we have launched, and our model for responsible corporate governance. The report is rounded off with an annex containing various charts, tables and supplementary information, for reference purposes. Please read through the report carefully, and share with us any thoughts and comments that you might have, so that by taking them into consideration we can perform even better 2010 was an extremely tough year for everyone. The global in the year ahead, to the satisfaction and benefit of all our economic crisis had a continuous severe impact on the entire stakeholders. financial sector, and placed an exceptional burden on our clients. We had to work together to overcome countless obstacles, a process that often demanded painful choices. Yet the crisis has brought with it a unique opportunity: the chance to hold a fundamental review of our operations to date. The top priority over the past year has been to reduce the many and complex negative impacts of the crisis. While doing this we did not, however, neglect our long-term goals, as we Dr. György Surányi forged ahead with programs designed to bring about more Chairman responsible and sustainable operations within the bank. Our mission is to become the bank of choice for highly discerning retail and business customers, differentiated by its outstanding quality of service. We have to work hard to retain staff and develop their skills and potential through the application of transparent and performance-based HR management principles, while focusing more sharply on protecting the added value reflected in our bottom line that we create. For us, becoming the “bank of choice” for our clients means being the first service provider that comes to the customer’s mind when a financial need arises. The mainstay of this is trust. In turn, delivering genuine value means that we must be capable of achieving sustainable growth, as a fundamental principle underpinning our market presence. This involves 7 table of contents Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Table of contents Our values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Key performance indicators of the CIB Group. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Our most important commitments for 2010 and their fulfilment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Our commitments for 2011 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Message from the Chairman. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1. No let up in the effects of the financial and economic crisis in 2010. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 1.1. CIB’s business results and objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 1.2. The impact of the crisis on customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 2. Long-term programs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 2.1. Customers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 2.2. Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 2.3. Suppliers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 2.4. Our social impacts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 2.5. Managing our environmental impacts in 2010. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 3. Corporate governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 3.1. Organisational structure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 3.2. Decision-making bodies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 3.3. Selection and evaluation of managers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3.4. Promoting ethically sound and responsible operation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3.5. CSR management and communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 4. Annexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 4.1. CIB Bank – core data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 4.2. Branch Network. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 4.3. CIB Bank in figures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 4.4. Awards and accolades. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 4.5. Compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 GRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 About this report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 Imprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 8 1. Effects of the financial and economic crisis Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank No let up in the effects of the financial and economic crisis in 2010 s in 2009, in the 2010 financial year events continued to be fundamentally shaped by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. Last year the economic policy of the government that was formed following the parliamentary and local elections, which differed starkly from the economic policy of the previous government, had a considerable impact on the financial sector, and the introduction of a special tax on banks had a dramatic effect on financial institutions, including CIB Bank. 9 Effects of the financial and economic crisis Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 1.1. CIB’s business results and objectives The second priority in CIB’s mid-term strategy lies in the further development of its proposition towards the SME and In order to assure long-term sustainable growth, CIB Bank Micro enterprise sectors. As a start, CIB has developed a and its subsidiaries (hereinafter: the group or bank group) dedicated SME network in its main branches through which has launched a transformation and restructuring drive in the bank wishes to further promote its complex banking response to the altered environment in which it is operating. and lending services. The ultimate goal in this segment is This shift in organisational and operational focus has two prithe financing of the real economy, with the focus placed mary aspects to it. Firstly, CIB has introduced a group-based squarely on supporting the manufacturing and service sectors organisational approach: to boost operational efficiency and through clearly defined goals. Apart from corporate loans and to take full advantage of internal synergies, it has integrated leasing services, CIB Bank offers other methods of financing the group’s support functions. Meanwhile it intends to introto companies, e.g. through its factoring line. CIB Factor has duce a segment-based business model in order to best meet dedicated services for small, medium and large companies, the needs of its customers. CIB is constantly requesting and as well as for municipalities and other domestic institutions. monitoring direct feedback from its customers, and is introducing innovative solutions to improve the quality of its servWhile the above sectors are currently its main areas of focus, ices. In line with these objectives, the group approved a new CIB has set new goals to maintain the performance of its three-year business strategy in April of 2010, which, based large corporate business. During the coming years, CIB will on a decision of the shareholders, will be reviewed in light leverage the synergies inherent in its ownership by Intesa of the latest market trends. Sanpaolo, thereby strengthening its presence in the multinational sector. The main objective is to develop a uniform The direction set by CIB’s strategy and mid-term plans is and thus transparent and cost-effective service structure. ensuring that customers choose the CIB Group as their servConsequently, CIB is one of the first banks in Hungary to ice provider, as it offers the best overall value proposition in have implemented, together with its parent Intesa Sanpaolo, the market. This value proposition will be based on optimally a financial value-chain project, aimed at improving its capabilipriced services, accessibility and ease-of-use of products, ties at serving multinational companies in the areas of cash consistently transparent pricing, and effective differentiation management and trade finance. Beyond these objectives, from the value propositions of competitors. Accordingly, the boosting the effectiveness of customer relationship managegroup has launched an Operational Excellence program to ment and deepening cross-selling activities are also a priority. make its internal processes simpler and more efficient and to improve service quality. This will enable the CIB Group to To help assure the quality of the bank group’s loan portfolio, respond to the needs of the market with high-quality and the Group has established a special workout group, which reliable services. The group seeks to generate sustainable ensures the bank group’s ability to achieve the best rate of growth by providing real value to its customers, and this key recovery on its non-performing loans. Having set up the principle will drive the bank’s market conduct going forward. new workout group, CIB aims to further develop its workout processes and capabilities that will help maintain a healthy In accordance with the newly adopted strategy, CIB Bank is balance between growth and sustainable, predictable loss targeting two major areas of business in 2011: retail and SME. A rates in order to effectively manage the overall stability of critical focus in the years to come will be on energizing commerthe institution. In the next three years the bank will need to cial activity in order to secure the bank’s future revenues and provide still more resources to the workout department to defend its market position. CIB will place particular emphasis ensure its ability to manage the Group’s non-performing on further development of its retail business, and accordingly, loan and asset portfolio. the bank aims to become the primary retail bank for its customers. This goes hand in hand with the ability to further improve The CIB Group did not receive any form of government funddeposit collection activity and the sale of exceptional-quality ing in 2010 (as was the case in the previous years). asset management services. On the lending side, the bank’s aim is to achieve a top position in the market for primary residential The operations of the CIB Group in 2010 were significantly mortgage products, and to develop mortgage products that impacted by the ongoing global economic crisis, the extraorwill stimulate home improvements. CIB Bank also launched, dinary bank tax on the financial sector, the downgrade of and continues to develop, its own bank assurance franchise Hungary’s debt rating and the high level of credit risk. As a system, which is enabling it to diversify its service portfolio by consequence of the lower-volume business activity compared adding a full range of insurance products. to previous years, the volume of retail loans and transactions 10 Effects of the financial and economic crisis Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank fell, which was accompanied by a corresponding decline in year. Retail deposits (including issued bonds and investment revenues. As an additional effect of the recession, the quality funds) amounted to HUF 882 billion at the end of 2010, and of the loan portfolio deteriorated further, leading to signifitheir share within total retail liabilities increased to 60%. cant impairment. The introduction of the special bank tax in Hungary resulted in a sharp decline in the consolidated As a result of the losses made in 2010, the CIB Group’s total profit of the bank group. To mitigate the effects of the crisis, shareholders’ equity decreased by HUF 24 billion to HUF 241 CIB focused on (prudent) credit risk management, portfolio billion, despite the fact that the group’s capital adequacy monitoring and cost optimisation in 2010. ratio came to 9.8% at the end of 2010. By December of 2010 the CIB Group’s total assets amounted The group closed 2010 with a loss of HUF 23.5 billion, repto HUF 2 495 billion (-9.5%). The lower balance sheet total resenting a HUF 28.1 billion decline relative to the previous was primarily the consequence of the decline in customer year’s profit. This was the result of the fall in net banking loans and the ongoing repayment of parent company funding. income, the consistently prudent provisioning applied for mitigating the risk associated with non-performing assets, At the end of 2010 the CIB Group’s consolidated gross loan and the significant impact of the special bank tax. portfolio was HUF 2 338 billion (-4.4%). Within the total portfolio the proportion of retail loans (mortgage, car financing Distribution of income from a stakeholder’s perspective and others) improved, and reached 27% (+1.6%) by the end of the year, while real estate financing made up barely 20% In terms of sustainable growth we use an approach of the portfolio (-6.3%). The share of large corporate and that sheds light on what sort of income movement SME loans also decreased slightly during the year. Demand (income transfer) takes place between the various parfor new financing was low throughout the entire period, ticipants – customers, suppliers, employees, shareholdwith new disbursements falling by 49% and loan financing ers, the state, the third sector – of the economic arena by 52.1% compared to the same period of 2009, when the that includes the CIB Group, as a consequence of the crisis was already significantly impacting the financial markets. company’s economic activity. The data pertaining to the generation and distribution of economic value reveal how the In line with developments that occurred in the Hungarian organisation creates benefits for its stakeholders. The total banking market in the recent period, the credit quality of the gross economic value generated is the difference between CIB Group’s loan portfolio deteriorated. The share of nonthe total value generated (revenues) and the cost of goods performing loans within the total customer loan portfolio purchased and services used (consumption). We performed continued to increase. The most notable increase in nonthe calculation of this using the methodology applied by performing loans occurred in the real estate sector. Within Intesa Sanpaolo. More information on the Bank’s business this segment the most significant deterioration took place in results can be found in the 2010 Business Report and the hotels, shopping malls and land financing. The loan quality Annual Financial Report that contains it. A breakdown of the of the retail portfolio was more stable; however, the prodirect economic value generated and distributed is given in portion of loans overdue for more than 90 days rose by 4.0 the following table. percentage points compared to December 2009, and by The 2010 data reflects the protracted difficulties faced by the end of December 2010 this had reached 13.4%. CIB set the Hungarian economy, and the impact of the substantially aside provisions of HUF 83 billion this year to cover potenaltered tax regime. Last year was closed with a negative tial losses from non-performing loans. In the meantime the result, and there was no dividend payment. This was also group placed a major emphasis on providing assistance to the case in the previous years, which were closed with a those of its customers in all segments who were experiencpositive result. Another change with major implications last ing temporary difficulties in servicing their loans, by offering year was the introduction of what is referred to as the bank proactive alternatives for the restructuring of existing loans. tax, which substantially increased our payment obligation towards the state. Total customer liabilities, including the portfolio managed by the fund managers, amounted to HUF 1 722 billion by the end of 2010 (-7.5%). There was a significant difference in the development of customer deposits and the change in the volume of assets managed in our funds: while customer deposits totalled HUF 1 477 billion (-9.0 at the end of the 11 Effects of the financial and economic crisis Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Economic value generated and distributed (HUF billion) 2008 2009 2010 Total value generated (A) 269.148 270.125 212.354 Total consumption (B) 184.562 219.448 180.758 Gross value added from core business activity (A-B=C) 84.586 50.677 31.597 Revenue from the sale of fixed assets (D) 0.443 0.041 0.172 Total economic value generated (C+D=E) 85.029 50.636 31.768 2008 2009 2010 Owners (dividend) 0 0 0 Employees (wage payments) 34.614 30.356 27.966 State (direct and indirect taxes) 14.193 7.342 18.481 Third sector (donations and contributions) 0.564 0.869 0.844 Corporate sector (profit reserve and depreciation) 35.657 12.069 -15.523 Total economic value distributed 85.029 50.636 31.768 CIB Group, consolidated data, based on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 31 December 2009 HUF billion 31 December 2010 (corrected) Balance sheet total 2 757.2 2 494.9 Deposits from customers 1 560.1 1 367.7 Loans to customers (gross) 2 446.4 2 337.8 Net profit or loss 143.0 135.2 Operating costs (excluding bank tax) 61.2 59.2 Bank tax 13.1 Impairment and provisioning 71.3 83.0 Profit after tax 4.7 -23.5 1.2. The impact of the crisis on customers was not only forced to set aside substantial provisions, but also to prioritise the strengthening of effective ‘workout’ The impacts of the crisis did not diminish in 2010. This activity that serves to protect the Bank’s balance sheet. In tended to be true for both retail and corporate customers. a few cases involving corporate customers (typically in the Considerable strain continued to result from the weakenreal estate development and hotel sectors), these measures ing of the forint, which was accompanied by a substantial gave rise to considerable negative media coverage; however, strengthening of the Swiss franc. This led to a significant we handled all these cases in a strictly impartial and legally increase in the repayment instalments on foreign currencygrounded manner, at all times proceeding in the interests of based loans, a situation that was further exacerbated by the protecting our customers and shareholders. sustained decline in property prices. Among our retail customers, those in the most difficult situaThe CIB Group made concerted efforts to offer its stakeholdtion continue to be those who, for some reason or other, are ers services that were sustainable even in the tough economic unable to continue repaying their loan as before. For these environment. In addition to this, the group expended concustomers we have developed, and are effectively running, siderable resources on assisting those of its loan customa program that aims to help customers who are struggling ers who had run into difficulties. At the same time, it was to weather the crisis, by rescheduling their loan repayments. necessary to face up to the fact that the number of defaultGenerally speaking, with regard to our retail customers, in ing loan customers had not fallen, and as a result the bank 2010 we concentrated on the following: 12 Effects of the financial and economic crisis Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank • Alleviating the burdens placed on our customers by the crisis previously implemented to mitigate the impacts of the crisis • Strengthening financial skills and knowledge (Solution Loan, credit protection program, loan term exten• Strengthening the trust of deposit-holders sions, temporary easing of loan repayments, conversion of for• Increasing the propensity to save eign currency loans to forint, the handling of early repayment • Strengthening forint-based lending requests), while others took the form of brand new products • Maintaining closer customer relations and services. A few examples of steps taken by us in 2010: • Intesa Sanpaolo credit protection: in the course of the year In 2010 the market continued to be characterised by signifiwe successfully promoted our credit protection service, which cantly increased risks, defaults on loans by insolvent customwas used by our credit card, mortgage loan and personal loan ers, and a decline in consumption and economic activity. customers. The service relieves the customer of the burden Mitigating the negative impacts of the crisis is both in our own of repayments upon the occurrence of certain, unforeseeable interests and that of our customers. Since we aim to forge events. At the beginning of 2010 we adapted the product long-term relationships based on trust, the basic principle that to suit the changed market requirements, and increased the we continued to follow in 2010 was to use the means at our period of cover from the previous 6 months to 12 months. disposal to help customers who were in difficulty, through no • Restructuring: In 2010, for a great many customers we fault of their own, to make it through the crisis. Concurrently succeeded in finding a solution that alleviated the immediwith this, we introduced significant cost-cutting measures in ate burden on customers in difficulty, by making changes order to make use of our efficiency reserves. to the instalments and the repayment period. Where corporate customers are concerned, our experi• Giving priority to forint lending: While a change in the ence to date has shown that we have the best chance of statutory provisions led us to suspend foreign-currency mortfinding a mutually beneficial solution in cases where gage lending, CIB was among the first to change its product contact is made quickly between the bank and the cusrange, adding a new product to its existing range of forinttomer. In order to achieve this – based on predetermined based lending products, in response to the altered market screening criteria – we continue to contact customers that conditions and customer requirements. The CIB FIX home are particularly “at risk”. There are various opportunities loan is a forint-based loan with a three-year interest period, available for alleviating difficult situations: offering predictable and favourable repayment instalments. • rescheduling loan repayments, by agreeing on lower • Assisting in taking up loans: In order to help our retail monthly repayment instalments than before; customers even more effectively than before in choosing a • extending the grace period, which allows repayment to credit product that will also be appropriate for them over begin later than specified in the original repayment schedule; the long-term, we launched a number of new initiatives: • extending the term of the loan, allowing the customer For customers struggling due to a substantial increase in to spread the repayments over a longer period; their monthly repayment instalment or an unfavourable • authorising a principal repayment holiday, i.e. grantchange in their circumstances, we have published a maning a period in which repayment of the capital part of the ual enti-tled “Solutions to Loan Repayment Difficulties”. loan is suspended, and during which the customer only The publication, which was distributed to customers in pays the interest on the loan (plus the costs); the branches, offers guidance in choosing between the • researching and offering more favourable/less costly various financial solutions that offer a temporary easing financing solutions for customers (e.g. EU funds, refiof their situation, whether in relation to property-backed nanced options and state-backed guarantee schemes). loans or other forms of financing such as vehicle leasing arrangements. In addition to the above, customers may, in justified cases, We have completely redesigned the loan calculator availbe granted additional financing. If necessary, the range of able on our website (www.cib.hu), which now guides our collateral securing the loans, and the contract documentacustomers through the initial stage of selecting a loan tion and the terms and conditions, may also be amended. even more effectively, and comprehensibly, than before. The fundamental goal is to ensure that the repayment instalThe interactive retail account selector was also redesigned. ments of the outstanding loan are commensurate with the We introduced the “household budget calculator”, which customer’s actual ability to pay. Besides the recommendaprovides customers with much assistance in working out tions listed above, we have attempted to find solutions to the real costs of running their households. All of these financing problems in the form of new and existing products. tools help to gain an accurate picture, before taking out the loan, of how much credit they will be able to take We have introduced a number of new initiatives for our on without putting their household budget under too customers. Some of these were refinements of measures much strain. 13 Effects of the financial and economic crisis Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank • With regard to SME customers, since 2010 not only those with loans, but also those for whom we just manage their accounts, have a dedicated relationship manager and even their own risk manager. We adopted a new approach to SME financing, shifting the emphasis towards a policy of “Partnership = financial advice”. An important expectation that we have in respect of our business customers is that the company should be governed and managed by an owner who is committed to its operation over the long-term, and who is willing to cooperate with the bank and conduct operations transparently, so that together we can find the financing solution best suited to its needs. In order to achieve this, we have also improved the skills of our employees. Some 20% of our staff took part in “development centre” sessions, enabling us to draw up personalised training plans that address their genuine requirements. The launch of a modular training model is expected to take place in 2011, under which we will test the skills necessary for doing a particular job or holding a given position, e.g. communication, negotiation skills, persuasion and the constructive resolution of conflicts. • Liquidity of micro enterprises: There are very few financing opportunities in the market for micro enterprises, which often come up against serious difficulties trying to secure the funds necessary for maintaining their liquidity. In 2010 CIB introduced a credit limit management system that is capable of effectively and quickly remedying this problem for these customers. • Customer satisfaction: In 2010 we launched a special “Onboarding” program, with the aim of significantly raising customer satisfaction. The program is aimed at new customers, and is intended to minimise “customer churn” through the provision of personalised, up-to-date services. Concurrently, we added a customer satisfaction feedback system to the queue number dispensing terminals located in our branches. We will go into more detail regarding this solution later in the report. 14 2. Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Long-term programs t the CIB Group, our efforts to achieve sustainability are based on a longterm commitment, and thus in 2010 we launched several new initiatives, as well as continuing our projects that were already under way. In the following sections we give an account of these initiatives, and our related practices, separately in relation to each of our most important stakeholder groups. 15 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 2.1. branch if necessary, targeted improvements can be proposed at the given branch, based on the feedback given by our customers as they manage their banking affairs. Since 2010 we have been able to handle complaints received by the CIB Group in a standardised way, not only due to the Customers identical complaints handling process applied throughout the group, but also through the standardisation of the support systems. As in previous years the number of complaints was high over the year as a whole, but the outcomes of the Besides taking steps to mitigate the impacts of the economic complaints, in terms of how they were judged, differed from crisis, we focused particularly on ensuring that our customers 2009. The percentage of complaints that were acknowledged receive a high-quality service. A part of this involved paying as a goodwill gesture rose, which reflects the CIB Group’s attention to their needs, providing appropriate and suitable constructive approach to dealing with customers in difficulinformation, listening to and investigating their comments and ties. The processing time for complaints handling deteriorated complaints, and maintaining two-way communication. It reslightly (from an average of 7.92 to 8.83 days), due to the mains important for us to be able to offer products and services need to investigate and resolve more complex complaints. that are suited to the needs of disadvantaged groups within As always, we seek equitable, customer-centred solutions society, thus affording them easier access to banking services. when investigating the complaints received by us, because We also believe we have a mission, through the targeted proviwe know that the positive effects of a satisfactory outcome sion of services that can be accessed at preferential terms, to will be clearly reflected in our customer satisfaction indicators. help our customers cultivate a responsible attitude towards money, and a greater willingness to save. (For supplementary Number of complaints investigated by Comdata and tables related to the section below, see Annex 4.3.) plaints Management in the CIB Group 20081 Customer satisfaction and complaints management 2009 2010 Last year, the drive to increase customer satisfaction received perhaps an even more prominent role in the life of the bank than it had previously. As the economic crisis deepened, CIB recognised that with this unique, ongoing program, it could 16 332 18 148 17 697 successfully set itself apart from its competitors. Drawing on feedback from customers, it can make improvements with Findings of investigations into complaints in the potential to further strengthen their satisfaction and 2010 loyalty. For this reason, internal support for the program is strengthening continually. As a part of the program, an 20081 evaluation of the customer satisfaction indicator was included 2009 2010 in the performance assessment of every manager in 2010. We augmented the survey conducted among retail and SME customers with a survey of another customer group: active users of the CIB Internet Bank. We can now use the findings of this research to strengthen and develop our innovative banking channels (CIB Internet Bank, CIB Business Terminal). By the end of the year our “Listening 100%” customer satisfaction program was expanded with a new feature, as the 50% 36% 42% 15% 21% 24% 35% 43% 34% Substantiated Acknowledged in a Unsubstantiated paper-based questionnaires previously available in branches goodwill gesture are being replaced with a more modern, interactive solution. The queue number ticket dispensing system used in the branches enables us to “gather”, at the end of the branch visit, our customers’ opinions regarding their banking experience on that day. This solution has the advantage of being customisable, so by asking questions that are specific to each 1 Due to a data correction, we have modified the 2008 figure from 16 335 to 16 332. 16 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Complaints by type of service in 2010 the barrier-free conversion of several branches. The main entrances to our central office buildings, and the bank branches housed within them, have also been made barrier-free. • When installing new cash dispensers, instead of the formerly Product / Services-Number of complaints used S-shaped front panels, we now exclusively use ATMs Investment products 551 Transfers 1 017 that are fitted with flat, vertical front panels, making them Credit and shopping cards 1 896 easier for customers with physical disabilities to use. At the Debit cards 1 396 Loan products 520 end of 2010 we had 211 operational ATMs, of which Current accounts and deposits 4 452 a total of 180 (85%) had a flat front panel, while the Mortgage loans 1 202 Insurance products 740 remaining 30 are scheduled for conversion within Electronic channels 1 571 the next 3-4 years. Leasing 3 005 Other 1 347 • By the end of 2010 the bank’s branch network conTotal 17 697 sisted of 145 units. All 221 of the ATMs in operation at the beginning of the year remained at the end of the year. By the end of 2010 we closed all 24 of the representative offices that were open at the end of 2009. • We also placed particular emphasis on keeping our online Complaints by type and e-banking services up to date, which in 2010 we 2008 achieved as a part of the “customer experience” program 2009 already mentioned above. Also under this initiative we in2010 troduced the opportunity to request appointments online. • By the end of 2010 children’s areas had been created in 17 of our branches, making it easier for customers with small children to do their banking. Products for customers with special requirements • The CIB Group also offers services to individuals and legal entities with special requirements. In 2010 we continued 20% 28% 33% 13% 18% 12% 12% 14% 9% 55% 50% 46% Terms and CommuniTransactions Other to market our products and services developed to suit the conditions, and cation and specific requirements of youth and senior citizens, a camtheir applicacustomer tion information paign which we supported with special promotions. We offer special account products for retirees, people with With respect to abuses of personal data, a total of 11 large families, students, non-profit associations and apartcomplaints were received (in 2009: 21 complaints), a sigment houses. nificant proportion of which resulted from problems related • F or our environmentally-aware customers, in 2007 we to customer identification. launched the CIB Alternative Energy Fund, which matured in December 2010. The return on the fund is linked to the Ensuring access to services performance of the DAX Global Alternative Energy Index (DAXAEP), which tracks the performance of a basket of We take seriously our obligation to ensure that everybody, shares in the world's 15 largest renewable energy producers. including those of our customers who have disabilities affecting their movement, sight and hearing, or who are handicapped in other way, can gain equal access to our services. A part of this stems from fulfilment of our statutory obligations, while other initiatives are undertaken voluntarily. • On 31 December 2010 we had 145 branches, 88 of which were barrier-free. In 2010 the bank launched the procedure to obtain planning permission for 17 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 2.2. the EU), we have revised the pay structure of Group Legal Services, Group Compliance and the Internal Audit department, and we have created a new variable-pay system. • Taking advantage of the opportunities presented by the SAP system, we began to introduce the Employee SelfEmployees Service (ESS) system. ESS greatly simplifies and speeds up personnel administration, and offers a new channel for communication between the employer and the employee. Our objective remained unchanged in 2010: to create • Due to the bank tax introduced in 2010 and to the consethe conditions necessary for ensuring sustainable and quences of the protracted economic crisis, there was no excellent working conditions for each and every one general pay increase in 2010. However, at the end of 2010 of our employees. (For supplementary data and tables the bank’s management decided to raise the salaries of related to the section below, see Annex 4.3.) those who had suffered a fall in their net pay due to changes in the personal income tax laws, by enough to compensate To achieve its long-term strategic objectives our bank group for the reduction that resulted from the tax changes. has allocated more of the resources freed up by the reor• Based on a decision made by the management at the end of ganising of human resources and the simplification of work 2009, with effect from 2010 the value of fringe benefits processes than ever before towards the strengthening of offered to full-time employees under the Cafeteria system the business and customer relations departments. Accordhas risen from HUF 15 000 to HUF 17 500 a month, and ingly, the company’s management decided to reduce the the Bank group has also agreed to cover the amount of the headcount of the bank’s back-office staff by 250 persons, in personal income tax payable on this. Part-time employees order that it could significantly increase the number of emare entitled to receive cafeteria benefits proportionately to ployees dealing directly with business activity and customer their working hours, while agency staff become eligible for relations. This reduction was implemented in full compliance fringe benefits under the system once they have been in a with the provisions of the Labour Code, in several consecuworking relationship with us for more than a year. tive 30-day stages. In relation to the headcount reduction, we developed a Our general benefits package continues to be made uniform set of selection criteria, and also put together an up of the following elements: outplacement package for the employees affected. Within • Mandatory: occupational health services, reimbursement the framework of the EsErnyô (“Opportunity Umbrella”) proof travel expenses, CIB Voluntary Pension Plan, prescripgram, over and beyond the benefits prescribed by law we tion spectacles. supported outgoing workers in finding work elsewhere: we • Provided voluntarily: cafeteria system, CIB Voluntary held English language and IT training courses for them, as Pension Plan, preferential banking services and discounted well as a two-day preparation course to assist them in findbank cards, staff loans, staff lease-financing plans, group ing new employment. We provided continuous individual personal insurance. Besides these, we continue to offer, as counselling opportunities in our1. The bank withdrew the optional benefits, a family mobile telephony plan and the ban on re-employing formerly laid-off employees, and kept use of holiday facilities in Hungary and abroad. them updated regarding our open positions. We succeeded in providing new job opportunities for many of our employees. Our temporary or part-time employees are also entitled to all of the above benefits, with the proviso that quantifiable • Our parent bank continued with the employee climate surbenefits are granted proportionately to the number of hours vey, which had been conducted for the first time in 2009. worked. All our employees are only eligible to receive benefits The purpose of this survey is to find out what our employees under the cafeteria system, and the employer’s contributions working in the various countries think about their work at to the Voluntary Pension Plan, upon expiry of the threethe bank. In spring a working group was established whose month trial period; and certain preferential staff loans are task is to analyse the results of the survey and to draw up only available after one or two years of employment. an action plan aimed at improving the general satisfaction • Participation in all the periodical vocational and professional of the employees. aptitude and fitness tests prescribed by law naturally • A s an important initial task in this process, we have begun continued to be compulsory for all of our staff in 2010. to overhaul the incentive system. As a part of this, we have • Managers above a certain level once again had the op(in accordance with the latest guidelines of the HFSA and portunity to attend an annual “mini executive health 1 Support Centre. 18 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank screening” in 2010. The screening tasks continue to be • Our parent bank launched the Leadership Development performed by the Oxyvit medical group, which has proProgram in March 2010, with the participation of first and vided occupational health services since 1994 and today second line managers. The program is scheduled to continue has a countrywide network. The service package primarily until the second quarter of 2011. It includes three different offers assistance in the prevention and early diagnosis of modules: Leadership Lab, Coaching for first line managers cardiovascular and malignant diseases. The team screens for and Complexity Management for second line managers, the risk factors associated with diseases, actively assisting and Leading in a Matrix. There are currently a total of 75 in the development of a healthy lifestyle – advising on the managers from the CIB Group participating in the program. appropriate diet and program of exercise – or, if necessary, • We held management training courses on various managein deciding on the most appropriate course of treatment. ment topics, with 100 of our employees taking part. • Since 2007 we have provided all our employees – through • CIB was the first member of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group to our partner insurance companies – with basic life, accident introduce the Onboarding Program. The objective of the and illness insurance cover, which can be supplemented program is to ensure that customers, from the very moaccording to individual requirements. ment that they become our customers, are assured of a customer experience that paves the way for a long-term, We are Intesa Sanpaolo Group active relationship. In preparation for the program, which In 2010, our international banking group continued the “We was launched in March 2010, we trained 170 employees (31 are Intesa Sanpaolo Group” programs, established with branches) in the most important elements of the program. the aim of ensuring unified internal communications and a In the second half of the year we involved more branches, consistent corporate culture. another 200 of our employees, in the training and in the • Vacation opportunities: The CIB Banking Group offers its program itself. employees, and, in certain cases, their family members, dis• More than 200 of our employees participated in a two-week counted holidaying opportunities at destinations both in Hunretail branch orientation program for new staff. gary and abroad. With the help of our parent bank, 30 children • M ore than 1,600 people attended a series of training again enjoyed a trip to Follonica, Italy, while many families courses in the Bank group’s new lending processes. spent their summer holidays in Magione and Alassio in 2010. • In the SME Division, besides training staff in the corporate • International sporting events: Last year the opportunity lending process, we held systems training courses and held arose for employees of Intesa Sanpaolo member banks electronic examinations in skills related to Treasury products. to compete with each other in a variety sports. In 2010 In addition to these, in 2010 the corporate staff orientation not only our employees, but their children as well had an program was also overhauled and made available to emopportunity to take part in sporting events, such as the ployees of the SME Division. This training program consists children’s day held in Belgrade in May. In September, the of two parts, and provides new employees with the skills parent company organised a three-day football, volleyball and knowledge they need over a period of two weeks. and basketball tournament in Belgrade (in which three CIB • Employees of the Leasing Division participated in training teams, totalling 35 people, took part), and, thanks to Intesa to develop their bank-related professional skills, in order to Sanpaolo, in the winter we also had the opportunity to support the integration of leasing into the bank. enter the European Banks Skiing Competition. • We supported the insurance project not only by preparing • Secondary school exchange program: AFS Intercultura is staff to take the authority examination, but also by holding an international exchange program for secondary school a series of product training and insurance selling courses. students, which enables young people to spend an aca• Some 400 senior employees attended CIB’s annual profesdemic year living with a family in a foreign country. With sional meeting. The purpose of the two-day event was to the support of our parent bank, the child of one of our introduce the bank’s new strategy. This was followed by 15 employees secured a place on the program, spending an smaller ‘off-site’ events, where the various departments of entire year in Italy. the bank analysed the parts of the strategy that are relevant to them, and determined the objectives to be achieved. Training courses • Our bank’s chairman, Dr. György Surányi held a presentaWe again placed considerable emphasis on the training of tion, which attracted a very large audience, on the financial our staff, and on the development of their knowledge and crisis and its implications for Hungary and the region. personal skills. The average number of hours of training per • In 2010 almost 450 people attended the English language employee grew from 48 to 57 hours, which means that each courses supported by the Bank group. Several members of employee received an average of seven days per year. senior management had an opportunity to receive one-on19 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank one language coaching, while the rest of the staff could The “Simply Better!” program launched in 2010 is a improve their English in semester-based or intensive lancompetition held to support the implementation of ideas guage courses, held in small classes, around the country. underpinned by the high level of professional knowledge • More than 200 people took part in a series of personal and experience amassed by our employees. The most training courses related to the integration of securities important objective of the ideas competition is – with trading systems. the incentive of a cash reward – to encourage employees to develop proposals related to the processes that they Besides the training sessions and courses listed above, CIB believe are in need of development or improvement, Group employees participated in distance learning courses which will result in changes that are constructive and and took electronic examinations in the prevention of money – especially importantly – measurable, and will further laundering, conflicts of interest and security awareness, via the improve customer satisfaction and cost-effectiveness. e-learning (MultiLearn) interface. Last year employees successUnder the scheme preference is given to implementing fully passed 36 400 exams (29 644 in 2009) via this channel. ideas that have been drawn up by a team of several employees rather than a single individual, so it is necessary Annual average number of training hours per for several departments to cooperate in its development. employee Good things happen every day, some small some big, you just have to notice them. Some colleagues support 2008 us, sometimes just by listening to what your say, un2009 2010 derstanding our problems and helping to solve them. 32.1 47.7 57.01 Sometimes, however, people act in ways that could serve Based on headcount at close of 31 December. as an example, either in terms of cooperation or precise and accurate work. To make sure that, whether large or Number of training hours broken down by small, the resulting good feelings and positive experiences professional status in 20101 don’t pass unnoticed, we introduced the Thank You Card, which was issued to every one of our employees, Specialist and subordinate (female) Specialist and subordinate (male) to be passed on to another colleague as a sign of their Executive (female) appreciation. Employees actually received two cards: one Executive (male) for recognising cooperation, and the other for rating Total number of training hours excellent work. At the and of the year, the 15 employees who had received the most cards received a special prize: a trip for two to Milan. In 2010 we also overhauled the employee awards system, giving managers a far wider range of opportunities 112 668 24 570 11 230 27 760 176 228 for recognising the performance of employees. In 2010 we made the necessary preparations, and in Number of training hours by gender in 2010 2011 launched the CIB Club, which is a series of informal events that we hold on the last Friday of every month, Total female Total male with the venue a different pub in Budapest each time. Total number of training hours The purpose of establishing the CIB Club was to create an opportunity for get-togethers that promote a strong sense of belonging among our staff, in a location and surroundings that differ markedly from the corporate 123 898 52 330 176 228 environment. Employee engagement • Concurrently with this we continued our existing programs, • In December 2009, we conducted an internal employee such as the CIB Volunteering Day at the Bátor Tábor (Camp climate survey, with questionnaires completed by staff at of Courage) in the town of Hatvan, in which around 100 of all the member banks of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. We our employees participated in 2010. Details of this and our provided our employees with detailed feedback on the other efforts to engage staff in the interests of strengthresults over the course of 2010, and based on the findings ening our social relations are given in the section on our the bank’s management took decisions regarding the launch community relations. of various programs: 1 Does not include training performed in the school system and training provided in distance learning courses. 20 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Employee representation A trade union and Staff Council operate within CIB Bank. The number of trade union members was 323 at the end of December (in 2009: 311; in 2008: 355). The Staff Council hold regular meetings to discuss, with the chief executive, its position on issues affecting employees. It also actively participates in the internal communication related to these issues. Representatives of the Staff Council and the trade union make up the Social Committee, which has the task of managing certain forms of social support provided to employees. The Staff Council delegates two members of the bank’s Supervisory Committee. Equal opportunities and positive discrimination The CIB Group ensures equal treatment for its existing and future employees in accordance with the Constitution of Hungary, the effective statutory provisions and the bank group’s Code of Ethics. We offer our employees the opportunity to apply for internally advertised positions (both at CIB and in the international group), and publish the relevant information on the Intranet. Recently the bank group has been forced to carry out a staff downsizing. In connection with this, it was decided that the downsizing should not affect any employee whose spouse or domestic partner working at CIB had already been laid off, or who is a single parent, a member of an ethnic minority or a person living with a disability. 21 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 2.3. In 2010 we completed the review of our procurement guidelines, which fully comply with our parent bank’s requirements applicable to the international subsidiary banks. The new procurement process has resulted in a more transparent and objective system for selecting Suppliers suppliers, which requires that compliance with the Code of Ethics be certified. The system enables monitoring of the processing times for procurement, as well as increases in the values of procurements, thus allowing The key principle when choosing suppliers is to display the efficiency of the procurement function to be evaluated. fairness and transparency in the selection process. In Concurrently with this, our current base of suppliers is being the CIB Group's procurement processes: reviewed to ensure compliance with strict efficiency principles. • we operate a supplier selection system that ensures transTo reduce our burden on the environment, we now ask for parency and a level playing field; offers to be submitted on CD-ROM. • we provide consistent and favourable payment terms In 2011 we plan to introduce a standardised system for the to suppliers; pre-qualification and post-performance rating of suppliers, • in the course of our HR-related tenders we carry out and are also giving consideration to the development of a checks to ensure that the personnel used by our service Suppliers’ Portal, which would simplify communication with providers are employed legally; suppliers during procurement tenders and, no less impor• in certain of our contracts, we stipulate that in the course tantly, would render most of the process paper-free. of fulfilling their obligations suppliers are obliged to use environmentally friendly technology, products and materials, and make efforts to recycle the waste that is generated. Number of suppliers by geographical location 2008 2009 2010 Hungary 6 767 3 570 3 526 Europe 113 57 71 North America 12 9 8 Asia* 1 1 2 Total 6 893 3 637 3 607 As of 31 December. Spending on services by geographical location of suppliers (HUF million) 2008 2009 2010 Hungary 46 381 24 582 19 412 Europe 1 279 1 359 1 612 North America 362 457 170 Asia* 0.81 1 17 Total 48 024 26 399 21 211 As of 31 December. * Israel is included in Asia. 22 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 2.4. Authority (HFSA), the National Bank of Hungary (MNB) and the Competition Office (GVH). In many cases the value our steps taken in support of the community can also be expressed in monetary terms. HUF 225 million. This was how much CIB spent in 2010 on its support Our social for the wider community in the broader sense of the word, and it did so in a year fraught with exceptional difficulties. impacts • We supported more than 80 educational institutions throughout the country. • We facilitated the renovation of churches, the holding of The CIB Group regards corporate social responsibility cultural events and the publication of books. as a strategic issue that lies at the heart of its business • We held exhibitions of pictures by sick children. operations, and not purely an exercise in philanthropy. • We performed voluntary work at the Camp of Courage. The purposeful management of community relations is • We made it possible for almost 100 seriously ill children to a part of the process by which the bank – with the colstay free-of-charge at the Camp of Courage. laboration of its stakeholders – aims to make dialogue • In the village of Bódvalenke the frescos were completed which, into a fundamental prerequisite for the joint, and thus even, today, represent a means of earning a living for the comeffective, resolution of problems. munity in this village, which struggles with 95% unemployment. Responsible operation, sustainability, community Grand words, • We provided opportunities for several hundred small children but it’s sometimes difficult to decipher what they actually with light or severe handicaps to develop in the critical early mean at a corporate level. It’s only natural that at home we stages of their lives, especially in small rural settlements that do whatever we can to support the children’s nursery school, have until now been completely neglected. collect paper, selectively dispose of waste where possible, • At Christmas, instead of sending our corporate gifts, we supshow solidarity with the victims of natural or other disasters; ported an institution that assists in the development of autistic and another very important thing to bear in mind: we pay youth, and sent greetings cards made by them to our customers. taxes, thus providing the funds to pay for those community • It is characteristic of the colleagues we work with that they services that we too make use of. The CIB Group’s efforts to held the “Bankáradás” (Bank Flood) charity concert on their be a responsible member of the community are the same, but own initiative and from their own resources, donated money due to our size they are on a different scale. We help where to the Bódvalenke project, travelled to Transylvania to deliver we can, using the tools and channels at our disposal. Christmas donations, and spent their holiday time doing The purposeful management of community relations is a voluntary work in the Camp of Courage. part of the process by which the bank – with the collabora• And in an exceptional and unparalleled move: Following tion of its stakeholders – aims to make cooperation into a the red sludge catastrophe CIB was the first, and for a long time fundamental prerequisite for the joint, and thus efficient, the only bank in Hungary to take the decision to write off the resolution of problems. This includes: entire debts of all victims whose property had been destroyed • developing financial literacy; by the industrial disaster, or had been demolished in the course • relations with civic and professional organisations; of the restoration work, or whose CIB-financed vehicle had • civic engagement; been damaged beyond repair as a consequence of the spillage. • social solidarity; • charitable giving; Developing financial literacy • corporate volunteering. • Developing the financial literacy of Hungary’s population is Our definition of community relations includes our relationan important social objective. To ensure the quality training ships with the representatives of state institutions (governof the financial professionals of the future we supported ment, local councils, regulatory authorities and supervisory some 100 training institutions with vocational training conbodies), professional organisations (associations, trade federatributions amounting to approximately HUF 114 million. tions, chambers) and the third sector (non-profit organisa• At the end of 2010, CIB Bank joined the “Financial Navigations, foundations, local communities). From the CIB Group’s tor Program”, which is sponsored by the National Bank of point of view the most important state institutions among Hungary and the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority, our stakeholders, and those that have the greatest impact and run by the Financial Compass Foundation with the aim on our operations, are the Hungarian Financial Supervisory of widely improving financial literacy. 23 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank applications and the criteria for judgThe Financial Navigator Program ing them are uniform and transparent. A new element of the evaluation “In recent years a number of state institutions – including the National Bank of system involves the setting up of a Hungary and the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority – as well as numerous three-member prejudging commitmarket players and civic organisations, have taken steps to improve the financial tee, who will perform an evaluation literacy of the public at large. An important step towards effectively achieving of the applications received by scorthis goal, however, is to further strengthen cooperation between the organisaing them based on specified criteria. tions concerned, to coordinate the initiatives, and to create the broader-based The new system, which guarantees financing background necessary to run the programs. The primary objective of an impartial and consistent judgthe Financial Compass Foundation, established in October 2008 at the initiative ing process, will be used by the CIB of the National Bank of Hungary, is to facilitate dialogue between the various Foundation in all three of its key areas stakeholders. The Foundation aims to create opportunities for cooperation, and for support. In addition to children’s to take on an active role in the development and implementation of socially healthcare and child protection in important programs aimed at promoting the development of financial literacy. the broader sense – which covers all activities that promote the health The Financial Compass Foundation seeks to develop, launch and support financial physical and psychological developawareness programs that reach the highest possible number of households. In ment of children – we place particuorder to effectively reach the large and heterogeneous target group, the multiplylar emphasis on projects aimed at ing effect of the mass media is also needed. In 2010, in the interest of identifying facilitating the integration of those potential cooperative partnerships, the Foundation initiated negotiations with who are in some way socially disadSanoma Budapest Zrt., one of Hungary’s leading media corporations. Through a vantaged, and on the preservation pooling of their intellectual resources, the proposal for the “Financial Navigator of cultural heritage. Program” was drawn up and presented to the leading players in the financial In the first round of this initiative, market, as well as the professional organisations concerned, in September 2010. for one month from the end of September the CIB Foundation invited Main elements of the Financial Navigator Program applications from public-benefit or• Imparting, in a comprehensible manner, practical financial skills with relevance ganisations launching projects, to be to specific life situations, dealing with the financial matters typical at each completed within a one-year period, stage of life, into account the current issues of the given year to promote the healthy physical and • Editorial content based on professionally quality-assured background informapsychological development of chiltion derived from independent sources, in a number of variations dren, particularly in the early stages • 15-month timescale starting in January 2011, campaigns planned to reach of their life. The board of trustees some 4-5 million people, 150 million contacts made in the space of 15 months” granted support totalling around HUF 20 million for projects that Excerpt from the program’s introductory brochure are scheduled to be implemented in 2011. The table below does not include these decisions. Social solidarity: the CIB Foundation in 2010 Beneficiaries of the CIB Foundation in 2010 2010 brought a change in the causes supported by the foun(payment made in 2010) dation. In a departure from the policies applied to date, in the framework of three new tendering systems, the board Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage) Foundation of trustees will give priority to supporting causes that serve “Genie Oblige” Foundation for the Academy of Music to alleviate the problems of social groups that are disadvanGábor Kovács Artistic Foundation taged from a social or healthcare perspective, and projects Magyar Fotográfusok Háza Nonprofit Kft. that serve to protect our cultural heritage. Hungarian Red Cross Hungarian Baptist Aid To this end we also overhauled the system for acceptHungarian Maltese Charity Service ing and evaluation applications for assistance, and National Large Families’ Association introduced the “We can make a difference” scheme. The new system ensures that both the procedure for submitting 24 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Donations made by the CIB Corporate Social Responsibility Foundation (HUF million) 2008 2009 2010 62.6 51.1 34.6 Donations Bódvalenke – Fresco Village The CIB Corporate Social Responsibility Foundation has supported the Bódvalenke Fresco Village project since July 2009. As part of a rural development project financed from charitable donations, the village of Bódvalenke is attempting to break out of extreme poverty through the hard work of its inhabitants. The objective of the threephase project is to revitalise the village, develop the community and generate jobs by promoting local tourism (the village is situated close to the Aggtelek stalactite caves). One of the project's main goals is to transform Bódvalenke into a well known centre for gypsy culture and folk art within the space of a few years. The most spectacular results of our support are the 13 monumental frescos that have been completed so far. But this was only a small part of the assistance provided by the CIB Foundation: it enabled 10 secondary school students to continue their studies, and 10 young people to learn handicrafts at the Téka Camp. Indirectly it also helped launch a battle, on several fronts, against extreme poverty: families are now assisted by a social worker and Waldorf-method educational specialist; the Fresco Village Social Cooperative has been established, and tourism is picking up, albeit slowly. But it was not only the Foundation that assisted Bódvalenke. CIB’s employees, hearing of the damage caused by torrential rains and flooding, took up a collection. From the HUF 800,000 in donations, now that social benefits for the poorest in society have decreased and opportunities for community work have narrowed sharply, but the prices of basic foodstuffs have risen by 100-150% and all the crops in Bódvalenke have been destroyed, we were able to provide genuinely life-saving packages of food aid on three occasions. Our efforts were greatly assisted by the fact that a part of the CIB donation for the flood victims was deployed by the Hungarian Red Cross, Hungarian Baptist Aid and the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service. And there is someone who the children of Bódvalenke will never forget: Zsófi, the daughter of one of CIB’s employees, who – after getting to know Bódvalenke at the Dragon Festival, decided to return as a volunteer instead of going on holiday. For a whole month she told stories, drew, and made beautiful papier-mâché birds with the children of Bódvalenke. Ever since then she has returned to the village regularly, and at Christmas got up a collection so that the children could receive presents, possibly for the first time in their lives. The CIB Foundation continues to support the Fresco Village project in 2011. This year our partner assisting with this work is Hungarian Reformed Church Aid. The colourful world of the courageous: Between 20 April and 28 May 2010 we held a special exhibition in the reception area of our head office in Medve utca. On display were a series of paintings by children who attended the Camp of Courage. The Camp of Courage Foundation organises camps for children suffering from malignant and chronic disease. The success of the Camp cannot be measured in forints, but in terms of faster recoveries and children’s smiles. For six years now CIB has been proud to contribute to this unique initiative, which brings a little more colour to the lives of the children who attend the camps. To give all interested parties a glimpse into the life of the camp’s residents, we exhibited some of the works of art created by sick and healthy children with the assistance of a few acclaimed contemporary artists (András Wahorn, László Karácsonyi, Zsuzsa Csiszer, Katalin Verebics). The pictures were painted in November 2009 at the Budapest Art Fair. Three of the paintings were bought by the CIB Foundation. Charitable giving of 2010 we decided to once again donate the money As a part of its commitment to social solidarity, in 2010 the set aside for Christmas gifts to clients to charitable CIB Group repeated its successful equipment donation causes. As a result of this decision – of which we informed scheme, under which it donated the out-of-use office furour customers through a variety of channels – we provided niture and electronic equipment stored in its warehouse to HUF 5 million in assistance for the “Rainmen” Autism Aspublicbenefit organisations. In addition to this, at the end sociation of Tata. 25 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Local and international solidarity lion to those in need, through the Hungarian Red Cross, the Last year CIB helped the victims of natural disasters in a Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, Hungarian Baptist Aid variety of ways. Not only CIB Bank and the CIB Foundation, and the National Large Families’ Association. We held a colbut the employees themselves also played an active part in lection of clothes and cash donations among our employees, providing this assistance. In response to the flooding disaster and got together for a charity concert entitled “Bankáradás” the CIB Foundation pledged support totalling HUF 10 mil(Bank Flood). BANKÁRADÁS: bank rockers in support of the flood victims At the initiative of our bank’s own rock band, ReCIBrock, a highly unusual event was held. At 8 o’clock on the evening of Friday 1 October 2010, bands formed by the staff of CIB Bank, OTP Bank, Volksbank and Erste Bank gave a charity rock and pop concert, with the Melody Bank band also making a guest appearance. Tickets to the event cost HUF 1,000 each, and all the takings went to the flood victims, via the Hungarian Red Cross. The venue for the concert was the Diesel Club in Budapest. From the HUF 1 million collected at the charity event, the Budapest division of the Hungarian Red Cross manage to restore the severely damaged playground of the playgroup and nursery school in Mátyás utca, in the village of Edelény, enabling 209 children to once again play under the appropriate conditions. The support came as a great help for the institution, which can now provide a suitable environment for the children to play in. The number of rides in the institution’s playground has increased, the old and worn equipment has been replaced, so now the children have a versatile and diverse range of opportunities to develop their skills and have an enjoyable playtime experience. Using the donations, a play train, a climbing wall with ropes, a chain footbridge, two seesaws and two treadmills were purchased and installed in compliance with EU standards. Donation to the Heim Pál Children’s Hospital The young patients at the neurology department of the Heim Pál Children’s Hospital, which treats children from all over the country, can now count on shorter waiting times, quicker diagnoses, and an earlier start to their treatment. Added to this, examinations of the muscular and nervous system will result in far less discomfort for the children, thanks to the new, cutting-edge medical instruments purchased by the hospital from the HUF 10 million donation made by the CIB Group at the end of 2009. The specialists use the new electromyograph (EMG) devices to examine the muscular system and the peripheral nervous system. The state-of-the-art medical instrument will make it possible to examine 1,000 children a year. The other device purchased from CIB’s donation is a portable electro-encephalograph (EEG). Both machines, and the third device purchased, which is a special ultrasound probe specially designed for paediatric use, serve to ensure that diagnostic tests are carried out in the shortest possible time. This way the treatment can begin earlier, and the children can rejoin their friends, their health restored, that much sooner. An important feature of all three of the modern devices is that they are “child-friendly” instruments, designed to cause as little discomfort as possible to the young patients in the course of the examinations. Meanwhile, the accuracy and advanced technological standard of the instruments assists the doctors providing treatment in their day-to-day work. This is not the first time the CIB Group has contributed to technological developments at the Heim Pál Children’s Hospital. In recent years CIB Leasing, and last year CIB Bank, donated a substantial amount to this leading Hungarian children’s healthcare institution. Professional organisations engage in professional dialogue, and secondly, it provides • Our partnerships with professional organisations also repthe CIB Group, and the bank sector as a whole, with a resent an important aspect of our community relations. The means of upholding and protecting its interests as part of interests of the various sectors of the economy and society, a structured advocacy group. Last year we reviewed and are represented by the associations formed by stakeholders, rationalised our membership of organisations, with the each focusing on a clearly defined set of objectives. Our result that by the end of the year we participated in the participation in these organisations is important for two professional work of a total of 16 organisations. For a list fundamental reasons. Firstly, it creates an opportunity to of the organisations, see section 4.4. 26 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 2.5. Managing our environmental impacts in 2010 In 2010 the bank group made serious efforts to involve its building. By setting up an in-house environmental protecemployees in environmental protection programs and in ention database, the bank group further refined its system of ergy saving initiatives launched by the bank group. As part of sustainability reporting. a long-term commitment, these initiatives focus on achieving Our overall energy consumption declined substantially in energy savings essentially by way of communication and 2010, by almost 10% in comparison to the previous year. Our engagement, and in the course of this, they ensure that all paper use decreased, as did our fuel consumption due to the the related activities are included in a uniform framework change in the number of vehicles in our fleet. The emptying system. In connection with this, the bank has launched sevof storage facilities, and the scrapping of equipment, had an eral programs of varying complexity. At the end of the year impact on the quantity of waste generated. the bank started the Energy saving project , with the aim At the end off 2010, elaboration of the Energy Project began. of introducing new energy saving methods while improving The objective of the team supervising energy management those that are already being applied. Besides this, at one of is to determine the steps to be taken over the coming three its head office buildings in Budapest CIB launched a selecyears to cut down on energy consumption. The project is set tive waste collection program, which at the beginning of to be launched in 2011. 2011 was also introduced at the “Kismedve” head office Unit of 2008 2009 2010 measurement Total energy consumption GJ 131 696 112 883 103 159 Electricity consumption kWh 20 162 303 18 755 237 18 648 750 Other renewable energy kWh 115 189 111 969 89 061 Natural gas consumption m 3 1 053 435 893 833 818 460 Vehicle fuel consumption l 728 890 464 199 250 872 Water consumption m3 30 295 28 149 33 466 Vehicle fleet db 450 206 154 Paper usage (office A4, A3) kg 238 896 235 131 209 779 Paper usage1 (office A4, A3 other) kg 329 572 315 184 Paper usage per employee (office A4, A3) kg/person 64.8 71.7 57.41 Paper usage per employee (office A4, A3 other) 2 kg/person 100.5 86.26 Energy consumption per employee GJ/person 35.7 34.43 19.79 Energy consumption per m2 of office space3 GJ/m2 1.21 1.17 0.93 CO2 emissions resulting from energy consumption 4 t 10 882 10 427 9 085.55 CO2 emissions from energy consumption per employee t/person 3.24 3.18 2.31 Water consumption per employee m3/person 8.21 8.58 9.16 1 For reasons related to data collection, the 2008 annual data only includes the quantity of photocopier paper used. The 2009-2010 figures also include the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction slips and letterhead. 2 For reasons related to data collection, the 2008 annual data only includes the quantity of photocopier paper used. The 2009-2010 figures also include the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction slips and letterhead. 3 The energy usage (GJ) resulting from vehicle fuel consumption is not relevant for the purpose of calculating energy consumption per square metre of office space, and therefore we have also modified the previous years’ data accordingly. Defining the concept of office square meter also took place based on the definition approved by Intesa Sanpaolo; the net office area is 102 461.85 m2 4 In respect of the 2007-2009 period CO2 emissions have been calculated based on the conversion rates set by the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, which are, in the case of electricity, 401 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.9739 kg/m3, and in the case of fuel (diesel, petrol), 2.46 kg/l. With effect from 2010, the conversion rates recommended by our parent company Intesa Sanpaolo are as follows: in the case of electricity, 368 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.934 kg/m3, and in the case of fuel (diesel, petrol), 2.444 kg/l. 27 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank • Owing to our energy-saving measures, our natural stantly working to increase the ratio of recycled paper gas consumption, and thus our overall energy conthat we use, which in 2010 amounted to 29 094 kilosumption, decreased substantially compared to 2009, grams, representing 9.2% of our total paper usage. as did most of the energy consumption indicators. The • CIB Bank also does a great deal to ensure sensible and considerable fall in vehicle fuel consumption resulted efficient energy use in relation to hot water supply. from a significant reduction in the size of our company The solar collectors installed on the roofs of the office car pool, carried out as part of the cost-cutting measures building in Petrezselyem utca, and the main building and implemented during the year. The 214 cars owned by the the small office building in Medve utca, as well as the CIB24 company decreased, through the sale of vehicles, to 154. building, provide hot water to the four central office build• While in 2007 and 2008 we only measured the quantity of ings. In 2010 the solar panels saved 9 374.84 m3 of natural photocopier paper used, from 2009 the figures also include gas, which is equivalent to the annual gas consumption of the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, 2 average detached houses.1 forms, transaction slips and letterhead. We are also conGreenhouse gas emissions avoided 2008 2009 2010 tonnes, in carbon-dioxide equivalent 2 22 24 17.94 1 Equivalent for achieving the same performance as that produced by the solar collectors, through the use of natural gas. (The conversion ratio applied by Intesa in 2010 was 1 m3 gas=9.6 kWh, whereas in previous years we applied the 1 m3 gas=9.5 kWh specified by our energy consultant.) 2 Conversion ratio: 1.934 kg/m3 (Intesa), in accordance with Intesa’s recommendation, we do not take the efficiency rating of the boiler into account. Shaping attitudes the cycling season, for those diehard colleagues who also • In spring, and again in autumn, CIB Bank again took part cycle to work in the winter. In a new development, by in the “Bike to work!” campaign, which aims to promote popular request we have marked out a total of 23 special cycling as a day-to-day means of transport, especially as parking spaces at our Medve utca and Petrezselyem utca an alternative to individual car use, which is known to be office buildings for the use of our employees who ride a the most damaging mode of travel from an environmental motorcycle or scooter to work. perspective. As part of the spring and autumn “Bike to • As we noted in last year’s report, in 2009 we joined an iniWork!” campaigns, 50 of our employees pedalled a total tiative aimed at profiling the way people travel to and from of 7,913 kilometres, thus saving their environment from a our head offices, with the findings of this study potentially total of 1 416 kg in carbon-dioxide emissions. In autumn, serving as the basis for drawing up a Workplace Travel although no longer as an official sponsor, we achieved Plan. As a part of the program, in February 2010 the CIB similar results again. Group used a questionnaire to assess the transportation • In the course of the year, in special “theme weeks” we habits of employees in the central offices. The results of the informed and motivated our colleagues with regard to enviquestionnaire underpinned the need to install bicycle racks ronmental issues. We were also the first among Hungary’s and changing facilities, and also contributed to more effecbanks to take part in the World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour tive internal communication related to environmental issues. initiative, and we launched a large-scale internal information campaign on the theme of energy saving. Transportation • In 2010 we further increased the number of bicycle storage facilities in the office building in Petrezselyem utca, with the result that a total of 83 bicycle parking spaces are now available at our central office buildings in Budapest. In the course of the year we fitted additional cloak-room lockers in the Petrezselyem utca building for the use of employees who cycle to work, so now a total of 157 lockers are available to our colleagues. At the changing rooms in the Petrezselyem utca office – our largest building – heating and hot water are provided all year round, even outside 28 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Launch of the CIB Bike Sharing scheme In July 2010 we launched the CIB Bike Sharing scheme to promote cycling as a means of transport among our employees, primarily to ease movement between our head offices. Besides making it easier for our employees to get around, the program – which was launched with the support of our parent bank as a part of the “We are Intesa Sanpaolo Group” initiative – also contributed to reducing our ecological footprint and reinforcing our image as an environmentally aware bank. At the launch of the program we made eight CIB bicycles available at three head of offices and two provincial branches (Pécs, Debrecen). The bicycles have unisex frames and a full chain guard to protect clothing; they are all fitted with a small front basket and the saddle height can be adjusted without a spanner. A crash helmet and high-visibility vest are provided with each bicycle. In the first stage of the program the bicycles are on hand to make it easier to travel between our head offices, while their use at evenings and weekends will be possible from 2011. Development of services objectives it also creates jobs for disadvantaged groups • In the case of statements sent to the customers of CIB within society. In 2010 the CIB Group had 17 920 kg of Bank, the leaflets used for marketing purposes (newsletters electronic waste transported to the site. enclosed with statements) are made from recycled paper; • We continue to provide an opportunity to dispose of the number of these in 2010 was close to 4,062,000 mildry cells, which are classified as hazardous waste, lion. The envelopes used for internal mail consignments at receptacles located in our central offices buildings and are also made from recycled paper, and a single envelope the CIB24 customer service area. The weight of dry cells can be used several times. In 2010 we sent 23 100 of these collected in 2010 was 155 kg. to the branch network. • Companies can generate high quantities of confidential documents. After being destroyed, these can go to the Responsible waste management with benefits for sopaper factory as a secondary raw material. High-capacity ciety shredding and baling equipment is in operation at several • Two years ago the CIB Group concluded an agreement of the CIB Group’s business sites. Some of the branches with the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service regarding send their office paper waste to an external service prothe removal and reprocessing of electronic waste. vider for destruction, while collection bins are located in The Charity Service has created the first electronic waste the corridors of the central buildings. This paper waste is processing site to be licensed by the environmental authorishredded in-house and deposited by us at the appropriate ties, in the small town of Tarnabod, which is both socially waste collection sites. In 2010 we deposited 44 980 kg and economically disadvantaged. The facility, which is run as of paper for recycling, from which 36 000 kg of recycled a social enterprise, has a maximum capacity of 600 tonnes paper was made. per year, and besides achieving important environmental Interesting facts and figures In 2010 we collected a total of 729 kg of PET bottles and had them taken away for recycling from the bank’s head offices. One kilogramme of PET consists of on average of 25 crushed bottles, which puts the number of selectively collected bottles at a total of 6 975. At our new “Kismedve” head office building we have installed new, manual bottle crushers, which are more environmentally-friendly than the earlier, electrical models, since they consume no electricity and no poisonous gases are released when using them. 29 Long-term programs Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Quantity of waste generated by type (kg) 2008 2009 2010 Paper 23 840 52 140 44 980 Packaging materials (paper, cardboard and plastic) 1 000 2 220 0 Office machinery 2 960 6 300 17 920 Hazardous waste 1 523 1 175 290 Used dry cells 365 745 155 Waste that is damaging to the ozone layer (e.g. refrigerators) 1 158 430 135 Other 365 1 847 2 627 Total 29 688 63 682 66 548 In past years we collected packaging materials in the building The types of waste we classify as hazardous include dry cells, formerly occupied by CIB Leasing. These premises have since as well as scrapped refrigerators and air conditioning units, been vacated, however, and we currently have no means of which we hand over to the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service. separately collecting package materials. In consultation with the CSR specialist of Intesa Sanpaolo, The increase in the quantity of office machinery waste was starting from the second half of 2010 we changed the method due to the internal changes of premises, inventory-taking, the used for determining the quantity of waste. We now list not emptying of the storage facility in Budaörs, and the scraponly the oily sludge generated in car washes and kitchens as ping of equipment. “other” waste, but also PET bottles. 30 3. Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Corporate governance C orporate governance issues are central to the responsible operation of the organisation. As a member of an international group and an important market player, we must set an example and lead the way in terms of responsible corporate governance, not only by fully complying with the legal regulations, but also through initiatives that go beyond our core obligations. 31 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 3.1. Organisational structure efforts being made to improve loan quality, while in respect of deposits the aim is to further accelerate the rate of growth. Our bank group provides commercial banking, leasing, fund Naturally, profitable operation remains an important objecmanagement and factoring services to private and business tive, in the interests of which we are constantly improving customers in Hungary. Similarly to the other players in the our cost effectiveness. These objectives fundamentally serve sector, in recent years it has placed an emphasis on ensurthe long-term stability of the bank group. We provide coming continuous growth in its customer base; however, this prehensive information about our services on our internet trend was interrupted by the financial crisis, which shifted site, and in our Annual Financial Report, which can also be the focus to customer retention and gaining the best possible downloaded from our website. (For supplementary data and understanding of customer needs. The loan portfolio reflects tables related to the section below, see Annex 4.3.) an even higher degree of risk-awareness than before, with The organisational structure of CIB Bank (31 December 2010) Division Department Teams/Regions Managing Directors/HC Directors Supervisory Board of Committee Directors Central functions General Secretariat Deputy CEO Security Internal Audit Organisation/PMO Group Legal Services Voive of Customer Group Compliance CSR Mar CEO keting & Communication Chief Business Officer Deputy CEO Deputy CEO HR & General Services t Wo rkou ing nk ts Ba ark e ail Ret lM pita Ca & edi SM E yr Cr tU Ba su nd IT n kin ea erw g Tr ritin ing g CIB B ank Ris kM ate ana ns L ea sing or gem ratio Corp ent Ope Project Finance CFO Following on from 2009, several significant organisational the CIB Group. The CEO of the Leasing Division reports to changes – affecting the business and operating model – conthe Chief Business Officer. tinued in 2010 as well. The most significant organisational Among the several significant changes that took place in change of this period was the integration of the Leasing 2010 we would first like to highlight the creation of the Group, with effect from 1 July, which entailed the full integranew position of Deputy CEO for Group Legal Services, held tion into the bank’s organisation of the functions previously by Dr. Gábor Király – reporting directly to the CEO – who is carried out by the leasing companies. Only those functions responsible for the following functions: Security; Group Legal remained in a separate organisational form that must, by law, Services and the Governance Centre. In the summer of 2010, exist separately in the case of leasing companies. In line with Gábor Plank joined the bank as its new Chief Business Officer. the integration schedule, CIB Credit, CIB Property and CIB The changes affected the Operations, IT, Marketing & Residential Property Leasing were merged into CIB Leasing. Communication and CFO departments, while the bank’s In the second half of 2010, leasing operations were split off Workout (collection, restructuring, asset management) from the SME Banking Division and began to function as an departments also underwent significant organisational independent division, which reflects its importance within changes and expansion. 32 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 3.2. Decision-making bodies Members of the Board of Directors Name Organisation represented Dr. György Surányi, chairman Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Fabrizio Centrone Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Paolo Sarcinelli Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Giampiero Trevisan Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Tomas Spurny CIB Bank Eduardo Bombieri CIB Bank Dr. Gábor Király CIB Bank Gábor Plank CIB Bank As at 31 December 2010. Members of the Management Committee Name Position, area of responsibility Tomas Spurny CEO (chairman) Eduardo Bombieri Deputy CEO Dr. Gábor Király Head of Group Legal Services Gábor Plank Chief Business Officer László Vér Head of Human Resources and General Services Judit Lamboy Head of Retail Banking Orsolya Haller Acting head of Corporate Banking Alessio Cioni Head of Project Finance Csongor Németh Head of SME Banking Áron Vitályos Head of CIB Leasing Zoltán Tóth Head of Treasury and Capital Markets Zoltán Csordás Head of Credit Underwriting Zsuzsanna Németh Head of Risk Management Péter Bánó Chief Financial Officer Andrea Wéber Head of Operations Lajos Tancsik Head of Information Technology As at 31 December 2010. The bank’s supreme decision-making body is the sharehold• The Executive Committee is authorised to decide on maters meeting, which is made up of all the shareholders. The ters determined by the Board of Directors. structure of the other corporate bodies is as follows: • The Steering Committees are authorised to independ• The Bank’s executive body is the Board of Directors, ently make decisions and launch initiatives affecting the the members of which are employed either by the parent entire CIB Group, within the scope of authority delegated group or CIB Bank. to them by the bank’s Board of Directors: • The Supervisory Committee is responsible for overseeing Management Committee the bank's operations. The Supervisory Committee has two A sset-Liability Committee members representing the employees, for whom it repreCredit Committee sents a means of communicating employees’ recommenProblem Assets Committee dations to both the owner and the Shareholders’ Meeting. Legal and Risk Evaluation Committee • The Audit Committee, supports the work of the Supervisory Committee, primarily in relation to auditing and compliance-related tasks. 33 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank • The Operative Committees are independent bodies 3.4. Promoting ethically-sound and responsible operation charged with the making of non-strategic decisions at the level of the overall CIB Bank group. Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct • S ector risk committees At the owner’s request, but in a continuation of work already •R  egulatory Committee commenced by the bank on its own initiative, in April 2008 • Information Security Committee CIB Bank’s Board of Directors approved the parent company’s • IT Development Committee Code of Ethics, applicable to all members of our international • Procurements Committee bank group, and it also introduced the CIB Group’s Code of • The CIB Bank group’s Technical Committees, within the Conduct. The Code of Ethics is a document that reflects our scope of their authority, have initiation, proposal and advibroader vision of our social and environmental responsibility, sory rights. and which attributes fundamental importance to our relation• Auditor: Ernst & Young ships with our stakeholders. It explains those values in which we believe, and which we have made a commitment to uphold. 3.3. Selection and evaluation of managers Our ethical values are listed at the beginning of this report. The Code of Conduct is a means of articulating, in the form A key factor in the success of an organisation’s operation is of regulations, the values enshrined in the Code of Ethics. It the expertise of its senior managers. Therefore the selecaddressed the various aspects of banking operation in detail, tion and appropriate motivation of managers, and the sets rules with respect to the expected model of conduct, and evaluation of their performance, is an important aspect deals specifically with the prevention of corruption and the of corporate governance. criteria for gift-giving. The Code of Conduct has been incorAt the CIB Group, for all jobs – and this is especially true in the porated into the CIB Group’s regulatory system as a Policy, case of management and senior management positions – we the breaching of which has consequences under labour law. have determined and recorded, in a job handbook and perConcurrently with this, the drafting of ethical rules of prosonalised job description, the expectations that it is essential cedure, and preparations for the establishment of a future to fulfil in order to hold the given post. In the case of senior Ethics Committee, were commenced. managers this includes, among other aspects, the necessary The bank also clearly defines its fundamental principles formal qualifications (higher-education, specialised), the length related to responsible practices in its Organisational and and depth of relevant management and professional experiOperational Regulations (SZMSZ). Thus the bank rejects all ence (for the management of larger units, several years of manforms of discrimination and corruption in both its internal and agement experience) gained in the given specialist area (more external communication. Besides the above, the regulations than 8 years) and in the bank sector in general (5-8 years), governing compliance and risk management activities also conthe expected level of foreign-language proficiency (at least tain similar principles aimed at supporting responsible operation. negotiation-level English) and last, but not least, the requisite human relations skills, in accordance with the management Functions supporting responsible operation competency model determined by the owner. Support for the appropriate handling of issues that are essential The appraisal of the individual and collective performance of for responsible banking operations is assured by the clear defisenior managers – which also determines their remuneration nition of responsibilities, or in certain cases – to emphasise the – is approved by the owner based on the recommendation of importance of the given function – through the creation of a septhe CEO. The basis of appraisal, and thus of remuneration, in arate organisational unit. From this standpoint we regard legal the order of importance with respect to the factors most imporcompliance – especially with respect to the prevention of money tant in terms of appraisal, are: the company’s profitability, the laundering – and the appropriate management of the risks performance of the division/specialist area supervised by the arising from our operation as being of particular importance. senior manager, and thirdly, the manager’s individual contribuThe purpose of the risk management function is to identify tion to setting the organisation on a new path. The evaluation the risks of the given organisational unit, to measure the of performance, in the case of all employees, takes place in the identified risks and manage them to ensure that they do context of formal appraisal meetings, during which the fulfilnot jeopardise prudent operation or the fulfilment of busiment of the economic/social/environmental targets relevant to ness objectives. In the CIB Bank group, the Finance and Risk the given employee are jointly reviewed. In order to promote Management divisions are responsible for these activities. a culture of performance management among our managers, The Bank group seeks to take a complex approach to the manwe have introduced performance management training as a agement of risk, performing an assessment of all relevant risks, selectable module in our management development program. as an integral part of its internal capital adequacy assessment 34 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank process (ICAAP). This provides an opportunity for us to maninterests of offering solutions that are even more closely taiage our activities related to capital, and to expected losses and lored to the needs of the customer. risks, in a complex manner within a standardised framework. In 2010 the most important features of our responsible lendThe ICAAP policy is determined by the Group Risk Committee. ing activities were as follows: In the context of its ICAAP, in 2010 the Bank group once again • The creditworthiness appraisal is based primarily on the cuscarried out an assessment of which risks are relevant to its opertomer’s income, as the long-term source of repayment, while ations – e.g. lending, operational, market, reputation, country – except in the case of leasing facilities provided exclusively on risk etc. At the beginning of 2011 we assigned risk indicators an asset basis – we only take the collaterals into account as to each risk, which we use to measure the actual levels of the a secondary source of repayment. This approach creates an risks, and if a predetermined threshold is reached we take the opportunity for us to examine – as is now also required by law necessary steps to reduce the given risk. Maintenance of the risk – the extent to which our customers’ income can be burdened indicators is performed by the ‘risk owners’ responsible for the with repayment instalments, and to offer financial solutions given risks, who are members of the Bank group’s management. that are appropriate in the light of this information. Tools to The development of the indicators is monitored on a monthly facilitate this are now available to everyone, such as the varibasis at the meeting of the Group Risk Committee, which are ous calculators that can not only be used in branches with the attended by the Bank group’s entire senior management. In assistance of our staff, but also on the Bank group’s website. 2011 we are carrying out the fine-tuning of the indicators. • In the creditworthiness appraisal, we take into account all We regard the continuous strengthening of fraud awareness economic or business relationships that may exist, whether within the Bank group as being of key importance, whether they be ownership, management or even marital relationthis relates to the prevention of internal fraud, protecting ships. Where such relationships exist, we have to make an against external fraud attempts, or the handling of any suceven more careful assessment of disposable income, evalucessful incidences of fraud. In 2010 we made an assessment ating our customers as customer groups; in other words, to determine which of our activities within the Bank group we also have to take into consideration any commitments are the most vulnerable to fraud. Based on this, in 2011 we they might have towards each other. are drawing up a completely new fraud strategy, in a project • When establishing customer relationships, we adhere to that also encompasses the development of the appropriate the basic principle that the CIB Group does not enter into system of records, reports, and risk-mitigation tools. business relationships with companies that manufacture or trade in armaments, military hardware and subsystems, • Responsible lending or equipment that can be used for military purposes (nonThe new framework system for risk assumption, launched in armament policy). The Bank group does not finance any 2009, supports active but responsible lending. The responsikind of initiative that breaches or could breach any statute bility is two-sided, since not only does it means responsibility or universal human rights, or which serves to legitimise towards the CIB Group’s shareholders and deposit customers, funds derived from illegal activities (money laundering). which presupposes cautious, risk-conscious lending in the inter• The CIB Group avoids financing any activities that might est of safeguarding the invested funding sources, it also means be damaging to the environment. responsibility towards the customers that we finance; in other • Practical implementation of the principles set forth in the words, offering financing solutions that are consistent with the lending policy is assured by a multi-level system of controls customers’ risk profile and creditworthiness. To ensure the latthat is still partially under development. The purpose of these ter, we precisely assess our customers’ financial capacity, while comprehensive, process-integrated controls is to screen in the interest of the former we maintain a lending policy and out transactions that are not consistent with the CIB Bank approval procedures that are based on the Bank group’s experigroup’s lending principles, before the decision pertaining ence and an analysis of other information, we operate a monitorto the given risk assumption is made. In the fourth quarter ing system, engage in workout activities, and manage our risks of 2010 a secondary control function was also partially put in a complex manner, analysing them in their broader context. into operation, which audits fulfilment of the lending prinThe framework system introduced in 2009 also proved to be ciples retrospectively, both at portfolio level and in respect essentially satisfactory even in the later stages of the crisis, of individual transactions. The transaction-level audits have with only minor changes made in terms of which groups of commenced, and their structuring, while the development customers are regarded as target segments for the purpose of portfolio-level control will be performed in 2011. Based of lending, and which should be treated with extra cauon our experiences we modify the processes if necessary. tion. In 2011 the lending framework will be comprehensively • In the case of existing financing relationships, regular monreviewed, and we plan to make major improvements in the itoring is very important. This entails the monitoring of 35 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank whether our customers’ repayment ability continues to be impacted, whether in relation to a property, a vehicle or satisfactory, or whether it is necessary to resort to tempobank card debt or any other form of credit. For our customrary solutions for stabilising our customers’ financial situaers who were indirectly affected by the disaster we set out tion. The CIB Bank group’s aim, and also its fundamental to develop individual solutions. Our employees also offered interest, is to maintain its customers’ solvency, and for this their personal assistance to the committee coordinating reason in every case we seek mutually acceptable solutions the cleanup operations in the affected towns and villages. aimed at restoring normal operation. • In the interest of safeguarding the Bank group’s capital, we • To this end the Bank group applies numerous solutions both treat the up-to-date and precise recording of collaterals as a in the case of its customers that are still active and handled priority, checking legal status, current value, or another imporby the business department, and of those in more serious tant feature of the collaterals. To this end, in 2010 a compredifficulty and under the management of Workout. The goal hensive data cleaning project was undertaken, in respect of is to avert insolvency on the part of the customer, and to the most important collaterals accepted by the Bank group. In restore the ability to make regular repayments, even if only 2011 we are continuing with the data cleaning process, and for at a later juncture or with lower instalments, or possibly the purposes of prevention we are restructuring our processes through the use of other solutions. The economic crisis put for the acceptance, recording and monitoring of collaterals. many of the bank group’s customers in a difficult situation, • In the fourth quarter of 2010, to ensure more effective coopand for them we primarily offered restructuring solutions, eration with the related departments, the Risk Management which clearly serve the above purpose. unit also underwent a change: in keeping with the organi• High-quality and effective monitoring activity is assured by sational logic applied elsewhere in the Bank group, where an electronic solution that was introduced in March 2010 justified, the functions supporting the retail and corporate and has been undergoing constant development since then, sectors were separated within Risk Management as well. In which automatically computes what are known as early 2011, in respect of the areas that are still integrated – e.g. warning signs – information that can assist in identifying regulation – we will hold a review to determine whether it customers that could require special help. Besides supportwould be conducive to better cooperation within the Bank ing monthly monitoring, the system is also suitable for the group if they were split along the lines of the two main maintenance of action plans and for reporting, making it business lines, and in the light of our experience to date we possible to measure the results of action taken, which in will also examine the possibility of separating the tasks and turn assists in the fine-tuning of the system and the procresponsibilities of Risk Management and Credit Underwriting. esses involved, and in the provision of constant feedback. • The introduction of new lending processes in February 2010 • Internal Audit underpinned the key importance of feedback regarding our Internal Audit is an independent and objective, corroborative lending practices to date. To eliminate existing process errors and advisory function, the purpose of which is to improve and deficiencies, tasks were reallocated between the branch the operations and effectiveness of the given organisation. network and the central organisational units, numerous IT In order to assist in achieving the organisation’s stated objecdevelopments were completed, and a consistent controlling tives, the Internal Audit function methodically and systematisystem was incorporated into the lending process. During cally assesses and improves the effectiveness of the audited the remainder of the year, first the process was fine-tuned, organisation’s governance and control procedures. then in response to a change in conditions, a more comprehensive overhaul of process was begun. We will complete • Assuring legal compliance the bulk of this work in 2011, and it will extend not only The purpose of compliance activities is to ensure that the to lending processes but also to the other related activibank’s financial, investment and other service-provision ties – a complete overhaul of the customer rating system, operations are conducted within the constraints of the law, review of the transaction scores, development of a lending and with a view to mitigating related risk. The Compliance workflow for the retail segment, etc. department has developed numerous internal regulations • The most tragic event of the year 2010 was the red sludge that provide the CIB Group with clear guidance regarding the disaster that took place at the beginning of October, which rules to be followed in respect of issues that are particularly directly or indirectly affected 261 companies and individuals sensitive or potentially controversial. who are customers of our Bank group. The CIB Bank group treated assisting those customers who were affected as a • Prevention of money laundering and corruption matter of priority, and we were the first bank to decide to A separate team of specialists coordinates activities to comwaive the entire debt of all customers who were directly bat money laundering. Their task is to screen for suspicious 36 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank transactions, provide staff with training in anti-money laundering In 2009, CIB Bank adopted and in 2010 implemented the Nonprocedures, forward reports of suspicious transactions to the Armament Bank Policy in effect at its parent company Intesa relevant authorities, and to ensure the necessary flow of informaSanpaolo, and reviewed its customer portfolio to identify any tion. In 2010, building on previous efforts, by developing its IT clients suspected of being involved in arms trading, and to infrastructure the CIB Group increased the security and effectake the appropriate measures in respect of such customers. tiveness of its efforts to prevent and combat money laundering. In the course of its business operations, the bank group is mainly, In 2010 a total of 1 256 staff at the bank and 175 employand in the greatest extent, exposed to credit risk. The mitigation ees (46% of the staff) of subsidiaries received training in the of this type of risk is achieved partly through compliance with prevention of money laundering, and sat the examination the statutory requirements and internal limits, and partly through that followed. The obligatory Code of Conduct, which was prudent lending and loss-provisioning practices. approved in 2008, has a separate section devoted to the Legal requirements as well as best practices of risk manageprohibition of corruption. ment are transformed into daily operations of the bank group As a part of its efforts to combat corruption – in keeping by internal regulations. The internal regulations treat in detail with the relevant guiding principles of Intesa Sanpaolo – the the procedures related to debtor rating, limit-setting, the recogCIB Group does not, in any way, support politicians or politinition and evaluation of collateral, loan and customer monitorcal parties, or institutions with which they are associated. ing, and risk management, applicable to the various customers and customer groups. They also specify the lending-related • Prevention of conflicts of interest responsibilities and duties of the individual organisational units. With respect to conflicts of interest, we proceed in accordance In keeping with the requirements of the supervisory bodies with requirements that are stricter than those set out in Act and its owner, the bank group pursues a prudent policy with CXII of 1996 (Credit Institutions Act), Act CXXXVIII of 2007 regard to the assumption of risk. (Investment Services Act), and Act XXII of 1992 (the Labour The management of the lending process, from the initial Code). To this end we have amended our internal regulations on customer request through the credit approval and monipersonal conflicts of interest. In 2010, we conducted a detailed toring process, to full repayment of the loan, or Workout audit of the segment of the CIB Group’s workforce that a riskmanagement if unavoidable, takes place in accordance with based assessment shows to be more likely to be affected by predetermined principles. The basis of all decisions related this issue, in order to prevent personal conflicts of interest. As to credit risk is the overall exposure of the CIB bank group a result of this the employment relationships of several memto customers that are related to each other. bers of our staff were terminated. We improved our procedures In the course of conducting its primary business activity the for screening prospective new employees, prior to their joining bank has to deal with interest-rate risk. Due to the nature the company, in order to detect potential conflicts of interest. of banking operations, a certain level of interest-rate risk has to be assumed, since this is one of the main poten• Consumer protection tial sources of generating profit and creating value. Each As a consequence of the economic crisis, the demand for conyear, the Board of Directors, under the supervision of the sumer protection in Hungary has strengthened under pressure Supervisory Committee, determines the risk appetite and from both society and legislators. The CIB Group, adapting to the corresponding limits. The appropriate risk management the new expectations, has developed procedures that reincommittees receive monthly reports on the current interestforce the protection of consumers. A dedicated specialist has rate risk position, the content of which is determined in the been assigned to oversee this task, ensuring that consumers’ market risk management policy. interests are taking into consideration in the course of daySpecial emphasis is also placed on the management of liquidity to-day operation, and that this attitude becomes an integral and cash-flow risks, due to the high importance of maintainpart of our corporate culture. ing the Bank's solvency and ensuring the safety of customer deposits at all times. In the past year, due to the crisis that • Risk management, prudent investments began in 2008, the bank’s lending activity declined considerThe essential purpose of the Risk Management function is to ably. In the second part of the year, we had a considerable identify the risks of the organisation, to measure the identified surplus of liquidity, which enabled us to repay to the parent risks and to manage them to ensure that they do not jeopardbank the funds utilised during the crisis. Also as a result of the ise prudent operation or the fulfilment of business objectives. crisis, the bank group had to contend with the substantially Ensuring fully comprehensive risk management requires proper higher costs of using the FX and basis swap market. guidelines, appropriate limits and smooth reporting procedures, Of the various price risks, the bank group is predominantly susfor which the appropriate departments are responsible at CIB. ceptible to the impacts of changes in FX rates, while changes 37 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank in the equity and other prices have a lesser effect. The bank 3.5. CSR management and communication group seeks to hedge its FX positions as securely as possible: the carefully considered establishment of positions takes place We established our CSR management model in 2008 and it as a part of the trading activities performed by the Treasury. remained unchanged in 2010. The task of the central CSR department is to coordinate and oversee the various CSR • Labour law projects and initiatives, and to implement uniform internal The CIB Group, as a responsible money-market participant, and external CSR communication. observes the laws relating to employment, and the relevant CSR activities have come under the direct supervision of provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary the CEO since summer 2009, although in functional terms (paragraph 70/B). By adding its signature to the UN Global the related tasks were performed by the Communication Compact it has agreed to be bound by the principles set department in 2010 for reasons related to the distribution forth therein, and thus – with respect to employment – to of human resources. A report on CSR activities is prepared fully comply with the passages prohibiting all forms of child for the senior management at regular intervals, presenting labour and forced labour. the most important achievements of the previous quarter and the challenges of the following period. CSR management in the CIB Group 1st level controls 2nd level controls 3rd level controls MC ISP Internal audit and compliance: Actions, ensure ongoing Policies, control over Guidelines, operations and Rules CSR Unit: process deriving from CSR commitments Further controls by • Mapping potential issues Business units: • Ensuring reporting to MC and ISP CSR Unit ensure consistency • External reporting and compliance • Ensuring adherence to principles within own fields (Code of Ethics, Global Compact...) of activity • CIB Foundation Ongoing control Business unit CSR unit delegates member CIB CSR network Identify and prevent issues Implement actions to fill gaps Subsidiary delegates 38 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Stakeholder engagement The basis of CIB’s corporate social responsibility activity is the ongoing dialogue that it maintains with its stakeholders. Our CSR strategy drafted in 2006 defined the groups that we regard as our stakeholders as all those who may be affected by the activities and operations of the bank, and/or who may affect our company. Of these, in terms of our operation the following three groups are of critical importance: employees, customers and the owner. Besides these three particularly important groups, we have also identified additional stakeholders: these are the suppliers, as well as the third sector, local communities and industry organisations. An essential part of responsible operation is the engagement of stakeholders, and maintaining a continuous dialogue with them. This makes it possible for opinions, ideas and proposals to be heard, discussed and incorporated into the bank's operation. In the course of 2010, as previously, we engaged with our stakeholders in a variety of ways, using various communication tools and a range of channels. The following are just a few examples, which are explored in more detail in the various other sections of this report: • As part of the Listening 100% program, we continued to survey the opinions of our customers and assess their satisfaction using a questionnaire distributed in our branches and posted on our website. • We requested opinions regarding the Sustainability Report, which is an integral part of our CSR communications, from a panel of acclaimed experts, consisting of representatives of our various stakeholder groups. • In an Employee Climate Survey, we assessed our employees’ workplace sentiment, and their opinions and attitudes regarding CIB as an employer. • We held consultations with the Staff Council, especially with regard to the mass redundancies. • We gave our employees the opportunity to actively volunteer their services in support of the Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage) Foundation. • We have launched initiatives in several towns with the aim of improving financial literacy among the local community. 39 4. Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Annexes 40 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 4.1. CIB Bank – core data Name: CIB Bank Zrt. Territory of operation: Hungary Company form: Privately-Held Joint Stock Company (Zrt.) Ownership structure: Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. 93.4473% Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. 6.5227% As at 31 December 2010. Members of the CIB Group1 CIB New York Broker Zrt. 100% CIB Bank Zrt. 6,5227% Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. 100% 100% 93,4773% Intesa Sanpaolo Holding CIB Support Zrt. International S.A. 48,32% 51,68% 100% 50% CIB REAL Zrt. 94,975% 100% CIB Ingatlanlízing Zrt. 50% 100% 5,025% 2% CIB Faktor Zrt. CIB Befektetési Alapkezelô Zrt. CIB Rent Zrt. CIB Credit Zrt. Recovery Ingatlanhasznosító 100% 98% 100% CIB Lízing Zrt. CIB Autó Zrt. 100% CIB Biztosítási Alkusz Zrt. 100% CIB Property Zrt. 100% CIB Lakáslízing Zrt. As at 31 December 2010. 1 Subsidiaries providing business services. 41 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 4.2. Branch Network Current branch network Kazincbarcika Sátoraljaújhely Ózd CIB branches Salgótarján Mátészalka Miskolc I-II Nyíregyháza I-II Mosonmagyaróvár Komárom Esztergom Eger I-II Vác Sopron Szentendre Gyöngyös Tata Piliscsaba Dunakeszi Hatvan Hajdúböszörmény Gyôr I-III Pilisvörösvár I-II Tatabánya I-II Budakeszi Gödöllô Budaörs Debrecen I -III Törökbálint Vecsés Szombathely I-II Pápa Érd I-II Monor Karcag Százhalombatta Szigetszentmiklós Cegléd Ajka Székesfehérvár I-III Szolnok Veszprém I-II Balatonfüred Dunaújváros Keszthely Siófok Kecskemét I-II Zalaegerszeg I-II Békéscsaba I,III Paks Kiskunfélegyháza Orosháza Szentes Gyula Nagykanizsa Kalocsa Dombóvár Szekszárd Hódmezôvásárhely Kaposvár I-II Kiskunhalas Szeged I-III Baja Pécs I-III As at 31 December 2010. Békásmegyer CIB branches Csillaghegy Pók utca 1 – Andrássy út 15 – Fényes Elek utca Újpest Árpád üzletház Pólus 2 – Oktogon 16 – Boráros tér Eurocenter Vörösvári Váci út Újpalota 3 – Nyugati tér 17 – Ferenciek tere Hûvösvölgy Flórián tér Bokor u. Lízing Béke tér 4 – Szent István krt. 18 – Rákóczi tér Pasaréti út Bosnyák tér 5 – József krt. 19 – Ferenc krt. 9 10 15 11 3 24 Zugló 6 – Pilvax 20 – Böszörményi út 12 13 4 27 2 22 21 1 23 Récsei Kerepesi Mátyásföld 7 – Károly krt. 21 – Bajcsy 20 6 7 18 Baross 14 17 Örs vezér tere 8 5 Aréna 8 – Kálvin tér 22 – Szabadság tér MOM Park 25 19 Kôbánya Rákoskeresztúr 26 16 9 – Rózsakert 23 – Blaha Gazdagrét Lurdy ház 10 – Lövôház utca 24 – WestEnd Tétényi út Új Buda Center 11 – Medve utca 25 – Móricz F ehérvári 12 – Kékgolyó utca 26 – Allee Skála Pesterzsébet Pestszentlôrinc II 13 – Hilton Budafok Csepel 14 – Zöldfa Campona Soroksár As at 31 December 2010. Our presence across the country 2008 2009 2010 Bank branches 153 151 145 Representative offices 42 24 0 ATMs 228 221 211 As at 31 December. 42 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 4.3. CIB Bank in figures The CIB Group’s clientele by segment (number of customers) 2008 2009* 2010 641 333 633 535 627 240 85 777 87 316 90 007 727 110 720 851 717 247 Retail Corporate Total As at 31 December. The CIB Group’s retail customers by age group (percentage) 2008 2009 2010 0-32 years 26.5 27.0 27.6 33-42 years 26.4 26.1 26.0 43-52 years 18.5 18.2 18.1 53-67 years 22.4 22.1 21.5 Over 67 years 6.2 6.5 6.8 As at 31 December. The CIB Group’s retail customers by length of relationship with the bank (%) 2007 2008 2009* 2010 0-1 years 41.8 16.8 14.0 9.2 2-4 years 41.7 50.1 43.9 38.3 5-7 years 11.1 20.6 27.6 32.7 8-10 years 4.3 9.4 9.7 11.9 11-20 years 1.1 3.0 4.8 7.8 20 years or more 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December. Retail product usage (including micro-enterprise customers) 2008 2009 2010 Retail loans (HUF billion) 509.2 524.4 610.7 Retail deposits (HUF billion) 597.5 734.5 649.1 Number of active bank cards 439 257 459 259 458 799 Number of customers with an active CIB Internet Bank subscription 226 779 274 632 309 081 Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December. * Updated in 2010. 43 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Corporate product usage 2008 2009 2010 Corporate loans (HUF billion) 1 2075.2 1834.0 1 727.7 Corporate deposits2 (HUF billion) 888.3 913.6 824.5 Number of active bank cards 12 181 10 971 10 787 Number of customers with an active CIB Internet Bank subscription 16 691 13 115 11 791 Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December Distribution of the loan portfolio by sector (%) 20093 2010 Commerce 10.15 10.83 Individuals 29.66 30.76 Real estate investment 24.48 23.25 Other, mainly service sector 16.34 15.58 FMCG manufacturing 2.90 2.55 Transport and communication 2.00 3.55 Light industry 2.92 2.71 Heavy industry 3.03 2.90 Financial 4.01 4.13 Agriculture 3.26 3.16 Chemical and pharmaceutical industry 1.25 0.58 Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December. Authority proceedings • Number of proceedings launched by the various authorities, concluded in 2010 with the passing of a resolution: 20 (in 2009: 16) • Of these, the number of proceedings in which a breach of law was found to have been committed, and a fine imposed: 13 (in 2009: 8) • Amount of fines paid in 2010: HUF 15.9 million (in 2009: HUF 206.5 million), of which • HFSA fine: HUF 10,9 million (in 2009: HUF 19 million) • Equal Opportunities Ombudsman fine: (in 2009: HUF 6,5 million) • Competition Office fine: HUF 5 million (in 2009: HUF 181 million; in 2008: HUF 90 million) Procedures launched by the Competition Office (GVH) 4 We have two concluded proceedings to report on. In one of these, in resolution no. VJ-74/2009/28 a fine of HUF 5 million was imposed for misleading commercial communication, while the other related to the abuse of a position of dominance, and culminated in resolution no. VJ-181/2007/25. The latter resolution did not impose a fine, but only obliged us to repay excess administration charges in the case of “Otthonteremtô” home loans financed with mortgage notes. 1 Excluding loans provided to members of the CIB Group. 4 In 2008 the GVH imposed a fine of HUF 90 million for misleading advertising; 2 Excluding deposits collected from members of the CIB Group. there is no comparable data from 2007. 3 The 2009 data has been recategorised. 44 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Number of employees of the CIB Group 2008 2009 2010 Fixed term 144 99 82 Indefinite term 3 513 3 180 2 627 Total 3 657 3 279 2 627 As at 31 December. Number of part-time employees: 37 Number of employees with congenital disabilities: 4 Number of employees with acquired disabilities: 22 Number of agency employees: 51 The CIB Group’s employees by age and gender (percentage) 2008 2009 2010 Male, under 30 11.7 10.5 8.8 Female, under 30 24.4 25.6 17.7 Male, 30-50 20.8 18 23.6 Female, 30-50 36.3 40.4 43.4 Male, over 50 1.7 1.4 1.5 Female, over 50 5.1 4 4.9 As at 31 December. The CIB Group’s employees by level of formal qualification (%)1 2008 2009 2010 University 23.5 47.8 50.9 College 30.2 49.5 47.2 Other2 46.3 2.7 2.5 As at 31 December. The CIB Group’s employees by professional status (%) 2008 2009 2010 Executive male 4.9 5.1 5.5 Executive female 2.4 2.3 3.7 Specialist male 9.4 9.8 9.0 Specialist female 9.0 9.7 9.5 Subordinate male 19.9 18.9 19.4 Subordinate female 54.4 54.2 52.9 As at 31 December. Proportion of males and females at the individual levels of seniority (%) Male Female Executives 59.5 40.5 Specialists 48.7 51.3 Subordinates 26.9 73.1 The CIB Group’s employees by geographical location (%)3 2010 Budapest 2 627 North-East Hungary Region 178 North-West Hungary Region 170 South-East Hungary Region 173 South-West Hungary Region 117 As at 31 December. 1 The substantial difference in the figures is the result of database cleaning. In 2 Grammar school/sixth-form college (gymnasium), vocational secondary school, 2007 and 2008 the “other” category included those employees in respect of technical college, skilled-worker training whom detailed information pertaining to formal qualifications was not avail3 Due to changes in the regions, the data is not suitable for comparison with able at the time of requesting the data. that of previous years. 45 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Proportion of employees leaving the company (%, number of outgoing employees/year-end headcount) 2008 2009 2010 Proportion of employees leaving the company 20.4 17.14 19.3 Proportion of employees leaving the company, by age group, in 2010 (%, age) 2009 2010 14.5 41.67 16.49 15.18 15.40 19.00 16.81 17.60 19.38 17.37 17.14 21.02 22.30 16.41 30.91 113.16 200 0 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 61Proportion of employees leaving the company, by gender, % 2009 2010 Male 19.01 23.8 Female 16.19 16.9 Employee turnover in the CIB Group (no. of persons) 2008 2009 2010 Employees joining 889 230 476 Employees leaving 747 562 598 As at 31 December. Composition of the Board of Directors by age group (percentage, number of persons) 2009 2010 63% (5 persons) 25% (3 persons) 40–50 40–50 50+ 50+ 37% (3 persons) 75% (5 persons) As of 31 December. 46 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Composition of the Management Committee by age group (percentage, number of persons) 2009 2010 7% (1 person) 7% (1 person) 14% (2 persons) 47% (7 persons) 30–40 30–40 40–50 40–50 50+ 50+ 77% (11 persons) 47% (7 persons) As of 31 December. Board of Directors and Management Committee combined (%, number of persons) 2009 2010 10% (2 persons) 15,8% (3 persons) 21% (4 persons) 36,8% (7 persons) 30–40 30–40 40–50 40–50 50+ 50+ 69% (13 persons) 47,4% (9 persons) As of 31 December. Proportion of Hungarian citizens within the Board of Directors and the Management Committee (%, persons)1 2009 2010 36% (8 persons) 32% (6 persons) Non-Hungarian Non-Hungarian Hungarian Hungarian 64% (14 persons) 68% (13 persons) 1 Executives that sit on both committees have been counted twice. The As of 31 December. data is not suitable for comparison with the data from previous years, when the same indicator was measured for a different group of senior 47 executives. In 2008, the proportion of local executives within the senior management was 94%. Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank The average monthly salary in 2010 for career starters recruited by the bank was HUF 231 270, or 258% of the statutory minimum wage. In 2009, at gross HUF 211 450, it amounted to 236% of the statutory minimum wage, while in 2008, calculated at HUF 259 650, it represented 313% of the statutory minimum wage. The base for calculation is the annual statutory minimum wage for jobs requiring professional qualifications. Men’s and women’s average basic annual salaries by professional status (HUF million) 2008 2009 2010 Executive male 13.54 13.32 12.30 Executive female 11.89 12.44 10.63 Specialist male 7.08 7.22 7.66 Specialist female 6.91 6.93 7.03 Subordinate male 3.77 3.92 4.01 Subordinate female 3.35 3.46 3.47 As at 31 December. Accidents at work and the number of working days lost as a result (days) 2008 2009 2010 Number of accidents at work 12 8 6 Number of working days lost 161 106 726 As at 31 December. Absenteeism by reason for absence (%)1 2008 2009 2010 Illness 28.4 26.7 26.2 Accident 0.2 0.1 0.1 Maternity leave 63.8 61.5 60.9 Other 7.6 11.7 12.8 As at 31 December. 1 As a proportion of total days worked. 48 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Membership of associations Hungarian Banking Association Hungarian SEPA Association Association of Securities Dealers Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry Alliance for Electronic Commerce (SzEK) Joint Venture Association Hungarian Forex Society International Chamber of Commerce ACCA Hungarian Institute of Internal Auditors Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) Hungary Hungarian Economics Association IIF Hungarian Advertising Association Hungarian Self-Regulatory Advertising Board KÖVET Association for Sustainable Business Management 4.4. Awards and accolades • CSR 24/7 ranking: The CIB Group came first among Hungary’s financial institutions in the ranking of companies in terms of CSR best practice • CSR Best Practice: awarded by the Hungarian Public Relations Society • User-friendly website – Hungarian Content Industry Association 49 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 4.5. Compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Global Compact Our performance Related GRI principles indicators Human Rights 1. Business should sup• We have made a commitment to protect human rights in accordance with • 4.8 port and respect the the 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights. We expect all of our • EC5 protection of internaHungarian and foreign partners to do the same. • LA7, LA8, LA13, tionally accepted hu• In the course of its operation our bank fully respects the Hungarian ConstiLA14 man rights. tution and all other general domestic and international treaties on human • PR8 rights and ethics. • We treat protecting the personal data of our customers as a key priority; we investigate complaints related to data handling, and take steps to reduce the number of complaints to a minimum. In 2010 only 11 complaints were received. • We provide our employees with fair and satisfying working conditions and pay, as well as with a wide range of other benefits (see section 2.2.). The average starting monthly salary is almost three times the statutory minimum wage. 2. Business should make • In 2010 we continued with the implementation of the Code of Ethics, and • 4.8 sure they are not comthe Code of Conduct that is based on it. One of the most important steps • HR6, HR7 plicit in human rights taken in-house was the drafting of the new code of ethical conduct, which • FS14 abuses. will be introduced in 2011. • We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination, and to respecting differences in gender, age, race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and differences in language, and to respecting the rights of those with disabilities. • In 2010 we continued with the barrier-free conversion of bank branches, at several branches we launched the procedure to obtain the planning permission for such conversions, and we also carried on with the installation of easier-to-use ATMs. Labour 3. Business should up• A trade union has been established to represent the interests of employees, • LA4 hold the freedom of which had 323 members at the end of 2010. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should elim• The Bank abides by the laws of the land, and the relevant provisions of • HR7 inate all forms of forced the Hungarian Constitution (70/B). and compulsory labour. • We have made a commitment to protect human rights in accordance with the 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights. 50 Annexes Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 5. Business should be • Our bank abides by the laws of the land and the relevant paragraphs of • HR6 effective in abolishing the Hungarian Constitution (70/B). child labour. and 6. Business should elim• We declared in our Code of Ethics that we are committed to eliminating • 4.8 inate discrimination in all forms of discrimination from our conduct and to respecting differences • LA13, LA14 employment and ocin gender, age, race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and cupation. language, and to respecting the rights of those with disabilities. • Our organisation is willing to appoint physically disabled staff to certain positions. In 2010 a total of 22 persons with acquired disabilities and five with congenital disabilities worked at the CIB Group. • We place emphasis on achieving equality between the sexes: the difference between men’s and women’s wages is considerably smaller than both the Hungarian and the European average. Our long-term objective is to fully comply with the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. Environment 7. Business should sup• We aim to use all our resources sparingly. In this regard we promote conduct • EN8, EN18, EN26 port a precautionary that is based on the best use of resources and on the avoidance of waste • FS1 approach to environand ostentation. We give priority to solutions that have been designed with mental challenges. sustainability in mind. • In certain of our contracts we stipulate that in the course of contractual performance the supplier is obliged to use environmentally friendly technologies, and sustainable products and materials, and to make efforts to recycle the waste that is generated. • We have launched numerous initiatives aimed at reducing energy and water consumption (for details, see section 2.5), including the installation of solar panels on the roofs of our central office buildings, in order to cut down on the use of non-renewable energy sources. 8. Business should un• In July 2010 we launched the CIB Bike Sharing program to promote cycling among • EN5, EN18, EN26 dertake initiatives to our employees, primarily as a means of travelling between our head offices. Besides promote greater enmaking it easier for our employees to get around, the program also contributed to vironmental responsireducing our ecological footprint and reinforcing our image as an environmentally bility. aware bank. At the launch of the program we made eight CIB bicycles available at three head offices and two provincial branches (Pécs and Debrecen). • Also last year, on several occasions, we held week-long internal communication campaigns related to environmental awareness topics. On every working day of the week we explored a different topic via the intranet, which is accessible via the internal network. The issues discussed spanned the most important questions related to paper use, energy consumption, environmentally aware transportation and waste management, and employees were also provided with useful advice and practical tips. 9. Business should en• We endeavour to assume a role in the promotion of environmentally sound • EN5, EN18 courage the developenergy use, and for this reason we support the efforts and work of our ment and diffusion of colleagues and various civic organisations. environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Business should • Our bank abides by the laws of the country. • 4.8 work against corrup• Our bank has approved the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct which • SO3 tion in all its forms, insets forth the standards of behaviour that are expected of our employees, cluding extortion and and also makes separate reference the prohibition of corruption. bribery. • All employees of the CIB Group have received training in the prevention of money laundering and conflicts of interests, through the e-learning interface (MultiLearn) accessible via the internal network. 51 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank GRI Index Indicator Brief description Page number 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance page 7. of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities page 7. 2 G3 profile disclosures 2.1 Name of the organisation page 41. 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services pages 32., 43. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operational compage 41. panies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters page 57. 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates page 41. 2.6 Nature and legal form of ownership page 41. 2.7 Markets served page 42. 2.8 Size of the reporting organisations: number of employees; net sales; total capitalisapages 3., 43–44. tion broken down in terms of debt and equity; quantity of products manufactured or value of services provided 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure or ownership, during the reporting period page 57. 2.10 Awards and prizes received during the reporting period page 49. 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period page 57. 3.2 Date of most recent report page 57. 3.3 Reporting cycle page 57. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content page 58. 3.5 Process for defining report content page 57. 3.6 Boundary of the report page 57. 3.7 Presentation of any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report page 57. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operapage 57. tions, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations page 57. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports page 57. and the reasons for such re-statement 52 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measpage 57. oldal urement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Content Index pages 52-56. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report page 57. 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation pages 32-34. 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer page 33. 4.3 The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent page 33. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations for direction page 33. to the highest governance body 4.5 Link between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior page 34. managers, and executives, and the organisation's performance Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest 4.6 page 47. are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation's strategy on economic, environmental page 34. and social issues 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values relevant to economic, environpage 2. mental and social performance 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the identification and manpage 38. agement of economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly page 34. with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is adpages 34-35. dressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or page 50. other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry/sector associations) and/or national/ page 49. international advocacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation in any form of dialogue page 39. 4.15 Method and principles for selection of the stakeholder groups page 39. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement page 39. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement page 39. 5 Management approach Typically described in the introduction to the individual sections 53 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank EC Economic performance indicators EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee page 11. compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government page 10. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at page 48. significant locations of operation (national data available) EC6 Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers page 22. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local pages 34., 47. community at significant locations of operation LA Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region page 45. LA2 Total employee turnover page 46. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partpage 18. time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements No collective bargaining agreement LA7 Rate of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of workpages 45., 48. related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place regardpages 18-19. ing serious disease LA10 Annual average number of training hours per year per employee by employment category page 20. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning page 19. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews page 34. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by gender, age pages 33., 45-47. group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category page 48. HR Human Rights HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour page 38. HR7 Measure contributing to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour page 38. 54 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank PR Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are aspage 16. sessed for improvement PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring cuspage 16. tomer satisfaction PR7 Fines incurred for non-compliance with ethical codes related to marketing communication page 44. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and page 17. losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations page 44. concerning the provision and use of products and services SO Society SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and page 37. procedures SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and page 37. related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly page 44. practices, and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for page 44. non-compliance with laws and regulations EN Environmental performance indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy sources page 27. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy sources page 27. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements page 27. EN8 Total water withdrawal page 27. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight page 28. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved page 28. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method page 29. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services page 29. 55 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Indicators specific to the financial sector FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines page 35. FS5 Interactions with clients and business partners regarding environmental and social page 26. risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ pages 10., 44. large) and by sector FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social page 36. policies and risk assessment procedures FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people page 17. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary pages 23-24. 56 About this report Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank About this boundary of the report, and the measurement techniques applied, have not changed significantly in comparison to the report previous reporting period. Our economic data has been stated in accordance with the Reporting period: calendar year 2010 provisions of the currently effective Accounting Act and the Date of previous report: requirements of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, while the social July 2010 (comprehensive report – GRI B+) and environmental information is from the company’s internal Reporting cycle: annual data recording system Unless indicated otherwise, the figures GRI application level B have been arrived at through measurement or calculation. The report only contains re-statements of previously disclosed The report contains information regarding the CIB Group’s information where this is necessary in order to comply with organisational units and subsidiaries in Hungary. In all cases the GRI guidelines. To ensure comparability over time, the the data is group-level data, except where specifically stated quantitative data used to describe our operations is given for otherwise. When determining the content of the report we a period spanning three years. Where this is not the case, relied to a significant extent on the comments and expectawe have specified the reasons separately. Where this is not tions expressed by the panel of stakeholders held in July 2010. the case, we have specified the reasons separately, and have attempted to find benchmarks, but the availability of sectorIn accordance with the findings, we shifted our focus back wide data is very limited both domestically and internationally. to addressing the issue of the financial crisis, and presenting Descriptions of the data measurement techniques applied, our responses to the crisis and the changes in the bank’s and the bases for calculation, as well as the reasons for any organisation. Besides this, we naturally also give an account restatements of data disclosed in previous are specified in of our long-term initiatives launched in the interests of enthe detailed description of the given data item. suring sustainable operation from an economic, social and environmental perspective. We have made every effort to In contrast to last year, this year’s report was not externally disclose all the key information necessary for assessing the assured; however, in the course of preparing the report we extent of our corporate social responsibility. We paid speincorporated all the expectations of the previous year’s ascial attention to ensuring that the raw data, indicators and surance process. We place to have the report on the 2011 comparative tables presenting the changes over a three-year financial year externally assured once again. period are accompanied by explanations to assist in interpreting the figures, and where possible we used case studies to The report also gives an account of our efforts to uphold the illustrate the underlying factors related to data, decisions principles set forth in the UN Global Compact. or objectives, and the reasons for changes. The scope and 57 Imprint Sustainability Report 2010 cib bank Imprint Text: Our thanks go to all employees of the CIB Group for their Ádám Szinai help in preparing this report. Publisher: Róbert Kanizsai Date of finalisation of manuscript: 31 May 2011 CIB Bank Ltd. Head office: CIB Social Relations contact information 1027 Budapest, Medve utca 4–14. E-mail: 1537 Budapest, Pf. 394 sustainability@cib.hu Telephone: (+36 1) 423 1000 24-hour customer service call centre Fax: CIB24: (+36 1) 423 6500 06 40 242 242 E-mail: From abroad: cib@cib.hu (+36 1) 399 8877 Web: www.cib.hu www.cibalapitvany.hu 58
