CONSCIOUS* ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 *is the name for all the work we do to THINK BEFORE VIEWING THIS offer you more sustainable fashion, YOU PRINT ON AN iPAD? We’ve designed this document To maximise usability of this both today and tomorrow for optimum viewing on report we recommend you screen. Please don’t print it use Apple’s iBooks reader. unless you really have to and If you don’t have it you can save precious resources. download it for free here. 01 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS CONSCIOUS* ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS A message from our CEO.......................................03 About H&M ...........................................................06 About this report.....................................................09 Memberships and indexes.......................................10 Vision, policy and strategy......................................11 Provide fashion for conscious customers................17 Choose and reward responsible partners ................27 Be ethical................................................................62 Be climate smart ....................................................69 Reduce, reuse, recycle.............................................78 Use natural resources responsibly ..........................83 Strengthen communities.......................................100 Performance appendix..........................................108 GRI content index................................................. 142 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Provide fashion Choose Be ethical Be climate Reduce, reuse, Use natural Strengthen for conscious and reward smart recycle resources communities customers responsible responsibly partners 02 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS A message from our CEO Welcome to our Conscious* to SEK 25 billion and sales were up with our suppliers and as few Actions Sustainability to SEK 127 billion (including VAT), middlemen as possible. Report 2010 making H&M one of the world’s largest fashion retailers. Today’s economy is global and it is The year was full of highlights at not a question of whether companies H&M as we welcomed customers to With size comes responsibility and like ours should be present in spectacular new stores in exciting influence. We want our customers developing countries, it is a locations around the world, including always to feel that we do our best to question of how we do it. three new markets: South Korea, ensure that the fashion we offer has Turkey and, via franchise, Israel. been made, transported and sold A misconception seems to be that We also expanded online sales to the responsibly. Taking this responsibility the price of a product automatically UK, one of H&M’s biggest markets. seriously creates opportunities for tells us something about the working H&M and we see it as part of our conditions of the people who During the year, our in-house business proposition. produced it. What truly matters are designers created a range of wellthe efforts to improve conditions in received fashion collections and we We strive to improve our supplier factories and the results launched successful collaborations customer offering at all times. we achieve. with fashion icons Lanvin and Sonia Adding sustainability value to our Rykiel, as well as with world-renowned products is one way to achieve For H&M, sustainability is a natural architect, Jean Nouvel. We acquired this. This way we can, together part of doing business in a globalised full ownership of the brands Monki, with our millions of customers, world. Stable purchasing and sales Weekday and Cheap Monday and make a positive contribution to markets, in which people are treated continued developing our brand COS a more sustainable future. with respect and where resources and our home textile concept, Home. are usedresponsibly, are essential We are often asked how we can to our business model. Naturally, By the end of 2010, we were offering offer fashion at such affordable we have to play a role in making fashion and quality at the best price prices. We can do this because we this business context a reality. to customers in 38 countries, through have many years of experience, more than 2,200 stores. Profits efficient logistics, strong market Salaries, workers’ rights and health for the year were up 13 percent knowledge, long-term relationships and safety are some of the most 03 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS A message from our CEO o co n ti nue our efforts to le, “T role as possi b play as full a sustainability the e we have mad of all departments it y responsibil y.” n in the compa important challenges in our supply To help each department to find ways 10 principles of the United Nations chain and we are happy to see of converting this responsibility into Global Compact. progress on most of our requirements. action, in 2010 we introduced seven We have also taken steps to increase broad commitments as the core of Among our achievements in 2010 our influence on stages further back our sustainability strategy. was our announcement in September, in our value chain. together with Levi Strauss & Co, of a We also gave our sustainability global ban on sandblasting in favour By contributing both to improvements programme a name: H&M Conscious. of other techniques used to create a in standards and to economic growth, As part of this new approach, we worn look on garments such as denim. foreign trade can play a major role will communicate to colleagues, This move is part of our ongoing work in the development of countries and customers and other stakeholders, to improve the health and safety of can help to lift people out of poverty. the Conscious Actions we are taking workers in the apparel industry. As a buyer, H&M indirectly creates to fulfil these strategic commitments. jobs for hundreds of thousands of H&M is one of the world’s largest users people in the countries we source As a starting point, Spring 2011 will of certified organic cotton. In 2010, from. We believe that, by being see our first Conscious Collection the amount we used increased once present in these countries and hit H&M stores worldwide. This again, to more than 15,000 tonnes. using our influence to promote co-ordinated fashion range for women, 2010 also saw the first cotton harvest good practice, we can make a men and children will be made from from the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), lasting difference. environmentally adapted materials. a multi-stakeholder programme aimed Following this collection, a continuous at bringing social and environmental To continue our efforts to play as range of Conscious Products will improvements to conventional cotton full a role as possible throughout be available in our stores, making growing. In 2010, we set a new, our operations, we have made it easier for our customers to ambitious target for all cotton in H&M sustainability the responsibility make an informed and more garments to come from sustainable of all departments in the company. sustainable choice. sources, including Better Cotton, This means that we move further organic and recycled cotton, by 2020. towards integrating social and Given our determination to be a environmental concern into the daily responsible business, it is natural In 2011, we are taking H&M to five decision-making for everyone at H&M. that we continue to support the more new markets. In March, we The Conscious Collection, made with environmentally adapted materials, hits H&M stores worldwide in spring 2011. 04 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS A message from our CEO opened successfully in Croatia and growth in value in the same manner Romania. This autumn we will open as a shareholder. global and the first H&M store in Singapore, as e con om y is “Today’s tion of wheth e er well as launching in two new franchise By keeping and attracting skilled, markets, Morocco and Jordan. creative and devoted colleagues no t a q ues it is ld b ke ours shou companies li loping countries, around the world, we hope to stay ve present in de of how we do it.” Our target is to increase the number at the forefront of sustainable n of stores by 10-15 percent per year and business practices. to increase sales in comparable units. it is a questio This growth, which is fully self-financed, Thank you for taking the time to learn will take place alongside a continued more about our sustainability work. emphasis on quality, sustainability and continued high profitability. In our global expansion it is important that we keep strengthening H&M as an attractive employer. Today H&M employs about 87,000 people; they Karl-Johan Persson are the key to our success. In order CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB. to encourage and acknowledge our employees’ long-term involvement, at the beginning of 2011, we launched a long-term incentive programme for all H&M employees. The H&M Incentive Program rewards all employees on the same basic principle, regardless of position, salary level or age. This means that our employees will be able to benefit from H&M’s expected 05 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS ABOUT H&M We believe w wards e have a y to responsibilit o contributes everyone wh o u r su cces s and to the to around us environment H&M’s business concept is to offer our GLOBAL PRESENCE, GLOBAL IMPACT AND REACH We do not own or operate any of the customers fashion and quality at the best factories producing our goods, but H&M at a glance In 1947, Hennes opened in Västerås, instead work with approximately price. Our in-house designers create a wide Sweden. Today, H&M Hennes & 700 suppliers in around 30 countries, and varied product range for everyone who Mauritz AB sells fashion for all the mainly in Asia and Europe. Without – 38 markets family under the brands of H&M, COS, a doubt, our global presence has – 2,206 stores loves fashion, whatever their age. Quality is Monki, Weekday and Cheap Monday, an impact on the people and – 87,000 employees key, right through from the first design idea along with home textiles at H&M communities around us, as well as – Sales including VAT Home. With more than 2,200 stores, on the environment. Garments can SEK 127 billion to our customers’ experience of our products. we are now present in 38 countries require heavy use of water throughout – Profit after tax SEK 18.7 billion That means meeting or exceeding our on four continents, with H&M stores their life cycle and we all share the opening in five more markets in 2011. urgent task to confront the threats customers’ expectations. For us, that includes In addition, internet and catalogue of climate change. working hard to be sustainable in everything sales are available in eight countries, now including the UK. Our size and We believe we have a responsibility we do. H&M is driven by strong values and growth help us to make our products, towards everyone who contributes we aim for sustainability to play a role in our company and our industry to our success and to the environment more sustainable. around us – from the cotton fields to every decision we make. We want to offer our customers. Actively working to our Conscious Customers a more sustainable fulfil this responsibility is a prerequisite for being able to maintain quality choice in fashion. and profitability in the long term. You can read more about our business development at: www.hm.com/annualreport 06 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS ABOUT H&M 1 3 10 We opened the doors to our first H&M In November, one of biggest fashion store in Turkey. H&M also launched in events of the year hit around 200 Israel and South Korea. Our brand H&M stores across the globe: our Monki took its first steps out of Europe collaboration with the French and was warmly welcomed in Hong fashion house Lanvin, full of Kong, with customers queuing up colourful tailored party dresses. T S outside for the whole opening week. In early 2011, we transformed cut HIGH L I G H remnants from the production of this collection into a new, fashionable collection – the 1 0 Waste Collection. FR O M 2 0 4 2 H&M is also growing through our In February, H&M launched a collection Shop Online and catalogue sales. of knitwear and playful accessories for With the launch in the UK in 2010, women and girls designed by French these sales channels are now fashion icon, Sonia Rykiel. A specially available in eight countries and we designed bag was sold in our stores have announced plans for a US with 30 percent of the sales price launch around the turn of 2011/2012. going to H&M and UNICEF’s All for Children project. 07 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS ABOUT H&M re organic We used mo er before v cotton than e , more than cts in our produ es 15,000 tonn 5 8 10 We announced our target for all our We used more organic cotton than Raising awareness of worker rights cotton to come from sustainable ever before in our products – more among those who work in our supply sources by 2020. This includes than 15,000 tonnes. This is an increase chain is a vital part of our strategy organic cotton, recycled cotton and of 77 percent compared to 2009 and to contribute to long lasting better cotton harvested through the it makes H&M one of the largest users improvements in conditions. Better Cotton Initiative, in which of organic cotton in the world (2009: We continued our training programme, H&M is an active member together rank 5 according to Textile Exchange). using short films to educate workers with other retailers and in Bangladesh and, since the start organisations such as WWF. 9 of 2008, we have reached more than 300,000 6 workers. We will expand In 2010, H&M together with Levi The Garden Collection, made with 7 Strauss & Co. announced a global ban on sandblasting, a technique used this successful programme to India in 2011. In order to show our appreciation to give garments a used or worn-out environmentally adapted materials, for our employees, H&M initiated look. Without appropriate protection, hit our stores in spring, with up-toan incentive programme for all the use of this technique can impose the-minute designs and customers employees. The programme is due health risks on workers. We are happy N COLLECTIO queuing up in front of H&M to start in 2011, with a donation from to see that many other companies are G A R DE N stores across the globe. THE IN 2010 the Stefan Persson family of around now joining this complete ban. 4 million H&M shares – with a value LAUNCHED of approximately SEK 1 billion – to the Swedish Foundation named H&M Incentive Program Stiftelse. 08 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT HOW WE REPORT this report on page 142. We have FEEDBACK We report activities and progress included the indicators from the pilot We would be happy to hear your on our sustainability programmes of the Apparel and Footwear Sector feedback on this report. To tell us annually. This report covers the global Supplement but have not included what you think or ask any questions group operations of H&M Hennes them in our self-assessment rating, you might have, please contact & Mauritz AB. We have aligned the as they are not yet finalised. hendrik.alpen@hm.com. reporting period with our fiscal year, which is from 1 December – ASSURANCE 30 November. Our last sustainability We are committed to open and honest report was published in April 2010. disclosure and this report is part of that process. We also believe that Our 2010 Conscious* Actions our involvement in multi-stakeholder Sustainability Report is structured initiatives like the Fair Labor according to our seven strategic Association, as well as our own commitments. As signatories to the efforts to elicit feedback from our UN Global Compact, we publish this stakeholders, some of which is report as our Communication published in this report, add value on Progress (COP). As we are also and credibility to our sustainability signatories to the UNGC’s CEO Water work and reporting. We recognise Mandate, you can find the related COP that many of our stakeholders expect in this report as well. our reporting to be independently assured. We have invested significant GLOBAL REPORTING resources in developing our data INITIATIVE (GRI) systems and analysis and we are We use the GRI Sustainability constantly looking to improve the Reporting Guidelines and the pilot way we report. As such, we have Apparel and Footwear Sector now started a process to look into Supplement to inform our options for assuring our reporting. sustainability reporting. A GRI reference table can be found in 09 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Memberships and Indexes Memberships UN Global Compact (UNGC) Fair Labor Association (FLA) We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact. We are accredited members of the Fair Labor Association The Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses (FLA), a non-profit organisation dedicated to improving working that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies conditions in factories worldwide. The FLA conducts independent with 10 universally accepted principles concerning human rights, audits of suppliers that we use in China and Turkey and publishes labour, environment and anti-corruption. H&M is also a signatory results on its website. Read more about independent monitoring to the CEO Water Mandate, a voluntary initiative from the UNGC and verification at www.fairlabor.org. Our brand, Cheap Monday, addressing the urgent issue of water scarcity. is member of the Fair Wear Foundation (FWF) and its suppliers are subject to independent monitoring under their scope www.fairwear.org. Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) FTSE4Good Index As a group of sustainability leaders in the apparel sector, including H&M has been independently assessed according to the H&M, the coalition works on a collaborative approach to improve FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied requirements to become the environmental and social impacts of apparel and footwear a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the products. Read more about our involvement on page 21. global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental criteria and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practices. Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) H&M has been a member of Business for Social Responsibility Other responsible investment indices of which H&M is a (BSR) for several years. BSR is a global network of more than 250 constituent of, include: the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Nordic; member companies, which aims to develop sustainable business ECPI Ethical Index Euro; ECPI Ethical Index Global; and the OMX strategies and solutions through consulting, research, and GES Sustainability Nordic Index. cross-sector collaboration www.bsr.org. 10 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS VISION, POLICY new technolo By adopting we can work gies AND STRATEGY and methods, to minimise preventatively ntal footprint e our environm VISION co-operation partners, and to our SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY H&M’s business operations aim to customers. At H&M, we see sustainability as an be run in a way that is economically, integral part of what it means to be a socially and environmentally We apply the precautionary principle successful business. That’s why, when sustainable. By sustainable, we mean in our environmental work and we think of sustainability, we look at that the needs of both present and have adopted a preventative it in terms of three connected areas: future generations must be fulfilled. approach with the substitution of People, Planet and Profit. hazardous chemicals. SUSTAINABILITY POLICY We aim to follow a product life cycle H&M’s business concept is to offer We strive to use resources as approach in our sustainability work. fashion and quality at the best price. efficiently as possible and to minimise While we do take into account that our Quality includes ensuring that waste. By adopting new technologies influence is stronger closer to our own products are manufactured in a way and methods, we can work operations, we are working hard to that is environmentally and socially preventatively to minimise our minimise our impact and contribute to sustainable. Like all H&M’s activities, environmental footprint through positive change along our entire value our CSR work is based on a drive for improved production processes and chain. Thereby, we interact with various continuous improvement. We have a our choice of materials. We must stakeholders such as our customers, responsibility towards everyone who continuously review the company’s employees, suppliers as well as local contributes to our success, including goals and strategies to reduce the and international NGOs and Unions, those who are not employees of H&M. company’s climate impact. authorities, our shareholders and many That is why we work closely with more in a mutual dialogue. our suppliers to develop sustainable Our decisions are based on careful We take the entire life cycle of our social and environmental standards consideration, where shorter or products into account. We work to make H&M a business in in the factories that manufacture longer-term environmental benefits which sustainability is a natural and H&M’s products. are weighed up in order to ensure that relations. We take a clear stand against fully integrated part of everything we we choose solutions that are all forms of corruption. We engage do, and a responsibility that all our We have to ensure that our sustainable in the long term. in dialogue with all our various departments share and manage employees’ human rights are not stakeholders to build trust in our together. Our Head Office-based CSR violated, and the same applies to We want to be a good global citizen operations within the environment Support department anchors and employees of our suppliers and other and act responsibly in our business we rely on for our long-term success. supports this process. 11 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY product life cycle 1 2 3 4 5 6 Raw Materials Material Product Transport Sales Customer processing manufacture The strength of H&M’s focus and influence along the product life cycle 12 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY OUR OUR COMMITMENTS To continue the implementation of this Our Conscious Actions work towards fulfilling our commitments. You can SEVENN 1. Provide fashion for strategy and to help us remain at the read about some of these Actions Conscious Customers forefront of our industry, we defined throughout this report and find out Make products with an added seven strategic commitments on about our progress. As part of our sustainability value. sustainability in 2010. These were shared responsibility approach, further E TS: COMMITM defined based on our previous longConscious Actions will be developed 2. Choose and reward term goals, our long experience continually throughout our organisation. responsible partners with our sustainability work and Work with partners who share our values. our constant dialogue with our Alongside these actions, we offer stakeholders. The commitments guide our customers Conscious Products, a 3. Be ethical our efforts to make our business and selection of more sustainable fashion Always act with integrity and respect. products economically, environmentally choices. The starting point will be a and socially more sustainable. first Conscious Collection, which hits 4. Be climate smart our stores in April 2011. Be energy-efficient and inspire others To emphasise and clarify our efforts to reduce total CO2 emissions. internally and externally, we have given our sustainability programme a name: 5. Reduce, reuse, recycle H&M Conscious. This name stands for Aim for zero waste to landfill. all our work-in-progress for a more sustainable fashion future. 6. Use natural resources responsibly Conserve water, soil, air and species. 7. Strengthen communities Contribute to the development of the communities where we operate. 13 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY INTEGRATING AND MANAGING Actions necessary to enable us to SUSTAINABILITY fulfil our seven commitments were Managing sustainability As our sustainability strategy sets out, then agreed on at follow-up sessions. as a shared responsibility all departments at H&M are individually So far, hundreds of different responsible for integrating sustainable suggestions for further Conscious CSR support department Business functions thinking into their business routines, Actions have been reviewed by Our CSR team comprises over Each department develops action initiating actions and setting goals in the CSR support department and 90 employees of whom 15 are part plans in line with H&M’s strategic order to fulfil our commitments. included in an action plan for 2011. of our Head Office CSR support commitments, implements them, This shared responsibility approach department, primarily based in measures and analyses their moves us away from having a CSR Sustainability issues influencing more Stockholm. Alongside its work to performance and reports results department that drives all our than one department are discussed provide expert support to other to the CSR support department. sustainability activity, to a CSR support in a decision-making forum called business functions and to co-ordinate department that sets overall targets, the Green Room. goals, our CSR support department is defines strategies and guides other responsible for approving methods departments within H&M. and tools for data gathering and reviewing performance. Our Head of In Autumn 2010, individual meetings CSR reports directly to our CEO. The were held with the different vast majority of our CSR team work in departments within our organisation. our 15 production offices around the Discussions were based on an analysis, world. From there, they work directly conducted by the CSR support team, with our suppliers to support them in of that department’s impact on our complying with our Code of Conduct sustainability. This process will and develop strategies and methods continue throughout 2011. to make our supply chain more sustainable. 14 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY Interview with be carbon neutral and to produce zero The other big challenge is to tackle Helena Helmersson, waste. That has to be our ultimate aim. complex structural issues that underlie Head of CSR I think it is important to bring our much of our supply chain sustainability customers along with us on this issues, many of which require an You started as new Head journey. We need to make them more industry-wide response. The of CSR at H&M in 2010 – aware of all the work we do to be more discussion about minimum wages what is your vision? sustainable. Fashion should be fun and in Bangladesh last year is one such Improving the environmental and we want our customers to be able to example. There, engagement with social sustainability of our supply chain rely on us taking our responsibility other buyers and using our joint has been a major focus of our work seriously. We want to inspire them influence over lawmakers was needed since the 90s and it will remain a core to adapt their own behaviour too; for in order for us to make a difference. part of our programme. My long-term example, by lowering the temperature Taking an active role in public policy, vision here is to see our suppliers and at which they wash their clothes. working further towards collaborative their employees able to take full I hope that giving our sustainability actions and building bridges that lead ownership of their sustainability issues. programme a name, H&M Conscious, to lasting improvements are some Although I know that there is still a long will make it easier to engage with of the things we will put even more way to go, we are making progress. But our customers on these issues focus on in the future. today, sustainability is about so much and help them to make more more than just our direct suppliers. sustainable choices. Obviously, H&M has a lot of We have already taken important steps good initiatives, but how to reduce impacts further down our What do you think are sustainable can H&M be value chain. your biggest challenges when offering garments ahead in this position? that cost so little? Alongside our goal for all the cotton we Remaining at the forefront of We can offer our customers a more use to be produced more sustainably sustainability in our industry is a sustainable choice. We can make a by 2020, we have started to look at the challenge. The crucial factor is difference to hundreds of thousands carbon and water use impact of our how well we manage to extend of people working in our supply products across their entire life cycle. our work to improve social and chain and to the environment and In the future, being at the forefront of environmental conditions further communities around us. We work hard sustainability will mean aiming both to down our value chain. to make this difference bigger every 15 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY e a difference “We can mak f thousands of to hundreds o in our supply g people workin e environment th chain and to s around us.” com m u n itie and day. Today there are a lot of companies This makes minimum wages in the the basis of a lower level of risk and So, by integrating sustainable thinking offering garments at affordable prices. supply chain a competition neutral we, in turn, can pass these benefits on throughout our company, we can gain We believe that improving conditions factor and, as we did just recently in to our customers – a win-win situation. advantages that help us to remain and creating a leaner supply chain Bangladesh, we will continue to use competitive and continue to deliver that is more efficient, stable and our influence and demand minimum Talking about win-win quality and fashion at the best price. sustainable will give us competitive wages be increased wherever they situations, how does advantages in the long run, so this are not enough to live on. your sustainability work work is not incompatible with offering contribute to better our customers the best price. With more than 60 years’ experience business? in this business, we have learned Associating social and environmental If that’s the case, how do a lot about those factors that improvements with profit is actually sales prices and the wages make it possible for us to offer not hard; and it’s not only the obvious of garment workers relate fashion at such affordable prices. things, like energy and resource to each other? And we have contiously invested efficiency leading to cost savings. Many people seem to believe that in strengthening these. Treating our employees and business low prices are automatically related partners in a fair way helps us to retain to bad working conditions and low Our size and our ability to buy large talent and build long-term and trusting wages. In fact, today, many garments volumes play an important role as well. relationships. As cotton is our most are produced in low cost countries, We cut out middlemen wherever important raw material, we work hard regardless of their sales price. possible and instead focus on longto gain influence over this stage further The truth is that the price of a garment term, direct and stable relations with back in our value chain. Supporting does not tell us much about how our suppliers. This close co-operation those in our value chain to become it is produced. We share many of helps us to learn from each other and better at what they do makes their our suppliers with a lot of other to co-operate in a more efficient way. business more sustainable and our brands. Wages for the workers are Having a growing business partner like supply more stable and efficient. the same no matter which brand’s H&M allows our suppliers to plan their order they work on. What matters business development better and we What is more, I strongly believe is the effort companies make to support this through active capacity that our customers will increasingly improve conditions. planning with them. This means that appreciate our efforts to offer more our suppliers can set their prices on sustainable products as well. 16 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 1 Provide In this section Conscious products................................................18 fashion for Product safety and quality..................................... 23 conscious customers Our business idea is to offer our customers fashion 30,000 chemical USD 2,500,000 of donations and quality at the best price. To us, quality includes our tests conducted generated by sales of cause-related products products being safe and being produced and sold under good conditions, with limited impact on the environment. 3 0 0 0 0 We work hard to meet and exceed our customers’ expectations and constantly to improve our products. We want to offer our customers products that have added sustainability value and empower them to make more informed and sustainable choices. Sustainable Apparel Coalition formed 17 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious products GARDEN COLLECTION The Garden Collection In 2010, H&M for the first time succesfully combined more sustainable materials with offered a full fashion collection fashionable designs. made from organic or recycled materials such as organic cotton, organic linen, recycled polyester and Tencel®. Investing in such materials and demonstrating how they can be used to make fashionable garments that meet our customers’ demands was an important objective. Recycled polyester used for this collection was made from PET bottles. This collection represented about 5 percent of our total of garments produced from environmentally adapted materials. The interest from both fashion media and our customers has been very high. 18 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious products CONSCIOUS COLLECTION – With the launch of the SUSTAINABLE STYLE BY H&M Conscious Collection, a spring fashion range We aim to make it easier for our for women, men and customers to make an informed children, hits H&M stores and more sustainable choice. globally. Being made with H&M Conscious is the name for all environmentally adapted the work we do for a more sustainable materials, the Collection is a starting point for a fashion future. In our stores, this name continous concept. will, from now on, highlight all the products that come with added sustainability value. Following the success of the Garden Collection, H&M is introducing this concept with a first dedicated Conscious Collection in Spring 2011. Our designers have been inspired by different shades of white, one of the most important fashion colours this spring. The Collection is made with more sustainable materials such as organic cotton, Tencel® and recycled polyester. The launch of this collection will be promoted through different communication activities. Read more about how we work towards more sustainable use of raw materials from page 83. 19 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2Ga,rm0e3nts7la,6bell0ed0with the10 Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious products 0 abel sold in 2 Flower eco-l EU flower eco-label Cosmetic products made THREE Questions TO Ann-Sofie Johansson, Since 2005, we have sold baby wear with organic ingredients Head of Design at H&M bearing the EU’s Flower eco-label. The Debuting in stores at the beginning label certifies that harmful substances of March 2010, our range of everyday have been limited and water pollution cosmetic essentials, including shower cotton anymore. The range of materials is much reduced across the whole production gel, body scrub, body lotion, hand broader today and as designers, we have the chain, from the raw cotton to the final cream and lip balm, are all based on chance to show what great garments you can product. As with all other H&M natural and organic ingredients. They make out of them. garments, baby wear bearing the are certified by Ecocert, Europe’s Flower eco-label also complies with biggest certification body for organic We also think about how garments can be H&M’s own Chemical Restrictions. and natural cosmetics. These designed so that as little waste as possible results products go together with matching from their production. We can also use remnants We plan to continue with the use of toilet bags made from organic cotton. to make new clothes. This is good for the the Flower eco-label. In 2010, we sold environment and, in turn, helps us to offer 2,037,600 certified garments, which What do conscious our customers the best value for money. is 9 percent more than the year before customers expect from H&M? (2009: 1,875,000). Since 2010, all of I think our customers expect us to act in a You obviously have green ambitions, our Flower eco-labelled garments responsible and sustainable way in everything but H&M sells millions of garments contain at least 3 percent organic we do; and, of course, they want us to continue each year. Is there not a cotton, while many are made of offering fashion basics and the latest designs, contradiction? 100 percent organic cotton. made with respect to people and planet, at an We want to offer our millions of customers a affordable price. better choice. Our scale means that we can have a big impact on the fashion industry – in our What can your design team do supply chain and beyond. Fashion should be fun to meet these requirements? and our customers should be able to rely on us We think a lot about the materials we use. taking our responsibilities seriously. This also And increasingly, we use materials that are better includes offering our customers designs that are for the environment. It’s not limited to organic meant to last longer than just one season. 20 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious products Sustainable Apparel stages objectively, and measure Apparel Coalition, and its progress, HIV/AIDS and to contribute to Coalition associated impacts. as the work proceeds. prevention projects with a donation The environmental and social of 25 percent of sales prices. The challenges around the global apparel The companies that form the 2010 collection came right in time For more information visit supply chain affect our entire industry. Sustainable Apparel Coalition are, for the summer’s festival season www.apparelcoalition.org These challenges reflect some together, developing an industry-wide and featured dedicated designs. structural issues that no individual measurement tool: an Apparel and COLLECTIONS THAT INVEST company can solve alone. Footwear Index for sustainability WaterAid Since 2002, we have IN OUR COMMUNITIES performance. This will be tested in supported WaterAid with 10 percent Offering products with added Therefore, a group of sustainability 2011. It has an approach that enables of the sales price of selected sustainability value can also involve leaders in the apparel industry, companies to evaluate the entire swimwear products. In 2010, we engaging with our customers to including H&M, began meeting in 2010 apparel life cycle, from materials, dedicated a whole collection to support our community investment with a common goal of developing manufacturing and packaging to support WaterAid. This programme projects and help raise awareness on a universal index to measure transportation, use and end of life. has raised around GBP 1.7 million. the issues they address. In recent environmental and social performance years, we have introduced more and of apparel products and to identify We believe that transparent, All for Children Throughout the more collections and products offering opportunities for pre-competitive credible, practical and universal year different products hit our stores, our customers the choice to contribute collaboration in the apparel supply tools and standards for defining supporting the All for Children to selected projects in the areas of chain to improve performance. The and measuring environmental and project that H&M and UNICEF funded education, HIV/AIDS and water. In common vision is an apparel industry social performance, will support the together with the help of a USD 4.5 addition, many of the products in these that produces no unnecessary individual interests of all stakeholders. million donation from H&M. A donation collections are made from sustainable environmental harm and has a positive of 30 percent of the sales price materials such as organic cotton. Read impact on the people and communities Initially, the aim will be for the index of these products involves our more about these projects and our associated with its activities. to support the coalition members customers in supporting children in work to strengthen communities on in identifying and choosing better cotton producing areas in India. In page 100. For H&M, product innovation is crucial practices. The expectation is that 2010, this generated an additional and this initiative, is an important consumer-facing scores will be USD 160,000. Fashion Against Aids For the third forum to share experiences and best developed in the future. We will year in a row, together with Designers practice. We believe that it can define continue to communicate our Against Aids, H&M launched a good processes in different life cycle engagement in the Sustainable collection to raise awareness around 21 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers Conscious products Save the Oceans In 2010, our H&M’s Fashion customers supported WWF’s work Against AIDS collection to protect South East Asia’s Coral triangle, home to about three-quarters of all coral species such as whale sharks and marine turtles. This generated more than SEK 2.2m (USD 310,000) in 2010. 22 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers PRODUCT SAFETY and QUALITY Our customers do not just want products In order to achieve this, we make them better and in many cases sure suppliers are meeting our that look good, are long-lasting and safe continuously refine our processes we apply even stricter standards. requirements. and methods. We have a strict quality to use – they also want our products to be assurance process in place that starts Quality assurance These teams are supported by a made and sold in ways that do not harm as early as possible in the product life For several years, our lab teams central function where our common cycle. Our challenge is to adapt our have performed physical, chemical standards and requirements are people, animals or the environment. high quality standards to new fashions, products and market regulations and and safety tests. Today, we work increasingly on proactive quality developed. for our products to remain affordable. assurance rather than routine testing. We have a procedure in place to Overall, more than 500,000 quality ensure that products can be rapidly Our responsibility to our customers tests on our products were made recalled, in case they fall short of includes activities and initiatives in 2010. our standards and reach our stores to ensure customers are safe and despite our well developed system satisfied with our products. We We have developed common methods for quality assurance. focus on: for suppliers to take a more active role in quality assurance, with their own If an unsafe product has been – Improving product quality labs working to our standards. Our aim identified, the quality department – Ensuring product safety is for all key suppliers to operate their and production managers decide – Restricting the use of own quality assurance programmes, on a global recall. Sales are stopped harmful chemicals. with good chemical management, immediately in all markets, and the early risk assessments and testing relevant authorities are informed. We follow the precautionary principle. to identify potential quality risks. Information is sent internally to As a minimum, we comply with all laws Currently, about 80 percent of our colleagues and customers, through and the strictest regulations of our key suppliers are approved to perform channels such as newspaper adverts, operating markets. This means that physical tests. Further random tests the internet and signs in-store. Our the strictest standards of all the are carried out by H&M on a monthly quality department then analyses countries in which we operate are basis to monitor compliance. what has caused the failure in order to the ones we apply to all our products, prevent it from happening again. The wherever they are sold. Even so, we Our local teams are responsible for last product recall occurred in 2008. are continuously looking for ways to doing follow-up checks to make 23 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers PRODUCT SAFETY and QUALITY Children’s safety Cosmetic products Our Chemical Restrictions list has REACH – EU legislation Our aim is to offer the safest children’s H&M requires that all H&M-branded been updated 10 times since 1995, REACH is an important piece of garments in the market. This means cosmetic products are produced most recently in 2009; it now contains legislation requiring that all chemical that child safety is a vital factor according to Good Manufacturing around 270 restricted substances. substances produced or imported in throughout all stages of production. Practices (GMP) for cosmetics. the EU are registered. We were an We educate our staff both at the GMP sets a defined level of the quality For more information go to: early supporter of the legislation, buying office and in our production and safety of the production and the http://www.hm.com/filearea/ which came into force in 2007. offices about children’s safety and finished products. Since 2007, there is corporate/fileobjects/pdf/en/ potential product risks. also an ISO standard for cosmetic GMP. RM_DOWNLOAD_RESPONSIBILITY_ Under REACH, companies must notify CHEMICAL_LIST_PDF_ENGLISH_ the European Chemicals Agency when We carry out a risk assessment to H&M also does not allow animal GB_1276265087308.pdf importing into the EU articles ensure that every product intended testing on cosmetic and hygiene containing more than 0.1 percent of for children is safe and check for any products, either during production In 2010, around 30,000 chemical tests a Substance of Very High Concern potential hazards, such as small parts, or on the finished products. were performed, mainly in external (SVHC) and if the total amount of the sharp edges and drawstrings or cords. laboratories. We also fine-tuned our SVHC imported exceeds one tonne CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT chemical test routine, which rewards per year. We follow the laws and standards It can take a lot of chemicals to make suppliers for good chemical of whichever country of sale has the clothes. We are working hard to management. This led to better We continuously monitor the strictest regulations. Based on these limit the use of chemicals in all of implementation rates. development of the SVHC list. Our laws we create specific guidelines and our products for the sake of the Chemical Restrictions list includes all standards for our products and share environment and the safety of Our chemicals requirements are SVHCs relevant for our product range, them internally and with our suppliers. employees within our supply chain, always based on the highest legal and consequently we do not import our own employees and, of course, standard in any of our sales countries any products that require notification. We are active in European working our customers. and often go further than the law committees where standards for the demands. They are based on As part of the REACH legislation, EU market are set. At these meetings We ban or limit chemical substances information from authorities, importers are required to respond we share our knowledge of retailing that are environmentally hazardous NGOs and scientific reports. within 45 days to a request from and textile production and discuss or harmful to humans in all products an EU customer to check if a product safety issues with both authorities through the H&M chemical restriction contains an SVHC above the 0.1 and other companies. list which all suppliers must commit percent threshold. We have guidelines to complying with. 24 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 4Pa5irs0of,s0ho0es 0produced Provide fashion for conscious customers PRODUCT SAFETY and QUALITY es ased adhesiv with water-b and forms in place at all of our Fluorocarbon-free Nevertheless, we hope to get the first European stores to help our outerwear products produced with water-based Phasing out solvent-based adhesives colleagues handle these types of Fluorocarbons are substances PU in our stores in 2011. requests. During 2010, we responded commonly used for making outerwear to six customer requests. water resistant. They are extremely WORKING WITH OTHERS persistent and can accumulate in Working together with regulatory Due to their inherent harmful properties, it is our aim to Ban of Toluene the natural environment. High authorities and other brands is phase out the use of solvent-based adhesives in shoes and Another major project was to screen concentrations have been found an important part of our efforts bags when technically possible. This will reduce risks for and identify the use of toluene in our in animals near the top of the food to contribute to good chemical manufacturing workers and lessen the impact of production production processes for accessories. chain. For a long time, alternatives to management within the on the environment. Toluene is a solvent that is connected fluorocarbons proved elusive, but textile industry. to a number of health risks for they are now starting to appear. In 2009, we started working with chemical manufacturers, production workers. During 2010, H&M launched its first AFIRM producers of adhesives and accessory, bag and shoe fluorocarbon-free water resistant H&M is a member of the steering suppliers to identify possibilities to substitute solvent-based We found that toluene is still widely outwear, without compromising committee of AFIRM, which is a adhesives with water-based alternatives. Several successful used in many production processes. quality or price. It is our ambition to multi-company forum that aims to tests and trials took place. For one of our shoe styles, A workshop with all relevant suppliers increase the number of fluorocarbonadvance the global management of converting to a water-based adhesive reduced the volatile has been organised to educate them free garments. restricted substances in the apparel organic compounds (VOC) content by 65 percent. about the negative health impacts and footwear supply chain. of toluene. Water-based PU In 2010, 90 percent of H&M’s bags were produced using (polyurethane) AFIRM projects during 2010 dealt with water-based adhesives. For shoes, we began to implement In close co-operation with suppliers In co-operation with the chemical the harmonisation of test methods, our production using water-based glues in three factories, and chemical companies, we have company Bayer, we started to conduct supplier seminars and development which together produced more than 450,000 pairs of shoes. started to substitute toluene with less trials to convert traditional solventof supplier material. We aim to encourage more suppliers to switch to waterharmful substances. By March 2011 we based polyurethane (PU) material into based alternatives and aim to increase production to will have phased out toluene entirely. water-based PU. Read more about AFIRM at: 2 million pairs in 2011. www.afirm-group.com The first results were very promising, but much more work needs to be done to ensure quality and scalability, and greater investment is necessary. 25 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Provide fashion for conscious customers ro duce PRODUCT SAFETY and QUALITY We plan to p 50s 0of,le0ath0er0shoes in 2011 with pair es ther from ce rtified tanneri lea A shoe collection in Leather Working Group collaboration with Leather products have a relatively Swedish Hasbeens will high environmental impact, for arrive in H&M stores in instance due to the use of polluting April 2011. chemicals in the tanning process. In 90% 2009, we joined the Leather Working Group, which promotes sustainable and appropriate environmental business practices within the of our bags were produced using water-based in favour footwear leather industry. The group of solvent-based adhesives consists of suppliers, retailers, NGOs and other stakeholder organisations. Through this Group, we aim to promote sustainable and appropriate environmental practices within the footwear leather industry. In 2010, we began to co-operate with nine tanneries and conducted tests to ensure their compliance with our quality requirements. We also plan to produce 500,000 pairs of leather shoes in 2011 with leather from certified tanneries. Read more about the Leather Working Group at: www.leatherworkinggroup.com 26 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2 Choose and In this section Our supply chain................................................. 28 reward Our Code of Conduct ......................................... 30 Monitoring and grading.......................................33 responsible Beyond monitoring...............................................42 – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership.............. 44 partners – Raising workers’ awareness of their rights....... 50 – Responsible purchasing and supplier relations................................................ 53 – Working in partnership – influencing public policy...................................55 H&M does not own any of the factories that manufacture More than 300,000 garments workers our products. Instead, production takes place at around in Bangladesh have 1,700 factories that are owned or subcontracted by almost been educated on their 700 suppliers, mainly in Asia and Europe. rights through short films since 2008 We believe that we have a responsibility towards everyone who contributes to our success. Many suppliers are located in 1,938 audits on countries where human rights violations are a risk. Therefore active factories we commit to choose and reward responsible partners who share our values and work towards continuous improvement Average of 3.5 of their social and environmental practice. We work directly sustainability with our suppliers towards these improvements. Increasingly, activities per we are also working to improve conditions in other parts of active factory our value chain. 27 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our approach is to use our influence Our supply chain involves a number SUPPLIERS wherever possible to promote good practice of processes and people: All our suppliers sign our Code of Below we have defined Conduct before producing for H&M some of the terms used and raise awareness, both with our suppliers BUYERS and we monitor their compliance in this report: and their employees as well as others along Our buying office is based in with it. We aim for our suppliers to Stockholm, Sweden. Here our take more and more ownership for Supplier: an independent company our value chain. We believe that working designers, pattern makers and buyers, ensuring good working conditions with which H&M has a direct business together in partnership is the best way we together with merchandisers in our and environmental performance relationship. production offices, create, plan and themselves. We support them in can make a positive difference. Production Unit / Factory: all factories purchase our collections. a number of ways, including the where production for H&M takes place. provision of training and capacity This includes our suppliers’ own factories MERCHANDISERS building. We also help them to develop and those subcontracted by our suppliers, Based in one of our 15 production and improve management systems such as stitching, washing or printing units. offices in Asia and Europe, that will avoid non-compliance on Subcontractor: independent factory merchandisers are the link between an ongoing basis. Our primary focus that is contracted by our suppliers to H&M’s buying office and our suppliers. is on our key suppliers. perform certain parts of the production They identify which suppliers to place process. Subcontracted factories (just orders with. FACTORY EMPLOYEES as other factories), need to first be Hundreds of thousands of people approved by H&M and are subject AUDITORS work in our supplier factories. to our Full Audit Programme. Also based in our production We think that factory employees Second-tier suppliers: the suppliers offices, our audit team, consisting should know their rights and be able of our suppliers, such as fabric or yarn of 76 people, monitors suppliers’ to claim them. As a buyer, we have manufacturers. In general, H&M has no compliance with our Code of Conduct the responsibility and opportunity direct relations with these companies. through our Full Audit Program (FAP). to contribute to better workplace Key suppliers: our best suppliers in terms Today they additionally focus on conditions and work to raise of the balance between price, lead-time, supporting progress with actions awareness of rights at work both with compliance with our Code of Conduct, that go beyond monitoring. factory employees and managers. quality and sampling. They work closely with H&M as partners and long-term planners. 28 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners our supply Chain H&M has been working on improving The internal communication has also Is it possible to speed conditions in the supply chain since improved and we are working closer up the progress? the 90s. Lars-Åke Bergqvist, Tobias together with our suppliers, trying to Tobias: “There must be a natural Fischer, Maritha Lorentzon and support them as much as we can in growth. It’s a matter of trust between Veronique Rochet were with us from their efforts to improve.” us and the suppliers as well as the very start of this journey. Here they between our suppliers’ management talk about how it all started, how far What is driving the and their workers. We believe in we have come and where it will lead us. progress among the meaningful industrial relations and suppliers? we see an increasing awareness How would you describe Lars-Åke: “We started with an among the workforce of their rights. the development of H&M’s approach you could call policing. The health and safety situation among supply chain efforts We pushed suppliers to comply with the workers has improved a lot but until today? our requirements and sometimes there is still a long way to go when it Maritha: “It was in the 90s, when even terminated business relations if comes to issues regarding for example the occurrence of child labour in not. We had to learn our lessons; for worker’s rights. The challenge today is Maritha Lorentzon, Tobias Fischer, Veronique Rochet and Bangladesh came up on the table, that example, that real lasting progress to achieve a broad impact from what Lars-Åke Bergqvist have been working on improving the internal discussion about how to is only made when our suppliers we do in terms of capacity building conditions in our supply chain since the 90s. work with our supply chain became understand their non-compliance instead of being involved in projects more intense. We started the issues. Today our work is much more with a limited reach.” implementation process of our first about co-operation. We help our Code of Conduct. It was at this time suppliers to improve through a full How do you see your roles stakeholders and our role will that we realised the extent and package of activities – not just and H&M’s efforts within be to facilitate this dialogue. complexity of our supply chain. auditing. We believe that encouraging the next five to ten years? We also see a stronger focus on Since then, it has been a process and our suppliers in an open and clear Veronique: “We believe our suppliers environmental issues; how we can we have gradually been learning along dialogue, where H&M speaks with will take a greater ownership of the gain from being more efficient and the way that there are subtle problems one voice throughout our different process. They will do more and they saving energy. We will try to work with that we need to address to come to departments, are success factors will to a higher degree understand those issues further back in the value terms with the big issues. We know to make our supply chain more why they are doing what they are chain and work towards getting the more today than we did back then sustainable. doing. In the future, our suppliers will workers more involved in the process.” and make better informed decisions. strengthen their dialogue with their 29 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Our Code of Conduct Drawn up in 1997, our Code of Conduct A commitment to our Code is Our Code of Conduct has eight builds the basis of our efforts to make our mandatory to enter into a business sections, covering: relationship with H&M. H&M’s Code of – Legal requirements supply chain more sustainable. It outlines Conduct is based on the International – A ban on child labour the requirements we place on all of our Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration – Health and safety on Fundamental Principles and Rights – Workers’ rights suppliers and their subcontractors at Work and the UN Convention on the – Housing conditions for improving working conditions and Rights of the Child. It also stipulates – Environment that local legislation must be – Systems approach environmental practices in their operations. observed. The latest revision – Monitoring and enforcement. Factories must work towards full to the Code was in 2009. To help our suppliers and their compliance with the Code and we subcontractors understand our conduct regular audits to assess their Code of Conduct and our expectations, we provide an level of compliance through our Full implementation guide for suppliers. Audit Programme. This guidance is available in English, Chinese, Turkish and Romanian. Our Code of Conduct is available in more than 20 languages at: In order to become a supplier, our http://www.hm.com/gb/ Code of Conduct must be signed corporateresponsibility/ and minimum requirements must informationmaterial__ be fulfilled. downloadsarchive.nhtml 30 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Our Code of Conduct EXPANDING THE Integrating other brands SCOPE OF OUR CODE within the H&M group As part of our effort to take a life The H&M Group today consists of cycle view of our products, we have a number of brands. In 2008, H&M expanded the reach of our Code to acquired 60 percent of FaBric cover all H&M business partners Scandinavien AB, which includes the including manufacturers of nonbrands Monki, Weekday and Cheap commercial products. These are Monday. In 2010, we acquired the goods that are not sold in our stores remaining shares to take full and range from interior items, such ownership of FaBric Scandinavien. as mannequins, stands and hangers, to mail order and other materials. Production for Weekday and Monki takes place at H&M suppliers and is Initial trial audits on these type of covered by our Full Audit Programme. suppliers have shown that the supply Currently, H&M suppliers do not make chain for such goods is very different Cheap Monday products and to from our products’ supply chain, prepare these suppliers for the which our existing audit programme is requirements of our Full Audit tailored to. As a result, we have started Programme we started to introduce developing methods for auditing some basic requirements for existing suppliers of non-commercial goods. Cheap Monday suppliers in late 2009 and through 2010. Production for Cheap Monday is covered by FaBric Scandinavien’s affiliation with the Fair Wear Foundation (FWF) www.fairwear.org. COS was launched in 2007 and all production is covered by H&M Production for our brands Monki and Weekday is suppliers and our Code of Conduct. now fully covered by H&M’s Full Audit Programme. 31 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS How our supply chain sustainability programme evolved 0 0 In the 1990s we started work to 3 20 improve conditions in our supply 9 9 in g u s io n , , 19 dits ger – fo entage ancord d chain. Since then we have o c t d s learned a great deal. See how s . Au ep cumg wa ur re s an ract our programme has developed. de do din ho ate ont on clu ing ific t c in o rk e r t e n w e c loym ag p em 9 2 199 ent 98 ext in. 19 ping theply chaused 4 04 ns . p p Ma our su its fo ectio c 20 of s t a u d l i n s p 01 ue – 1 F ir v i s ua 20 n d i al o g w s e ur on us o er vi Foc ker int art of o ing 1997 ur firs t wor ome p st train bec its – fir es for ir 6 a u n c h of o d u c t . aud gramm nd the oped – L n of C o pro pliers a devel 2010 C o de s sup loyee ntal come p e iron e nts be m m Going beyond d env uireme its an rst auditing with fo cus req t of aud our fi capacity-buildin on par p ub li s h ts . supplier owners g and r hi we -repo worker empow p, C SR responsible pu erment, rcha 5 practices and pu sing blic policy; starting exte monitoring scop nded 2005 20 e second tier stag to 09 es. We go furth e monitoring r beyond , including extensive c ap building for acity b manageme oth nt employees and – Full Audit P launch our rogramme (FAP) and b 32 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ec CONTENTS accredited ome members of the FL A . 2an,aly5s1es4of supplier Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading management systems in 2010 The Full Audit Programme (FAP) is the We conducted a total of 1,938 audits whether factories have management – Health and safety main tool we use to monitor our suppliers’ on active factories in 2010. As part of systems in place that are aimed at – Recruitment, introduction a revised approach, we have started preventing violations, and how and dismissal procedures compliance with our Code of Conduct. to place a strong focus on analysing effective these systems are. – Rules and regulations Additionally, we focus on helping our the existence and effectiveness of – Environment health & safety our suppliers’ management systems The management system – Workers’ rights suppliers to develop management systems instead of remedying instances of evaluation covers: – Subcontracting. that can prevent non-compliance. non-compliance when they arise. – Policy In this way we feel that we can help – Organisation During 2011, we will work towards suppliers even more to understand – Routines and procedure integrating the results of these and prevent workplace and – Feedback and control analyses into our newly developed environmental issues more effectively mechanisms. index-based supplier grading day-to-day, rather than just responding system – ICoC. See page 36 for to the findings of our (or other Each area receives a score depending more information. buyers’) audits. on how well it is functioning. This provides the management with a INCREASED FOCUS ON gap analysis that helps them develop MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS internal systems to prevent nonThe introduction of our Management compliance in the future. During System Scorecard in 2009 was a 2010, a working group within our CSR key development in this regard. function developed the management Some workers’ rights issues, such as system scorecard further by freedom of association, forced labour calibrating the assessment approach and discrimination can be hard to to take into account differences in our identify in standard audits, so we production markets. The following have developed our approach further graph on page 36 shows that in 2010, in response to this. we analysed a total of 2,514 management systems in the areas of: Rather than only looking for instances – Grievance systems of these issues, we now assess and communications 33 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading Head audits 68% unannounced 32% announced HEAD AUDITS FOLLOW-UP AUDITS Monitoring Results Number of audits 2007 – 2010 In general terms, the audit process Follow-up audits are part of the In total, we conducted 1,938 audits involves an inspection of the factory improvement process and focus on on active factories in 2010. Figures Head audit Follow up audit site, management as well as worker the progress against the correction provided in previous sustainability interviews and an examination of a plan developed after the initial head reports also included audits on variety of company files and records, audit. A full audit cycle regularly factories seeking approval to such as timesheets, wage records and consists of one head audit and three become H&M suppliers that were Year employment contracts, to determine follow-up audits over a period of 18-24 not yet approved or active. The compliance with the questions in the months. An important part of this comparable equivalent figure for Full Audit Programme questionnaire. approach is to help the supplier 2010 is 2,561 audits. 2007 948 1035 48% 52% The questionnaire consists of more understand the value of making than 90 main questions and a number improvements and how this benefits On average, each active factory was of verification points and is the main their business and their long-term audited 1.14 times during 2010. We tool used during our audits. relationship with H&M. This approach prioritise countries with higher risks 2008 812 1697 often results in greater trust and a of violations. This means there is a 32% 68% Head audits, which are the main audit better business relationship between broad deviation with this indicator within an audit cycle of a factory, can suppliers and H&M. for different countries, from a high of take up to six person-days. Once 1.57 audits per factory in Bangladesh, 2009 905 1301 complete the results are discussed to 0.15 in Italy. 41% 59% with the factory management and the supplier and factory being audited are 68 percent of all our head audits were required to draft a correction plan that unannounced and we work to further 2010 719 1219 outlines the timing and responsibilities increase this percentage. 37% 63% for correcting areas of noncompliance. A correction plan can include both shortand long-term 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 remediation activities. H&M’s auditors 2010 figures include audits only on those factories with active production. will then check on the implementation Figures for 2007-2009 include audits on possible new factories, even if they of the measures outlined with followwere not approved for H&M production. up audits. 34 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading Progress from head Compliance progress from head audit to head audit per area of requirements Audit to Head Audit By the end of 2010, a total of 175 factories had completed their third Compliance 1 full audit cycle. The data opposite level shows the progress these factories 94% have made during this process. 0.9 92% Improvements in our audit methods 87% over time and other factors have an 84% 85% 84% 0.8 82% 81% effect on the direct comparability of 80% 77% 77% the results although we aim to provide 0.7 the greatest comparability possible. 71% The data shows a 4 percent points 0.6 improvement in the total compliance 58% level, from 77 percent in 2009 to 81 54% 0.5 percent in 2010. The areas with strongest improvement are workers’ 0.4 basic rights and environmental requirements. We see a slight decrease of 1 percent in regard to 0.3 compliance with health and safety requirements. Data and commentary 0.2 on this indicator, including a breakdown by region, as well 0.1 as further 2010 audit results are contained in the performance appendix. Area of 0 Young Workers Workers Basic Workers Health & Housing Enviroment Total /Child Labour Rights Rights Safety Conditions requirement 35 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 1au,d9its3on8active Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading 010 factories in 2 INTRODUCING AN INDEX-BASED grading level could in fact have met These requirements are not weighted Management system analyses 2010 GRADING SYSTEM – ICoC the requirements of a higher level in and H&M does not accept any During 2009 and 2010, we have some, but not all requirements. breaches. developed and tested a new and more sophisticated way of measuring our The ICoC system also includes our Improved communication suppliers’ level of compliance with our increased focus on management Our trials have shown that the index Code of Conduct. We launched the systems. also makes communication with our Focus area new system in December 2010 and suppliers easier and creates additional from 2011 onwards it will replace our Minimum requirements motivation to score up. It helps our previous system, which graded There are still minimum requirements suppliers to identify weak areas in Subcontracting 49 suppliers and potential suppliers into that supplier factories must meet their operations and develop their five broad categories. Details on our before entering into a business management systems to address Workers’ rights outgoing grading system can be found relationship with H&M. To assess these weaknesses. We also expect 261 in our 2009 Sustainability Report. compliance with these requirements, the new system to give us a better our auditors visit each potential new picture of the effectiveness of EHS What is the ICoC? 332 supplier factory prior to a possible non-compliance remediation and ICoC (Index Code of Conduct) is order placement and decide on capacity building activities. a quantitative index that scores whether or not the factory can be Rules & regulations 296 suppliers on every requirement in our approved. These requirements Improved integration Code of Conduct. The new system include: with purchasing systems Recruitment, defines the compliance level of a – Absence of forced labour Supplier gradings have been integrated introduction dismissal 511 factory as a percentage based on – A ban on child labour within our purchasing systems for a the results of our audits. The system – Payment of at least the relevant number of years and define which Health & safety provides a clearer, more accurate and minimum wages suppliers our buyers can or cannot 621 ultimately comparable grading system. – Fundamental safety provisions source from. The new system will allow – Compliance with the H&M further integration of sustainability Grievance/ 444 It is an improvement over our five-level chemical restrictions aspects into our purchasing decisioncommunication grading system where the possibility – Waste water treatment (for factories making and will help us to choose and Number of 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 for significant differences between with wet processes). reward the suppliers with the best analyses suppliers within the same grading level sustainability performance. existed; and where a factory in a lower 36 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading In order to support this further JOINT ASSESSMENTS Using this approach, we have now integration, a working group consisting In 2010, we tested a Joint Assessment started auditing selected fabric mills PROGRESS ON ICOC SCORES of different roles from all of our Programme (JAP) together with a in China and Bangladesh, as well as production regions was set up in number of suppliers in China. Joint weaving centres in India. 2010 together with a number of assessments are based on the same key suppliers. Read more about methodology and material as our Fabric Mills responsible purchasing practices Full Audit Programme, but H&M In 2009, we started identifying fabric on page 53. and factory staff conduct the audit mills in China and Bangladesh that are ICoC score together. Joint assessments can considered key to our suppliers and Initial ICoC results help to increase our suppliers’ production. During 2010, we scaled up Taking a sneak peak at our ICoC understanding of their sustainability the identification to include more mills 80 results, we see a pattern of general performance and opportunities and we now have 24 mills in China and improvement: for improvements. nine in Bangladesh that take part in 78.9 our Mill Development Programme. 78 – New factories completing their first LIMITED AUDITS All mills that are considered key to audit in 2010 have an average ICoC For some years we have been our operations are now required to 76 result of 71% working on finding ways to extend our sign our Code of Conduct prior to – Factories that were new to H&M influence on stages further back our fabric booking and work towards 74.7 in 2008/2009 and completed their value chain, such as fabric production. compliance with our Code of Conduct 74 second head audit in 2010 scored In addition to voluntary programmes using our Limited Audit Programme. an average ICoC result of 75 percent that encourage better practices, we Read more about our Mill 72 – Long-term supplier factories that have developed our Limited Audit Development Program on page 49. completed their third head audit in Programme. Limited audits focus on 2010 gave an average ICoC score selected requirements and aim to 70 71.2 of 79 percent. tackle the most urgent challenges that are specific to the production 68 Our first full year of using ICoC is 2011 processes conducted in a factory. and we will report full audit results in next year’s Sustainability Report. 66 1st head audit 2nd head audit 3rd head audit in 2010 in 2010 in 2010 37 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading Weaving centres In many cases female home INDEPENDENT MONITORING H&M Group’s brand, Cheap Monday, In 2009, we started looking at working workers would be unable to take up AND VERIFICATION is a member of the Fair Wear conditions at weaving centres in India employment due to household and H&M is a member of the Fair Labor Foundation (www.fairwear.org) that take part in the production of parental responsibilities. For these Association (FLA) a non-profit and suppliers are monitored woven scarves. These centres supply reasons H&M has decided to accept organisation dedicated to improving independently by the Foundation. our first-tier suppliers with woven home work in some situations, guided working conditions. The FLA brings fabrics for scarves and are second-tier by a clear policy that defines which together multiple stakeholders from All export-oriented garment suppliers. Such weaving centres have tasks and under what circumstances buyers, suppliers, NGOs and others production in Cambodia, including rarely been subjected to the influence home work can or cannot be used. to create lasting solutions aimed at production by our Cambodian of brands and their requirements. protecting the rights of workers and suppliers, is subject to independent Any operation that is part of the improving working conditions. H&M monitoring by Better Factories Because the production process industrial process and can be has been a member of the FLA since Cambodia (www.betterfactories.org). is less complex compared to other performed in a factory should be 2006 and we became accredited products, we have been able to performed there. Home working members in 2008, following a twoidentify and gain access to this is only accepted when special year assessment process by the FLA. production stage, and weaving workmanship is required and can centres are now integrated into be considered as handicraft, such Since 2006, the FLA has conducted our Limited Audit Programme. as beading or embroidery. independent audits of our suppliers in China and, since 2009, also in Turkey. HOME WORKING We require our suppliers to inform us The results of these audits are In some countries our suppliers when home working is being used. published in an independent report are permitted to use home work Home working often takes place in at www.fairlabor.org. In 2010, the FLA for specific parts of the production villages situated some distance from conducted 13 verification audits at process. There are several concerns our suppliers’ factories and this can supplier factories (10 in Turkey and around home working, but it can make it harder to monitor whether three in China). be beneficial in some production worker rights are being upheld. In countries because it is often carried 2010, however, we conducted 23 During 2010, H&M got involved with out by women and can be an important audits on home working locations an FLA training programme in China contributor to a family’s income. in order to ensure that our policy is for social dialogue. Read more about lived up to. this workers’ participation project in the Beyond Monitoring section (pg. 52). 38 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 3su.sta5inability activities Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading ctory on per active fa 0 1 average in 20 FACTORY PRESENCE In addition to our Full Audit Sustainability ACtivities per factory Programme, our presence in our suppliers’ factories goes far beyond Audits Other activities Managment systems analysis just auditing. Activities such as Factory Activity per factory ratio capacity building, workshops and training with our suppliers, as well Activities Activities as management systems analysis are per factory some of the additional sustainability Ratio activities that accompany our 5.9 audit programme. 3000 5.9 6.0 On an average, 3.5 sustainability activities were carried out for each 2500 5.0 active factory in 2010. Our suppliers are also in constant contact with other functions from our production offices, 2000 4.0 3.5 such as our merchandising and quality departments. This means that we have a regular presence at supplier 1500 2.8 3.0 factories and thereby provide strong support for the development of our suppliers throughout our relationship. 1000 2.0 1.4 500 1.0 0 South Asia Far East EMEA Global 0.0 39 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Monitoring and grading Why do we have our own auditors? We are sometimes asked why we Comparability – audit results are To maintain the quality of our audits, do not rely completely on external produced by the same evaluation auditors receive a thorough 12-week monitoring and have a 76-strong method that is calibrated within our introduction training and ongoing team working on supplier monitoring production countries, so we get training in order to develop their and supporting their progress. comparable data and results. skills further. We think that additional The answer is very clear to us. independent monitoring and Values – we transfer our company verification can deliver valuable input By doing audits ourselves we values to suppliers when representing to help develop our own methods immediately get a comprehensive H&M during the audit and the and routines and at the same time picture of how well our suppliers remediation process. strengthen the credibility of our comply with our social and audit programme. environmental requirements. Knowledge – we transfer our This allows us to make the right knowledge and experience to the decisions from a position of suppliers and factories, improving knowledge – both in order to their capability to identify and address support our suppliers in achieving their own weaknesses and in turn, long-term improvements and in developing our own knowledge taking the right purchasing within H&M. decisions. The knowledge we gain from this close view of our suppliers Understanding – we get to is needed to help bring a broader understand the root cause of perspective into our decisionnon-compliance and can work on making. Other advantages of having remediation plans in conjunction our own audit team include: with suppliers. 40 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS how we support our suppliers in making 7 8 improvements 6 MS* ANALYSIS workshop H  &M analyse related training in g Fact train management systems. o We are serious about supporting provide s kers ’ Further support by join s r y mana our suppliers in improving their H&M d to wor external consultants work orksho gement w e social and environmental t rela rights. facilitated. held ers’ basi p on c performance. Our work consists ba s ic by H &M . rights of much more than just auditing. Here are the different activities our CSR team has undertaken at a randomly-selected supplier factory during one audit cycle, which usually takes 18–24 months. 5 AUD IT 4 Furth e evalu r progress MS* ANAL s e c on ated t hroug is YSIS The factori N on c d fo ll ow-u h a es’ o m plianc p audit. manageme EH S r e reme quiremen on es systems fo nt r EHS are 9 10 diated ts evaluated a . gai Manageme nst our Scorecard. nt System AUDIT AUDIT it cycle A  third follow-up audit  new aud y capacityA e d b shows substantial support in g b e gins. progress on the build 1 identified issues. AUD 2 IT A  h ea d 3 non-c audit ide AUDIT o n EHS* mpliance tifies an d w * requ ireme s with  follow-up au A training g rights orkers’ ba nts dit ides trainin . s evaluates pr ogress  &M prov irements. H to be Correctio ic against the co on EHS re q u develo n plan rrection ped . plan. * Management System ** Enviromental Health and Safety 41 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring Monitoring our suppliers is an important Our aim is to shift from regulating and Number of recorded capacity building activities 1 Dec 2009 – 30 November 2010 part of our work and has been for more closely monitoring our suppliers, to creating sustainable progress with the than 10 years. We have seen many supplier active participation of our suppliers’ Region Education/ workshop Meeting Screening Grand total improvements resulting from these efforts factories and their workers. and we have now started auditing stages To tackle issues on an industry – Total South Asia 5 59 40 104 of our products’ life cycle further back or country-level, we also believe in engaging with industry bodies and Total Far East 371 134 730 1235 our value chain. But we believe that governments, as well as trade unions, bringing about sustainable change NGOs and other brands. This is a vital Total EMEA and other 22 63 33 118 part of our approach and our daily for complex issues, such as wages or work. Therefore, we focus on four Grand Total 398 256 803 1457 freedom of association, requires more major areas: – Building management capacity and Notes: Above is the number of recorded capacity-building than just monitoring. strengthening supplier ownership activities where we invest in our suppliers’ development during the year. The table includes both smaller and larger – Raising workers’ awareness activities and is the first attempt by H&M to illustrate the of their rights magnitude of our capacity-building programme. We have not – Responsible purchasing practices included activities where we invite suppliers to participate in – Public policy. external activities or where we internally develop our auditors. 42 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring BSR Beyond Monitoring Working Group At the start of 2010, H&M joined the Accordingly, the working group is Business for Social Responsibility built on four pillars that are well (BSR) Beyond Monitoring working aligned with our own strategy: group. The group consists of a – Supplier ownership of labour number of international companies and environmental conditions with the common goal of shifting – Internal alignment between from just policing their supply commercial and sustainability chain to bringing about sustainable objectives of buyers change to the complex challenges – Empowering workers to be they face. informed and participatory constituents – Public policy frameworks that foster public-private dialogue, partnerships, and local solutions. Read more about this initiative and outcomes at: www.bsr.org/ consulting/working-groups/ beyond-monitoring We aim for suppliers to better understand their issues and opportunities. 43 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership Lasting improvements require our suppliers Besides auditing their progress, today, 10 steps for strengthening supplier ownership to understand better their sustainability we focus on supporting our suppliers 1 6 by building management knowledge issues and to see the benefits of good social and capacities and helping them to Get to know the reality Function as a facilitator and issues in each factory and help to build suppliers’ and environmental performance. In the long assess their own performance so that through audits management capacity 2 7 they can detect opportunities to run, we want our suppliers to take charge improve their own business. During Have an open dialogue with Know where suppliers of their own sustainability. We call this 2010 we performed a total of 1457 suppliers and define clear can find additional help in capacity building activities (for more achievable targets for strengthening their capacities approach supplier ownership. details see graph on page 42). improvements and remediation and link them up with, for of non-compliance example, NGOs, development 3 agencies, consultants or Have a frequent presence in government bodies 8 the factories, not only through audits, and create a close and Show the benefits of a long-term co-operation with sustainable mindset and the supplier performance, and reward 4 suppliers for progress 9 Train audit teams to prepare for moving from a policing Educate workers on agent to a catalysing partners their rights 5 Listen to stakeholders, including our suppliers themselves, their employees, 10 Prepare suppliers for joint assessments and where possible self-assessments, trade unions, NGOs, resulting in self-reporting. government, industry bodies and other brands; and share knowledge 44 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership CASE STUDY: SUPPORTING IMPROVEMENTS AT ACCESSORY AND SHOE SUPPLIERS IN CHINA We have been working with accessory and shoe environmental and health and safety Progress on EHS compliance suppliers in China since 2008 to address higher requirements have decreased by 63 percent at and management system levels of non-compliance with our Code of participating factories and 77 percent now have (MS) score in participating Conduct by this supplier group. A lower sufficient management systems for health and factories frequency of audits by retail brands in general and safety issues, compared to 46 percent in 2009. 2008 2010 a greater use of chemicals in this sector has led to more non-compliance, particularly related to We have also seen improved communication health and safety and environmental and grievance systems for workers and some 0 2 4 6 8 10 requirements. factories have implemented bonus systems to boost employee motivation. Wage record data In 2009, we launched a modular training approach is now automatically reported to H&M on a 8 Average with the aim of improving compliance in a regular basis. number of step-by-step manner rather than trying to instances of nonaddress all shortcomings at once. The first We will continue this training programme in compliance 3 module focused on environmental health and 2011 and maintain the focus on compensation safety issues; and module two on wages, structures in order to further support the positive compensation, overtime and recruitment progress made in this area. procedures. 46 Average MS score In 2009, 36 factories participated in the training 77 and this has risen to 46 factories in 2010, representing about 50 percent of H&M’s accessory production. When comparing 2009 0 20 40 60 80 100 and 2010 audits, non-compliance with 45 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership JOINT ASSESSMENTS Progress in management system scores after Joint In order to increase our suppliers’ Assessment Programme understanding of their sustainability issues and opportunities, we tested a May 2010 August 2010 November 2010 Joint Assessment Programme (JAP) in China in 2010. Joint assessments are based on the same methodology and 80% material as our Full Audit Programme, but H&M and factory staff conduct the audit together and use audit tools 70% jointly and transparently. This way, both can mutually agree on: 60% – Current weak areas – Desired state / targets – Actions to reach targets. 50% In 2010, we conducted joint 40% assessments at nine underwear factories. The focus of these initial joint assessments has been on 30% environmental health and safety issues and related management systems. The following chart indicates 20% 71.2 the improvements in management systems quality. 10% In 2011, we plan to extend joint assessments to a wider range of 0% Occupational health Environmental health and safety system and safety system factories and include more aspects of our Code of Conduct requirements. 46 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership Case Study: factories in making progress suppliers. Our CSR team in China linked with support from H&M to TOWARDS CHANGING WAGE through the following measures: has required about 50 percent of our improve wage structures in factories, STRUCTURES IN CHINA — Labour rights seminars to fill the Chinese supplier factories, including has led to positive results. With the In China our main focus in recent knowledge gap with suppliers and all our key suppliers, to submit wage few cases where suppliers have years has been on ensuring that factories on what the law says and and overtime records monthly for all not been transparent, H&M has workers receive the correct wages how it should be implemented. workers. We have also focused on temporarily stopped the business and that wage systems become more A total of 40 suppliers, with ensuring that all factories issue relationship with the supplier until transparent. We have learned that the 80 factories participated. relevant labour contracts and payslips compliance has been achieved. wage system in China is complex and — External Support Programme (ESP) to all workers, and that they pay at times incomplete, which has led to which, among other issues, focuses workers’ wages on time. Our data shows that workers are a lack of transparency for workers, our on securing better HR systems in now essentially getting the correct auditors and sometimes for factory factories, including proper salary minimum wage per hour worked. setting targets management themselves. and working hours systems. In 2010 We can also see that more and We have set firm individual targets 46 factories were enrolled (2009: 36). more workers are getting correct for the period 2009-2011 that outline In general, the wage systems have — Audits help to focus the attention compensation for overtime work. what the factories need to achieve been a mix of piece-rate wages, of factory management on internal The payment systems become more to establish sufficient wage systems monthly attendance and yearly loyalty management systems, rules and transparent and understandable and pay correct and transparent bonuses, and deductions for absence regulations, and wage and payment for workers, factory management wages. The targets, and the and production errors. This complex systems. and for H&M auditors. consequences of losing business structure makes it difficult to verify — Follow-up audits, which ensure that with H&M if not reaching them within the actual salary of an individual wage systems are in place and the the timeframe, have been clearly Next steps worker. For workers it is often hard to data coming from factory wage communicated to our suppliers. In 2011, we plan to invite other brands compare wages from one employer systems is correct, as well as into a discussion on a joint approach to another and even to judge if they supporting factory management Encouraging results to wages in the supply chain in China. are being paid correctly for their to analyse wage and overtime data The results have been encouraging working hours. so far and we receive correct wage We are also in discussions with Monthly reporting and overtime data from our suppliers. the FLA about participating in their Supporting Suppliers We believe transparency is the H&M auditors verify the information Fair Wage Network in our key During the last two years we have first step to driving change and to when making factory visits. In most purchasing markets. supported suppliers and their encouraging transparency among cases honesty and transparency, See: www.fair-wage.com 47 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership MILL DEVELOPMENT Conduct following our Limited Audit Commentary on wages by Auret van Heerden, PROGRAMME Programme. All participating mills sign President and CEO of FLA: In general, we do not have direct our Code of Conduct. business relationships with secondtier suppliers such as fabric mills. In 2010, 24 mills in China and nine mills in Our influence is, therefore, less and Bangladesh took part in the Programme. “The issue of wages has been a real Even when wages meet or exceed the possibility to set requirements is Following our first audits we have seen challenge for the CSR movement, the legal minimum wage there are limited. Fabric production can require a major improvement in the practices but that is finally starting to change. other questions to ask. Is there intensive use of chemicals and faces a in this sector, which has rarely been Buyers, suppliers, trade unions wage inequality in the enterprise? number of environmental and health the subject of auditing by brands. and NGOs are all looking at new Do wages reflect the workers’ and safety concerns. For some years ways of getting to grips with the contribution to productivity and we have therefore focused our work – The vast majority of the mills now fact that real wages globally have quality? Are they set through a on supporting fabric mills in becoming meet wastewater requirements and not kept pace with economic process of dialogue? Only by more sustainable through voluntary where these have not been met, we growth. In order to rectify this looking at the full wage picture can programmes such as our Cleaner have signed an agreement with the untenable situation, leading we understand the precise areas Production Programme. mill to make relevant improvements buyers, like H&M, have set about where remedies are required. – Most safety requirements are met systematically collecting wage Our Mill Development Programme, and workers receive relevant training data, analysing the contexts H&M has done a tremendous which we started working on in 2008, – All participating mills now have and the causes of low wages, amount of work to collect the targets fabric suppliers in China and sufficient policies and management and then developing strategies necessary data and we are very Bangladesh that are key to our systems in place to prevent child for correcting the imbalances. happy to be working with them production and which we have the labour and to ensure proper to analyse the wage situation in closest indirect business relationship recruitment processes. One of the key realisations in this their global supply chain, with with. The programme is run in close process has been that we need a view to developing strategies co-operation with our quality team Given the positive outcome of this to look beyond the numbers. for improvement. This should result and aims to improve compliance at programme, we will continue to The nominal wage taken home in more equity and social dialogue this second-tier stage of our value develop it and aim for the Mill by the worker is important but around wages, and ultimately, chain. Improvements are targeted Development Programme to become it is only part some would say a higher wages for workers.” with both our chemical restrictions a regular routine for fabric mills in both small part of the wage picture. and the environmental and safety China and Bangladesh. requirements from our Code of 48 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Building management capacities and strengthening supplier ownership TRAINING SUPPLIERS’ After this, the newly-trained workers EHS PERSONNEL IN INDIA assessed their own factories and One of the biggest challenges with submitted correction plans to H&M suppliers in India is that most of the outlining timelines and concrete workers in charge of compliance with actions. This will be followed by an our environmental health and safety H&M assessment in February 2011 to (EHS) requirements have little verify corrective actions and provide knowledge of technical issues like suggestions for further improvements. chemical handling and environmental management. This leads to high levels The key success factor for this project of non-compliance in these areas. will be the ownership and understanding of our requirements by workers with We therefore decided to launch a knowledge and interest in these issues. project to train workers with technical responsibilities in supplier factories A second seminar is planned on our compliance requirements, for May 2011 to discuss status, such as chemists in charge of quality achievements and challenges, and issues. The programme started with to plan further steps to sustain a safe an introductory seminar in October workplace. The goal of this initiative 2010 in Bangalore and representatives is to have zero compliance issues from 10 supplier factories have been by the end of 2011 and if successful identified to receive intensive training the programme will be rolled out on H&M’s specific requirements to all Indian suppliers in 2012. on environmental issues and chemical handling. 49 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Raising workers’ awareness of their rights If we want our suppliers to be in charge of To tackle these challenges, we have Grievance systems and worker/ their own sustainability in the long run, this in recent years initiated training management communication workers and middle programmes to raise workers’ are cross-cutting issues that are managers reached needs to involve their employees. Employees awareness of their rights and emphasised in all the films. The through awareness need to know their rights and how to claim procedures to claim them. For several films show day-to-day scenarios and raising training films years, through our audit programme, suggest how workers and managers (accumulated) them. Ultimately, we want them to be able we have also monitored the existence should deal with situations that to influence their situation through dialogue and effectiveness of worker/ might arise. 2008 2009 2010 management communication systems, with their employers. Achieving this position such as grievance systems and Besides raising awareness, our aim remains a challenge today as many sourcing effective workers’ committees. has been to encourage more suppliers to improve their own training of 350,000 countries lack sufficient systems for WORKERS’ AWARENESS FILMS IN BANGLADESH AND INDIA employees, for example by using 327,195 industrial relations and, even if they do these resources to help educate 300,000 To address this need we collaborated new employees. Feedback has exist, workers’ committees do not always with local NGOs in Bangladesh to been excellent and factories function effectively. develop a series of five short films, have requested films covering 250,000 supported by training packages. additional topics. The films cover some of the key 212,000 200,000 issues covered by our Full Audit During 2010, we continued to Programme, namely: distribute the films to all new – Maternity leave suppliers, and shared the material 150,000 – Leave and documentation with other brands. In 2010, more than – Abuse and grievance 115,000 workers and middle managers – Health and safety viewed the films. 100,000 71.2 – Overtime. 50,000 42,929 0 50 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners ore than Beyond monitoring – Since 2008 m nt workers and e 300,000 garm rs in Bangladesh Raising workers’ ge middle mana ated on worker awareness of their rights uc have been ed short films. h rights throug Our audits show encouraging Due to its success, we have decided often exist at factory level, but do not developments in compliance related to adopt this approach to awarenessalways function effectively to promote to the issues covered in the films. raising in India, where we will produce workers’ rights and ensure worker As the chart below shows, the a number of locally adapted short films participation. compliance level for leave (time-off) together with the NGO Solidaridad. issues at 86 factories in Bangladesh The programme in India will start By raising awareness of workers’ rights that have participated in this training during 2011. and the understanding of local labour has improved from 78 to 90 percent laws, the project aims to encourage between their first and second head Workers’ Capacity workers to support their worker audits. This supports our belief that Building Project – India committees and develop appropriate raising awareness can have a positive Since 2007 we have run a modular strategies for communication and effect on compliance since workers training project in Tirupur, India. One grievance-handling systems. start claiming their rights more of the challenges this training aims to effectively. address is that workers’ committees Compliance progress on selected leave requirements at bangladeshi factories Head Audit 1 Head Audit 2 100% 99% 91% 92% 91% 94% 90% 80% 80% 77% 78% 72% 77% 60% 70% 40% 20% 0% Sick leave Sick leave Annual Additional Maternity Total permission compensation leave leave leave Involving our suppliers’ employees is part of our work. 51 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Raising workers’ awareness of their rights The training consists of three modules: FLA Worker Participation project, which will continue through Project ChinA 2011. The desired outcome is Module I: Education on monetary China is a market that faces a number improved communication systems benefits to enable workers to access of challenges when it comes to worker in the factories and at the end of the their Social Security benefits. participation. Freedom of association project these will be evaluated and we is not permitted by law and although will then decide whether to scale-up Module II: Education on workers’ we see positive tendencies many the project. rights to show their rights on working factories still lack sufficient systems conditions and workplace environment, for dialogue between workers and including working hours, minimum management. wages, equality, health and occupational safety etc. At the same time, the Chinese garment industry increasingly faces Module III: Education for all committee labour shortages and the challenge of members to create an understanding retaining skilled workers. We believe of what a functional committee is that improving worker participation is and to develop strategies to improve key to tackling these challenges and their work. will lead to more stable supply from China that includes better working We currently have three suppliers conditions. So in 2010, we decided and five factories participating in to join the FLA’s Worker Participation the project and each of these has Project to support progress in implemented a so-called WCB-team this area. that ensures all new employees receive training on their rights and that all The project is designed to create a employees receive monthly refresher platform for worker/management Worker participation in China needs further improvements. training to maintain knowledge. To date dialogue and provides training to in these factories, 86 percent of all worker representatives and factory workers have received training on managers. Currently, two of our module I, and 83 percent have started suppliers are participating in this training in module II. 52 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Responsible purchasing and supplier relations We have high expectations of our suppliers, THE CHALLENGE our Code of Conduct. Showing this in terms of quality, prices, lead times and Late changes to a product’s design commitment brings related benefits, or poor communication with our such as long-term order planning and Code of Conduct compliance. Demanding suppliers can lead to tight production stable orders over time. All factories positive change from our suppliers is one lead times. This can result in have a Code of Conduct grade inefficiencies and affect the working based on the results of our Full Audit thing, but we also need to consider how our conditions at our suppliers’ factories Programme and this will change to own decisions affect our suppliers in their and the quality of the products. a more accurate and comparable index-based score as we roll out our ability to meet our standards. This has H&M aims to ensure that our own new ICoC grading system in 2011 an impact on how we design, plan and purchasing practices do not conflict (see page 36 for details). with the requirements of our Code purchase our collections. of Conduct. This can sometimes be difficult as we strive to meet the PRICE SETTING AND PAYMENTS We think an honest approach and demands of our customers. mutual transparency are the basis for Regular mutual feedback, open a good business partnership. Prices communications and clear naturally play a part in our supplier expectations all play an important selection process, alongside factors role in overcoming this challenge. such as capacities, lead times, quality A close dialogue is essential. and Code of Conduct compliance. procedures for our chosen suppliers A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH are clearly agreed in advance and our Long-term partnerships with our key To be able to negotiate prices with policy is that we will pay all invoices suppliers provide mutual benefits. us, our suppliers need to have a clear on time. picture of H&M’s expectations. In Together with our suppliers we can return, we make sure that our Regardless of the price that might plan ahead and learn from each other, merchandisers have good knowledge be offered, however, we would not enabling us to develop and grow of both reasonable market prices and consider a supplier that does together. For our suppliers, being a our suppliers’ costs in order to agree not comply with the minimum good partner to H&M includes actively a fair price. We follow the ethos of requirements of our Code of working towards full compliance with ‘negotiating, not bargaining’. Payment Conduct or our quality standards. 53 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Responsible purchasing and supplier relations COMMUNICATION IS KEY We want our suppliers to be good which suppliers can and cannot be thousands of garment workers We have a direct relationship with partners to H&M. We reward suppliers used and can also play a role in unemployed. H&M therefore not our suppliers and meet with them that show strong improvement, in defining order quantities placed only has responsibilities to a supplier on a regular basis. We evaluate our terms of business performance and with certain suppliers. during a relationship, but also when suppliers twice-a-year and discuss Code of Conduct compliance, with a relationship comes to its end. the results together. stable orders or higher order volumes. ENDING SUPPLIER RELATIONS RESPONSIBLY When a relationship needs to be As part of our commitment to good Our commitment to suppliers is clear – While rejecting suppliers could ended, we commit to a reasonable communications, we strive to apply through working with H&M, we want be seen as a quick fix to react to phase-out period and inform our pre-order product planning, with them to grow and develop further. instances of non-compliance, suppliers around three to six months early information about product H&M commits to work together in advance, in order to give them the specifications, wherever possible. SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT with our suppliers to make time and opportunity to find other With our key suppliers we develop In order to support the development long-lasting improvements through customers. When a supplier closes long-term capacity plans about six to of our suppliers, H&M places a focus our partnership approach. We clearly down factories, we try to influence 12 months in advance and aim to plan on sharing knowledge and providing inform suppliers about the business them to follow legal requirements. our purchasing process accordingly. training. We think this contributes risks that can result from nonThese planning systems help to a more sustainable supply chain. compliance and seek to educate suppliers to monitor their capacity, them and support their development. performance and adherence to our Our production offices around the Where there are problems, we work Code of Conduct. world are responsible for identifying to encourage improvements. the right suppliers and allocating As a fashion company in a fast-moving production. Our buying department Despite this, sometimes a situation market, we need to meet our and merchandising teams receive can arise where we need to end customers’ demands. This can regular training on sustainability a relationship, for example due to sometimes mean late changes on issues. Those responsible for placing continued non-compliance with product orders. Intensive capacity orders with suppliers are required our Code of Conduct or our and pre-order planning alongside our to understand our Code of Conduct business requirements. Especially suppliers, with clarity on volumes and grading and how their decisions can in economically difficult times, the lead times, can help to minimise this. impact on our suppliers. Code of termination of contracts has a Conduct compliance determines significant impact and can leave 54 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy Many of the challenges we face in order Teaming up with partners on voluntary Until 2010, the minimum wage level At H&M we strive for long-term to make our entire value chain more programmes and using our influence for the garment industry in and stable business relations with to improve public policy related to Bangladesh was last reviewed in suppliers. We have been buying from sustainable are complex and go far beyond supply chain issues are some of the 2006. During this time living costs suppliers in Bangladesh since 1982 the individual factory level. Many issues actions we take to tackle these have increased resulting in minimum and have had a full-time production challenges. wages going down in relative terms. office in Dhaka since 1986. concern whole industries or require TOWARDS HIGHER WAGES country-specific solutions. Also, the deeper IN BANGLADESH ENGAGING WITH THE BANGLADESHI GOVERNMENT MINIMUM WAGES INCREASE A minimum wage board was formed down our value chain we go the less direct In Bangladesh, the government does Where minimum wages are too low, in spring 2010 and a new minimum our business relations become and our not review minimum wage levels we can use our influence to demand wage, valid from November 2010, regularly and systems for employees systematic improvements. In January was defined in August. Wages influence weakens. to negotiate directly with their employers are generally not sufficient. 2010, together with a number of other increased by 67 to 81 percent, companies, we sent a letter to the depending on job categories. We government of Bangladesh. Together, regard minimum wages or equivalent FOR SUSTAINABLE WAGES we requested an urgent review of the standards as competition neutral and We see that statutory minimum minimum wage and the establishment these increases can only be regarded wages, sector standards, and of a mechanism for a yearly review. as positive. preferably collective agreements, are the only realistic systems to achieve In a second letter from our CEO, While we appreciate this is a step into sustainable development of wages Karl-Johan Persson, to the Prime the right direction, we still request that across an industrial sector. We also Minister in August 2010, we reiterated the government creates a mechanism believe that these systems must our initial requests and clearly for automatic annual wage reviews to define wage levels that are enough to expressed our commitment to ensure that minimum wages develop live on. Our Code of Conduct requires long-term business relations with in line with living costs. During autumn our suppliers to pay wages based on our Bangladeshi suppliers and our 2010, we continued discussions on whichever of these systems provides willingness to accept price increases how we can strengthen our the highest wages. that might arise as a consequence contribution to positive development from this salary revision. in Bangladesh even further and continue to underline our commitment 55 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy to the country. We will report on urging all parties to return to a At H&M, we take a clear stand in further actions as they are decided. meaningful dialogue and good faith support of meaningful industrial Tuomo Poutiainen, Chief Technical Advisor, negotiations. relations and the freedom of ILO Better Factories Cambodia MEDIATING INDUSTRIAL association for workers wherever DIALOGUE IN CAMBODIA We also held several direct meetings we operate. Unlike Bangladesh, Cambodia has both with union, as well as GMAC “H&M is one of the first international buyers participating extensive experience in industrial representatives, in order to mediate To reduce the risk of conflict in in the programme and using its assessment, advisory and relations and collective bargaining. between the two sides. During this Cambodia in the future and to return training services. International buyers such as H&M have, Nevertheless, this year’s minimum process we could see the positions to the usually positive industrial through their engagement, committed to be part of the wage negotiations resulted in a of the two sides easing and moving relations in the garment sector, we solution in improving working conditions. This is not only major conflict between unions and closer together. are aiming to encourage all of our occasionally, when there are crisis situations, but long-term employers’ groups. Unions called suppliers to sign a Memorandum of support for building of sustainable enterprises. H&M can help for strikes and the employer’s By the beginning of November, Understanding with relevant unions address problems of today, as well as helping to overcome association, GMAC, regarded the however, around 800 workers, of in 2011 that will see both parties Cambodia’s often confrontational industrial relations, and strikes as illegal referring to a court whom 510 were employees of the two agreeing to settle disputes through work towards providing a better future for workers, factories decision from September. Employers factories supplying H&M, had not had an arbitration council and respecting and consumers alike.” reacted by locking striking workers their jobs reinstated, so we continued its decisions. and union leaders out of work and discussions at factory level. As a even with dismissals. Of the most result, all 360 employees at one of affected factories, two supplied the two factories supplying H&M were H&M among others. reinstated by mid-November. By mid-February 2011, the remaining 150 Through our production office in workers at the second factory were Phnom Penh we kept in constant re-employed, and a Memorandum of contact with the unions, GMAC, Understanding was signed between the ILO and the Better Factories the factory and trade union. Cambodia Programme, as well as other retailers. We decided to work with a number of other retailers to send a letter of concern to GMAC, the unions involved and the government, 56 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy Tackling SUMANGALI audit program. Sumangali schemes with our minimum requirements SCHEMEs in the INDIAn mainly occur in spinning mills and our was proven we approved this unit Garment Industry audit program can ensure that such for future H&M production. In September 2010, Dutch newspaper practices are not used in spinning mills Being aware of the affiliation with KPR De Volkskrant published a series owned by vertically integrated mills and the earlier audit results, we of articles on bonded labour in suppliers. Spinning mills are, however, also conducted an extended visit to Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, India. usually second-tier suppliers and we their spinning mill again. We checked The articles described young women do not have direct influence on this company records, such as payrolls employed under a so-called, production stage. We therefore have and employment contracts, and sumangali scheme. to work to address this issue through interviewed workers who confirmed collaborative actions and public policy. they received monthly salaries and Sumangali schemes are considered were free to leave after work. a form of forced labour and were first H&M EXPERIENCE WITH recognised in the late 1980s. They SUMANGALI SCHEMES Based on these results, we started involve young women being sent from One of the companies mentioned by our collaboration with Quantum Knits villages to spinning mills as part of De Volkskrant was KPR Mills India. In in August 2010 by placing a small test a supposed ‘marriage assistance early 2009 we audited KPR Mills India order to evaluate them further. As part system’. In Tamil “sumangali” refers as a potential new garment supplier. of this evaluation we conducted a to an unmarried girl becoming a Through our audits we discovered a follow-up audit in September 2010. respectable woman through marriage. sumangali scheme at their spinning This audit showed that management In return for their work the women are mill and as a result we did not approve had a low desire to co-operate with promised a substantial dowry at the KPR mills as a supplier. H&M in the transparent manner we end of a three-year contract. expect from all our suppliers. As a In May 2010, we were approached by result, we decided not to continue H&M views sumangali schemes as Quantum Knits a garment factory the collaboration. Because only a absolutely unacceptable and not which, since our audit in 2009, had test order had been placed with the compliant with our Code of Conduct. become a separate manufacturing supplier, termination was valid We address the issue with our unit of KPR mills. We audited the immediately and did not have a major suppliers and monitor the existence of manufacturing unit as a potential new effect either on the factory’s business any kinds of forced labour through our supplier factory and as compliance and connected jobs or on our supply. 57 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy ACTIONS AGAINST – Encouraged our suppliers in SUMANGALI SCHEMES Tirupur to lobby the Southern India BANNING SANDBLASTING To address the issue of sumangali Mills Association (SIMA) and TEA OF TEXTILES schemes on a broader scale and to take responsibility for the issue to reach out to second-tier stages – Discussed the issue within the throughout the industry, we are in Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Sandblasting is a technique used to sandblasting after December 2010. close dialogue with a number of key – Started to map spinning mills give garments, in particular denim, Instead, alternative techniques such stakeholders. In 2010, we: used by our suppliers in India a used or worn-out look. In 2006, as manual scraping will be used to – Sent a letter to Apparel Exporters and Bangladesh. media reports drew attention to achieve the same effects. Promotion Council (AEPC) studies that highlighted serious requesting that they address the health risks to workers from To encourage other companies to issue with members and unprotected use of this technique. join this ban, we teamed up with government authorities Levi Strauss & Co. and together, – Discussed the issue with the Textile Back then, we immediately announced a global ban on Secretary at the Ministry of Textiles implemented strict protection sandblasting for all of our products in March 2010 requirements for suppliers when and brands. We are happy to see – Raised the issue within the Brands using sandblasting. We supported that other big companies have since Ethical Working Group (BEWG), this with training for suppliers declared a similar ban. which includes other leading brands using sandblasting and monitored that source from India compliance with our requirements Even with our ban, we have decided – Held meetings with the Tirupur through our audit programme. to continue monitoring sandblasting Exporters Association (TEA) in conditions in supplier factories even October and November together Even with these protective though the process is no longer with other brands to create a measures, we felt the need to allowed for H&M production. stakeholder initiative chaired minimise further the risks to In this way, we are continuing to by TEA workers in our own and other minimise the health and safety companies’ supply chains. As a risks to suppliers’ workers from result, we decided to stop buying sandblasting, and overall to better and retailing any products that used practices in the industry. 58 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy Continues on the following page DEVASTATING FIRE AT BANGLADESHI SUPPLIER On 25 February 2010, a devastating In total, 25 children lost one parent. available after their 18th birthday. This procedure was discussed fire took the lives of 21 workers at The children range from 4 to 17 The Bangladesh Rehabilitation during a roundtable meeting with a Garib & Garib, one of our supplier years old and the assessment Assistance Committee (BRAC) is number of trade unions and NGOs, factories in Bangladesh. Our showed that all the families monitoring the payments made to that was facilitated by the global thoughts are with the families, and concerned live in villages under the families, as we want to ensure union federation, ITGWFL. The especially the children, who lost poor conditions, where the loss that the monthly payment really meeting agreed that buyers and dear family members and whose of a parent’s income would have benefits the children. unions should address together lives have been drastically changed a significant impact on their life. the lack of social security systems by this incident. Together with SCSD we determined There have been plenty of in Bangladesh at government that their core needs were to challenges to arranging this support, level. H&M will continue to follow The fire was caused by a short continue their education and such as locating the families all over up on this. circuit in the factory warehouse and also their ongoing food and the country and finding a bank that workers were trapped due to heavy clothing requirements. is able to ensure payments and We have also decided to dedicate smoke, which made it impossible to withdrawal all over Bangladesh. SEK 1 million for a fire safety use the fire escape routes. In the Based on suggestions from SCSD, Our gratitude goes to BDDL bank improvement project that should wake of the fire, we wanted to show we developed a voluntary support which was brave enough to take benefit the whole garment industry our support and voluntarily programme for the affected on the challenge and co-operate in Bangladesh beyond our own contributed to those who were children. This involves directly on this issue. supplier base. The objectives are affected. Our immediate concern paying 2,000 Taka per month to to analyse and tackle the root was the children who had lost the 25 children until they turn Additional compensation to the causes of poor fire safety in close parents and we engaged Save the 18 and payments started in victims of the fire has been made collaboration with the relevant Children Sweden-Denmark (SCSD) March 2010. In addition to this, through the supplier’s insurance. authorities and to raise fire safety to make an assessment of the 100,000 Taka has been deposited in awareness among factory situation for them and their needs. each child’s name and will become management and workers. 59 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy JOINING FORCES WITH forum is co-ordinated with the help DEVASTATING FIRE AT BANGLADESHI SUPPLIER OTHER BUYERS of IFC-SEDF, a part of the World Bank The sustainability challenges within Group. Today it functions as a forum the global retail business affect for around 20 brands to discuss topics everyone in the industry. These such as workers’ rights issues and grey The fire safety improvement – Producing films to raise challenges are often universal issues areas in local labour laws, and seeks plan includes: awareness on fire safety among that no company can solve on its own. to build consensus to address these workers and factory management We also often share suppliers with issues with one voice. As explained – Conducting a study in coin collaboration, with other other retail brands. above, the Forum addressed the issue operation with the Bangladesh brands through the Buyers of minimum wages through a joint University of Engineering and Forum Bangladesh. As a result, we find that collaborating letter to the Bangladesh government. Technology to understand the – Collaborating with the two most with industry peers can help to Other initiatives include developing a root causes of poor electrical important employer associations, increase the level of influence we have common health and safety checklist installations in Bangladeshi BGMEA and BKMEA, to on a particular issue where working for factories to ensure compliance garment factories and figure out incorporate requirements for alone we would have less influence. with buyers’ requirements. This is potential actions to tackle these electrical safety at all their We see sharing best practice and instead of factories having to possibly root causes. member factories. developing ways to jointly tackle adopt different requirements from – Contacting the public Fire Safety common challenges as a key way to different buyers. Civil Defence to gain a better take our sustainability work further understanding of how fire safety and make the whole industry more BRANDS FORUM HONG KONG licences are issued. Through this sustainable. To deliver on this This forum is in development and we identified very good approach we are involved in a number aims to bring brands together with knowledge among the staff, but of forums that aim to improve representatives of the Chinese too few resources to ensure that collaboration between different garment industry. The Forum will work issued licences are up-to-date. companies in our industry. on collaborative approaches to issues We have addressed this issue such as workers’ rights and aims to with the Bangladeshi government BUYERS FORUM BANGLADESH build a platform for joint capacity and will also follow-up through This forum was initiated in 2006 by building initiatives. the Buyers Forum Bangladesh. H&M together with GAP Inc. and a number of other companies. The 60 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Choose and reward responsible partners Beyond monitoring – Working in partnership & influencing public policy BRANDS CO-OPERATION of other global or industry-wide improvements and limit our own GARMENT SECTOR FORUM INDIA initiatives, H&M is actively involved audits to requirements not covered ROUNDTABLE INDIA This is a group of buyers that sources in several local or national multiby the programme. This new initiative aims to bring garments from India and consists of stakeholder initiatives, including: together brands, manufacturers, around 25 companies, as well as some Read more about ILO-BFC at: trade unions, NGOs, IGOs, third-party agents and third party auditors. The BETTER FACTORIES CAMBODIA www.betterfactories.org monitoring organisations and Forum meets every three months and We have supported the International researchers to participate in a H&M is an active member and chairs Labour Organization’s Better Factories BETTER WORK dialogue about macro-level issues of some of the sub-groups, including the Cambodia (ILO-BFC) programme since The International Labour Organization the Indian garment sector such as accessories group. In 2010, the Forum 2005. The programme combines (ILO) started the Better Work wages, safety or environmental used its joint influence to address the assessments of working conditions programme with the aim of bringing standards. H&M is very positive about issue of sumangali schemes at with advisory and training services. It employees and employers together to the Roundtable’s potential to address industry level. It also provides a addresses the core needs of workers, find solutions to workers’ issues and these issues in India. In addition to platform to share knowledge about unions, government and the ensure a sustainable labour market. participating, we will continue to issues of special national concern, international buyers who participate in The programme is based on the Better promote participation in the such as home working or the the programme through a fee-based Factories Cambodia model and roundtable with others in the industry. implementation of new minimum subscription system. Participation in currently covers Vietnam, Jordan and The first roundtable meeting was held wages in the Bangalore area. the programme is mandatory for all Lesotho, with the intention of rolling it in January 2011. export garment factories in Cambodia. out in more and more countries in Multi-stakeholder H&M was one of the first international Asia and the Pacific region. In 2009, initiatives buyers to participate in the the Better Work Vietnam programme Beyond collaboration by brands, programme and use its assessment, was initiated in the Ho Chi Minh City multi-stakeholder initiatives are some advisory and training services. As an area and there are plans to expand it of the best ways to create dialogue active member, we participate in two to Indonesia. Both countries are home between different partners and to forums a year. The programme has to H&M suppliers and we welcome build a consensus on how to tackle contributed to significantly improved their inclusion. issues that concern all partners compliance with our Code of Conduct equally. Besides our strong affiliation by Cambodian suppliers. Since 2008, Read more about Better Work at: with the Fair Labor Association (FLA), we have used the ILO-BFC’s www.betterwork.org the UN Global Compact and a number assessments to promote further 61 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 3 BE ETHICAL In this section A fair partner to our colleagues...........................63 Anti-corruption....................................................67 Responsible marketing........................................ 68 Being ethical is about doing the right thing. We believe that 50% of our board members 58 hours of training per we have a responsibility to act with integrity and respect are women and 50% men employee in 2010 towards everyone who contributes to our success. We commit to being ethical in all our operations. This includes the way we interact with our customers, our employees, our suppliers 50 50 and all our other stakeholders. Our ethical approach is firmly rooted in our corporate values and we take a clear stand against corruption and any form of discrimination throughout our operations. Incentive Program for employees launched based on a donation of shares valued at SEK 1 billion* *based on the share price on 6 September 2010 62 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 71% 81% BE ETHICAL A fair partner to our colleagues H&M management H&M Total workforce positions occupied are women by women* H&M has been expanding strongly for A values-driven workplace Diversity and equality RECRUITMENT many years and with more than 87,000 The H&M culture is defined by a Being an ethical company includes During 2010, we set out to improve number of enduring values. No matter taking a clear stand against on our recruitment process by employees in 38 countries, our responsibility where we are in the world, our culture discrimination wherever we operate. identifying best practice in different is greater than ever. Our approach is shaped and spirit are instantly recognisable. As we operate in 38 countries, H&M markets and streamlining our Having a values-driven business has cultural diversity is part of our daily global approach. by a fundamental respect for the individual. allowed us to build a nimble, proactive work. We see workforce diversity, in This applies to every aspect of employment, and lean organisation that can grow terms of age, gender and ethnicity, We launched a new career site, on quickly. Having clear values can also as an asset to the company at all which candidates are able to match from fair wages, working hours and freedom help us to attract and retain the levels. We seek to ensure equality themselves to different job roles. By of association to equal opportunities for right people, further contributing of opportunity throughout the creating a series of films, checklists to our success. company. For example, 50 percent and an online quiz, we now encourage growth and development within the of our board members are men and candidates to find out for themselves company. Importantly, our approach to We believe in our people and their 50 percent, women. if they have a profile and attitude that ability to take their own initiative. matches our culture and expectations. being a good employer includes those We encourage employees to test Not all countries in which we operate countries where laws and regulations their boundaries and put forward have clear and comprehensive labour We aim for all candidates to have an new ideas. Being straightforward legislation. Therefore it is important equal chance to be chosen for a given fall short of our own requirements. and showing team spirit is encouraged, as is common sense, for us to have global guidelines for diversity and equality, based on the position. Our Applicant Tracking System, launched in 2010, is designed cost-consciousness and not least, International Labour Organization to guarantee a good welcome and keeping it simple and avoiding convention (C111 Discrimination). We timely response for each new unnecessary bureaucracy. published our policies in full in our candidate. It also tracks their progress 2009 Sustainability Report available through the entire recruitment *all management positions including store In 2010, we updated our values. in the archive at www.hm.com/ process, enabling us to maximise managers. Share per category women/men in percent: Board of directors: 50/50, group level We initiated a series of workshops consciousactions2010. fair access to our positions. To date, management (incl. CEO): 39/61, sales country for all employees to ensure our the system has been rolled out in managers: 48/52, production office managers: colleagues understand our values 10 countries. 44/56, division heads (buying office): 47/53, and to provide an opportunity to section heads (buying office): 60/40, area managers (sales): 62/48, store managers: 77/33. discuss their interpretation of them. 63 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS BE ETHICAL A fair partner to our colleagues TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT to create a teaching methodology One of our ambitions is to give our that is easy to duplicate internationally. colleagues the opportunity to grow We strive to make relevant training and develop within H&M, providing tools as accessible as possible to our training wherever possible. We want target groups. our employees to feel that H&M is a place where they are valued and During 2010, new materials were can develop. produced for a blended curriculum of classroom, workshop, follow-up Each employee received an average of and independent study. We also 58 hours of training in 2010 and during introduced a blended learning the year five new training themes programme for sales advisors in new were produced. To guarantee the markets such as Turkey and Romania. quality of our training, we have been working on a project to streamline LMS (Learning training materials and synchronise Management System) training records at H&M. Additionally, During 2010, H&M took a strategically development is supported by regular important decision to invest in a Our colleagues are key to our success. performance review dialogues. Learning Management System. This Ongoing training process Induction training LMS will help to optimise our vast Also introduced this year was the A key focus in 2010 was to make Our rapid expansion makes it library of training resources and serve Global Role Profiles programme for training activities more hands-on and increasingly challenging for us to as the central hub for our training our senior store positions. Through accessible for all employees. The ensure that all employees are initiatives. When launched, the system this, we aim to increase the potential previous year, we introduced the Sales welcomed into our organisation will run company-wide and be for international employee exchanges Advisor service-training concept, in a consistent, efficient and highaccessible to all employees. and to support our expansion into new which encouraged our store quality manner. markets by having a team of trained management teams to take a greater and H&M-ready employees available. responsibility for training. We offer a blended approach to training, whereby e-learning and classroom sessions are combined 64 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS BE ETHICAL A fair partner to our colleagues 50% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements TRAINING AND Employee Relations COMMUNICATION At H&M, we apply an ‘open door’ CASE STUDY: H&M INCENTIVE PROGRAM ON SUSTAINABILITY principle, which gives every employee Sustainability is part of our employees’ the right to discuss work-related induction training, including store issues directly with management. employees. As part of the launch of Our employees also have the right the first Conscious Collection in spring to collective bargaining. Accordingly, In order to show our appreciation for our 2011, we have integrated related across all of our operations, around employees, H&M is starting an incentive sustainability information in our daily 50 percent of H&M employees are programme for all employees. The programme sales advisor campaign training. covered by collective bargaining is being started in 2011 with a donation from the agreements. We strive for good Stefan Persson Family, of approximately 4 million We regularly use employee relations with all our employees and H&M shares at a value of approximately SEK 1 engagement channels, such as with employee associations and trade billion (based on the share price on 6 September, the H&M intranet and our employee unions that represent them. In 2009, 2010) to the Swedish foundation, Stiftelsen H&M communication tool, H&M Wallpaper, our Employee Relations department Incentive Program. The intention is to encourage to provide information on became part of our Human Resources and acknowledge employees’ long-term sustainability topics. In 2010, we department. Employees are involvement and to further strengthen H&M as published two special issues of H&M represented at board level, with two an attractive employer globally. H&M intends to Wallpaper focused on sustainability. of the nine Board members being make annual contributions to the foundation, We have now decided to include a employee representatives. with an amount equivalent to 10 percent of the sustainability topic on the back of increase in dividend in relation to the previous each regular edition so that these year’s dividend, under normal circumstances. can simply be switched. Thereby Return on the foundation’s funds is to be evenly we can increase our sustainability distributed to employees over time, regardless communication through this channel of their position or salary level. This means that and reduce paper use by a third. employees will be able to benefit from H&M’s expected growth in value in the same manner as a shareholders. 65 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS BE ETHICAL A fair partner to our colleagues We underline our commitment to EUROPEAN WORKS employee representation through our COUNCIL (EWC) A. Full-time employees Global Framework Agreement with H&M first signed an agreement B. Part-time employees UNI (Union Network International, with the EWC in 1997 and this was www.uniglobalunion.org). This amended in 2007. H&M and UNIdeclares that both the company and Europa are signatories to the A our employees regard the agreement. 40% International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Meetings between management B Principles and Rights at Work to be and all representatives are held on 60% the cornerstone of our co-operation. an annual basis and with EWC’s Our main contact point for this select committee, twice a year. agreement is the Swedish Topics discussed in 2010 included Commercial Workers Union, Handels, the working environment, particularly which is a member of UNI. in our distribution centres, and the Goze Sener, part-time employee at our balance between part-time and new H&M store in Istanbul. Read the agreement at: full-time employees. Countries C. Permanent www.hm.com/filearea/corporate/ represented in EWC 2010 are: Austria, employment contract fileobjects/pdf/en/RM_UNI_AND_ Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, D. Temporary employment contract D HM_LINK_1178884959035.pdf Norway, Sweden, Finland and since 21% 2010, Denmark and Spain. C 79% 66 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS BE ETHICAL anti-corruption 95% Of H&M employees attended a code of ethics related workshop At H&M, we make it a rule to act with CODE OF ETHICS training. We inform all new employees POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOBBYING integrity at all times. This means that H&M The Code of Ethics states a zero of the Code during the recruitment tolerance policy on bribery and process. H&M does not provide direct financial does not accept any form of bribery and we corruption and that business partners contributions to individual politicians take a clear stand against corruption. We should not provide any kind of gifts H&M has a confidential whistleor political parties. H&M does, or favours to H&M employees. In the blowing procedure in place whereby however, reserve the right, by way address these issues through our Code of same way, H&M employees must potential breaches can be reported of lobbying, to attempt to influence Ethics, which has been in place since 2003. not require or accept any personal confidentially. political decisions that may have an advantages from a business partner. impact on the company’s business. Our Code of Ethics was revised in Examples of lobby work include The Code applies to all business 2010 in order to make it usable for our requesting the Bangladeshi partners and all H&M employees who suppliers in their relations with their government to review minimum wage are in regular contact with them. own suppliers. levels and addressing the issue of forced child labour in the Uzbek We make all our business partners In 2010, we reported all possible cotton industry on EU level. and employees aware of the Code instances of Code violation through and we provide information to help our internal incident reporting tool. PAYMENT OF TAXES them understand it. All of them must We identified a total of 12 cases; eight H&M pays taxes and other fees sign the Code before they can be of them led to the termination of according to local laws and regulations accepted as suppliers to H&M and employment contracts with H&M. in the countries in which we operate. around 90 percent of them have One supplier business relationship H&M paid SEK 6.3 billion in tax at received related training. was terminated. Group level in 2010. We follow the OECD guidelines on transfer pricing All relevant employees sign the Code Our Code of Ethics is available as the basis for how profits should of Ethics and commit to comply. In our on our website at: be distributed and taxed in production offices, all employees have www.hm.com/gb/ international companies. signed the Code and approximately corporateresponsibility/ 95 percent of them have attended informationmaterial__ For more information please see our fiscal related workshops. In 2010, a total downloadsarchive.nhtml annual report at: of 6,125 of our employees received www.hm.com/annualreport 67 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS BE ETHICAL ReSPONSIBLE MARKETING H&M communicates its business idea H&M’s advertising campaigns the current fashion in a positive of ‘fashion and quality at the best price’ and healthy manner. The company are produced centrally in Sweden deliberately distances itself from drug by H&M’s marketing department through the various advertising campaigns in co-operation with creative and alcohol abuse, and will not use we produce each year throughout the world. models that do not portray H&M professionals located in the major in a way that is in accordance with fashion hubs of the world. The H&M’s marketing has a major impact and it campaigns are designed to be clear that policy. is essential for us to convey a positive image. and simple and aim to inform our customers of what is new at H&M. H&M has special guidelines for the H&M’s advertising images do not aim to All of the campaigns show the advertising of our children’s concepts. communicate any specific ideal, but rather The target audience is parents, not season’s designs and the price of the children, and we place advertisements clothes pictured. The advertisements a range of styles and attitudes. that we produce are largely identical in media that are not aimed directly at children. Children who take part in our in all of our markets, but the media campaigns must take part of their own strategy is adapted to local free will. If children are cast in a photo requirements and conditions. shoot, there is always an H&M representative present to ensure the Each season we strive to feature safety of the children and to maintain models with different looks, styles, a professional environment. Our Fashion against Aids campaign and cultural backgrounds to advertise aims to raise awareness on HIV/AIDS. our concepts for women, men, We also run cause-related marketing teenagers and children. campaigns such as Fashion Against Aids, aiming to raise awareness on Models are chosen in collaboration HIV/AIDS among young target groups. between internationally recognised Read more about this in the agencies and our own representatives. strengthen communities commitment The choices of models are discussed section on page 100. internally as well as with the agencies. As outlined in our advertising policy, the models depicted in must portray 68 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 4 Be climate In this section Be climate smart..................................................70 smart Climate change is one of the major challenges of our time. C02-e emissions We commit to acting climate smart and we strive to be as energy Total eCO2 efficient as possible and to use more renewable energy. We also Total after offsetting want to inspire customers to reduce their climate impact during Target the user phase and encourage climate smartness throughout our tonnes 4 value chain and beyond. C02-e / MSEK turnover 3.71 3.38 3 3.21 2 750,000 kWh of solar energy expected to Energy use decreased 1 be generated annually by photovoltic solar by 8% from 2007 to 2010 panels at our distribution centres in Germany in all H&M stores and Belgium 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 69 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart Energy use d om ecreased fr by 8 percent in all 2007 to 2010 H&M stores We have a target to reduce greenhouse In the long term, we aspire to from operating our stores, offices and – Reduce energy use in stores gas emissions by 5 percent relative to sales contribute to more greenhouse warehouses as well as business travel. by 20 percent per square metre gas reductions globally than our Choosing the way our goods are by 2020, compared to 2007. year-on-year until 2012. We strive to have operations emit. The nature of our transported and influencing our Designing our carbon energy efficient operations and to use core business requires transport and transport partners to adopt better electricity, so achieving a zero carbon practices are other important factors dioxide reduction target renewable energy and we have set targets footprint is a challenge. To achieve in reducing emissions. In 2009, we set a new three-year in these areas as well. our aspiration we know that we will climate target to reduce carbon need to use our influence to raise Our research, however, shows that dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) emissions awareness and take action on climate the production and user phase of our by 5 percent relative to sales each change well beyond the scope of garments have the highest climate year from 2010 until 2012, using the our operations. impact. For this reason we are previous year as a baseline. We have increasingly working to use our also committed to offset any shortfall This means our focus needs to be on influence to reduce emissions if we do not meet the 5 percent developing and supporting emissions throughout our products’ life cycle. reduction to ensure that our baseline reductions in all parts of our value for the following year is 5 percent chain and beyond – whether with We have three group-wide targets below the previous year. If we perform customers, suppliers and those relating to energy use and climate better than our target, the baseline is operating deeper in our value chain, change: set against the better performance or raising awareness with the general – Reduce the H&M group’s carbon rather than at 5 percent. public and lobbying governments for dioxide emissions relative to sales stricter legislation or climate policy by a minimum of 5 percent per In order to report our emissions and frameworks. year from 2010, compared to independently from currency each previous year, until 2012 fluctuations, we now report CO2-e in REDUCING GREENHOUSE – Source at least 20 percent of our tonnes per million SEK converted from GAS EMISSIONS energy from renewable energy local sales currencies using consistent Everyone needs to play a part in sources by 2020 exchange rates from the baseline year reducing greenhouse gas emissions. of 2009. We are no exception and we work towards reducing emissions resulting 70 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart 5 , 0 0 0 k W 70solar energy expected to beoltaic h of v era te d a n nu ally by photo gen a n els a t o u r distribution solar p any and Belg ium tre s in G e rm cen Emissions performance 2010 reduction projects based on Both absolute and relative reductions In 2010, the first year of our new renewable energy production. were achieved in heating and other target, we did not achieve the desired The offsets are spread across three fuel use in distribution centres as well 2010 CO2 BY EMISSIONS SOURCE 5 percent reduction in emissions and specific projects: as business travel; however, these A. People transport B. Goods transport by air as the chart above shows, we emitted – Yangjiayao: a wind farm in Ningxia were significantly outweighed by C. Goods transport by road D. Goods transport by sea 3.71 tonnes of CO2-e for every million province, China increases in emissions from goods E. Goods transport by rail F. Stores G. Other facilities SEK of turnover in 2010; this compares – Tongliao: a wind farm in inner transport and electricity use. Our total to 3.38 in 2009 and is a 10 percent Mongolia, China energy use in 2010 was 5,610,730 increase year-on-year. Our target – Sri Balaji: a biomass project in India gigajoules (GJ). Read more about G emissions level for 2010 was 3.21. that uses agricultural waste such as transport on page 73 and electricity 7.1% cotton and rice husks as fuel. use in our stores on page 72. b Since we missed our target, we have 17.6% fulfilled our commitment to offset In absolute terms, our CO2-e emissions A emissions equivalent to achieving a for scope I-III emissions in 2010 were 3.7% 5 percent reduction over 2009. This 497,265 tonnes, an increase of 25 means 67,000 tonnes of CO2-e have percent compared to 2009, while our been offset using Tricorona’s UN* sales (excluding VAT) increased by 15 percent. c and Gold Standard certified carbon 14.9% F E 49.0% 0.5% CO2-e emissions by source 2009-2010 D Scope CO2-e 2010 Share CO2-e 2009 Share Change 7.2% 1 (direct fuel use) 11,466 2.3% 11,951 3% -4% 2 (purchased electricity and heat) 270,422 54.4% 238,201 60% 14% 3 (transport and business travel) 215,377 43.3% 148,007 37% 46% Data note: When setting our 2010-2012 carbon reduction target in Total 497,265 100% 398,160 100% 25% 2009, the methodology and boundaries of our greenhouse gas reporting were revised to add more emission sources, compared to our * The projects have been assessed and authorised by the UN body CDM Executive Board, previous target cycle for 2005-2009. As a result, in this year’s report which also issue the certified emissions reductions from the projects. we can only provide trend data for 2009 and 2010 for comparison. 71 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart Renewable energy use 2011. Our distribution centre in requirements when building our stores. a 5 percent reduction in energy use Our target for renewable energy is Hamburg was also built with These guidelines are constantly per square metre by the end of 2010. to source at least 20 percent of our photovoltaic solar panels on its roof updated to make sure we capture new This shows that we are achieving energy from renewable sources by and has been in operation since 2008. and more energy efficient solutions. good energy reductions from focusing 2020. This target was set through our Our target for energy efficiency is to on improved energy management, involvement with the European Retail The installation in Belgium will cover reduce store energy use per square including in our existing stores. Round Table (ERRT). 2,030 square metres and estimated metre of floor space by 20 percent by annual electricity production will be 2020, against a 2007 baseline. The Lighting Unlike our target for reducing energy 225,000 kWh. The installation in target was set as part of our We are actively contributing to use in stores, it is currently difficult to Hamburg covers 5,300 square metres involvement with the European Retail developments in lighting technology and generates around 480,000 kWh Round Table (ERRT). 1,400 tonne monitor progress against this target. and look for improvements that will This is due to the lack of a solid annually, making carbon dioxide framework defining what qualifies reductions of up to 480 tonnes Visit their site at: www.errt.org suit H&M’s needs. reduction in CO2-e as renewable energy use in voluntary possible. In recent years, we have been emissions in 2010 greenhouse gas accounting and Energy efficiency working more closely with lighting through in-store reporting by companies. As a result, OUR STORES performance 2010 manufacturers on optimising store lighting we are working with different The electricity we use in our facilities worldwide (stores, distribution and We are pleased to report that across lighting. One fruitful example of this optimisation stakeholders, such as the ERRT and all H&M stores the energy use per collaboration is the dimming of its members, the World Resources data centres and offices) is increasing square metre has been reduced by sales-area lighting, which was Institute (WRI) and Carbon Disclosure in absolute terms but in relation to the 8 percent between 2007 and 2010. introduced for all new stores in Project (CDP), to find a consensus on growth of our business it remains This shows that the addition of newer mid-2009 and has reduced sales-area how to define, measure and report steady. Our stores account for around stores that follow our environmental energy use by 13 percent. This change on renewable energy use. 89 percent of this electricity use. design guidelines help us achieve alone has helped us reduce store considerable per square metre energy energy use by around four million Despite this uncertainty, we are still Store lighting and heating, ventilation savings over our older stores. kilowatt-hours and CO2-e emissions by making investments in this area. and air conditioning (HVAC) are major approximately 1,400 tonnes in 2010. Photovoltaic solar panels have been energy consumers in our stores. In When excluding new stores and only installed on the roof of our new order to reduce their energy use – and comparing stores that have been open LED lighting is a very interesting distribution centre in Belgium, which thereby reduce emissions and costs – since the baseline year of 2007, it is technology for the future and H&M is due to come into operation in spring we follow documented environmental encouraging that we have achieved has already started to use it in some 72 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart our Transport of r fo goods stands 4of3ou.r3gre% enhouse s gas emission applications due to clear energy process for infrastructure that is at In 2010, CO2-e emissions from An even more positive change has Planning savings and beneficial lifespan the end of its life. For emergency transport increased 31 percent been taking place in transport from markets Share of and maintenance characteristics. generators we have also switched year-on-year. This increase is the Turkey to our Asian sales markets, (Europe) rail freight from traditional diesel oil to a sulphurlargest contributor to the increase in where the aim is to shift from air Data Centres free, synthetic fuel made from natural total emissions seen in 2010, and has transport to ocean carriers. Airfreight 2009 2010 As our company grows so does our gas that releases fewer emissions. particularly been driven by a large was still used for the smaller Japanese need for effective and suitable IT increase in emissions from airfreight. and Korean markets in 2010, while Central 25% 23% capacity. Data centres are significant Recently, H&M received the Green This increase in air transport was ships accounted for 85 percent of (Germany, energy users and we are continuously Data Centre of the Year Award 2010 mainly due to instability in our transport to China and 99 percent Austria, implementing measures to increase from Swedish IT experts, Coromatic. production markets created by to Hong Kong, our two largest sales Netherlands, Slovenia) their energy efficiency. reduced capacity at our suppliers. markets in Asia. Visit their site at: www.coromatic.se During 2010, we consolidated East 48% 51% Shifting modes Collaborating with several data centres and virtualised TRANSPORT of transport transport providers (Poland, 50 percent of our servers. During The size and geographical spread of Finland, For a number of years we have focused As we don’t own any transport the process we updated our IT our business requires different means Russia, Czech on shifting to more environmentally facilities, influencing our transport Republic, infrastructure resulting in increased of transport in various parts of the conscious modes of transport. In partners to improve their Slovakia) utilisation, better performance and world. Our challenge is that, as our Europe, we are increasingly shifting environmental performance is reductions in both cost and energy business grows, our transportation from road to rail when moving goods an important part of our work. requirements. needs will increase further and we South 40% 75% from Turkey, an important sourcing For many years we placed our own need to meet these needs with market, to our European planning environmental requirements on (Belgium, When choosing locations for new limited use of natural resources France, markets. The table below shows transport service providers. However, data centres we consider options and as few emissions as possible. Italy, progress in making this shift to date we believe that environmental Greece) for passive cooling technology, and this will continue in 2011 and 2012. requirements that are adopted by a which takes advantage of the Transporting with less impact on the wider group of stakeholders have a external climate to provide cooling environment involves working with UK 0% 38% better chance of achieving a positive with minimal energy use. environmentally sound transport impact. We are therefore actively companies and switching to rail or involved in collaborations to develop Over the course of 2010, we have sea transport where possible and and promote common standards in improved life cycle management for increasing our transport efficiency. transport industries. our IT platform as well as the recycling 73 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart SmartWay WayAhead So far, only some of our European Clean Shipping Project SmartWay is a program run by the Working in collaboration with core carriers are registered in the The Clean Shipping Project aims US Environmental Protection Agency members of the European Retail WayAhead database. We will continue to improve the environmental (EPA) that offers evaluation and Round Table (ERRT) we have to roll out our new minimum performance of the shipping industry. certification of the environmental developed a tool for evaluating requirements among our carriers and We have been part of the Clean performance of road carriers. All European truck carriers’ aim for all carriers to be registered in Shipping Network for a number SmartWay Partners are recognised environmental performance. the database during 2011. of years and continue to work on for their commitment to reducing The tool is named WayAhead developing the Clean Shipping Index emissions in their fleets. In 2010, and starting in 2010 we have used Together with a group of other and promoting its use amongst around 90 percent of our core road it to communicate our minimum companies, we have also started our carriers. carriers in the US and Canada were requirements for transport service looking into the possibility of setting registered as SmartWay partners, providers, and for evaluating their up a programme in Europe similar to The Clean Shipping Index monitors up from 70 percent in 2007. environmental performance. the SmartWay programme from the the environmental performance of US Environmental Protection Agency. maritime transport service providers Of these carriers, 70 percent have Our minimum requirements for We strongly believe in the concept worldwide. Service providers enter achieved the highest SmartWay transport providers in Europe now and feel there is a need for such a vessel-specific data into a database, evaluation score. This score include: programme in Europe; this work will which creates a score that transport demonstrates the best environmental – At least 70 percent of truck carriers’ continue in 2011. The future buyers can use when purchasing performance and recognises carriers drivers must have received training implementation of such a programme transport services. Originally limited using most of the commercially in fuel-efficient driving in Europe would be at the expense to Sweden, the Index was launched available fuel saving strategies and – Trucks carrying H&M goods must of the ERRT WayAhead initiative we Europe-wide in 2010. evaluating emerging technologies. not be more than 10 years old currently promote in Europe. For 2011, we aim for all our core – All nominated and potential truck carriers to be SmartWay partners. service providers must have a CO2 Read more about WayAhead at: reduction target that is accompanied www.way-ahead.org Read more about SmartWay at: with an action and follow-up plan. www.epa.gov/smartway 74 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart During 2010, we made it a minimum BUSINESS TRAVEL PROMOTING IMPROVEMENTS Poor energy efficiency and high requirement for our six core carriers As a growing company with a in our value chain carbon intensity in our suppliers’ to have their fleets registered in the presence in 38 countries, business As reported in 2009, we funded manufacturing units have an adverse Clean Shipping Index and we achieved travel is required. We try, however, a study by Business for Social effect on the environment and pose 100 percent compliance with this by to minimise emissions from business Responsibility (BSR) to investigate the a number of business risks. These the end of the year. For 2011, we aim travel and have a clear policy in carbon impact of our products from a include reputational risks, reduced to have our five largest sub-carriers place that considers a number of life cycle perspective. The results of competitiveness from costs linked to registered. Also in 2011, together with environmental aspects. These include: the study clearly showed that carbon energy prices and carbon regulation, the other Network partners, we aim – Each trip must be well justified and intensity is the highest during the user and potential disruptions to to develop a method for thirdparty cannot be replaced, for instance, phase of garments, followed by the production from stress on national verification of the data submitted. by phone or web conference raw material production and the energy systems as well as climate – When choosing the place of a manufacturing process. change impacts. In 2010, the Clean Shipping Project meeting, the distance travelled by all was awarded ‘Green Initiative of the attendees and the accessibility by Working with suppliers Year’ at the Sustainable Shipping public transport must be considered to reduce emissions Awards held in London. At the same – Appropriate means of transport To broaden the scope of our work on event, three of our six core shipping shall be used: reducing carbon emissions to include carriers were among the five – Trains should be used for all these stages of our products’ life nominated for ‘Sustainable shipping journeys of less than 600 km cycle, we have started working with operator of the year’. One of them, if sensible our first-tier manufacturing suppliers. APL, won the award. – Public transportation should be The BSR study indicates that the used rather than taxis when this is emissions from the cutting and sewing Read more about the Clean available, safe and time permitting phase alone are on the same scale Shipping Project at: – Colleagues should always share cars as the emissions from transport and www.cleanshippingproject.se wherever possible. retail that we have reported for several years. Compared to 2009, business travel emissions fell 16 percent relative to sales in 2010. 75 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Be climate smart From 2010-2012 we will focus on number of our production countries. programme that involves six of our temperature for washing. 100-120 supplier factories globally. The programmes connect supplier supplier factories in this region. Choosing to wash at a lower washing These will represent all major H&M factories with energy service temperatures, however, saves energy, production markets and an important companies that will review the scope and washing at 40°C uses around half Bangladesh share of our total production. The aim for efficiency gains and provide as much energy as washing at 60°C, In Bangladesh we teamed up with is to increase their energy efficiency solutions, as well as training, and most detergents wash just as GTZ and five of our suppliers to take and reduce carbon intensity while at workshops, and support for well at this lower temperature. part in an energy saving programme. the same time learning how we can developing action plans and follow-up. develop the initiative on a larger We do, however, recommend that The results from these three scale and set greenhouse gas Based on initial factory reviews we heavily soiled clothes and underwear programmes will guide our approach emissions targets in our supply see a potential for energy reductions are always washed at the highest to expanding the energy efficiency chain beyond 2012. of up to 20 percent at participating temperature allowed. We provide tips initiative in our supply chain during factories, at the same time as building about how customers can consider 2011. We foresee a mix of programmes Participating factories will be required suppliers’ knowledge and in-house the environment when caring for their and workshops depending on the to monitor their energy use and expertise on evaluating energy use clothes on our website and from production market and the type of greenhouse gas emissions and share and realising reduction opportunities. spring 2011 will also communicate factory, but all will aim to deliver the the results with us. Unless they have through our stores. same results in terms of energy recently participated in a similar To test out their functionality, we reductions. program, they will also need to piloted three programmes in 2010, Read more about tips on conscious enrol in a regional Supplier Energy two in China and one in Bangladesh. garment care at: Our goal is to engage 100-120 supplier Efficiency Program (SEEP) that we are www.hm.com/care factories by the end of 2012 and to setting up in partnership with various China follow-up on their improvements. organisations and that will run for a I n the Shanghai region we joined period of 6-12 months. a programme run by BSR, which USER PHASE covered eight factories supplying The greatest share of an H&M Supplier Energy Efficiency H&M in addition to factories supplying product’s lifetime energy consumption Programmes (SEEP) other brands. comes from customers’ washing During 2010 we have worked with a garments at home. To make it easier variety of partners to set up energy I n Guangdong we teamed up with for our customers we label our efficiency support programmes in a EHS Academy and developed a products with the highest permitted 76 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS How our work 6 against climate 5 A MORE HOLISTIC 7 change evolved RAISING APPROACH A LIFE CYCLE With the development THE BAR PERSPECTIVE of this new target, we As a result, in 2009 we shifted our approach Also in 2009, we Climate change is one of the conducted a study developed a new target, to reducing more major threats of our time. committing us to reducing greenhouse gases than together with BSR At H&M we are committed to emissions by 5% each year just carbon, now also evaluating the climate acting climate smart and we throughout 2010 – 2012, including methane and impacts of garments from with a rolling baseline. nitrous oxide. a life cycle perspective. increasingly work to reduce emissions beyond our own operations. Here is our journey so far. 4 ACHIEVING OUR target We fulfilled our target in 2009 and instead of 10%, we achieved reductions of 32%. 8 1 3 be CLIMATE measuring 2 MAKING SMART Consequently, with our impacts sETTING COMMITMENTS 2010 ‘climate smart’ We started measuring and OUR SIGHTS In 2008, in line with the commitment we’ve reporting on the carbon In 2005, we set up our ERRT declaration on expanded our scope emissions resulting from first target to reduce energy efficiency and and are working to inspire others to reduce our own operations and the transport of our carbon emissions relative to sales by 10% by 2009, renewable energy, we committed to reducing their emissions. 9 goods in 1999. compared to 2004 as energy use per store CRADLE a baseline. m2 by 20% and to using TO GRAVE a minimum of 20% As a result, in 2010 we renewable energy, both initiated our Supplier by 2020. Energy Efficiency Programme in order to reduce emissions in the production process. We are also working to increase customer awareness on emissionreducing actions in the user phase. 77 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 5 Reduce, reuse, In this section Reduce, reuse, recycle..........................................79 recycle Waste is an important issue in our stores and distribution 1,600 tonnes of recycled materials Since 2010 all our centres. Transport and product packaging, as well as shopping used to create new garments standard consumer bags are made of bags, shop fittings and construction waste from building new recycled materials stores are some of the sources. By committing to reduce, reuse and recycle, we aim to minimise our waste impacts as much as possible. Our ultimate aim is to send zero 85% of all hangers that were not reused in store were recycled after use waste to landfill. 78 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Reduce, reuse, recycle PRODUCT PACKAGING – Making packaging easy to separate bag to use in order to minimise We are constantly striving to find so that it can easily be recycled unnecessary plastic use. better packaging solutions that use or reused. fewer resources and cause less waste. We also sell reusable bags made from With this in mind, we developed RECYCLED CARRIER BAGS different textile materials in our stores, Environmental Guidelines for During 2010, we switched to recycled which can be used as an alternative to Packaging in 2010 to help us make material for all of our standard plastic plastic bags. more sustainable choices when consumer bags. They are now made designing product packaging. The from 50 percent post-consumer and TRANSPORT PACKAGING Guidelines cover the entire packaging 50 percent pre-consumer recycled We have guidelines for the transport chain, from raw material selection to polyethylene (PE). packaging that is used to send our production and end-of-life. Some of garments from production countries the main components are: By using recycled PE, we reduce the to our distribution centres. The demand for virgin oil and increase the guidelines cover both the quality – Keeping the amount of material in demand for recycled plastic waste, and environmental requirements our packaging to a minimum without which supports the recycling economy. of the packaging. compromising its function When producing recycled PE it takes – Using recycled materials only 50 percent of the energy required For several years we have been – Using material from certified to produce virgin plastic and it can also successful in minimising the use of sources, such as FSC-certified be recycled again. Recycled plastic has single garment packaging when paper and board the same durability as virgin plastic and transporting products from producers – Using single materials and avoiding the bag can therefore be reused by to our distribution centres. When we mixing materials, such as laminates a consumer many times before it is send the garments from our or stickers, to improve recyclability finally recycled. distribution centres to our stores, we – Choosing standard packaging use transport boxes that are reusable shapes to minimise waste in Our plastic bags are available in five and these are sent back to distribution production different sizes, allowing us to give the centres to be used again. With these – Designing packaging to optimise best sized bag for the garments sold. two actions, we have almost space-use making it more efficient We provide packing guidelines to eliminated waste from transport to transport advise our employees in-store which packaging ending up in our stores. 79 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Reduce, reuse, recycle IN-STORE AND DISTRIBUTION Our environmental guidelines for Less resource use and less waste with CENTRE WASTE waste also provide direction on how leaner construction. We aim to minimise all waste types to handle hazardous waste, such as that are generated in our stores and fluorescent tube lights, batteries, During 2010, we trialled new methods distribution centres. electronic equipment, glues and to make the construction of new and other chemicals. refurbished stores leaner and more Waste management regulations and efficient. The initial results from the recycling opportunities vary from RECYCLING OF HANGERS trials show that we can complete new country to country, and sometimes We use a lot of hangers at H&M. store interiors in around 10 days at the even from region to region within a However, almost all of the hangers same time as improving quality. With country. Some stores use the recycling are reused in stores. When hangers the new approaches, we can reduce facilities offered by shopping centres cannot be reused they are sent for impacts in several ways: or landlords and others have separate recycling and our recycling rate for Hanger recycling went up 6% points. waste contracts, or return waste to 2010 was 85 percent, up from 79 – Less impact on customers and the materials that can and cannot be our distribution centres. percent in 2009. colleagues through noise or dust used from an environmental and – Reduced construction costs and health perspective and suppliers that This broad variation of situations During 2010, we also started to focus loss of sales refurbish or build our stores must poses a challenge; however, our on reducing the total number of – Higher recycling rates of old follow these requirements. general requirement is that all waste hangers we use by cutting down on materials should be reused or recycled, such as hanger types. Ten different types have – More efficient use of building Building or rebuilding stores can transport packaging and hangers. been removed from our range of materials and less scrap waste. create a lot of waste. Much of this, These requirements are outlined in hangers and in 2011 two more will be however, can be recycled and in many our internal Waste and Recycling phased out. These will be replaced cases lead to cost reductions. To make Guide, which is part of our ‘Store with a new multi-function hanger. sure that we make the best of these Book’ that guides all store employees. opportunities throughout our The principles and priorities in the RECYCLING WASTE FROM STORE operations, we have developed Guide are not limited to stores and CONSTRUCTION further guidance for all our sales apply equally to warehouses We have had standard requirements countries and will begin to demand and offices. for store construction and store recycling reports for our construction fittings for several years. These state projects from 2011 onwards. 80 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Reduce, reuse, recycle 1ton,n6es0re0cycled materials ew garments turned into n MAIL ORDER All of our mail order packaging boxes are made of cardboard with at least 60 percent recycled content. RECYCLED FABRICS We are using more and more recycled materials for our garments. In 2010, we used 1,600 tonnes of recycled wool, recycled cotton and recycled polyester. We also sold about 65,000 accessories made out of recycled tetrapacs. Recycled polyester is often generated from PET bottles. Recycled wool and cotton usually reuse textile remnants. In early 2011, we transformed cut remnants from the production of our 2010 collection designed by the French fashion house Lanvin into a new, fashionable collection, which we called the Waste Collection . 81 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS how pet bottles became fashionable garments 6 Garment manufacture Polyester fleece is a soft, warm, 5 and T h e fa wool-like material used for a ing b DYE d sewn a ric is cut an variety of garments across H&M’s dye d knitting yarn is oven patter ccording to range. Here’s how it can be made e n draw a n th or w o n e of n from recycled PET, reducing 4 The knitted . our de up by signer energy and resource, as well and a n d a fa b r i c s. Carding into as waste. spinning achine t rd in g m es tha . A ca the fibr into yarn l i g n s u n a sp hen are t 2 spinning stretching and The m 1 force elted poly d e like d through a ster is Collection e spun vice, coole sieveand sorting t called o form fibr d and rs are stretc tow. Then s e Containe om h it d fr e is colle re c yc c te li n g , sorted, into for st d a rengh nd crimpe . d 3 , crushed sterilised elted at  OW is stretched T m chips and and strengthened 2 70 °C . is pulled The tow e rollers of through th achine to m a drawing strengthen e tc h a n d to str re b eing cut in . it befo s o f fi b res c e short pie 82 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 6 Use natural In this section Raw materials...................................................... 84 resources Water................................................................... 93 Paper and store interiors...................................... 99 responsibly Our business depends on natural resources. Increasing 75% of nonscarcity of resources like water highlights how important it is drinking water used in our for all of us to use natural resources responsibly, considering All of the paper used in our biggest the needs of both present and future generations. To operate mail order catalogues is distribution as a sustainable business, we are committed to conserving Flower eco-labelled centre comes from rainwater water, soil, air and species. 50 million litres of water saved in denim production Of cotton targeted to come from more sustainable sources by 2020 83 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Raw materials BOLD STEPS TOWARDS MORE SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS INTERVIEW WITH HENRIK LAMPA, Raw materials like cotton can have CSR MANAGER PRODUCTS a heavy impact on the environment. According to WWF research, it takes an average of 8,500 litres of water to What part of H&M’s and introduced products made grow one kilo of cotton lint, enough to operations uses the most from recycled materials. We have make one pair of jeans. Conventional natural resources? also been very actively involved in cotton can also require heavy use of Our biggest natural resource use is the Better Cotton Initiative. Now, pesticides and fertilisers, which can in the production of our garments. we have set the firm target that all cause pollution and pose health risks Cotton is the raw material we use our cotton should come from to farmers. the most. It is a renewable resource, sustainable sources. Additionally, but it comes with a number of we will continue to increase the Although we do not source any raw challenges, including the use of use of recycled fibres, like recycled materials directly, we are committed chemicals and water intensive polyester and wool. to working actively to reduce their processes. We also use some impacts. H&M’s aim is for all cotton synthetic fabrics. These fabrics are Where do you see the in our range to come from sustainable usually derived from oil, which is a greatest potential for sources by 2020 at the latest. non-renewable resource; but these future resource savings? That means sources that show are well suited for recycling. We have just started scaling-up our consideration for people or the use of recycled fabrics. I believe that environment and whose impact is What do you do to use this will drive further innovations and less than the current impact of natural resources more the future will bring many more conventional cotton. Better Cotton, responsibly? opportunities for recycling. This can organic and recycled cotton are types We started our work to improve mean less waste and less use of of cotton that we see as the keys to resource use in the cotton supply natural resources; and it makes achieving this target. chain several years ago. For some perfect business sense. years, we have been using more and more certified organic cotton 84 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Raw materials Better Cotton Initiative H&M is actively involved in the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). The BCI is a long-term multi-stakeholder initiative that develops and promotes good farm practices, allowing more cotton to be grown while reducing water and chemical use and protecting both working conditions and biodiversity. The system has established minimum environmental and social requirements for cotton growing. The BCI is not a labelling scheme, nor will it provide Fairtrade or organic cotton. It aims to make all cotton more sustainable. It is a multi-stakeholder 68,000 cotton farmers where educated on better farming practices through the BCI. initiative that includes NGOs like WWF, clothing companies, cotton producer implementation phase, we will invest during this period. Among them is the During 2010, the BCI, through its groups and trade and industry bodies. EUR 500,000 in 2011 to support aim to produce 300,000 tonnes of implementing partners WWF and We have been involved with the BCI farmer training in the BCI system. cotton lint as Better Cotton, in Brazil, Solidaridad, trained around 68,000 since its inception in 2004 and are H&M and other project members have India, Pakistan and West and Central farmers in Pakistan, India and Mali. an elected member of the committed to using the Better Cotton Africa. The first cotton from this The aim is to train at least 150,000 organisation’s council. from the 2009–2012 implementation programme was harvested in autumn farmers in 2011. phase as well, even though the 2010 and we have worked closely with We regard the BCI as the key initiative minimum requirements might not yet our suppliers in order to learn how More information about the BCI can be to help us reach our goal to source all be met. The BCI follows a strategic practically to integrate Better Cotton found at: www.bettercotton.org cotton in our range from sustainable implementation plan until 2012, after into our products. sources at the latest by 2020. To which the system will be reviewed. It assist the transition from trial to follows 10 major goals to be achieved 85 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010– CONTENTS How H&M became one of the world’s biggest users of organic cotton According to Textile Exchange, 6 H&M was the 5th largest user more than 15,0 of certified organic cotton tonnes in 20 00 10 worldwide in 2009. Since then, 5 Growth contin ues and we have increased the amount ranked our Garden Co llect by another 77%, to more than Highly 0 0 9 e shows that orga ion in 2 mad or recycled fabr c ni 15,000 tonnes. Using organic rts largest effo ics, Our the 5th c cotton high fashion, an d cotton alongside Better Cotton i H&M of organ 2009. commercial su ccess and recycled cotton is part of our u s e r r n l d i work very well e wo le together. long-term strategy towards using in th ce: Texti 4 only sustainable cotton by 2020. Sour ange. Exch Building on success By the en d had purc of 2007 we hased 2,0 tonnes. W 00 e the base made this line of ou 1 2 target to in by 50% e crease use r ach year. first try in the 1990s A second in 2004 shot 3 We launched an We starte 2007 – O ur first organic cotton d 20 tonne over with collection called s, blendin g it whole collection 7 into selec In spring, w “Nature Calling”. te to test ne d garments e our first ,fu offered NEW Targets Garments were mostly w working, ways of garments ll range of for 2020 uncoloured and after a w comprom ithout m organic co ade with while sales tapered off. ising on tt departme on in all We have set a targ designs. nts at H&M to only use cott et . on from sustainable so urces; by that we mean orga cotton, recycled nic cotton and Better Cot ton. 86 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly organic Raw materials We used more r before – ve cotton than e 0 tonnes, making ,00 more than 15 e largest users of th H&M one of the world. in this material Organic cotton Organic cotton is used in all our organic cotton. Therefore, we have We started our work with organic clothing divisions (men, women, opted to retain our target. H&M is a member of Textile cotton back in 2004. Since then we teenagers, children and home). Exchange (formerly Organic have continually increased our use of We offer both 100 percent organic Read more about organic cotton at: Exchange), a non-profit independently certified organic cotton cotton clothes and blended organic www.hm.com/environment or organisation that is committed and seen growing customer demand. garments containing a mix of www.textileexchange.org to expanding organic agriculture, In 2010, we reached 15,000 tonnes, organic and conventional cotton. with a specific focus on which makes H&M one of the largest Garments are labelled accordingly Transitional cotton increasing the production and use users of organic cotton in the world to help our customers to make an Since 2008, we have made efforts of organically grown fibres such (accroding to Textile Exchange 2009 informed choice. to include transitional cotton into our as cotton. In May 2010, H&M Organic Market Report H&M was products in order to support farmers hosted the ‘sustainable fashion ranked 5 based on a use of 8,500 We have set a target to increase in the fragile phase of transition from seminar’ held by Textile Exchange, tonnes in 2009). organic cotton use by at least 50 conventional to organic farming. As together with Made-by. percent every year until 2013, based announced in our targets for 2009, Organic cultivation reduces the on the previous year’s target. The we booked 250 tonnes of transitional potential negative impact of cotton baseline for this staged increase is cotton in China and agreed on related on local water quality and biodiversity. our 2008 target of 2,000 tonnes. conditions. Unfortunately, as a result Increasing by 50 percent each year of unforeseen issues with our supplier, Grown in Turkey, India and China, all from this level will mean that our this agreement could not be fulfilled. our organic cotton is independently target is to reach a total of 15,000 Given these issues, we have decided certified by accredited certification tonnes by 2013, a figure we have in to focus on our goal to use only bodies (Control Union and IMO). fact already achieved. While we are cotton from more sustainable Additionally, all factories handling pleased to have met this target early, sources by 2020. organic cotton products are certified we are realistic about the fact that according to the relevant standards, we cannot sustain growth in the use OE 100 and OE Blended. All our of organic cotton at the rates products with organic cotton have a witnessed in recent years (77 percent transaction certificate (TC) issued by in 2010 and 183 percent in 2009). a third party certifier (IMO and Control This is because our own growth has Union), which verifies the content of outstripped the growth in supply of the organic fibre. 87 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Raw materials Recycled and organic materials at H&M Organic cotton Organic linen Recycled polyesteR Recycled polyamide Organic cotton is cotton that, Organic linen is linen that has been Recycled polyester is polyester Recycled polyamide is polyamide among other things, has been grown without the use of hazardous made from PET-bottles or textile made from fishing nets or textile grown without the use of chemical chemicals. Organic linen used for waste. Independent third party waste. Independent third party fertilisers or pesticides. All organic H&M products is independently certification usually follows the certification usually follows the cotton used for H&M products has certified according to the GOTSGlobal Recycling Standard (GRS) Global Recycling Standard (GRS) been independently certified standard and comes with full developed by the organisation developed by Textile Exchange. according to the relevant Textile transaction certification (TC). Textile Exchange. Exchange standards and are verified by a Transaction Certificate (TC). 88 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Raw materials Recycled and organic materials at H&M (continued) Recycled cotton Recycled wool Tencel® Recycled cotton is cotton made Recycled wool is wool made from Tencel® is a silk-like, renewable from textile remnants in production. worn-out woollen garments and material which has been produced Independent third party remnants of fabric. Independent with minimised environmental certification usually follows the third party certification usually impact out of cellulose. Global Recycling Standard (GRS) follows the Global Recycling Tencel® is a brand owned by developed by Textile Exchange. Standard (GRS) developed by fibre manufacturer, Lenzing. Textile Exchange. The generic name for the material is Lyocell. H&M considers only Tencel® manufactured by Lenzing as a more sustainable material. 89 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 6acc5es,s0ori0es 0made Use natural resources responsibly Raw materials trapac of recycled te Other more fur in our collections and to not IMPROVING TRACEABILITY The pilot project will run from sustainable materials testing our cosmetic products on OF COTTON November 2010 to May 2011. It started We are using and continuously trying animals. H&M is a Fur Free AllianceOur audit programme focuses on by focusing on educating each factory out other new more sustainable listed retailer. all of our first-tier suppliers and their to use the software and began tracking materials in our products. These subcontractors, such as washing or all deliveries from 1 January 2011. include different recycled and You can read more about the dyeing units. But we rarely have any organic materials as well as Tencel®. Fur Free Alliance at: direct influence on raw material The aim is to achieve full traceability Although the use of these fibres is www.infurmation.org production such as cotton. To ensure on all H&M orders throughout the an investment in the future, we have that the cotton included in our fashion projects and to evaluate Strings’ seen increasing amounts used in In 2009, we updated our product meets sustainability standards, we put usability and the reliability of the 2010. Our use of recycled wool, policy and added, amongst others, a lot of effort into making the entire collected data. The project gives us recycled cotton and recycled stricter requirements on angora wool, textile value chain more traceable and the opportunity to trial software to polyester amounted to 1,600 tons. merino wool, use of animal skin and transparent. Co-operating with others find out if it is scalable and whether feathers and downs. is one way of achieving improvements. it has the potential to be rolled-out We also sold more than 65,000 more widely. accessories made of recycled Accordingly, during 2010 we began Historic Futures tetrapac. This will continue with the auditing angora farms. We Strings software launch of the Conscious Collection implemented a self-assessment We are piloting web-based Strings in spring 2011. Read more about the programme for all farms supplying software from Historic Futures, which use of more sustainable materials into the H&M value chain and a aims to enable improved traceability at www.hm.com/materials. traceability system to connect farms and transparency throughout our supplying angora fibres to our value chain. Currently being tested MATERIALS FROM suppliers. We aim to provide detailed with six fixed supply chains in ANIMALS AND WOOD results in next year’s report, but the Bangladesh and China, the system Our products should be manufactured initial findings appear to be positive. requires suppliers at each stage of in a way that is environmentally and the chain to input data on exactly socially sustainable. As part of this, You can read the full policy at: how much material, fabric or finished animal welfare and the protection of www.hm.com/gb/ pieces they have passed on to the endangered species is important to corporateresponsibility/ next stage. us. For several years, we have been aboutourproducts/productpolicy__ committed to not using genuine productpolicy.nhtml 90 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Stages of conventional cotton supply 4 COMPRESSION, OR ‘GINNING’ 5 The supply chain of today’s LOCAL AND The seed cotton now conventional cotton can be gets compressed into GLOBAL TRADE very complex. We work hard bales – the so-called Often global or local to increase our influence on ginning. First seed and traders then buy this stage of our value chain and lint are separated, then these raw cotton the seeds go through bales and sell them improve traceability. Our target dryers to reduce on to spinners. for 2020 is only to use more moisture before being sustainable cotton such compressed into bales. as organic cotton, Better Cotton or recycled cotton – 3 all fully traceable. MIDDLEMEN In some countries 6 such as India, SPINNING middlemen buy the YARN cotton seed from Spinners make yarn out the farmers. of the raw cotton. 1 CONVENTIONAL COTTON SEEDS 2 These days, COTTON conventional cotton PRODUCTION 7 8 seeds are often Organic cotton is grown genetically modified. without the use of any Garment FABRIC manufacture These seeds may chemical fertilisers not be used for manufacture or pesticides. Better These fabrics are then organic cotton. Cotton limits the use This yarn can then be usually bought by our of both, which in turn, bought by fabric mills first-tier suppliers to cut helps to reduce water to make fabric. and sew ready-made use, thereby increasing garments out of them profitability for farmers. using designs developed by H&M designers. 91 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Raw materials Cotton from Uzbekistan H&M takes a clear stand against child So, although it would not be fair to ‘Ending Forced Child Labour in labour and does not accept underage guarantee a boycott, H&M has taken Uzbekistan’s Cotton Sector’ in workers being used anywhere in our several steps in order to avoid cotton Brussels on the 7 April. Our aim was value chain – including cotton from Uzbekistan. For some years, to deepen international co-operation cultivation. One of our concerns is the we have taken the approach of both towards achieving this objective. use of forced child labour in cotton influencing decision-makers in cultivation in Uzbekistan. H&M will Uzbekistan and developing Together with other attendees, never accept forced and/or child trustworthy tracing systems on the we sent a letter to Uzbekistan’s labour and therefore, as long as the origin of conventional cotton in our Ambassador in Brussels encouraging government of Uzbekistan continues value chain. them to attend the ILO conference in to compel children to work in its June 2010. H&M also contacted the cotton fields, Uzbek cotton cannot As announced in last year’s report, Swedish minister of trade asking for be an option for H&M and our we moved further towards joining this issue to be raised at the EU level. supply chain. forces with other retailers and stakeholders. In 2010, we attended As our traceability systems improve, Although we do not have direct a multi-stakeholder meeting hosted the absolute exclusion from our supply business relations with cotton by the Responsible Sourcing Network, chain of producer countries that producers and the routes of global a new project of As You Sow and refuse to meet standards will become cotton trade are often complex, the Institute for Human Rights and possible. Ultimately, we aim for all we seek to avoid the use of Uzbek Business, in partnership with Anticotton to come from sustainable, cotton wherever we can. However, Slavery International and Calvert fully traceable sources by 2020 at Uzbekistan is one of the largest cotton Investments. More than 50 consumer the latest. producers in the world and avoiding brands, retailers, investors, trade the use of cotton from there is a associations, NGOs and trade unions serious challenge. came together under the theme of 92 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS H&M and water 6 Water is an important resource 5 SPREADING OUR used in garment production. In G UP INFLU ENCE 2003, we started to limit water S IGNIN ANGE FO R C H With our mill e pollution resulting from garment 20 0 8 , w development In June a signatory programme, since 2009 production. We are continually became O Water we have also monitored E working to increase water to the C . wastewater treatment efficiency along our value chain. Mandate at a growing number of fabric mills, which are second tier suppliers. 7 ER 4 E B I GG E ave S TH TU R , we h ter E PI C 9 a S T T TI N 20 0 d w m AN G ce cte fro Sin DA TH Sin colle y data r e r ce eq 2 RD E al s o c ie n c u p p l i to uire 006, effi vant s . b the tr wa we h e d rele tories or, BSR eated stew ave fa c loc if mo stan aga ater al l re i aw str dard nst . in g en t, 8 1 FIR IN T ST H SAV TESTS B EG E INGs S OF 3 HOW 9 W  es INNI NG ... 2 In 20 har v 09 , first 2% t 50 MILLION requ arted by £1 .7m e Cott sts of Be st te LITRES i treat ring wast T S INC E O WATER A 3 wate on s h owe ter t SAVED IN 20 10 men e s up p t from water 2 0 02 ID grow r savings 32% d In 2010, we save l d with ier factor all S  ince 2 IMPROVING conv ing comp n cotton i 50 million litre w in 20 et proc ies s u p p o 0 02 , H& M h PR ACTIcE e prac ntional f ared to water in denim s of 03 . es se rted W as an s with d onatio aterAid, In 2005, we launc tices . armi ng targeting 100 m d are am o un ns hed illion litres in 2011. GBP 1 ting to abou our first Cleaner .7 milli t Production Progra on . mme, aiming to improve environmental pr actice at fabric mills and vertically integrate d suppliers with the 93 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 help of 40 easy-to CONTENTS implement measu res. Use natural resources responsibly Water 75% As well as being needed for growing cotton, water plays a part in other stages of our products’ lives, including processing fabrics and washing of the water finished products. We want to improve used for toilet the way we manage water throughout our product life cycles. In June 2008, flushing and we signed the CEO Water Mandate, irrigation in a voluntary initiative from the UN our biggest Global Compact. The mandate distribution commits H&M to improve both our centre comes own and our suppliers’ water from rainwater efficiency, improve wastewater quality and report transparently on our progress. You can read about our progress on the six key elements of the Wastewater must be treated at H&M suppliers and we monitor its quality. Mandate in the following pages. Our direct operations Our newly-built distribution centres Value chain and More information about the CEO Water Although the retail sector is a also have rainwater utilisation systems watershed management Mandate can be found at: relatively low user of water, we still for toilet flushing and maintaining lawn The garment value chain impacts on www.unglobalcompact.org aim to minimise usage in our own and garden areas. In our largest water supply in two key ways. Firstly, operations. When building a new distribution centre in Hamburg, this the production of raw materials and store or distribution centre, we follow generates about 75 percent of the the manufacturing process can guidelines aimed at reducing water non-drinking water used each year. both have a negative effect on use. This includes low-flow taps, low We will incorporate the same system water sources through their use water-use toilets and showers with in a new distribution centre currently of pesticides, fertilisers or their automatic stop functions. being built in Belgium. production of polluted wastewater. Secondly, some of our supply chain is located in areas facing water stress, 94 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Water such as China and India, yet our Supplier Water Efficiency suppliers operations depend directly We monitor the water efficiency of Supplier Water efficiency 2010 vs 2009 on the availability of water. supplier factories (see graph to the Water use in litres for one kg of products right). In 2010 we collected data from This challenging combination of 326 factories. We prioritise our work 2009 2010 factors means that improving waterto improve supplier water efficiency use practices throughout our value with those suppliers located in areas LITRES / chain is of huge importance to us. where water is considered scarce, as KG defined by the World Business Council cotton for Sustainable Development. 71% Cotton is the raw material we use <100l the most and it is a thirsty crop. H&M is very active in promoting 72% more sustainable cotton cultivation. We work towards reducing water use in cotton cultivation through 16% our affiliation with the Better Cotton Initiative. 100-200l 20% 13% >200l 9% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 95 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Water Supplier Wastewater Quality Supplier wastewater Quality Since 2006 we have required Percentage of suppliers within the lowest treshold suppliers who have wet processes such as dyeing to avoid environmental 2007 2008 2009 2010 damage by treating their wastewater. Wastewater quality in our supply chain has to meet quality levels defined by Business for Social Responsibility 59.8% (BSR) or relevant local laws, depending on which is stricter. 58.5% These requirements form part TSS 76.3% of our supplier audit programme. 82.8% We focus on key water quality measures such as organic and 61.7% chemical pollution levels and 73.4% suspended solids within the ww – BOD TSS (total suspended solids), BOD 78.8% (biological oxygen demand) and COD 77.8% (chemical oxygen demand). The graph to the right shows the share of 83.7% suppliers in the lowest threshold for 90.6% each of these indicators, against the COD BSR standard. We are happy to see 93.3% further progress for both TSS and 96.6% COD, with almost all our suppliers now reaching the lowest threshold. There has been a slight decrease 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% in BOD and we will monitor developments for this indicator. 96 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Water Water conscious denim saves 30% Rinse-washing denim garments to achieve a desired finish is a waterintensive process. Reducing this water use was the target of a pilot project in 2009 with three suppliers in Bangladesh, two in Pakistan and two in southern China. These showed that process optimisations can deliver water savings of up to 30%. In 2010, we produced denim following this approach on a greater scale and achieved water savings of approximately 50 million litres relative to previous production methods. As a result, we plan to introduce this technique for all our denim suppliers in Bangladesh and will investigate how it can be used in the washing process for other products. 97 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly water Collective action Cleaner Production China Water Disclosure Consistent with our approach Programme As announced in our 2009 report, the Working Group towards sustainability, actions taken The production of the fabric can also programme now involves the NGOs During 2010 H&M joined the Water collectively with other companies and be very water intense and involve the Solidaridad and the Natural Resource Disclosure Working Group (WDWG), organisations can help us to adress use of chemicals. Fabric mills are Defense Council, as well as the set up within the UN CEO Water issues that we cannot influence second-tier suppliers with which Chinese Dyeing Mill Association, Mandate. This new group will drive strongly enough on our own. Collective H&M has no direct business relations. to further promote better practices the harmonisation of existing and actions can promote better practice Through our Mill Development in Chinese mills. The programme runs emerging corporate water disclosure not just in our own supply chain Programme (see page 85), we have on-site evaluations, provides action initiatives. It aims to provide clear operations, but also throughout started auditing some selected mills. plans and workshops and shares best guidance and to establish a common the industry. However, a voluntary approach to practice examples. Currently 10 mills metric for water footprint. This will encourage more fabric mills are participating in the programme. improve corporate reporting on water better cotton initiative to improve their environmental use and supply, thereby highlighting The Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) is performance is still needed to Bangladesh best practice. H&M is committed to at the core of our initiatives to tackle extend good practice. From May 2010, the programme has adding our own experience and excessive water use in cotton become a multi-stakeholder initiative knowledge to this process. production. Early trials show that the Therefore we address environmental involving the NGOs IFC-SEDF, TNO Better Cotton system can provide issues with programmes in and Solidaridad, as well as a number water savings of up to 32 percent Bangladesh and China. The of other brands. It is designed to over standard growing methods. programmes promote around 40 have a sector-wide impact through easy-to-implement environmental the promotion of environmental Read more about our work with the measures that are directly linked to improvement measures. Currently, Better Cotton Initiative on page 49. cost savings and profitability. six vertically integrated H&M suppliers participate. 98 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Use natural resources responsibly Paper and store 1of0the0p% aper used for our mail interiors order catalog ues is EU Flo wer eco-labelled PAPER Our greatest paper use is in our materials that can and cannot be impacts from both the construction We use a lot of paper at H&M, ranging mail order catalogue. For this, we used from an environmental and and the operation of H&M stores from transport cartons, hang tags and use EU-Flower labelled paper and health perspective. and other premises. We also have gift boxes to office paper, receipt the majority of the fibre comes from requirements that mixer taps in rolls, the H&M magazine and our certified forests. The printers used ENVIRONMENTAL washrooms, kitchens and toilets mail order catalogue. for the catalogue are certified under REQUIREMENTS IN should be fitted with water-saving ISO14001. All of our mail order CONSTRUCTION devices. All stores should also have We have a policy that paper made packaging boxes are made of We set high standards for ourselves in adequate space for waste handling from fibre that originates from a cardboard with at least 60 terms of environmental responsibility and separation. country with a tropical rainforest percent recycled content. and we expect our business partners must be Forest Stewardship Council to adopt equally high standards. (FSC) certified. Our ambition is to All of our head office printers are Materials and substances that are increase our use of FSC certified set to double-sided printing as the hazardous for humans or the paper globally, regardless of the origin. default setting. environment must be avoided in For example, all of our receipt rolls construction work for H&M. are made of FSC-certified paper. INTERIORS FIXTURES We follow the precautionary principle, FSC is a leading international forest AND FITTINGS which means that if a material or certification association, guaranteeing Store furniture and fittings can carry substance is suspected of being that the paper comes from a an environmental burden from their hazardous it should be avoided sustainable source. manufacture, use and disposal. This whenever possible, without includes the raw materials used for compromising quality and safety. In 2010, we developed guidelines for their manufacture, hazardous For example, all installations must be the procurement of paper and paper treatments, energy and water use PVC-free and water-based paints products in order to help buyers at during production, and their disposal. should always be used indoors. H&M make sustainable choices. It encourages the use of recycled fibre We have environmental guidelines for We expect our business partners to or fibre from certified sustainable our interior department to use when contribute to our efforts to preserve sources and more environmentally choosing materials. We also have a set natural resources. We also encourage conscious bleaching and printing of requirements that suppliers of shop the use of new technologies that can processes. fittings must follow. These state the reduce negative environmental 99 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 7 Strengthen In this section Policy and Focus................................................101 communities Community Projects .........................................103 Community support...........................................107 Our operations have an impact on communities around the More than 100,000 people have been provided with safe water world. We contribute to economic growth in the areas that through our collaboration with WaterAid since 2002 H&M and our suppliers operate in and use our influence to promote better social and environmental conditions. Investing in the communities around us extends these improvements 1 0 0 0 0 0 more widely and in turn, benefits our business. $6,500,000 generated through our 2008-2010 Fashion Against 631,295 garments donated Aids collections to charities in 2010 100 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS ElioK 3ste2d.in7om Strengthen communities Policy and Focus S mil n inve ur in 2010 alone communities Our global community investment policy We focus our efforts on three areas: Long-term partners WaterAid guides the investments we make. Our efforts Employment and education among Forming relationships with expert This international NGO works to give women and youth international partners allows us to the world’s poorest people access should be focused, efficient and sustainable Water address some major global issues to to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene and have a clear connection to our business, Innovation of sustainable materials. an extent that would be impossible education. Our support for WaterAid if we acted alone. We co-operate with dates back to 2002. Since the start and to our stakeholders’ and society’s needs. Our community investment work builds on three pillars outlined in our our long-term partners on different projects, aiming to improve conditions of the partnership, we have raised almost SEK 20 million (approximately global community investment policy: for communities we touch. We USD 2.8 million) for WaterAid’s Our long-term community partners, encourage our customers to offer water and sanitation projects. UNICEF and WaterAid their own support. A number of distinct community projects UNICEF Ongoing community support. H&M began a partnership with UNICEF in 2004. Since the beginning These pillars work together to meet of the partnership, we have made some of the diverse needs of the annual donations to the organisation. communities in which we operate. In 2010, UNICEF received around SEK 13.8 million (USD 1.96 million) from Community activities undertaken H&M for all projects. across H&M include cause-related marketing campaigns and donations of money and clothes to selected charity organisations. We also provide emergency relief in the event of major catastrophes. In 2010 alone, H&M invested SEK 32.7 million (USD 4.65 million). 101 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010– CONTENTS Strengthen communities Policy and Focus OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 2010 AT A GLANCE Project / issue Partner Country Investment 2010 (SEK) All for Children UNICEF India 11,888,358 HIV/AIDS awareness DAA, YouthAids, MTV Staying Alive Various 10,654,002 Foundation, UNFPA Safe water, hygiene education WaterAid Bangladesh, India and Pakistan 4,101,300 and sanitation Fire Prevention in garment factories H&M Bangladesh 1,000,000 Education Mentor Sweden 1,500,000 Disaster relief UNICEF Haiti 719,500 Disaster relief UNICEF Pakistan 738,500 Local donations Mainly UNICEF Various 1,709,422 Others 400,000 Total H&M 32,711,082 Donations made by H&M’s Anniversary Foundation ‘Jubileumsstiftelsen’ Education and poverty eradication Hand in Hand India 1,900,418 Children’s rights CCR CSR China 665,000 Access to safe water FRANK India 950,334 Total Jubileumsstiftelsen 3,515,752 102 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS $for4A.ll5fom Strengthen communities Community Projects r Children – our ICEF t with UN 5-year projec We support directly a number of projects ALL FOR CHILDREN in the communities in which H&M and our We take a clear stand against all use of ALL FOR CHILDREn: What have child labour and, today, incidents of we achieved after one year? supply chain operate. It is through these children working in our first-tier supply projects that we can work to address the chain occur rarely. However, as we do not purchase cotton directly, we are Local committees for child most relevant issues locally and contribute not in a position to impose demands protection formed in 70 regions to positive and sustainable change in on cotton and cottonseed producers. (panchayats) covering 250,000 In 2009, in co-operation with UNICEF, people communities touched by our operations. we launched the All for Children project to address the causes of child 4,600 former child labourers are no labour and improve conditions in longer working and back in school Indian cotton production. Access to welfare and health The All for Children project focuses support for vulnerable children on five specific areas: and their families Addressing child protection policies and structures Awareness training for more than Education 8,200 employees in the Indian Community mobilisation health system to increase vitamin A Social protection supplement distribution and Health and nutrition. de-worming for 300,000 children children under six It targets 1.7 million children up to 14 years of age, in the districts of Salem Awareness training on children’s and Dharmapuri in the state of Tamil rights for teachers at over 100 We have a dedicated website where we Nadu. A special focus is put on about schools with a combined total provide regular updates on the progress 300,000 of the most vulnerable of more than 70,000 pupils. made in this project: children. www.hm.com/allforchildren 103 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS $ge2nera.6tedmsince 2002 Strengthen communities Community Projects aterAid to support W The five-year project is supported Fashion Against In 2010, we followed the success of countries where production for H&M by a SEK 40 million (USD 4.5 million) Aids generated the previous campaigns with another takes place: Pakistan, Bangladesh Andrew Cook, more than SEK donation from H&M. Throughout collection, designed to offer our and India. Director of the duration of the project, H&M is customers the best wardrobe for the launching different products in 10.6 million summer music festivals. The collection What have we achieved? Communications & support of All for Children. A series in 2010 generated donations to the value of Bangladesh Fundraising at WaterAid of four cotton bags was available more than SEK 10.6 million (USD 1.5 As a result of the donations from during 2010. Of the sales generated million). So far, the FAA initiative has H&M and our customers, about “H&M has supported WaterAid’s in 2010, 30% was donated to this raised a total of about SEK 42 million 50,000 people have been provided vital work to transform the lives of project, adding over USD 160,000 (USD 6 million). with access to safe water and about thousands of the world’s poorest of additional funding. 29,000 with sanitation. communities since 2002. WaterAid WATERAID is very proud of our partnership FASHION AGAINST AIDS (FAA) WaterAid is an international NGO that India with H&M, which has raised over Since 2008, H&M and Designers works to improve access to safe We support four projects in India GBP 1.7 million. This fantastic Against AIDS (DAA) have joined forces water, hygiene and sanitation in the which, together, provide more than amount has funded projects in to launch a yearly fashion collection world’s poorest communities. H&M 200,000 people with access to safe Bangladesh, India and Pakistan to called Fashion Against AIDS (FAA). has collaborated with WaterAid since water and almost 100,000 now have provide safe water, improved The main aim is to increase awareness 2002, transforming the lives of over access to sanitation. hygiene and sanitation to families about HIV/AIDS among youth. 110,000 of the world’s poorest people and children. Access to these basic Furthermore, 25 percent of sales by improving access to safe water, Pakistan human needs enables children to proceeds are donated towards HIV/ hygiene education and sanitation. While WaterAid’s national programme go to school and families to build AIDS prevention projects. During the Every year, H&M supports WaterAid is our project partner in Pakistan, livelihoods so that they can take the first year of the project, we donated by selling a specially designed we have directed available money to first steps out of poverty and look the money raised to DAA and swimwear collection. Of the sales support the victims of the devastating forward to brighter futures.” YouthAids. In 2009, we added MTV’s generated, 10 percent has been floods in the country in 2010. With the Staying Alive Foundation and the donated to WaterAid’s water and support provided by H&M, WaterAid United Nations Population Fund sanitation projects. Since the start of reached over 50,000 people, (UNFPA) to the list. the partnership, H&M has raised more distributing 278,000 water purification than SEK 18 million (USD 2.6 million) tablets and providing hygiene kits to for WaterAid’s work in some of the around 7,300 families. 104 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 1ga2rm7en,t4w2ork3ers in Cambodia Strengthen communities Community Projects HIV/AIDS educated on UNICEF HIV/AIDS young people with the opportunity PREVENTION CAMBODIA UNICEF HIV/AIDS PREVENTION to improve their living conditions by H&M has been supporting UNICEF’s taking on skilled work. At the end of CAMBODIA: What have we HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care the training, students are guaranteed achieved? Program in Cambodia, one of our a job at selected H&M suppliers. The production countries. The programme target is to train 100 trainees every Awareness training provided was designed to run for five years year. Since the start of the project, to 127,423 garment workers in ending in 2010. Its aim was to reduce a total of 1,122 people have received 14 factories the transmission of HIV among young the training. We aim to encourage people and high-risk groups and limit similar initiatives by openly sharing 4,682 people brought into public the impact of the epidemic on children the concept and our experiences healthcare programmes through and their families. We have used our with NGOs, suppliers and other their factories access to factories to help UNICEF international companies. reach out to young female garment 12 factories established HIV workers. In this way, we have been workplace committees to continue WOMEN IN RETAIL able to raise awareness among our HIV awareness programmes PROGRAMME SAUDI ARABIA suppliers of their own role in protecting Following the opening of our first the health of their workers. The franchise store in Saudi Arabia in 2008, Surveys showed that by the end program also supports education on we are in the process of establishing a of the project, 82 percent of the the issue among youth throughout the retail training program for women in workers had comprehensive country, as well as HIV counselling the city of Jeddah, together with our knowledge about HIV/AIDS and testing. franchise partner Alshaya. The centre (2008: 59 percent) is aiming to open during Spring 2011 H&M TRAINING 27,689 women made use of the and will promote female employment CENTre IN DHAKA helpline provided in Saudi Arabia, particularly in the retail For 11 years, H&M has run a centre sector. Students who complete the in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where young college-based 12-week course will 32,924 men and women took people can train to become sewing have improved skills that will support advantage of anonymous testing and knitting machine operators. The their employment opportunities in the and counselling services (VCCTs) main aim of the centre is to provide retail sector. 105 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Strengthen communities Community Projects IMPROVING HEALTHCARE (USD 0.14) at 320 clinics run by Smiling people in three areas, each consisting Group. Together with a number of FOR GARMENT WORKERS Sun in over 60 Bangladeshi districts. of 10 villages. In 2010 the Anniversary other brands, we participate in the IN BANGLADESH The supplier and H&M will contribute Foundation donated SEK 1.9 million development of an intervention High rates of worker absenteeism are an additional 20 Taka each. The (USD 270,000). service for use in the rare cases in an issue for many textile producers in project started in November 2010 and which underage workers are found Bangladesh. At the same time, some we aim to have 10,000 workers signed in the Chinese garment export CCRCSR workers go to work even though they up for the program by the end of 2011. sector. H&M also contributes to the For the second consecutive year, the may be feeling unwell. One reason is production of training materials to Anniversary Foundation contributed a lack of knowledge among workers H&M ANNIVERSARY to Save the Children’s Centre for reach migrant worker parents to share about their rights and correct FOUNDATION Children’s Rights and Corporate Social techniques with them to communicate procedures for any kind of leave. Jubiluemsstiftelsen (H&M’s better with their children back home. Responsibility (CCRCSR) in China. With We are working to raise awareness Anniversary Foundation) was set up in a total contribution of SEK 2.2 million among workers through initiatives like connection with our 60th anniversary (USD 310,000) the donation assists FRANK Water Project our Workers Awareness Film Project in 2007. It supports projects aimed at the centre in its work to help In 2010, the Anniversary Foundation (see page 50). improving the quality of life of people businesses in and around China to expanded its support to the FRANK in the countries where H&M operates. address children’s rights issues. Water Project. With a donation of SEK Another reason is that affordable Activities at the centre include 950,000 (USD 135,000) this smaller, healthcare is often not available if Hand in Hand research and analysis, capacity UK-based charity provides access to factories do not provide it to workers. In 2010, the Anniversary Foundation building, training and workshops and clean water for the world’s poorest A survey we conducted among continued to support Hand in Hand, consultancy. Our support will help communities. Through funding workers in three factories showed that a charitable trust active in Tamil Nadu, with the development and running received from the Anniversary workers spend over 200 Taka (around India. Hand in Hand’s objective is to of the centre’s English and Chinese Foundation, 10 clean water projects USD 2.80) each month on healthcare eradicate extreme poverty through website and hotline. The hotline will be implemented in villages in for themselves and their families – education, employment, income aims to provide the best source Andhra Pradesh, South East India, a significant sum for many of them. generation and empowerment. To of information on children’s rights to provide safe water for about As a result of this finding, we have achieve this, the trust is implementing for businesses in China. 70,000 people. teamed up with USAID’s project, programs including citizen centres, Smiling Sun, and our suppliers to self-help groups and medical camps Alongside this support from the H&M offer healthcare to workers and their and facilitating access to credit. The Anniversary Foundation, H&M is a families for a low fee of 10 Taka projects reach out to almost 50,000 member of the CCRCSR Working 106 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 6ga3rm1en,ts2d9on5ated Strengthen communities Community support 2010 to charities in An important part of our community DISASTER RELIEF Unfortunately, we learned that not investment work is to provide support In January 2010, a devastating all of our stores followed our policy. earthquake occurred in Haiti, leaving Therefore we have introduced an in times of crisis. In cases of major more than 222,000 people dead and updated policy and additional catastrophes, H&M makes direct more than 300,000 injured. H&M implementation guidance. donated SEK 719,500 (USD 100,000) contributions to emergency relief efforts to UNICEF’s relief efforts. Several The updated policy states that all and humanitarian aid. In addition to this sales countries, including Canada, unsold products should be donated Sweden, US, Japan, Austria, UK and to charity or, if possible, be recycled we regularly donate clothes to selected Ireland, launched their own support into something useful. The charities partner organisations. efforts, enabling customers to make chosen must meet basic criteria and direct donations to UNICEF in undertake to provide H&M with a H&M stores. report that specifies the amount of goods received as well as how and In response to the floods in Pakistan, where the goods have been used. in August 2010, we donated SEK Our policy also allows for charitable 738,500 (USD 100,000) to support organisations to sell donated garments UNICEF’s relief efforts. to generate funds that support their work. In total, we donated 631,295 DONATIONS OF GARMENTS garments globally in 2010. Each year, H&M donates large quantities of clothes to aid Note: Currency conversions are wherever organisations in countries in which possible reported according to the conversion rate at date of transaction. In we operate. Garments we donate some cases data has not been available and include samples and clothes that conversions are based on rates valid at 30 do not comply with H&M’s quality November 2010. requirements. However, we do not give away clothes that do not meet our safety requirements and chemical restrictions. 107 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Performance Appendix 2010 The following pages provide additional Please note that we have adjusted Permanently rejected suppliers key data from our sustainability report our sustainability report to match and factories are deactivated and H&M’s financial reporting year. As a excluded. Likewise, we have not and supply chain audit programme. result, the reporting period for this included data from factories that Additional data on our employees can report and all data in this appendix is were approved by the CSR-team 1 December 2009 to 30 November during the reporting period but also be found as well as target follow-ups 2010. For certain data, one month’s have not yet been activated for and our 2011 Conscious Actions Plan. overlap has occurred. production at reporting year-end. Audit data includes all active In our regional reporting, we manufacturing and processing consolidate Cambodia, China, (e.g. washing or dyeing) suppliers Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand, and factories. As these technically Vietnam and Taiwan as our Far East can be temporarily rejected and region. The South Asia region consists then re-approved after a correction of Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and plan has been carried out successfully, Sri Lanka. The EMEA and other region data from these factories is included includes our European suppliers as independent of being graded well as a few suppliers in North Africa. approved or rejected at the reports cut-off date (30 November 2010). 108 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS SUPPLIERS AND FACTORIES Region Active suppliers 2010 Active factories 2010 Number of active South Asia 179 444 suppliers /factories Far East 301 664 per region EMEA and others 195 585 Total 675 1693 Notes: Data shows the number of suppliers as well as factories which are owned or subcontracted by our suppliers and approved and used for production of H&M goods in 2010. In 2010, the active factory base increased by 112 units to 1,693 factories. compared to 2009 This is an increase of 7 percent, which is in line with our expectations and a result from H&M’s growth. 109 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS AUDITS ce ea dits Av d d d d er um ce um ce au a g Pe fo be Pe To Pe di e n a u be rc llo r o rc ta rc fa ts p um un en un en of l nu un en ct e b di r o an t w f -u an t au m an t or r a er y ct o f ts f h no p au no di be no iv Countries/regions N un N un ts r un e Audits on active Bangladesh 125 83% 219 52% 344 63% 1.57 factories India 90 62% 115 65% 205 64% 1.19 Pakistan 18 67% 32 63% 50 64% 1.61 Sri Lanka 13 69% 5 60% 18 67% 0.82 Total South Asia 246 74% 371 57% 617 64% 1.39 China (excl. Hong Kong) 216 69% 462 42% 678 50% 1.41 Hong Kong 0 1 1 100% 1.00 Indonesia 23 100% 59 81% 82 87% 1.55 South Korea 6 17% 12 17% 18 17% 0.30 Cambodia 17 65% 16 63% 33 64% 0.73 Thailand 2 50% 0 2 50% 0.40 Vietnam 13 46% 2 50% 15 47% 0.88 Taiwan 1 100% 0 1 100% 1.00 Total Far East 278 69% 552 46% 830 54% 1.25 Bulgaria 17 59% 42 69% 59 66% 1.59 Italy 10 0% 5 0% 15 0% 0.15 Lithuania 0 0 0 Mauritius 0 0 0 110 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS AUDITS ce ea dits Av d d d d er um ce um ce au a g Pe fo be Pe To Pe di e n a u be rc llo r o rc ta rc fa ts p um un en un en of l nu un en ct e b di r o an t w f -u an t au m an t or r a er y ct o f ts f h no p au no di be no iv Countries/regions N un N un ts r un e Audits on active Portugal 3 33% 7 0% 10 10% 0.53 factories Romania 9 11% 39 59% 48 50% 1.37 (continued) Turkey 134 76% 191 65% 325 70% 0.94 Egypt 4 0% 6 33% 10 20% 1.11 Greece 3 0% 2 50% 5 20% 0.71 Morocco 3 0% 1 0% 4 0% 0.67 Poland 5 20% 1 0% 6 17% 1.20 Tunisia 3 0% 0 3 0% 0.30 Latvia 1 100% 1 100% 2 100% 1.00 Czech Republic 0 0 0 Ukraine 2 0% 1 0% 3 0% 1.00 Hungary 0 0 0 Serbia 1 0% 0 1 0% 1.00 Total EMEA and other* 195 59% 296 61% 491 60% 0.84 40% Total 719 68% 1,219 53% 1,938 59% 1.14 FAP audits 1,864 LAP audits 74 111 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS AUDITS Audits on active Notes: factories Data includes the number of audits on manufacturing and/or processing factories approved and used for production of (continued) H&M goods. Because we have removed audits conducted on prospective factories that are not yet approved and used for production in this year’s report, the number of 1,938 audits for 2010 is not comparable to previous years’ figures. The comparable figure for all audits in 2010, including active, inactive and prospective suppliers is 2,561. In 2010, we performed 1,938 audits, of which 59 percent were unannounced. Of the 719 head audits, 415 (58 percent) were on new factories audited by H&M for the first time. Most of the unannounced audits were made in the South Asia region (63 percent) and the fewest were in EMEA and other regions in 2010 (44 percent). Of our 1,938 audits, 74 were performed using the Limited Audits Programme (LAP). Note that audits comprise only the verification element of our supply chain programme. Other elements include non-audit supplier development activities, such as remediation plans and capacity building activities. Examples of such activities include managment systems assessments, training activities and workshops. More details can be found in the “choose and reward responsible partners” section of this report. 112 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS OTHER Sustainablity ACTIVITIES Summary of Supply Chain Sustainability-program activities 2010 Our Full Audit Programme consists of audits (head audits and follow-up audits), management systems analyses and other capacity-building activities. The data below gives a first impression of the extent of our programme beyond monitoring. We will continue to elaborate on the analysis and presentation of this data in future reports. Region Training/workshop Meeting Screening Total Number of recorded South Asia 5 59 40 104 capacity-building Far East 371 134 730 1235 activities 2010 EMEA and other 22 63 33 118 Total 398 256 803 1457 Notes: The data above shows the number of recorded capacity-building activities where we invested in our suppliers’ development during the year. The table includes smaller and larger activities and is a first attempt by H&M to illustrate the scale of our capacity-building programme. We have not included occassions where we invited suppliers to participate in external activities or where we provided training and development for our auditors. 113 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS OTHER Sustainability ACTIVITIES io n Re fe ty Su cr in uit b un con rie Sa tr m o di du ent an t r co van & s m ct , is ion W no ac un tin m ce m / lt h Ru sa l or ce g un ic le Re s & S rig ker d ea gu ht s´ To Region at EH G H latio s ta n l Number of South Asia 197 116 43 28 53 21 45 503 management system Far East 212 436 434 245 275 223 0 1825 analyses EMEA and other 35 69 34 23 4 17 4 186 Total 444 621 511 296 332 261 49 2514 Notes: Management systems analyses are part of our ambition of moving beyond only monitoring our suppliers via audits. We aim to help them understand the root causes of compliance problems and to support them in developing sustainable, internal management systems to avoid audit violations. We started management system analyses in 2009 and will work further on evaluating and representing data in future reports. s Av s e To pr r a g g ac aci ta og e n pr l n u pe ram um tiv t y an og m ra be r f m be iti bu sy agm st m r ac e r e a of to ac of Aud es ild an em nt al s ct iv r y ti vi its ap in ys iti tie Region C M is e Average number South Asia 617 104 503 1224 2.8 of total activities per Far East 829 1235 1825 3888 5.9 factory EMEA and other 492 118 186 794 1.4 Total 1938 1457 2514 5906 3.5 Notes: Although it is difficult to directly compare audits with management systems analyses or other capacity-building activities, we have tried to develop a programme activity ratio per factory to illustrate and compare our efforts in different regions. 114 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance Progress at comparable factories PER CHAPTER Far East South Asia EMEA Total (Compliance) 20 factories 112 factories 42 factories 174 factories Progress from head audit 1 head audit 3 head audit 1 head audit 3 head audit 1 head audit 3 head audit 1 head audit 3 head audit one to Young Workers / 79% 67% 95% 98% 64% 75% 84% 87% head audit three at Child Labour comparable factories Workers’ 81% 79% 65% 82% 82% 74% 71% 80% Basic Rights Workers’ Rights 71% 59% 76% 87% 82% 81% 77% 82% Health & Safety 87% 81% 87% 85% 79% 81% 85% 84% Housing 93% 93% 90% 97% n/a n/a 92% 94% Conditions Environment 54% 53% 60% 70% 40% 65% 54% 68% Total 79% 72% 77% 83% 75% 79% 77% 81% Notes: By the end of 2010, a total of 174 factories had completed their third head audit (eight of these have even completed their fourth) within our Full Audit Programme. This means, that after a first full audit cycle of head audit and, typically, three follow-up audits, these factories have also completed a second full audit cycle of head audit and follow-ups and gone through a third head audit. A single audit cycle takes around 18 months to two years. The data shows the comparable progress these factories have made during this process. Understanding how compliance has developed between first head audit and third head audit provides a good base for assessing the progress factories have made through our Full Audit Programme. Even though progress in our compliance results is measured on ‘like-forlike’ factories, there are factors such as changes in our method which have an effect on the result. For this reason Code of Conduct requirements for metal plating, home workers and sandblasting do not apply to this comparison, as these were added to our Full Audit Programme after the first of these factories had entered their first audit cycle. All factories where we have performed three head audits are included in the data, although during this period they may have been rejected or deactivated for production. (continues on next page) 115 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance Progress At comparable factories Overall, the data shows a positive development of the compliance level of four percentage points, from 77 percent compliance in head audit one, to 81 percent in head audit three. In the Far East region, however, the data shows a decrease Progress on ICoC scores in compliance from 79 percent to 72 percent. These figures must be seen in the light of a small number of factories (20) in ICoC their third audit cycle in this region. This is also a result of higher transparency between H&M and suppliers in the region, score as well as changed legislation and improved auditing, especially with regard to workers’ rights requirements. The best progress can be seen in the South Asia region (77 percent to 83 percent on 112 factories), followed by the EMEA region 80 (75 percent to 79 percent on 42 factories). The areas with strongest positive performance globally are workers’ basic rights and environmental requirements. 78.9 78 Supplier progress, when measuring comparable factories, is also confirmed when comparing the compliance level of new factories against active factories in their third audit cycle, that have been a partner with H&M for at least three years. 76 Initial analyses from our new ICoC system show new factories receiving their first audits in 2010 scoring an average 1 under the ICoC system. Factories that were new in 2008/2009 and completing their second full audit in 2010 had an 74.7 average ICoC score of 75. Long-term supplier factories that completed a third head audit in 2010 had an average ICoC 74 score of 79. 72 While we can see good results with factories addressing non-compliances during audit cycles, factors such as our work to continually refine our auditing methods with more and better questions, ongoing training of our auditors, and an increase in transparency with suppliers have, in parallel, led to more non-compliances, masking potentially better 70 71.2 improvements in suppliers’ sustainability performance. 68 66 1st head audit 2nd head audit 3rd head audit in 2010 in 2010 in 2010 116 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Young worker’s requirements all 2010 audit results Are all workers above or the same age as the 100% 100% 100% 100% on active factories per minimum age required by the national law, audit question and H&M’s Code of Conduct?* Are workers younger than 18 working under 32% 70% 21% 31% legal conditions? Subtotal 77% 97% 76% 82% Workers’ basic rights Is absence of forced labour confirmed? 97% 100% 100% 99% Do foreign and migrant workers have equal 100% 100% 100% 100% employment terms as local workers? Do foreign and migrant workers have 83% 100% 75% 83% residential permit/working permits? Are all workers protected from any form 99% 92% 98% 96% of abusive behaviour in the factory? Are all workers protected from any form of 100% 100% 100% 100% physical abuse or sexual harassment? Is freedom of association respected ? 100% 100% 100% 100% Does the factory have legally required 76% 84% 50% 73% worker committees? Do workers have the right to 100% 100% 100% 100% bargain collectively? 117 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Is there a grievance system in place 15% 32% 42% 26% all 2010 audit results in the factory? on active factories per Is there a system for dialogue between 22% 35% 29% 28% audit question workers and management? (continued) Are all workers, regardless of gender, 100% 100% 100% 100% ethnicity, religion or geographical background, treated equally? Do all workers have employment contracts? 67% 63% 67% 66% Are all relevant areas covered in their contracts? 71% 74% 54% 68% Subtotal 76% 82% 82% 79% Workers’ rights Are the regular working hours within the 45% 96% 82% 72% legal limit? (Excl. overtime) Are monthly overtime hours within the 12% 20% 43% 22% legal limit? Does the basic salary amount to at least the 95% 96% 94% 95% legal minimum wage for normal working hours (including piece rate workers)? Is overtime compensated according to the 45% 91% 53% 65% law regarding workers on monthly salaries? Is overtime compensated according to the 17% 69% 60% 30% law regarding piece rate workers? Are wages paid regularly and on time? 96% 89% 96% 93% 118 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Are deductions fair and reasonable? 89% 93% 92% 91% all 2010 audit results Are correct wages paid? 79% 90% 87% 85% on active factories per audit question Does the factory pay social security? 27% 83% 57% 49% (continued) If no social security system in place, are 56% 86% 69% workers covered by alternative insurance? Is sick leave duly granted? 89% 88% 97% 91% Is sick leave compensated by the factory 34% 95% 97% 60% according to the law? Is annual leave granted and paid for 32% 88% 77% 62% according to law? Are all additional types of leave stipulated 54% 72% 97% 69% by law, granted to all workers? Is maternity leave given and paid for 45% 97% 99% 75% according to law? Are pregnant women guaranteed their 100% 100% 100% 100% employment during and after pregnancy? Does the factory fulfil the legal requirement 83% 76% 32% 73% concerning day care? Subtotal 58% 85% 81% 73% Health & Safety Are all basic safety requirements met? 98% 93% 93% 95% Are all additional safety requirements met? 48% 46% 55% 49% Are regular evacuation drills performed? 85% 88% 71% 83% 119 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Are hazardous machines equipped with 76% 87% 34% 69% all 2010 audit results necessary protection? on active factories per Is personal protection equipment provided 59% 64% 58% 61% audit question and used, where necessary? (continued) Is adequate first aid equipment available, 65% 89% 55% 71% and first aid training provided? In case of injury or illness, can medical care 78% 90% 91% 85% for the worker be provided with short notice? Do workers have access to safe drinking water? 96% 91% 86% 92% Does the factory provide a canteen/dining 95% 90% 95% 93% area available for all workers? Is the factory clean and free from dirt and dust? 40% 87% 76% 65% Is the temperature in the factory tolerable 93% 83% 95% 90% to work in? Is the spot removal content in accordance 59% 65% 54% 61% with H&M’s restriction list, performed in well ventilated area, using adequate personal protection equipment? Is there a sufficient number of toilets? 97% 98% 93% 96% Are toilets clean and maintained? 53% 72% 89% 68% Do the workers have unlimited access 100% 98% 99% 99% to the toilets? Subtotal 77% 83% 78% 79% 120 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Environment all 2010 audit results Does the factory have the legally required 86% 94% 75% 88% on active factories per environmental permits/licences? audit question (continued) Are the chemical containers 24% 14% 49% 24% properly labelled? Are solvent-based chemicals in compliance 52% 93% 64% 68% with H&M’s chemical restriction list? Does the factory have safety data sheets 24% 18% 43% 25% for all chemical products both in storage & workshop areas? Have the workers who regularly handle 52% 58% 58% 55% chemicals been trained in safe chemical handling? Is the information in the safety data sheets 40% 25% 51% 36% on storage and personal protection equipment implemented? Is outgoing waste water treated? 84% 91% 78% 86% Are there clear signs that the waste 97% 90% 100% 93% water treatment system is in use? Does the treated waste water quality meet 71% 81% 85% 78% requirements in local legislation and / or BSR guidelines, whichever is more stringent? Does the waste water treatment capacity 90% 92% 100% 92% exceed the waste water going to the waste water treatment plant? 121 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Is sludge from the waste water treatment 58% 85% 89% 76% all 2010 audit results disposed of in a legal or otherwise on active factories per responsible manner? audit question Is hazardous waste disposed of in 61% 97% 56% 71% (continued) a legal manner? Subtotal 54% 66% 62% 60% Housing conditions Are the dormitories separated from 100% 100% not applicable 100% the factory building? Can the workers enter and exit the 100% 100% not applicable 100% dormitory at any time? Does everyone living in the dormitory 100% 100% not applicable 100% have an individual bed? Are workers granted some personal privacy? 47% 100% not applicable 49% Does the dormitory meet required basic 98% 60% not applicable 97% safety standards? Are there enough clean toilets? 89% 100% not applicable 90% Are facilities for private hygiene provided? 90% 100% not applicable 91% Is the dorm generally clean and hygienic? 82% 100% not applicable 83% If there is a staffed kitchen in the dorm, 85% 100% not applicable 87% is it clean and hygienic? Is the temperature in the dormitory tolerable? 100% 100% not applicable 100% 122 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Are regular evacuation drills performed? 77% 40% not applicable 76% all 2010 audit results Are all additional safety requirements met? 85% 40% not applicable 84% on active factories per audit question Subtotal 88% 86% not applicable 88% (continued) Home workers requirements (Home working is rarely conducted in the Far East and EMEA. Results for Far East apply to one factory only.) Is home working performed in a workers’ 100% 100% not applicable 100% home or workplace chosen by the workers themselves and which is not owned by employer? Are all workers, involved in home working, not applicable 100% not applicable 100% perceived to be above or the same age as the minimum age required by the national law, and H&M’s Code of Conduct? Are young workers, involved in home not applicable 100% not applicable 100% working, attending school? Do all home workers perform their work 100% 93% not applicable 93% voluntaryily at all times? Do foreign and migrant workers have 0% 100% not applicable 92% residential permits? Are home workers free to organise not applicable 100% not applicable 100% a union or co-operative? Is collective bargaining respected? not applicable 100% not applicable 100% Is there a grievance system in place? 0% 14% not applicable 13% 123 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Do all home workers have an agreement? 0% 86% not applicable 80% all 2010 audit results Can the amount of work be completed, 100% 100% not applicable 100% on active factories per by one person, within a reasonable number audit question of working hours? (continued) Does the hourly rate amount to at least the 0% 50% not applicable 47% legal minimum hourly wage? Subtotal 43% 84% not applicable 82% Sandblasting & chemical treatments (Sandblasting is no longer allowed for H&M production.) Are legally required air quality 50% 50% 40% 45% measurements done? Is ventilation sufficient?* 100% 100% 100% 100% Are the legally required health checks 50% 100% 83% 81% in place in the factory? Are the workers educated on safe 0% 69% 50% 52% handling and risks? Is a wash station connected directly to the 50% 79% 67% 71% workshop in case dust or chemicals get in workers’ eyes? Is hearing protection worn if there is a 100% 100% 67% 92% noisy environment, e.g. sandblasting? Does the factory have the required 100% 100% 100% 100% permit for sandblasting? 124 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Does the sandblasting material contain 100% 100% 100% 100% all 2010 audit results less than 1% crystalline silica (SiO2) on active factories per Is ventilation adopted for sandblasting activity? 100% 89% 100% 92% audit question (continued) Is the sandblasting done in a separate area? 100% 100% 100% 100% Is compulsory personal protective 100% 100% 50% 91% equipment used? Is additional personal protective equipment 100% 86% 100% 91% provided by employer? Does the cleaning staff have compulsory 100% 71% 100% 80% personal protection equipment when cleaning sandblasting area? Are the workers handling potassium 100% 100% 33% 83% permanganate in storage and mixing are using the personal protection equipment needed? Are the workers spraying chemicals using 75% 64% 33% 57% the personal protection equipment needed? Are the workers spongeing chemicals 100% 100% 100% 100% wearing impervious gloves? Is the potassium permanganate stored safely? 100% 92% 43% 81% Subtotal 77% 88% 66% 80% 125 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Metal Plating all 2010 audit results (Metal plating related questions have in 2010 only been applicable to 3 factories in the Far East region.) on active factories per Is there a suitably-qualified person in charge 100% not applicable not applicable 100% audit question of chemical handling? (continued) Are the workers educated on safe 100% not applicable not applicable 100% handling and risks? Is the ventilation adapted for metal plating? 100% not applicable not applicable 100% Does the factory have a chemical 78% not applicable not applicable 78% inventory list? Is compulsory personal protective 100% not applicable not applicable 100% equipment used? Is there a wash station connected directly 78% not applicable not applicable 78% to both the workshop in case chemicals get in workers’ eyes? Are the legally required health checks 22% not applicable not applicable 22% conducted in the factory? Are the non-compatible chemicals separated 100% not applicable not applicable 100% in both storage and in the workshop? If hydroflouric acid is used is it handled safely? 100% not applicable not applicable 100% Subtotal 85% not applicable not applicable 85% TOTAL 70% 82% 79% 76% 126 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Region Far East South Asia EMEA Total Compliance level from Chapter from audit questionnaire all 2010 audit results Young Workers/ Child Labour 77% 97% 76% 82% on active factories per audit question Workers Basic Rights 76% 82% 82% 79% (continued) Workers Rights 58% 85% 81% 73% Health & Safety 77% 83% 78% 79% Housing Conditions 88% 86% not applicable 88% Environment 54% 66% 62% 60% Sandblasting & Chemical Treatment 77% 88% 66% 80% Metal Plating 85% not applicable not applicable 85% Home Workers 43% 84% not applicable 82% Total 70% 82% 79% 76% 127 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Compliance level from Notes: all 2010 audit results The figures provided are based on all non-compliances detected during full audits on active manufacturing and/or on active factories per processing factories conducted between 1 December 2009 – 30 November 2010. The compliance results should only be audit question seen as a snapshot of the compliance level of the factories we were working with at the report’s cut-off date. Not every (continued) question from our audit questionnaires applies to every factory and is therefore only raised where relevant. Accordingly, in order to create the greatest possible accuracy and transparency, compliance levels are weighted according to the frequency with which each related question from our audit questionnaire was raised during our Full Audit Programme. Percentage figures therefore, do not neccessarily relate either to the total number of audits conducted or to the number of factories in total. Please note that year-on-year figures do not relate to comparable factories but depend on where in the audit cycle the majority of the factories are during the year as well as the number of new factories. The selection of data in 2010 differs from previous years since we are now only using data from factories we are actively working with (active factories). This means that compliance data for new factories that during 2010 were approved and activated for supplying H&M are included, but audit results from potential new factories which were never activated and accordingly, never started to work for H&M, are excluded. Since we constantly improve our method, raise our expectations, add and update the audit questions, to make it easier to detect violations, the compliance data should not be compared year-on-year. In addition to this complexity and incomparability we would like to highlight a few factors which need to be understood for the data not to be misinterpreted. When comparing compliance figures it is important to notice that South Asia and Europe are progressing, but the Far East has experienced a negative compliance development. This is mainly an effect of the above mentioned audit methodology development, extended regulations and increased transparency. As the share of factories from the Far East increased in H&M’s total factory base, this has an affect on our total compliance data. 128 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Compliance level from all 2010 audits Compliance level from Some questions address complex issues, such as discrimination or freedom of association, where non-compliances all 2010 audit results are difficult to detect through audits. You can find some of these questions marked in green above, indicating a 100% on active factories per compliance level. We are aware that although no violations could be detected during our audits, these issues require audit question our attention. Accordingly, management system, a further emphasis on communication and grievance systems, as well (continued) as awareness-raising among both, our suppliers and their employees, on such issues are important parts of our strategy and daily work. As can be seen from the data, the existence and sufficiency of communication and grievance systems, overtime and its compensation, as well as chemical handling are some of the issues requiring further progress and remain high on our agenda. We can see positive tendencies on all overtime requirements on a global level with, for example, compliance on overtime compensation for workers with monthly salaries improving to 65% (2008: 54%). You can read throughout this report and particularly in the ‘choose and reward responsible partners’ chapter how we work towards further progress on these issues. *During each audit and all other visits to our supplier factories (a total of 5906 in 2010 just done by our auditors) we immediately react in case a worker appears to be below the legal age (for example 18 years in Bangladesh, 16 years in China). Luckily, this is only very rarely the case today. However, we take each indication very seriously. In 2010, we followed up on 9 cases of workers below the legal minimum age at factories that supplied H&M or were approved for production. The majority of cases were detected in China, where the legal minimum age is 16 years and school often ends at the age of 15, so that this one year gap can result in a higher risk of employment. All cases were resolved immediately. In each individual case, actions were taken to ensure economic or educational support in each child’s best interest. Follow up audits in the relevant factories showed successful remediation, leading to a 100% compliance level in our data system. We worked with the concerned suppliers to improve their management systems to ensure no such employment shall happen again. 129 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS OUR EMPLOYEES Ratio of women in total workforce *All management levels including store and in management positions managers. Ratio of women/men per 1 category (%): Board of directors: 50/50, group level management (incl. CEO) 39/61, sales country managers 48/52, production 0.8 office managers 44/56, division heads 0.81 (Buying Office) 47/53, section heads (Buying 0.71 Office) 60/40, area managers (sales) 62/48, 0.6 store managers 77/33. 0.4 0.2 0 Total Management workforce positions* Ratio of women/men on our board of directors 50% 50% 130 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS our employees Ratio of basic salary between women and men (Due to changes 1.0 in our data system, 2009 full year 0.95 0.94 0.97 0.95 0.92 data is provided. We will continue 0.8 reporting updated figures with our next report.) 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 Store manager Department Visual Sales advisor Warehouse manager (in store) merchandiser employees Ratio of full-time / part-time employees A. Full-time employees B. Part-time employees A 40% B 60% 131 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS our employees Ratio of employees with permanent and non-permanent contracts C. Permanent employment contract D D. Temporary employment contract 21% C 79% Notes: As the above charts show, the ratio of women to men on our Board of Directors is 50:50. Further, the female/male ratio across all levels of management, is nearly equal to the ratio across the entire workforce. As the salary ratio figures (data 2009) show, the average basic salary of female employees in our biggest employee category by far – sales advisers in stores – is 97% that of their male counterparts. Differences can occur, for example, due to the length of employment. 79% of our employees have permanent employment contracts. Non-permanent employment contracts are often used for replacements e.g. during parental or other kinds of leave. 60% of our employees work part-time, while the definition of part-time varies massively between the different countries we operate in. For example, a 35-hour week could mean full-time employment in France, while this would be counted as part-time employment in Sweden. 132 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2010 Supply Chain Unfulfilled Target Follow UP In progress Fulfilled Remediation of REGION: EMEA regional critical 09 10 20 20 non-compliance issues e e nc 10 e ib nc l pl 20 ns plia ia ge po om om t Re ISSUE C C Ta r s COMMENT Is overtime compensated 61% 46% 66% CSR team Turkey is the main driver of lower compliance according to the law Europe on this question. The main reason for this regarding workers on performance is an increased share of audits monthly salaries? on newly approved factories. New factories usually have a lower compliance level and affect the overall audit results accordingly. All factories not complying with this requirement have developed action plans and we are confident to identify broad compliance during the coming second head audit. Does the basic salary 88% 90% 90% CSR team In order to provide sustainable improvements, amount to at least the legal Europe we have initiated a CoC Responsible Training minimum wage for normal Project including interactive workshops. We working hours? have in addition encouraged our suppliers to take responsibility and supported them in building monitoring and remediation systems. Does the treated waste 62% 81% 75% CSR team Although we achieved our target, we will water quality meet Europe continue to focus on sustaining this good requirements in local development in existing, as well as new legislation and/or BSR factories in 2011. guidelines whichever is more stringent? 133 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2010 Supply Chain Target Unfulfilled Follow UP In progress Fulfilled Remediation of REGION: South Asia regional critical 09 10 20 20 non-compliance issues e e nc 10 e ib nc l (continued) plia plia 20 ns po ge t om om Re ISSUE C C Ta r s COMMENT Grievance systems 15% 29% 36% CSR team We put a high focus on grievance systems South Asia during our audits and also work to improve related management systems. In Bangladesh our Rights & Responsibility awareness films has been continued to be used both, new and existing supplier factories. This has led to a better understanding of the importance of a well functioning grievance system. Whilest we’ve made substantial improvement we have not fully achieved our target and will continue to focus on promoting effective grievance systems. Overtime hours 17% 20% 25% CSR team We continued our long-term oriented project South Asia with selected key suppliers to understand and remedy the root causes of overtime. We also extended this project from 9 factories in Bangladesh, to additional 8 factories in India and one in Pakistan. Is sick leave duly granted? 78% 87% 82% CSR team We exceeded our target by 5 percent points. South Asia We will continue to focus on this issue for new factories to sustain this progress. 134 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2010 Supply Chain Target Unfulfilled Follow UP In progress Fulfilled Remediation of REGION: South Asia regional critical 09 10 20 20 non-compliance issues e e nc 10 e ib nc l (continued) plia plia 20 ns po ge t om om Re ISSUE C C Ta r s COMMENT Have the workers who 32% 50% 62% CSR team We focused on this question during our regularly handle chemical South Asia audits and provided thorough education to been trained in safe our suppliers. This led to significantly chemical handling? improved compliance. However, as we did not meet our target, we will continue to focus on this issue in 2011. Does the treated waste 72% 80% 86% CSR team We took random waste water samples and water quality meet South Asia conducted quality tests to measure requirements in local fulfilment of our requirements. Where legislation and/or BSR results were below the required standard, guidelines, whichever is factories had to submit a credible action the more stringent? plan. We will continue to monitor the water testing quality, in addition to the mandatory testing done by factories themselves. 135 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2010 Supply Chain Target Unfulfilled Follow UP In progress Fulfilled Remediation of REGION: FAR EAST regional critical 09 10 20 20 non-compliance issues e e nc 10 e ib nc l (continued) plia plia 20 ns po ge t om om Re ISSUE C C Ta r s COMMENT Does the basic salary 66% 88% 75% CSR team Working towards a more transparent wage at least amount to the Far East structure in China has been a core focus of minimum wage for our work. You can read more about this in regular working hours? this report. Consequently, compliance has increased substantially and we exceeded our target by far. Do all workers have 61% 59% 70% CSR team During 2010 we conducted a total of 278 employment contracts? Far East head audits in the Far East region (216 of them in China). Out of these, 66% were head audits Is overtime compensated 20% 17% 20% CSR team on new factories which H&M had not placed according to the law Far East orders with before. Usually, new factories regarding piece rate show a lower compliance than our long-term workers? partners. This affects our audit data in this Have the workers who 55% 55% 65% CSR team region with a lower compliance level for 2010. regularly handle chemicals Far East We expect improved results as soon as these been trained in safe new factories have fulfilled their first audit chemical handling? cycles and entered their second head audit in 2011. The reasons for the high number of Does the treated waste 80% 62% 80% CSR team audits at new factories is mainly the continued water quality meet Far East growth of H&M, resulting in overall increased requirements in local sourcing. Additionally, we have phased out legislation and/or BSR suppliers that we believe will not be able to guidelines whichever meet our social and environmental is the more stringent? compliance expectations in the future. 136 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS 2010 ENVIRONMENTAL TARGET Unfulfilled FOLLOW UP In progress Fulfilled Environmental Organic cotton mix in all of our flower All EU flower eco-labelled garments now contain 2010 target follow up eco labelled baby garments between three and 100% organic cotton. Increase amount of organic cotton 2013 2010 target of 4.500 tonnes exceeded by far used by 50% each year compared (15.100 tonnes used in 2010). to the previous year`s goal Use first Better Cotton (BCI) for 2010 First Better Cotton has been harvested in 2010/2011 H&M products season. Procurement from this season will happen in 2011. All cotton to come from sustainable 2020 We are progressing well against this target. The use of sources (such as Better Cotton, organic cotton continued to increase substantially. organic cotton, recycled cotton) Better Cotton from the first harvesting season will be integrated into our products from 2011 on. Initiate supply chain carbon footprint 2010 Baseline data collection for important suppliers on monitoring major markets collected. Further steps to follow. Test out energy-efficient solutions 2010 The new DC in Belgium will be LEED-certified and in conjunction with the building of equipped with photovoltaics. The building starts a new warehouse operations in spring 2011. Reduce the H&M group’s carbon 2010-2012 Achieved through high quality offsets. dioxide emissions relative to sales (MSEK) by minimum 5% per year compared to the previous year Reduction of energy use in stores 2020 So far achieved an 8% reduction for H&M stores, by 20 % per square metre compared to 2007 baseline. At least 20 % of energy use in stores 2020 In progress. Read more at Renewable energy use (LINK). from renewable energy sources 137 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Conscious Action Plan 2011 As outlined in our strategy, we are working 1. PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS Sales: Provide training on H&M Conscious Actions and towards sustainability become a fully Products to sales staff Buying: Introduce our first garments with Better integrated responsibility, shared by all the Cotton (BCI) Sales: Develop and distribute our “green material guide” different departments in our organisation. Buying: Revise our strategy on organic cotton Production India: Engage 4–5 suppliers in BCI and Therefore, in 2010 we gathered hundreds establish a working method for using the cotton in of suggestions for additional Conscious Buying: Further internal education on more sustainable production. materials Actions from around the company to support 2. CHOoSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS delivery of our commitments. Our CSR Buying: Continous development of Conscious Products Marketing: Start auditing print suppliers Support team has reviewed these together CSR Support: Support production teams (Quality with the departments responsible for the assurance and product development) in environmental Construction: Contractors to sign Code of Conduct optimisation actions. The outcome is our Conscious Logistics: Include Code of Conduct in contracts with Actions Plan 2011. It describes a number of CSR Support: Identify additional research areas within logistic service providers the area of more sustainable materials smaller and bigger actions that we aim CSR Support: Benchmark against ISO26000 to take during the year in addition to the CSR Support: Continued focus on water saving measures in production CSR Support: FLA fair wage project in China, India actions, targets and goals you can already and Bangladesh read about throughout this report. You CSR Support and Quality: Identify further alternative chemicals for substitution CSR Support: Evaluate opportunities for closer can read how far we have come in our co-operation with ITGWLF 2011 report. CSR Support: Further develop traceability methods for the raw materials we use CSR Support: Establish framework for the use of manpower services organisations CSR Support: Develop strategy for garment recycling 138 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Conscious Action Plan 2011 CSR Support: Strengthen internal and external EHS Production Bangladesh: Chemical training for middle competence through further training and appoint an EHS management and establishing an EHS responsible in all competence center in our organisation Key factories CSR Support and Production: Establish framework for Production Bangladesh: Continue to follow up on worker the development of our FAP audit programme towards awareness films increased supplier ownership Production India: Cover 100% of key suppliers in Production Bangladesh: Contribute to increased fire Bangalore with worker awareness films safety in Bangladesh in co-operation with various stakeholders, develop fire prevention films, address Production India: Engage chosen key suppliers in supplier among others electrical safety, fire licence issuing ownership programmes Production Bangladesh: Include workers in H&S audits Production Turkey: Support establishment of EHS as part of Fire Safety Project responsibles at factory level Production Bangladesh: Conduct study on existing Production China: Initiate HR training for selected wage structures suppliers Production Bangladesh: Continue to request regular Production China: Investigate the possibility of launching wage reviews and discuss further actions with different a grievance hotline with selected suppliers stakeholders Production China: Conduct gap analysis of risks of human Production Bangladesh: Conduct research on unions rights violations and forced labour in the supply chain and worker-management communication Production Indonesia: Initiate workshop for suppliers Production Bangladesh: Include all our key suppliers in on freedom of association together with ILO. project to tackle excessive overtime Production Bangladesh: Secure further integration of audit results in sourcing process (ICOC) 139 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Conscious Action Plan 2011 3. BE ETHICAL 4. BE CLIMATE SMART HR: Start the work with building an H&M Academy Buying: Complement our garments’ care/washing instructions with a climate smarter alternative HR: Secure good and stable succession planning by evaluating and identifying current and future need for Logistics: Investigate possibilities to shift mode of talented people and leaders transport from road to rail for tradelanes from our DC’s to as close to our stores as possible HR: Introduce a training ladder and synchronise with our roles Logistics: Evaluate pilot for shipping goods by rail from Shanghai to Hamburg and look into possibilities of H&M: Continous activities to reach zero breaches upscaling this of our Code of Ethics Construction: Use LED light for all new store signs Production: Continue to conduct Code of Ethics seminars and workshops with all our suppliers Production: Expand Supplier Energy Efficuency Programme to include 100-120 factories. Production: Introduce SRM (suppliers relationship management) programme. 140 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Conscious Action Plan 2011 5. REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 7. STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES Production: Map waste flows at first tier suppliers CSR Support: Investigate opportunities to expand All for Children to other countries Construction Department: Develop best practice guidelines for handling of construction waste. Production Bangladesh: Proceed with developing a five-year plan to further support a positive development 6. USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY in Bangladesh, including initiatives like and All For Children project and the expansion of our Training Centre Model. Production: Conduct water scarcity studies in different sourcing markets Interior, Marketing, Visual Merchandising, Quality & CSR Support: Develop and implement environmental guidelines for sourcing of non-commercial goods Interior, Marketing, Visual Merchandising & Quality: Develop and implement chemical restrictions for suppliers of non-commercial goods Marketing: Increase the traceability of pulp when purchasing paper/paper products Production Bangladesh: Identify ETP environmental best practices. 141 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS GRI CONTENT INDEX and application level BACKGROUND TO THE GRI This index is organised using the G3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING (3rd Generation) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The Apparel GUIDELINES and Footwear Sector Supplement Indicators, in pilot form, have also been considered and are highlighted in green text. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles are referenced below. The disclosure level against the G3 framework is B (self-declared). The following key has been used to OUTCOME: Full coverage Partial coverage show the extent of report coverage in both tables: No Coverage Not relevant 142 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about A message from our CEO the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. A message from our CEO; Global presence, global impact and reach; Interview with Helena Helmersson Commentary Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities: Where applicable, A message from our CEO; on 1.2 this should include an assessment of supply chain performance. Global presence, global impact and reach; Interview with Helena Helmersson 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Global presence, global impact and reach 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Global presence, global impact and reach 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, www.hm.com/ operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. annualreport 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. www.hm.com/ annualreport 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of www.hm.com/ countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant annualreport; to the sustainability issues covered in the report. performance appendix 143 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. www.hm.com/ annualreport 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types www.hm.com/ of customers/beneficiaries). annualreport 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including: A message from our CEO; • Number of employees; www.hm.com/ • Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues annualreport (for public sector organisations); • Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, A message from our CEO or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Data centres 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. How we report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). How we report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). How we report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Feedback 144 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content Vision, Policy and • Our commitments Strategy; • Prioritising topics within the report; and Seven commitments • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased How we report facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. How we report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, How we report outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Performance appendix; assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the designing our carbon compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. dioxide reduction target 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided How we report; in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/ Performance appendix acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, How we report; or measurement methods applied in the report. Performance appendix GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 145 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Assurance for the report. 4. Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the Corporate Governance highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Report strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Corporate Governance executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organisation’s Report management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of Corporate Governance members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or Report non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations Corporate Governance or direction to the highest governance body. Report 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Corporate Governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), Report and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts Corporate Governance of interest are avoided. Report 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members Corporate Governance of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on Report economic, environmental, and social topics. 146 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, About H&M; Code of and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance Conduct; Code of Ethics and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s Corporate Governance identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Report performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Corporate Governance particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social Report performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Sustainability Policy is addressed by the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Memberships; principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes Throughout the report or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Memberships; national/international advocacy organisations. Throughout the report 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Memberships; Working in partnership, Throughout the report 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Sustainability Strategy; Sustainability Policy 147 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Sustainability Policy; engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Memberships and indexes; Working in partnership; Collective Action; Collaborating with transport providers; Employee relations; Community partners 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Our commitments; engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics Assurance, Working in and concerns, including through its reporting. partnership; Donation of garments; Throughout the report 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Supply Chain Standards and Practices Section DMA Management Approach Disclosures Choose and reward responsible partners; Sustainability Policy Aspect: Code of Conduct AF1 Code of conduct content and coverage. ** Our Code of Conduct Aspect: Audit Process AF2 Parties and personnel engaged in code of conduct compliance function.** Monitoring and grading AF3 Compliance audit process.** Monitoring and grading 148 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Grievance Procedures AF4 Policy and procedures for receiving, investigating, and responding Monitoring and grading; to grievances and complaints.** Raising workers’ awareness on their rights; Employee relations Aspect: Capacity Building AF5 Strategy and scope of efforts to strengthen capacity of management, Beyond monitoring; workers and other staff to improve in social and environmental Training and performance.** communication on sustainability Aspect: Business Integration AF6 Policies for supplier selection, management, and termination.** Introducing and indexbased grading system – ICoC; Responsible purchasing and supplier relations Aspect: Code of Conduct AF7 Number and location of workplaces covered by code of conduct.** Choose and reward responsible partners; Our supply chain; Our Code of Conduct 149 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Audit Process AF8 Number of audits conducted and percentage of workplaces audited.** Monitoring Results Aspect: Non-compliance findings AF9 Incidents of non-compliance with legal requirements or collective Monitoring Results bargaining agreements on wages.** AF10 Incidents of non-compliance with overtime standards.** AF11 Incidents of non-compliance with standards on pregnancy and Monitoring Results maternity rights.** AF12 Incidents of the use of child labour.** Monitoring Results AF13 Incidents of non-compliance with standards on gender discrimination.** Monitoring Results AF14 Incidents of non-compliance with code of conduct.** Monitoring Results AF15 Analysis of data from code compliance audits.** Monitoring Results Aspect: Remediation AF16 Remediation practices to address non-compliance findings.** Monitoring and grading Aspect: Business Integration AF17 Actions to identify and mitigate business practices that affect Responsible purchasing code compliance.** and supplier development 150 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Management Approach Disclosures A message from our CEO; About H&M; Annual Report EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Annual Report operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Be climate smart; 7 organisation’s activities due to climate change. Annual Report EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Aspect: Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (Additional indicator) EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. 151 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS GRI CONTENT INDEX Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services A message from our provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or CEO; Strengthening pro bono engagement. communities EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, A message from our CEO; including the extent of impacts. (Additional indicator) Global presence, global impact and reach Environmental Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures Sustainability Policy Aspect: Materials AF18 Programs to replace organic-based adhesives and primers with Phasing out solventwater-based adhesives and primers. based adhesives AF19 Practices to source safer alternative substances to those on the restricted Product safety & quality; substances list, including description of associated management systems. Chemical management EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Raw materials 8 We disclose the total use of organic cotton and recycled materials. We do not disclose total material volumes due to competitive reasons. Commentary Materials used by weight or volume: on EN1 – Including use of pumice, stones and sand under Compilation 2.1 on “Associated process materials” – Reporting on pumice, stones, and sand by weight under Compilation 2.3. 152 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Other more sustainable 8, 9 We disclose the total materials use of recycled materials. We do not provide percentages due to competitive reasons. AF20 List of environmentally preferable materials used in apparel and Recycled and organic footwear products. materials at H&M Aspect: Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Emissions performance 8 EN3 2010 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Emissions performance 8 2010 AF21 Amount of energy consumed and percentage of the energy that is from Emissions performance 8, 9 renewable sources. 2010; Renewable energy use EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy efficiency 8, 9 (Additional indicator) performance 2010 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Renewable energy use 8, 9 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional indicator) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Emissions performance 8, 9 (Additional indicator) 2010; Transport; Supplier Energy Efficiency Programmes 153 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Water 8 Supplier water usage per kg of products. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Supplier water 8 (Additional indicator) efficiency EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Our direct operations 8 (Additional indicator) Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, In most cases, we rent protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside locations in central urban protected areas. locations. Accordingly, we do not consider reporting on this indicator as material. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Use natural resources 8 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside responsibly; Organic protected areas. Cotton; Better Cotton Initiative EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional indicator) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on Organic Cotton; Better 8 biodiversity. (Additional indicator) Cotton Initiative; Materials from animals and wood 154 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional indicator) Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Emissions performance 8 2010 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Emissions performance 8 2010 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Reducing greenhouse 7, 8, 9 (Additional) gas emissions; Emissions performance 2010 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Supplier wastewater 8 Supplier waste quality water quality Commentary Total water discharge by quality and destination: Water on EN21 For Footwear: Reporting on total chromium discharges under Compilation 2.3 For Apparel: Reporting on the discharge of antimony, arsenic, cadmium, Compilation 2.3. To be following the appropriate International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) analytical method or its equivalent. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Commentary Total weight of waste by type and disposal method: on EN22 Report on pumice, stones and sand under Compilation 2.1 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 155 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional indicator) EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. (Additional indicator) Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Conscious Products 7, 8, 9 and extent of impact mitigation. Commentary Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, A message from our CEO; on EN26 and extent of impact mitigation: Conscious products; In addition to Compilation 2.2, report on specific programs to reduce Product safety and environmental impact of products, including but not limited to Quality; Be climate smart; manufacturing, product use, and packaging use at the design and Reduce, reuse, recycle; conceptualisation stages. Report also on the use of recycled materials Use natural resources and the recyclability of products and packaging. Report quantitatively responsibly where possible. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Aspect: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 156 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Transport 8 and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. (Additional indicator) Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Better Cotton Initiative 8, 9 (Additional indicator) LaboUr Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures Be ethical Include the use of foreign migrant workers. Our Code of Conduct; Relevant to our Monitoring Results supply chain. Aspect: Employment AF22 Policy and practices regarding the use of employees with non-permanent Diversity and equality and non-full-time status.** AF23 Policy regarding the use of home working.** Home working Relevant to our supply chain only. AF24 Policy on the use and selection of labour brokers, including adherence Our Code of Conduct, to relevant ILO Conventions.** Home working; Sumangali Scheme India 157 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Wages and hours AF25 Policy and practices on wage deductions that are not mandated by law.** Our Code of Conduct; Towards changing wage structures in China AF26 Policy on working hours, including definition of overtime, and actions Our Code of Conduct; to prevent excessive and forced overtime.** Workers’ awareness films in Bangladesh and India Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunities AF27 Policy and actions to protect the pregnancy and maternity rights Our Code of Conduct; of women workers.** Workers’ awareness films in Bangladesh and India Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. A fair partner to our colleagues; Annual Report LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary As various local or part-time employees, by major operations. (Additional indicator) regulations and standards apply we do not aggregate data on Group level. AF28 Percentage of foreign migrant workers as a portion of total workforce, broken down by region. 158 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: LaboUr/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employee relations 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether As various local it is specified in collective agreements. regulations and standards apply we do not aggregate data on Group level. AF29 Percentage of workplaces where there is one or more independent trade Employee relations; union(s), broken down by: Mediating industrial Workplaces with a collective bargaining agreement dialogue in Cambodia Workplaces without a collective bargaining agreement Also provide information broken down by country. AF30 Percentage of workplaces where, in the absence of a trade union, there are Raising workers’ worker-management committees, broken down by country. awareness on their rights Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs.(Additional indicator) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. 159 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Commentary Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Monitoring results; Joint Narrative coverage on LA7 number of work-related fatalities by region: Assessments; Banning in regard to our – Include health issues associated with reduced lung function due to dust sandblasting of textiles supply chain. in “Occupational disease rate” under Compilation 2.4. – Include risk assessments and preventative measures for accidents and injuries under Compilation 2.7. AF31 Initiatives and programs to respond to, reduce, and prevent the occurrence of musculoskeletal disorders. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Employee relations 1 Formal agreements (Additional indicator) with trade union are handled locally and data is not aggregated at Group level. Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year, per employee, by employee category. Training & development LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Training & development continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. (Additional indicator) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Training & development development reviews. (Additional indicator) 160 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Diversity and equality 1, 6 Breakdown of board category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other management and other indicators of diversity. categories according to gender. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Performance appendix 1, 6 Please note that due to changes in our data system, 2009 full year data is provided. We will continue reporting updated figures with our coming reports. AF32 Actions to address gender discrimination and to provide opportunities for Diversity and equality 1, 6 the advancement of women workers. Human Rights Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures Sustainability Policy; Our Code of Conduct Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that Choose and reward 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights responsible partners; Our screening. Code of Conduct HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone Our Code of Conduct; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 screening on human rights and actions taken. Monitoring and grading 161 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Training and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Narrative description of aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the communication on training and percentage of employees trained. (Additional indicator) sustainability; communication activities Responsible purchasing provided. and supplier relations Aspect: Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Monitoring results 1, 2, 6 Violations against our discrimination policy in our own operation are handled locally and data is not aggregated on Group level. As noncompliances detected in our supplier factories are part of our global supplier audit data related data is reported. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Employee relations; 1, 2, 3 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to Our Code of Conduct; support these rights. Monitoring and grading; Beyond Monitoring; FLA worker participation project 162 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, Our Code of Conduct; 1, 2, 5 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. Monitoring and grading; Cotton from Uzbekistan; All for Children Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Our Code of Conduct; 1, 3, 4 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced Monitoring and grading or compulsory labour. Aspect: Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional indicator) Aspect: Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Society Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures Sustainability Policy, Strengthening Communities 163 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Community SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess Strengthening and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, communities operating and exiting. AF33 Priorities in community investment strategy. Policy and focus AF34 Amount of investment in worker communities broken down by location. Our community investments 2010 at a glance Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related Code of Ethics 10 to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies Code of Ethics 10 and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Code of Ethics 10 Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Political contribution and 1 , 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and lobbying. lobbying; Working in 7, 8, 9, 10 partnership – influencing public policy 164 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Commentary Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Political contributions and 1 , 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, on SO5 lobbying: lobbying; Working in 7, 8, 9, 10 Report public policy position on the inclusion of labour and environmental partnership – influencing protections in trade agreements and the degree to which lobbying positions public policy integrate considerations about the potential effects on workers, communities, and organisations in the supply chain under Compilation 2.3 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Political contribution 10 politicians, and related institutions by country (Additional indicator) and lobbying Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional indicator) Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures Provide fashion for conscious customers Aspect: Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Quality Assurance 1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 165 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional indicator) Aspect : Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and REACH percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. (Additional indicator) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional indicator) Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Responsible Marketing related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional indicator) 166 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage Not relevant EXTENT OF REPORTING INDICATOR DESCRIPTION COVERAGE LOCATION links UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES Aspect: Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Cross-Cutting Commentary Apparel and Footwear Sector Specific Aspect: Capacity Building Commentary for “Training and Education” in the Environment, Labour, A message from our Human Rights, Society, and Product Responsibility Disclosure on CEO; Training and Management Approach sections: This guidance applies to employees communication on internal to the reporting organisation. Indicator AF5 refers to training and sustainability education programs in workplaces within the reporting organisation’s supply chain. ** Reporting organisations must also include entities that they monitor (i.e., those defined as under significant influence by the Report Boundary guidance). 167 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS
