Axfood 2010 SUSTAINABILITY report The environment – an integral part of the value chain Customers – a product offering for the healthand environmentally conscious Suppliers: Employees: A customer-oriented – ethical and social responsibility company culture Society – enduring SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 partnerships for sustainability Corporate responsibility at Axfood Corporate responsibility at Axfood – trust and value creation Axfood is one of Sweden’s leading opment and thereby be the best in the practice and high standards of business ethfood retail companies. The ability to industry. ics in relation to its suppliers and other busitake responsibility for sustainable This work rests on a foundation of ness partners. To ensure uniform conduct development is essential for earning the Axfood’s core values and Code of Conduct, among all employees, Axfood has had a polalong with the Company’s sustainability proicy that lays out the Group’s position on the trust of the Company’s stakeholders. gramme, which covers environmental matoffering and accepting of bribes, corruption, Axfood believes that sustainability work ters as well as social issues and animal weland general collaboration within the industry. and sound economics go hand in hand. fare. Through strongly rooted core values This policy is updated annually, and pertinent By being a driver of sustainability issues, and corporate responsibility, value is also employees are required to certify in writing Axfood creates the right offerings for its created for the shareholders. that they have read and acknowledge the polcustomers, which in turn leads to better Axfood’s sustainability work is based on icy. These include employees who have the business. the UN definition of sustainability – “Develright to authorize payments for a profit centre opment that meets the needs of the present or who in some other way have a say in purAxfood’s goals and strategies rest on the without compromising the ability of future chasing decisions for goods or services. conviction that the environment and social generations to meet their own needs”. In 2010, 818 employees signed the policy. responsibility, a strong customer orientation, and proud and committed employCode of Conduct for business ethics Organization and implementation ees are vital driving forces in the compaAccording to the Axfood Group’s Code of Axfood takes a business approach to its ny’s value creation. Axfood strives to be an Conduct, Axfood shall conduct its business in work on sustainability matters. An important active driver of work on sustainable develaccordance with generally accepted business strategy is to integrate issues in the business Axfood’s key stakeholders consis­t of the groups that are affected most by and/or affect the Company’s­operations. The issues that are perceived as the most important by the Company’s stakeholders­provide guidance in the Group’s sustainability and CSR work. 2 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 activities and promote involvement throughSustainability programme sustainability work involves conducting out the organization. Axfood’s sustainability programme is an environ­mental impact statements prior to Axfood’s Executive Committee and Head important governance tool for the Group’s major structural changes. Axfood also wants of Environment and Social Respon­sibility sustainability initiatives. The programme to offer its customers opportunities to make work on an overarching level with strategies, describes goals, strategies and follow-up wise and conscious choices by working with overall goals and measures, and follow-up. of the Group’s sustainability work and is its offering of products, such as organic and Sustainability matters are discussed­on revised once a year. Fairtrade Certified products, and with cona regular basis by Axfood’s Executive Comsumer information. mittee. Axfood’s sustainability programme is To be able to work in an integrated fashion, Reporting presented in its entirety on Axfood’s it is important that the individual companies Axfood reports on its sustainability work website: www.axfood.com. within the Axfood Group have operational in accordance with the Global Reporting responsibility for their own sustainability Initiative­(GRI) guidelines, Level B. Accordwork. Sustainability coordinators have been Precautionary principle ingly, all indicators must be relevant, correct appointed in all of Axfood’s companies. It is The precautionary principle is used in a and possible to monitor. Axfood’s sustainalso important to gradually raise the employproactive sense in the Group’s sustainability ability work is currently not subject to exterees’ competence in the area of basic knowl­ work. Examples in practice are that Axfood nal audit. edge about sustainability issues as well as has stopped buying both baby bottles and Axfood’s commercial benefit from being an cash register receipts that contain BPA industry leader in sustainability work. (bisphenol). Another example of pro­active SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION AXFOOD’S STAKEHOLDERS Customers: Axfood is striving to broaden its offerCEO Owners: ing and boost sales of Enkla Vägen EXECUTIVE Committee Axfood shall create (“Simple Path”) products – enduring value for Axfood’s own marking that its shareholders by helps customers make conexercising corposcious, sustainable choices. rate responsibility. Employees: Suppliers: Axfood By making demands AXFOOD’S wants and conducting a SUSTAINABILITY proud and dialogue, Axfood WORK committed strives to raise the employees, and level of its suppliers’ SUSTAINABILITY HEAD OF ENVIRONMENT to be a collaborative and sustainability­work. COORDINATORS AND SOCIAL effective organization. RESPONSIBILITY Society: Environmental Axfood strives to actively officers at contribute to society by stores influencing and being AXFOOD’S responsive. BUSINESS Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 3 Corporate responsibility at Axfood The environment – an integral part of the value chain One of Axfood’s strategic objectives Axfood’s sustainability policy integrates stores and warehouses with energy-intenis to be an active driver of sustainable general principles with previously estabsive installations such as refrigerators, development in the environmental area lished policies regarding the environment freezer displays and stockrooms. Conseand thereby be the best in the industry. and social responsibility. One of the tarquently, Axfood attaches great importance gets set in the sustainability programme is to continuous development work aimed at In the day-to-day activities, sustainability for Axfood to reduce the climate impact of reducing the amount of energy consumed in aspects are integrated with purchasing its own operations by 75% by 2020. A large its operations. and product selection as well as with part of this goal was achieved already in logistics, transports and product flows, Electricity consumption for Group-owned 2010, when Axfood switched over to renewstore operations and waste handling. stores and wholesale facilities 1) able and source-labelled electricity. StartMWh 2010 2009 2008 ing in 2013 Axfood’s intention is to change Retailing 304,481 289,272 281,296 Energy use, transports and waste handling over to electricity that qualifies for the Bra Wholesaling 37,221 36,961 38,821 are priority areas for Axfood’s sustainabilMiljöval (“Good Environmental Choice”) ecoTotal 341,702 326,233 320,117 ity work in the environmental area. All of label. Number of stores 230 225 226 these areas are of major importance for Electricity use kWh/ Axfood’s business and have major potential Energy consumption sq.m., stores 624 611 637 for improvement. Axfood’s business is conducted in large Electricity use kWh/ sq.m., wholesale facilities 249 248 260 Total CO2, tonnes* 13,705 36,212 39,374 1) Partly estimated values. * Since 2010, Axfood purchases electricity from renewable The energy challenge sources for most of its facilities. Transports One of the most ambitious objectives in Axfood’s sustainability programme Axfood’s business requires extensive prodis to reduce the Group’s energy consumption per square metre by 30% by 2015. uct flows. Axfood strives to ensure that these To achieve this target, Axfood has chosen to work on a Group-wide basis under transports are long-term sustainable as far the coordination of a management team. This management team is headed by as possible. Axfood’s President and CEO. In 2010 new technology for measuring and monitorAxfood manages its logistics flows ing was tested, a review was carried out of leases to make sure that financial incenthrough the subsidiary Dagab and through a tives have been carried out, the stores with the central purchasing and product range funchighest energy consumption were identified, tion. Transports are conducted under own and work was initiated on a programme focusmanagement via the subsidiaries Dagab ing on operations. The goal of reducing energy and Axfood Närlivs as well as through subconsumption by 4% per square metre in 2010 contracted freight companies. Axfood’s own was not achieved. One reason is the combidelivery fleet currently includes 143 vehicles. nation of a cold winter and warm summer in All delivery trucks are to have well 2010. In addition, considerable time had to be planned routes and shall always be driven as spent on fundamental matters, such as ensurfully loaded as possible. When renewing the ing correct measurement of energy consumpfleet, vehicles with the environmentally best tion. One positive example in this project is and commercially most viable engines are Axfood’s head offices in Solna, outside Stockto be chosen. All new delivery trucks that are holm. Through simple measures – above all purchased are equipped with alcohol ignimeasuring and creating a visualization of tion locks. Currently 85% of Axfood’s vehielectricity consumption per office floor – eleccles are fitted with alcohol ignition locks. tricity consumption at the head offices was To minimize environmental impact, reduced by 15% in 2010. Dagab and Axfood Närlivs work continuously 4 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Target for reduced CO2 emissions by 2020 75% with a range of measures, including: • Maximizing loads, i.e., making sure that delivery vehicles are always filled as much as possible • Reducing fuel consumption by setting a maximum speed limit of 85 km/h • Restricting use of diesel fuel to environmental grade 1. Both Dagab and Axfood Närlivs use socalled eco-driving techniques to reduce fuel consumption by the Company’s delivery vehicles, and drivers receive training in this technique. An incentive for drivers has been coupled to this: the savings obtained from lower fuel consumption are shared between the company and drivers who save fuel. The goal is that these measures will reduce fuel consumption by 10% by 2015. With the help of a new system for managing vehicle economy, temperature monitoring and environmental reporting, called FleetTech, Dagab can monitor every single vehicle, which provides documentation for improvement measures and follow-up. During the year, Dagab began using environmental pallets made of plastic. They are lighter than wooden pallets, easy to recycle and stackable, thereby reducing return transports, fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions, transports ¹ ) Year Total CO2, tonnes 2010 10,198 2009 10,476 2008 10,680 Stronger grasp on recycling CO2 kg/tonne products 21.61 24.32 25.09 In 2010 new, high-quality guidelines for waste sorting were drawn up for all fracCO2 kg/SEK m in sales2) 833.83 899.96 976.72 tions. The objective is to ensure that as much waste as possible is recycled and to Number of own vehicles 143 143 145 take advantage of potential sources of revenue from sorted waste, such as shrink and 1) Total volume for Dagab’s and Axfood Närlivs’ own delivery vehicles­– transports from own warehouses to stores. stretch wrap. 2) Pertains to delivered value using own vehicles. A new, major procurement process that reflected this elevated level of ambition was carried out at the central level with waste management companies for all GroupCO2 emissions, business travel owned stores. 2010 2009 Food waste will be sorted for biogas production in municipalities where the posCO2 air travel, tonnes* 762 770 sibility exists. CO2 rail travel, tonnes* 0 0 The new waste management strategy also includes the creation of a new waste CO2 car travel, tonnes 772 1 030 portal that will serve as an effective tool for compiling statistics on material flows. * Pertains to business travel booked by travel agencies. Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 5 Corporate responsibility at Axfood Business travel quently, Axfood strives to purchase products pace with changed conditions regarding Axfood strives to reduce the extent of busithat have the least environmental impact. In which types of fish are red-listed. In general ness travel. Accordingly, employees are addition, Axfood strives to make it easier for the policy entails that the offering of ecorequired to always consider videoconferconsumers to buy organic products. labelled fish is being continuously improved. encing as an alternative to travel. In addiAll fruits and vegetables purchased by The work on drawing up guidelines for tion, the Group’s business travel policy calls the Group must be certified according to the product purchasing from the perspective of for an increase in the share of business rules for integrated production. This entails environmental and social responsibility for travel by rail instead of by car or air. When taking environmental considerations into various product categories was concluded choosing a company car, Axfood’s employaccount and avoiding the use of unnecesin 2010. ees are required to select an environmensary pesticides. tal car according to the current definitions. In 2010 Axfood purchased green palm oil At present, 90% of the company car fleet is certificates corresponding to the volume of PRIORITIES 2011 made up of environmental cars, and the goal palm oil used in the production of its private is to reach 100% by early 2011. label products, or changed over to other vegThe work on energy efficiency etable oils than palm oil. improvement will continue to have Waste and recycling The use of palm oil is controversial, since high priority in 2011. The recycling All of Axfood’s offices, stores and warein many locations, oil palm plantations have project, involving improved waste houses currently have waste sorting routines been established on land that was once rain sorting, will be introduced at the in place. The ambition is to improve waste forest. When a food manufacturer buys cerGroup’s stores during the year. sorting in all activities. Since 2002 sorting tificates, it entails that money goes to growinstructions have been printed on the packers who produce palm oil using sustainable A web-based training programme aging of all of Axfood’s private label prodproduction practices. that was created in 2010, focusucts. Axfood’s fish policy entails, among other ing on environmental issues, will be things, that fish and shellfish from threatextended to all employees in 2011 Purchasing and product selection ened populations may not be sold in Axfood and 2012. Training days will be held The choice of products in Axfood’s offerstores. The WWF’s red list is used as a guidefor all environmental officers at ing has an environmental impact in producline for which populations are threatened. Willys­stores. tion, transport and consumption. ConseThe policy is dynamic and is updated in Du handlar Ecolabelling of Willys i en miljömärkt butik! Willys and the Swedish Society for Nature Conservaenergy efficiency. By tion (SSNC) have established a long-term collaboration dating receiving SSNC’s ecoback to 2009, where SSNC is serving as a strategic environmenlabel, Willys gains value added that is important for customers tal partner to Willys and thus a resource in the company’s suswhile inspiring its employees to work actively with environmentainability work. By year-end 2010 this partnership had resulted tal matters. An important result of the ecolabelling process is in all Willys stores receiving the Bra Miljöval (“Good Environthat environmental officers have been appointed at all stores to mental Choice”) ecolabel. This work will continue in 2011 with ensure that they continue to live up to SSNC’s requirements. the ecolabelling of Willys hemma stores. Willys is also stepping up its campaign activity together with The ecolabelling process involves a comprehensive review SSNC and is working on providing improved environmental of stores with respect to product selection, waste handling and information to its customers. 6 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Starting in 2011 Hemköp will be first in Sweden to offer plastic bags made of renewable material. The bags are made of “green” polyethylene, in which the main raw material is sugarcane. Plastic­ bags made of green polyethylene result in 70%–75% lower CO2 emissions than ordinary plastic bags. The new bags will be available at all Hemköp stores in early 2011. (The text on the bag reads: “A green bag. Oil-free. Made of sugarcane.”) Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 7 Corporate responsibility at Axfood Customers – a product offering for the healthand environmentally conscious Axfood’s customers are growing Both PrisXtra and Hemköp have stopped including soap, detergent and hair care increasingly conscious about the selling eggs from caged hens. products. This work has involved developing environment and health, and expect new and in some cases innovative products Axfood to meet their demands for Organic and Fairtrade that bear the “Swan” ecolabel and allergy Certified product brands information, performing life cycle analyses, environmentally adapted, healthy and Garant Ekologiska varor is Axfood’s own and climate compensating and conductsafe foods at competitive prices. Axfood organic private label. The aim of the brand ing quality tests. A total of 22 products have is meeting this demand with a steadily is to offer organic everyday foods at a reabeen developed from this project and will be evolving range of organic, Fairtrade sonable price. The products are sold in all launched in early 2011. Certified and healthy products along with of Axfood’s store concepts. At year-end the a wide array of products for diabetics and brand comprised 63 items, and it is being Quality assurance of private label products people with various food allergies. continuously expanded. Axfood’s private label products are a vital part of the Group’s work on offering the best Customers should also feel confident about possible customer benefit. Axfood has two Garant Ekologiska products are described the products they buy, which is why Axfood quality levels for its private label products: in more detail on a dedicated website, dedicates extensive attention to strict qualmid-range, encompassing the Garant, Willys­ www.tyckomgarant.se/ekologiskt. ity control, both with respect to its private and Hemköp brands, and budget, under the label products and brand-name products Eldorado brand. Added to these are Garant from external suppliers. The Group’s internal Axfood’s Fairtrade Certified product brand Ekologiska varor (organic products) and the inspection programme at stores and ware– Aware – included 12 products at year-end, Fairtrade Certified brand Aware. houses is also contributing to food safety. including coffee, tea and chocolate. Regardless of product, food safety is a The goal of increasing the share of organic keystone on which no compromises can Animal welfare measures products to 3% of food sales in 2010 was not be made. Suppliers of Axfood’s private Concern for animal welfare is promptreached during the year. Consequently, comlabel food products must have plants that ing growing numbers of consumers to buy plementary measures designed to improve are certified according to any of the standorganic food. To meet this rising demand, the product range strategy will be carried ards approved by the Global Food Safety Axfood has focused on offering a broader out in 2011. Initiative. For household chemical prodselection of organic beef and pork, which During the year, extensive development ucts, cosmetics­and skin care products, ISO grew to 65 items during the year. Axfood work was conducted to develop a line of 9001 or GPM standards apply. For certain sells organic meat only with Sweden’s own environment-friendly nonfood products, other nonfood products, such as toys and KRAV certification, which has considerably more stringent animal welfare standards Hemköp Willys Willys Hemma PrisXtra than other organic certifications. 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 Sales of organic meat rose 28% in 2010. Number of “Keyhole”During the year, source labelling was begun labelled products* 1,279 2015 1,551 905 1260 899 488 586 484 918 787 for the meat used in the Group’s private Sales as % of total 9.08 9.52 9.93 8.63 9.55 9.27 8.86 9.67 9.55 7.69 4.02 label products, with the aim of completing Number of organic this process in 2011. products 1,108 1120 966 552 549 487 235 208 172 669 522 In its procurement of non-organic meat, Sales as % of total 3.15 2.88 2.98 1.68 1.49 1.04 1.72 2.13 1.52 2.49 1.17 Number of Fairtrade Axfood adheres to the animal welfare criCertified­products 83 80 51 51 55 31 30 31 18 61 54 teria that apply for pigs in the UK, i.e., the Sales as % of total 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.10 0.07 0.12 0.15 0.12 0.11 0.04 requirements that have been set for DanNumber of hypoaller­ ish pork that is imported by certain grocery genic products 259 369 255 179 230 154 77 86 66 167 117 chains in the UK. * New criteria for Keyhole labeling since June 2009. 8 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Higher sales of organic products 7.2% electrical­appliances, documentation and To ensure the ongoing work on food safety Quality assurance of private label products certification for CE labeling are required. For for its private label products, each year 2010 2009 2008 Product recalls from products intended to come into contact with Axfood’s quality assurance inspectors con35 49 22 stores, private label food, suppliers must be able to certify that duct their own microbiological and chemical Product recalls from the product is made of approved material in analyses of products based on the relevant stores, other 54 64 70 accordance with Normpack’s rules. risks for each individual product. Share of private label­ suppliers approved For vegetables, root vegetables and Prior to launch, every mid-range prodaccording­to GFSI, % 97 94 93 fruit, Axfood purchases only from suppliers uct is blind-tested by an external consumer that are certified according to Global GAP panel of 65–80 people, and to make it all the Internal control programmes or equivalent. Packing companies must be way to store shelves, it must receive compar­ at stores and warehouses certified according to any of the standards able marks to the market-leading product. Axfood is increasingly being expected to approved by the Global Food Safety Initiative. Budget products are blind-tested interperform internal controls of various parts Suppliers that have not completed certinally in Axfood’s own test kitchen to ensure of its operations to ensure compliance with fication can request dispensation if they can that they, as a minimum, are comparable to regulatory requirements and that its own present a credible timetable for certification. other budget products on the market. quality standards are being met. Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 9 Corporate responsibility at Axfood Internal control programmes are an imporDuring these visits, microbiological tests IDs of customers purchasing age-restricted tant tool for such follow-up. Axfood conducts are taken and an assessment is made of the products who appear to be 25 or younger. regular internal controls in the areas of food stores’ internal control work. Food safety is Internal controls are also conducted that safety, product shelf life and systematic fire a key control point also in concept follow-up measure stores’ performance in requesting safety work. activities, which are conducted twice a year customer IDs in accordance with this policy. at each store. Food safety Municipal environment and health Ethical exclusions Axfood applies internal control programmes departments conduct inspections at both In its wholly owned stores, Axfood has in both its retail and wholesale operations to wholesale and retail facilities. In connection decided to refrain from selling products that ensure customers’ right to safe food. with these inspections, controls are made to are incompatible with the Company’s values­. In cooperation with the trade organiensure that the facilities meet the statutory This includes magazines with a pornographic zation Svensk Dagligvaruhandel and othrequirements for food handling permits. content as well as cider and so-called alcoers, Axfood has participated in the creation pop (fruit drinks with an alcohol content of of an internal control programme called Alcohol, tobacco, gambling more than 2.25%). Nor are concentrated “Safe food in your store”, which has been and pharmaceuticals energy drinks (shots) sold in Axfood stores. endorsed by the Swedish National Food Sweden has a minimum legal age of 18 for Administration. The programme is in place the sale of tobacco, alcoholic beverages at all of Axfood’s stores. and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals. The PRIORITIES 2011 Under this control programme, stores same applies for all types of gambling and perform certain daily controls, delivery for certain types of lotteries. In its GroupAxfood will continue to prioritize arrival controls and temperature controls at owned stores Axfood has chosen to not sell higher sales of organic products, the departmental level. Clear routines are lottery tickets to youths under 18 years of with the goal that they will account in place for handling unpackaged foods to age. Axfood has also set a minimum age of for at least 6% of total food sales ensure food hygiene and the integrity of the 15 to purchase energy drinks at its stores. by 2015. cold chain. All controls are documented on To ensure compliance with minimum Consumer information about fish, checklists, which are kept on hand in the age requirements, Axfood conducts its respective departments. own internal control programme for ageshellfish and the environment will be Axfood also has a Group-wide agreerestricted products, consisting of staff trainimproved – especially climate informent with a food safety firm that visits each ing and routines for verifying ages. Axfood mation for Willys customers. of the Group-owned stores four times a year. requires all checkout employees to check Life cycle analyses reduce climate impact of Axfood’s private label products Axfood always strives for as little climate impact as poscycle has been analysed: production, packaging, transports and sible from its operations. To identify the greatest sources of stock-keeping. The analyses looked at the entire journey from carbon dioxide emissions in the production chain of Axfood’s primary production at Axfood’s subcontractors to the customprivate label products, ers who buy the products at any of Axfood’s stores. With these detailed life cycle life cycle analyses as a foundation, Axfood has been able to analyses have been identify the parts of the chain with the greatest climate impact conducted of 32 and to thereby focus its work on curbing climate impact in areas products with the that it is the greatest. help of Tricorona Climate Partner and the Swedish Institute for Food and Biotechnology (SIK). To obtain the most accurate calculations possible, the entire life 10 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Suppliers – ethical and social responsibility Axfood’s relations with suppliers are to and ILO’s conventions on human rights and in purchasing from China and Southeast be characterized by generally accepted rights of the child. Asia, builds up supplier contacts and monibusiness practices and high standards Together with local auditors, Axfood vistors developments in markets in China and of business ethics. At the same time, it is its production facilities of selected suppliers Southeast Asia. The office serves as a vital to see how well they comply with the laws resource in recruiting good suppliers and important to make sure that suppliers of in their own countries with respect to workavoiding quality problems as well as doing both products and services comply with ers’ rights and working conditions, as well business with suppliers that do not live up to national laws and regulations and that as with the above-mentioned conventions. Axfood’s Code of Conduct. Staff members at international conventions are respected. These visits are based on SA 8000, the interthe office have received training in Axfood’s nationally recognized standard for social Code of Conduct and knowledge about A guiding point in these relationships is the audits. Axfood’s primary focus is on such social audits, but do not perform the actual Company’s Code of Conduct, which is based factors as child labour, workers’ rights, work audits themselves. on internationally recognized conventions environment and housing conditions. A total of 12 inspections were made in on human rights and workers’ rights as well The number of inspections has been 2010, including a tea plantation in India and as international environmental regulations. increased gradually, and follow-up measures a clothes factory in China. The Code of Conduct lays down Axfood’s have been improved, such as through repeat position and commitment to its suppliers as visits that are to be carried out within a year. A Imports of private label products well as to the Group’s own employees and systematic risk country assessment has been from various regions other partners. produced, based on a number of different No. Shares Companies that supply products or indexes. This assessment provides documenEurope incl. Sweden 2,650 92.6% services to Axfood Group companies are tation for priorities regarding inspections and Asia 201 7.0% required to meet the requirements stipualso serves as a guide in purchasing. Africa 0 0.0% lated in the Code of Conduct. In addition, Deviations from laws and conventions North America 8 0.3% all suppliers of products and services are are addressed in a dialogue between Axfood South America 2 0.1% responsible for ensuring that their subconand the supplier and lead in most cases to Total 2,861 tractors also meet the Code’s requirements. improvements at the companies visited. In the event no improvements are made, PRIORITIES 2011 Human rights inspections Axfood terminates the cooperation. Axfood’s Code of Conduct stipulates that Axfood’s representative office in Double the number of social audits suppliers that produce goods for Axfood’s Shanghai­plays a key role in improving compared to 2010. stores must be in compliance with the UN’s risk assessments. The office participates Audit of a Swedish cleaning contractor In 2010 Axfood made an improved assessment of which counadverse conditions were discovered. An action plan was tries are risk countries with respect to social conditions and the drawn up in consultation with the cleaning company. environment. The aim is to set better priorities for SA8000 audits A follow-up inspection in summer 2010 showed that the of contractors. audit had produced positive results. Apart from the fact However, the risks vary not only from country to country, but also that conditions at the cleaning company improved as a between industries. One industry that Axfood has identified as being result of the audit and follow-up inspection, Axfood and its at risk is the cleaning industry. Accordingly, an audit was conducted companies have also sent an important signal to others in of a large cleaning contractor for Willys in Sweden. the industry that they are serious about ensuring that The audit of the cleaning company identified a number of cleaning companies work in accordance with Axfood’s Code deficiencies that need to be addressed, even though no serious of Conduct. Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 11 Corporate responsibility at Axfood Amount donated to Save the Children­together with Axfood’s­customers SEK 2 m Society – enduring partnerships for sustainability Axfood participates on a regular basis in Membership in the Diversity Charter entails Cooperation and membership in organizations consultations and discussions with public that all member-companies sign a contract that Carbon Disclosure Roundtable on agencies on current issues. Above all it is the they will work actively with diversity based on Project Sustainable Palm Oil Swedish National Food Administration, the set targets. CSR Sweden Swedish Association of The Diversity Charter was founded in France Diversity Charter Sverige Environmental Managers Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish in 2004 and is active in several other European Global compact Swedish Society for Environmental Protection Agency whose Nature­Conservation countries, with thousands of member-companies. Haga Initiative purview concerns Axfood’s operations. Handelns SäkerhetsSave the Children Other initiative-takers include A-Search, Lectia, grupp SOS barnbyar Sverige Industry-wide matters are conducted within L’Oréal, Managing Diversity, Novartis, Scandic, the framework of the trade organization Svensk Sodexo, Skanska and Volvo Car Corporation. Dagligvaruhandel, which has its own environmental council. Examples of activities include Retailers’ safety work standards as well as how to implement EU legHandelns Säkerhetsgrupp (HSG), in which islation in Sweden’s national regulatory frameAxfood is a member, is a non-political asso­ Main sponsor of work. Other trade organizations, such as for ciation for security officers from retail chains packaging and newspaper recycling, are also throughout Sweden. On behalf of the retail Save the Children contact interfaces with society at large. industry, HSG lobbies decision-makers and In spring 2010 Axfood became the media on security issues and strives to a main sponsor of Save the Children The Haga Initiative promote­cooperation between its members Sweden. Axfood supports Save the Axfood is one of the initiative-takers behind the in developing­security work. The overall Children’s important work on proso-called Haga Initiative, a climate network dedobjectives­of security­work are to create greater moting children’s rights to secure icated to reducing emissions from industry, prosecurity for employees­and customers, and education through the Rewrite moting the climate issue and acting as a model to create conditions for greater profitability. the Future educational campaign for companies that take active responsibility on in Ivory Coast. During the spring, climate concerns. Non-profit organizations Axfood also helped collect donaOne requirement for membership is that the Axfood’s intention is to establish long-term parttions to earthquake-ravaged Haiti. company commits itself to reducing its emisnerships with non-profit organizations on susWillys and PrisXtra customers sions by at least 40% by 2020. Axfood’s target tainability initiatives, such as the Swedish Socican choose to donate their can and is to cut its emissions by 75% by 2020. ety for Nature Conservation (SSNC), WWF and bottle deposits to Save the ChilEight companies have joined the Haga IniGreenpeace. In 2010 discussions were held with dren. During the year, Willys custiative: Coca-Cola Enterprise Sverige, Fortum SSNC, WWF, Greenpeace, Animal Rights Sweden tomers thereby donated more than Värme, JM, Procter & Gamble Sverige, Stena and Fairtrade. SEK 1 m to relief work in Haiti and Metal, Svenska Statoil and Vasakronan. The Axfood is also a member of the Roundtable on education in Ivory Coast. network­is coordinated by Tricorona. Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), as part of its effort During the autumn, Hemköp and to contribute to protecting the world’s rain forWillys conducted a store campaign Diversity network ests. RSPO’s mission is to establish a credible and in which one krona was donated to During the year, the Diversity Charter Sweden practical system for trading in certified palm oil. Save the Children for each krona of network was launched, with Axfood as one of the Since December 2009 Axfood has served as Garant Ekologiska products sold. initiative-takers. The aim of this company neta partner with Save the Children Sweden, entailThis campaign raised SEK 235,000 work is to share knowledge and experience suring a large number of activities at Axfood stores for Save the Children. rounding diversity and thereby contribute to sucfor a long time to come. In 2010 this included As one of the leading independcessful and profitable work with diversity issues. fitting can and bottle recycling machines with a ent children’s rights organizations Axfood sees employee diversity as a key to suc“donate” button so customers can donate their in the world, Save the Children is cess and profitability, and therefore strives for an deposit money to Save the Children. At year-end dedicated to ensuring children’s embracing and inclusive company culture that 2010 Axfood was Save the Children Sweden’s rights to food, shelter, healthcare, will enable the Company to fully benefit from all second largest sponsor. education, and a life without vioits employees’ experience and competence. Axfood does not side with any political parlence, assault and exploitation. ties in the positions it takes on various issues. 12 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Number of e-learning courses conducted since 2008 50,000 Employees – a customeroriented company culture Axfood wants proud and committed employees Equal treatment and diversity who work according to the Group’s core values in a collaborative and business-driven organization. Axfood has a Group-wide equal opportunity and diversity policy. Based on this, all companies within the Group are required to draw up plans to support their Nurturing a dynamic and shared foundation of vallocal equal opportunity and diverues is central to achieving success. This applies for sity work. Diversity in society shall establishing a customer-oriented company culture as also be reflected in diversity among well as for developing leadership and attitudes that Axfood’s employees. strengthen entrepreneurial spirit. Axfood has an explicit objecThrough knowledge-sharing, training and dialogue­, tive of achieving an even gender Axfood strives to create consensus on matters such balance in leadership positions, as employeeship, leadership and customer service­. entailing representation of men Training in sales and service is designed to boost and women within a span of 40%– employees’ customer focus and commitment to sales. 60% by 2015 at the latest. The The Group’s Employee Satisfaction Index provides Group is working toward this goal documentation for improvements and development of using standardized processes for leadership. recruitment and management To promote the retail sector as an attractive place succession. to work and ensure succession – both internally and During the year, Axfood’s CFO externally – Axfood also emphasizes equality and Karin Hygrell-Jonsson received diversity, health and balance, trainee and internship an award as ESM Businesspositions, and competence development of managers woman of the Year by European in its recruiting. Supermarket Magazine. Growing with Axfood The Axfood Academy is the Group’s centre for seminars and increase cooperation and understanding between support­functrainee programmes. The Academy provides training to all tions and stores. employees as well as development programmes for managers­ Recruitment training for managers is a standing feature of the within the Group. In 2010, 1,890 employees participated in a Axfood Academy’s course offering. The aim is to achieve better and total of 3,850 days of training. E-learning has emerged as a costmore cost-effective recruitment, where the competence and profile effective­and environmentally friendly form of training, which of newly recruited employees better matches the Group’s needs. can be extended to all employees despite their broad geographic Axfood takes a structured approach to management succession spread across the country. Since the introduction of this form of within the Group in order to meet future competency needs. Every training in 2008, 50,000 courses have been completed, and more year an inventory is taken of potential leaders within the Group and than 3,500 employees are today of which employees are ready to take on a leadership position. certified­­in knowledge about store To ensure access to talented store managers, every year a operations and perishables. trainee programme is carried out for 12–14 prospective store Courses in sales and service­ managers. The programme combines theory, practical training increase employees’ customer focus and project work and caters to employees who show an interest in and involvement in selling­. Instructor­ developing toward greater challenges. -led courses and e-learning­at stores A Group trainee programme is also in place, which is designed give employees­both know­ledge to ensure access to competent and committed employees with and security in order to better meet a broad base of knowledge about Axfood’s operations. A new customers­’ needs. Mandatory inaspect of the 2010 programme is that half of the participants were store seminars for office employees­ recruited internally and the other half externally. Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 13 Corporate responsibility at Axfood Health and balance Satisfied employees Axfood’s employees are encouraged to take parental leave, and the In autumn 2009 a new form of employee survey was introduced Company tops up the state benefit to ensure that employees receive to measure the work climate, with leadership as an important 80% of their salary during leave if their salary exceeds the ceiling component. In 2010 this survey served as documentation for amount provided by the social insurance office. Employees are also feedback, dialogue and improvements. With the help of an effecencouraged to participate in exercise activities, through a fitness tive work tool, the culture of the organization is being mapped subsidy from Axfood. out, which in turn will serve as documentation for improving the All Axfood employees are to participate in an annual development work group. review with their immediate superior. A sales premium that was decided on in 2009 was introduced Company health services are provided in close proximity to the at Axfood’s stores during the year. respective workplaces with a primary focus on preventive care. The company Universum, which works with activities surAxfood conducts systematic work environment and safety activirounding attractive places to work, nominated Axfood as the ties in all operations to ensure safe and sound workplaces. This work, newcomer of the year in its Young Professionals category. which involves Axfood’s Head of HR, Louise Ring, was nominated for the HR all employees, is Manager of the Year award by Management Events. based on identifying risks as early as possible and ensuring that business is conducted in compliance with the Work Environment Act and the regulations of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Reporting is conducted to the respective companies’ boards to guarantee that work environment matters are brought to the attention of management at the respective companies. All Axfood employees covered by collective agreements Depending on what business they are engaged in, Axfood AB and its subsidiaries­are bound by at least one of the three nationwide collective bargaining agreements that exist for the retail trade, the wholesale trade, or salaried employees. The union counterparts for the first two of these are the Commercial Employees Union, and for the last one Unionen. All employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, since individual­employment contracts refer to such agreements with respect to general terms of employment. The collective agreements stipulate the minimum level of benefits. Thus in certain areas more favourable terms may exist than those stipulated by collective agreements. The collective agreements contain rules on notice periods whose length varies from one to twelve months, depending on the employee’s­ age and length of employment. They also describe the importance of performance reviews for identifying a need for competence-raising measures. In 2010 new, two-year collective agreements were signed with the Commercial Employees Union and Unionen. 14 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Focus on the environment in new training initiatives Knowledgeable and committed employees are a pre­ requisite for Axfood to be the best in the industry in sustainable development. Toward this end, during the year Axfood developed a Groupwide environmental training programme­that is also extended to proprietor-operated stores. The goal is to instil in all employees a fundamental understanding of Axfood’s sustainability programme and knowledge in order to be able to answer customers’ questions. The training follows a product’s path from the supplier, via transport to stores and then home to the customer. Focus is on product ecolabelling and the importance of sorting packaging material. According to plans, 70% of employees shall have completed the training by year-end 2011, with the remainder completing the training in the following year. Employee statistics PRIORITIES 2011 2010 2009 2008 Work attendance, retail, % 95.4 94.9 94.7 Start implementation of Axfood’s environmental training Work attendance, wholesale, % 93.9 93.9 93.5 programme on a broad front in stores, offices and wareWork attendance, staffs 97.3 97.1 97.1 houses. Employee turnover rate, % 11.8 9.8 8.4 Men/women, % 10.8/12.6 9.5/10.0 8.9/8.1 To promote the retail sector as an attractive place to work, Age category, –29, % 16.2 13.2 9.4 Axfood will open up its workplaces for high school internAge category, 30–49, % 8.8 7.1 7.9 ships. Age category, –50, % 12.3 10.3 8.3 Activities will be carried out to increase diversity in the workAverage service time, years 9.1 8.9 8.7 place and reduce sickness-related absences. Number of full-time employees 4,332 3,840 4,178 Number of part-time employees 3,486 4,298 3,257 Preparations will also be made in 2011 to introduce a cenAverage number of employees 6,895 6,816 6,847 tral HR support function to serve all employees in the Group. Number of men 3,214 3,135 3,112 Number of women 3,681 3,681 3,735 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 15 GRI Report – Level B GRI Report – Level B Axfood reports on its sustainability work in accordance with the report does not differ from Axfood’s previous reports and the methGlobal­Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, level B. Axfood uses the ods used there. However, certain emission factors have changed Global Compact principles for its sustainability work. The calculacompared with the preceding year. In contrast to a year ago, the tion methods for carbon dioxide emissions are based in part on the reporting of EN16 does not include refrigerants. Axfood is reviewing guidelines outlined in the Haga Initiative, which are based on the its data collection method for this. GHG protocol. The calculation method used in the Haga Initiative is During the year, Axfood was not issued any fines for sanctions described in more detail on Axfood’s website: www.axfood.se. against environmental legislation, food safety or other legislation. The sustainability indicators listed below cover Group-owned The table below shows where the information is presented in the retail and wholesale operations. The Group’s franchise stores curAnnual report 2010. In addition to the profile and governance data rently do not report sustainability data centrally to Axfood and are prescribed by the GRI, the table covers all core indicators as well therefore not covered by the report. The same applies for external as the complementary indicators that are judged to be relevant for transport contractors in the wholesale operations. In this respect, the Axfood. The symbols show if the respective indicators are complete. Page Page reference­ reference­ Axfood (AR) Degree Axfood (AR) Degree Profile 1. STRATEGy ANd ANALYSis 31 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 1.1 CEO statement 2 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 5, 13–15, 50–51 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 30–31, 57 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organiza59 tion 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 59–60 2.1 Name of the organization Cover flap 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 59 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Cover flap, provide recommendations to the board 16–17, 11 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives 61–62 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Cover flap, 16–17 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in 59–60 the board 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of 59 2.5 Countries where the organization operates Cover flap board members 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Cover flap 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 6, 30 2.7 Markets Cover flap 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 57, 62–63 2.8 Scale of the organization Cover flap 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own 59 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2 performance­ 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 41, 42 Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 30–31 3. REPORT PARAMETERS precautionary­principle is applied Report profile 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 34, 36, 38–40 principles­or other initiatives 3.1 Reporting period 46 4.13 Memberships in associations 40 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 46 Stakeholder engagement 3.3 Reporting cycle 46 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 30 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 106 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 31 Report scope and boundary stakeholders­with whom to engage 3.5 Process for defining report content 30–31 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 30 3.6 Boundary of the report 108 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 30 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 108 through stakeholder engagement the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 77–78, 108 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS etc. Sustainability governance, Finance 6–9 Data measurement techniques and calculation 76–84, 108 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed 68–75 3.9 principles EC2. Risks and opportunities for the organization due 5, 13–15 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 108 to climate changes information provided in earlier reports EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit 93 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 76–77, 108 plan obligations periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. EC4. Financial assistance received from government 92 GRI content index EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Table identifying the location of the Standard 108–109 locally-based suppliers 3.12 Disclosures in the report EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior management 41 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 31 hired from the local community external assurance for the report EC8. Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes 16 Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 Page Page reference­ reference­ Axfood (AR) Degree Axfood (AR) Degree 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA8. Percentage of employees covered collective bargaining agreements Sustainability governance, Environment 6–9, 30–31, 32 LA9. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 42 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume changes EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials LA10. Percentage of total workforce represented in 41 EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source 32–33 formal joint management-worker health and EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 32* safety committees EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 32–22 LA12. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 42 improvement work-related fatalities EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 32 LA13. Composition of governance bodies and 41, 43, 64–67 and results employees­according to diversity indicators EN8. Total water withdrawal by source LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected Human rights areas/areas of biodiversity value HR1. Investment agreements that include human 39 EN12. Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity rights clauses EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, 32–33* HR2. Suppliers that have undergone screening on 39 by weight human rights, and actions taken EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, 32–33 HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and and result actions taken EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 32–33 HR5. Operations where freedom of association and 39 collective bargaining may be at significant risk EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances and actions taken EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions, by HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for 39 weight per type incidents of child labour and actions taken EN21. Total water discharge, quality and recipient HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk 39 EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 33–34 for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken EN23. Number and volume of significant spills Society EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 35–38 products and services SO1. Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities EN27. Products sold and their packaging materials that 33–34 are reclaimed SO2. Business units analyzed for risks related to 51 corruption­ EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for non108 compliance with environmental laws SO3. Employees trained in the organization’s anti30 corruption policies and procedures EN29. Environmental impact of transports 32–33 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SO5. Participation in public policy development and 40 7. 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS lobbying Sustainability governance, Social 6–9, 30–31, SO8. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 108 39, 43 applicable laws Employment conditions and terms of employment Product responsibility LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract 16–17, 43 PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety im36–38 and region pacts of products and services are assessed LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender 43 PR3. Type of products and service information requi36–38 and region red by procedures, and percentage of products LA3. Benefits to full-time employees 42 subject to such information requirements LA4. Percentage of employees covered collective 42 PR6. Programmes for adherence to laws, standards 38 bargaining agreements and voluntary codes for marketing communications LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 42 changes PR9. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 108 regulations concerning the use of products and LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in 42 services formal joint management-worker health and safety committees * Pertains to trading operations, not staff functions at head offices. LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 43 work-related fatalities Text and production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in cooperation with Axfood. Design­and DTP: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. English translation: NewStart Communications­Photos: Mats Lundqvis. Axfood SUSTAINABILITY report 2010 17
