Social Responsibility Report 2010 Passion for Life! Social Responsibility Report 2010 4 Contents Contents 1. Introduction............................................................................................................................................ 6 A. Social Responsibility Report B. Contact Information C. Message from the CEO D. Message from the Social Responsibility Department 2. The Company................................................................................................................................... 10 A. Introduction B. The FOURLIS Group C. Our Financial Highlights D. Our Goals E. Our Involvement 3. Management and Corporate Governance...................... 14 A. Introduction B. Our Values C. Our Stakeholders D. Our Management E. Our Code of Conduct F. Our Internal Regulation Charter G. Our Actions over the Following Year 4. Human Resources............................................................................................................... 22 A. Introduction B. Employment C. Merit-based Recruitment and Advancement D. Employee Appraisals E. Employee Rewards and Recognition F. Ongoing Vocational Training G. Health and Safety H. Human Rights I. Two Way Communication J. Our Actions Over the Following Year 5. Society........................................................................................................................................................... 30 A. Introduction B. Our Employees participation C. Our Social Actions D. Our Actions Over the Following Year 6. Environment....................................................................................................................................... 36 A. Introduction B. Analysis of the Results of Our Actions C. Management of our Materials D. The Energy We Consume E. Our Public and Employee Awareness Building Activities F. Our Actions Over the Following Year 7. Global Compact Table................................................................................................. 46 A. Introduction B. Table of Global Compact Principles 8. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table.................................. 48 A. GRI Principles Table B. GRI Indicators Table Social Responsibility Report 2010 5 1. Introduction Α. Social Responsibility Report The 2010 Social Responsibility Report is the second review carried out by the FOURLIS Group, aiming to present the method of operation of the company and the Social Responsibility programs implemented out in the year 2010, which aimed to aid society in substantive and important ways. Data Focusing on the presentation of quantitative data for publication, the firm collected the data internally. The Report contains data derived from direct measurement (it is pointed out where estimates are made), and, as a rule, includes figures for both 2010 and 2009. Review Scope The Report refers to figures formed over the period 1/1/2010 31/12/2010 and concerns all the activities of the Group in Greece, with specific reference to activities abroad. 6 Introduction Report Principles To facilitate the evaluation of the content, the Report follows the United Nation’s Global Compact principles for content and structure: “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (G3, 2006 Edition) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Report Limitations Limitations exist in this Report regarding the diffusion of practices applied by the Group and affiliates abroad, the presentation of further quantitative data, independent audits, and the presentation of quantitative targets for the following year. Evaluation Report The FOURLIS Group 2010 Report is level “C” according to the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (G3, 2006 Edition) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 2003 in accordance C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory SelfDeclared Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked Development Report The development of the FOURLIS Group 2010 Social Responsibility Report was done in cooperation with the companies STOCHASIS (www.stochasis.com) and STREAM (www.stream-eu.com) B. Contact Information For any suggestions, please contact: Mrs Lyda Fourlis Corporate Social Responsibility Director FOURLIS HOLDINGS S.A. 340 Kifissias Avenue, Neo Psychiko Tel: 0030 210 6293000 Fax: 0030 210 6293205 E-mail: csr@fourlis.gr Social Responsibility Report 2010 7 C. Message from the CEO «We give priority to Responsible Operation» A t FOURLIS Group we employ over 3.000 people and we influence multiple stakeholders in Greece, Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria. Thus, we are well aware that the power of the Group lies in our ability to influence the purchases and sales chain through responsible operation. For this reason, our main interest lies not only in our clients, but also in our shareholders and stakeholders, as in our suppliers, local communities, authorities and, above all, our employees. The dedication and sensitivity of the people and executive staff of the FOURLIS Group is essential for us as ambassadors of responsible operation, the upholding of human rights, and the fight against corruption wherever it is identified. We firmly believe that, in order for us to improve the world, we must firstly begin with our own internal operation. In light of this, the FOURLIS Group adopted, in 2008, the UN’s Global Compact principals, and since then we have applied them to our daily business practices, attempting to incorporate them into the total range of the company’s activities, while at the same time, maintaining the consistent and incompatible principles of “Integrity, Respect, and Efficiency.” Apostolos Petalas Chief Executive Officer 8 Introduction D. Message From the Social Responsibility Department «Social responsibility is a part of us» T hree years ago we adopted a new approach to our everyday lives and to the improvement of our corporate practices by participating in the UN’s Global Compact. With the Global Compact as our guide, our whole corporation systematically works with equal emphasis placed on social sustainability and responsibility, development and economic prosperity. Of course, the facilitating cornerstone is our focus on the Principles of Corporate Governance and Responsible Management, through the application of practices like the Code of Conduct and Internal Regulation Charter. Our main concern, as far as our employees are concerned, is that we continuously uphold meritocracy, a safe working environment and creativity, while at the same time we offer equal opportunities for advancement and training to our entire workforce. With regards to our sensitivity to Social and Environmental Concerns, it is notable that every year we multiply our actions, helping people and social groups that are at a disadvantage, while at the same time trying to minimize any negative environmental impacts that might occur. Some of the Group’s social actions in 2010 include the voluntary blood donation, the creation of recycling centers, the expansion of programs and activities that help to conserve natural resources, and the Group’s social contribution to various institutions and organizations that support disadvantaged groups. The fact that the efforts of our Group are met with much enthusiasm, gives us the strength to continue with our “Passion for better living”. Lyda Fourlis Corporate Social Responsibility Director Social Responsibility Report 2010 9 2. The Company Α. Introduction FOURLIS Group’s activities are constantly expanding both in the domestic market but also in Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria. The Group’s activities cover the areas of: • Retail Home Furnishings, through the franchise of IKEA stores in Greece, Cyprus and Bulgaria. • Retail Sporting Goods, through the franchise of INTERSPORT stores in Greece, Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria. •W holesale of Electric and Electronic appliances, through the representation of brand names like Samsung, General Electric, Liebherr, Korting and FOURLIS. Β. The FOURLIS Group FOURLIS Holdings S.A. is the successor to A. FOURLIS AND CO, which was founded by Anastasios Fourlis in 1950 in Athens in cooperation with his brothers Stelios, Ioannis and Ilias. The companies that constitute the FOURLIS Group are summarized below. 10 The Company FOURLIS HOLDINGS S.A. Greece Greece Romania Cyprus Cyprus Bulgaria Bulgaria GENCO Bulgaria and GENCO Romania In 1955, the company’s goal to expand operation abroad, in conjunction with a changing political environment in Eastern Europe, led to the founding of GENCO Romania SRL and GENCO Bulgaria focusing on wholesale supply of electrical appliances. Since 2004, GENCO Romania has been active in the development of the athletic supplies company INTERSPORT, with GENCO Bulgaria following suit in 2006. In July 2010, GENCO Romania stopped wholesale supply of electrical goods and continued exclusively with the development and operation of the INTERSPORT stores, while GENCO Bulgaria is solely involved in retail sale of sporting goods. FOURLIS TRADE FOURLIS TRADE has been operating in the electric and electronic appliances supply market for 10 years. It is one of the biggest Greek electric appliance supply companies in the Greek market with exclusive representation of well established foreign brands like SAMSUNG, GENERAL ELECTRIC, LIEBHERR and KORTING. Simultaneously, it manufactures contemporary cooking hoods under the FOURLIS brand name. As of 1st January 2011, the company no longer supplies SAMSUNG electric and electronic appliances. EUROELECTRONICS EUROELECTRONICS is the exclusive representative of SAMSUNG mobile phones and accessories in Greece. Its products were available across a broad sales network, mainly through the three mobile networks and the large mobile phone retail chains. In July 2010, the company terminated operation. PRIME TELECOM The company operates in the fields of Information Technology, Office Automation and Telephony. It is the exclusive representative of SAMSUNG Electronics (PC screens, telephone centers, fax machines, multifunction products, printers) and DEVELOP products (digital multifunction products). Its products are available through an ever-expanding sales network. On 31st December 2010, the company terminated operation. INTERSPORT ATHLETICS INTERSPORT is the number one chain for the supply of sporting goods in the world, with over 5.200 stores in 35 countries. On 31st December 2010, the count stood at 55 stores in Greece, Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria. Social Responsibility Report 2010 11 HOUSEMARKET (ΙΚΕΑ) When IKEA came to Greece, brought to the Greek market a new philosophy based on the supply of a large range of well designed, functional furniture and household goods at affordable prices, allowing as many people as possible the opportunity of owning it. Today, there are 5 stores operating in Greece (2 in Athens, 1 in Thessaloniki, 1 in Larisa, 1 in Ioannina) and 1 in Cyprus. IKEA’s workforce stands at 2.000 employees, with the recruitment of staff for the new store in Sofia, Bulgaria already underway. SERVICE ONE SERVICE ONE is the biggest after sales service company in the field of repairs, maintenance and installation of household, electrical and electronic appliances. It covers the biggest brands across the country including GENERAL ELECTRIC; KORTING; LIEBHERR; FOURLIS cook hoods; SAMSUNG; PANASONIC air conditioners, FRANKE and PYRAMIS among others. In 2010, it undertook with the IKEA kitchens assembly and installation. TRADE LOGISTICS TRADE LOGISTICS, situated in Schimatari Viotia, began its activity in March 2008 as the first fully automated warehouse in Greece. The aim of the company is to provide warehouse and delivery services for the IKEA stores in Greece and Cyprus. The company, with specialized and experienced staff, use of technology and application of innovative methods of Logistics, focuses on effective warehouse and delivery services, as well as the expansion of its activities. HISTORY 1960 1981 Establishment of the 1970 1980 1950 Thessaloniki branch. FOURLIS Bros AEBE holds Exclusive representation Founding of A. FOURLIS one of the top positions and CO. OE 1968 of GENERAL ELECTRIC in the Greek electrical The company is converted appliances. appliances market. to FOURLIS Bros AEBE. 1982 1994 1988 1993 Exclusive representation Supply of MOTOROLA Registered on the Athens Acquisition of 51% of of NEFF household mobile telephony Stock Exchange. P. KOTSOVOLOS AEBE. appliances. products. 2000 2001 1995 1999 Exclusive representations The first ΙΚΕΑ store in Founding of GENCO Acquisition of IKEA and of SAMSUNG. Greece (Thessaloniki). Romania and Bulgaria. INTERSPORT Franchises. Founding of FOURLIS The first 14 INTERSPORT TRADE AEBE. stores open. 2004 2008 2007 The first ΙΚΕΑ store in 2006 Founding of TRADE The first ΙΚΕΑ store in Athens (Airport) The first INTERSPORT LOGISTICS. The second Cyprus. The first INTERSPORT store store in Bulgaria. ΙΚΕΑ store in Athens in Romania. (Kifisos). 2009 2010 ΙΚΕΑ store in Larisa. ΙΚΕΑ store in Ioannina. 12 The Company C. Our Financial Highlights Fourlis Group, during the financial year neighboring countries where the of 2010, realized sales in its Continuing Group is active, all three areas of Operations €435,0 million, 3,2% lower activity of the Group increased their than the previous year (€449,5 million). market share. Net profits reached In total, 2010 Group Sales for the €15,1 million in comparison with €31.6 period were €638,1 million, including million in 2009, and the company’s tax sales of the discontinued Samsung charges came to €13.3 million in 2010. operations. The table below presents a collective In spite of the adverse conditions summary of the FOURLIS Group in the Greek market and in the financials over the last three years. FOURLIS GROUP FINANCIALS SUMMARY 2010 2009 2008 Revenues (million euros) 638,1 751,7 784,4 Net profits (million euros) 15,1 31,6 55,1 Tax payments (million euros) 13,3 21,1 20,6 D. Our Goals We are driven by the wellbeing of ✓ To increase our adaptability ✓ To provide even more the Group, including that of the to ever-evolving market opportunities for vocational employees and our stakeholders; conditions. training for all our employees, therefore we will continue to invest giving them the opportunity to in new, continuously developing ✓ T o focus on development of evolve within the company. and profitable areas like household trade and services to ensure equipment and athletic goods. the consistent strengthening of Specifically, the goals of the Group the Group. can be summarized as follows: E. Our Involvement From the 26th of November 2008, when the FOURLIS Group became an official member of the UN’s Global Compact, we agreed to adopt, support and promote the ten principles of the UN Global Compact through our commercial activities. The ten principles of the UN’s Global Compact promote a safe working environment, the sustainability of the company, the application of environmentally friendly practices, respect of human rights and the combating of any practices that promote corruption. At the same time, we seek two-way communication with our Stakeholders, aiming at increased understanding of their expectations and needs. Social Responsibility Report 2010 13 3. Management and Corporate Governance Α. Introduction T he concept of responsibility is being incorporated into our management practices and is an integral part of the governance applied in all of our Group’s activities. We believe that responsible governance and effective responsible operation need to be incorporated in our daily management practices in order for us to achieve both quantitative and qualitative results. As a result, we do not regard Social Responsibility as a separate activity but rather as part of our management practices. Through our Goals, Policy, Values, Code of Conduct, and Internal Regulation Charter each day we prove that Social Responsibility is for us an integral part of our daily operation. Β. Our Values At FOURLIS Group we want to support society through the implementation of programs that have a positive outcome on society as a whole. 14 Management and Corporate Governance Our goal is to develop companies that will always serve our principles of: “Integrity” “Respect” “ Efficiency” Especially since 2008 when we created the Group’s Social Responsibility Department, our commercial goals do not deter us from our philosophy and values; rather, they aid us in expressing them more clearly and implementing them more effectively. C. Our Stakeholders FOURLIS Group is active in both the retail and wholesale markets; therefore we have a range of Stakeholders. We define Stakeholders as all those who are affected by our activities, like, for example, our Clients, our Suppliers, the Social Environment in which we are active, etc. In the following table, we present a summary of our Stakeholders and the methods by which we assure constant contact and communication with them, thereby collecting information on their needs and opinions on all matters concerning the actions of the Group. Stakeholders Means of Communication STAKEHOLDERS MEANS OF COMMUNICATION • Satisfaction survey • Organising Events Employees • Publishing electronic and printed newsletters • Announcement boards • Tactical visits Customers • Constant contact and communication • Meetings Suppliers • Participation in industry associations • Conducting joint programs Local Societies • Visits • Discussions with representatives of the authorities on a Formal Authorities national and local level • Participation in organizations and associations Citizens • Regular contact • Press conferences Media • Informative brochures • Meetings NonGovernmental Organizations (NGOs) • Meetings Social Responsibility Report 2010 15 The above mentioned practices help in preserving healthy and mutual communication with every group of our Stakeholders individually. Through regular contact, we aim to preserve a constant flow of information to and from our company regarding requests, problems, and expectations of our Stakeholders, which will help us improve our products and minimize any negative impacts that may occur. D. Our Management The Board With regards to our internal operations and the Principles of Corporate Governance, we have defined our practices based on international standards: ✓B  oard members are selected after evaluation of their skills and abilities, their professional experience and their resume. ✓O  f the nine members of the Board, five are executive and four nonexecutive. ✓ T he Chairman of the Board is a different person to the CEO. ✓ T he managerial staff and the members of the board are compensated based on the total performance of the company and their contribution to it. ✓ T he Corporate Social Responsibility Director and Executive member of the Board is responsible for communicating issues related to Social Responsibility to the Board. The Shareholders of the company are responsible for evaluating the yearly performance and activity of the members of the Board at the Annual General Meeting. The following table presents the members of the Board of the FOURLIS Group and their responsibilities as on 31 December 2010. Name Position Vasileios Fourlis (Father’s name: Stylianos) Chairman, executive member Alexandros Fourlis (Father’s name: Ilias) Vice Chairman, executive member Dafni Fourlis (Father’s name: Anastasios) Director, executive member Lyda Fourlis (Father’s name: Stylianos) Director, executive member Ioannis Brebos (Father’s name: Evaggelos) Director, non-executive member Eftichios Vassilakis (Father’s name: Theodore) Director, independent non-executive member Ioannis Papaioannou (Father’s name: Constantinos) Director, independent non-executive member Apostolos Petalas (Father’s name: Dimitrios) Chief Executive Officer, executive member Ioannis Costopoulos (Father’s name: Athanasios) Director, independent non-executive member 16 Management and Corporate Governance The Code of Corporate Governance Role and Responsibilities well as protect the confidentiality a sound system of internal control of the Board: of information that has not been to safeguard the company’s assets, The Board provides effective disclosed to the public. Board and ensure that significant risks are leadership and directs the members contribute their expertise identified and adequately managed. company’s affairs in the interest of and devote to their duties the the company and all shareholders, necessary time and attention. Remuneration: ensuring that management properly The level and structure of implements the company’s strategy. Nomination of Board members: remuneration aim to attract, retain The Board also ensures the fair Nominations to the Board are made and motivate Board members, and equitable treatment of all on merit using objective criteria. executives and employees who will shareholders, including minority and The Board ensures the orderly add value to the company with their foreign shareholders. succession of Board members and skills, knowledge and experience. A Senior Executives so as to ensure company should avoid paying more Size and composition the long term success of the than is necessary for this purpose. of the Board: company. The size and composition of Relations with shareholders: the Board enables the effective Functioning of the Board: The Board maintains a continuous fulfillment of its responsibilities The Board meets sufficiently and constructive dialogue with and reflects the size, activity and regularly to discharge its duties the company’s shareholders, in ownership of the company. Board effectively. order to achieve transparency and composition is driven by the fair information. and equitable treatment of all Board evaluation: shareholders and demonstrates a The Board presents a balanced and high level of integrity. Moreover, it clear assessment of the company’s includes a diversity of knowledge, position and prospects and ensures qualifications and experience the integrity of financial statements relevant to the business objectives of and disclosures to shareholders and the company. to the public. The Board maintains Role and profile of the Chairman of the Board: The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring that the work of the Board is well organized and meetings conducted efficiently. The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that Board members receive accurate and timely information. The Chairman ensures effective communication with all shareholders as well as the fair and equitable treatment of their interests. Duties and conduct of Board members: Each Board member has a duty of loyalty to the company. Board members act with integrity and in the best interest of the company, as Social Responsibility Report 2010 17 The Organizational Chart The following chart presents the line of communication and the interaction of the Board members with the committees and the Divisions of the Group. Board of Directors Nomination and Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Company Secretary Internal Audit Group CEO Legal Human Resources Information Technology Finance Social Responsibility Treasury & Investors Financial Controlling Relations & Planning Social Responsibility Department At FOURLIS Group we have ensured the existence of a department for the cultivation of the company’s responsible behavior. For this purpose, in 2008, we created the Social Responsibility Department which ensures the company’s progress in matters relating to responsible practices and which raises the awareness of voluntary work among the staff. Furthermore, the Social Responsibility Department ensures that relevant policies are promoted and that social policy plans are implemented on a local, national and international levelalways in collaboration with the Group’s operating divisions. For this reason, it organizes regular meetings with Social Responsibility coordinators in the countries where the Group operates. The following chart shows the organizational structure created by the Group for the effective management of Social Responsibility issues and the collection of data for the annual Social Responsibility review. 18 Management and Corporate Governance FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility Organizational chart SUBSIDIARY Level FOURLIS GROUP COMPANIES Corporate Social Board of Directors Responsibility Director Social Responsibility Social Responsibility Management Department Coordinators Ε. Our Code of Conduct We have developed an extensive Code of Conduct which is applicable to all companies in the Group, without exception, and which describes in detail the rules of conduct that our workforce has to follow in carrying out its professional activities. Our goal is that through the Code of Conduct, we set standards that facilitate ethical and professional behavior and ensure the commitment and cooperation of all our employees to this effect. Our employees recognize that they are obliged to adopt the Code of Conduct upon employment in the Group. The Code sets out the following professional behaviors: 1. C  ommitment to uphold 210-6293010 (from a fixed or reward an action thereby violating professional codes of mobile line) or may use the e-mail the FOURLIS Group’s or the conduct and to comply address: customer’s practice. with the law codeofconduct@fourlis.gr. For example, it is stated in the The behavior of all FOURLIS For example, the Code states Code that acceptance of a Group employees is ethical and that disciplinary measures gift valued over €100 without within the law regardless of their against employees who report previously informing the company position. For example, assigning infringements are not permitted. is forbidden, as is performance personal work to employees is commission given to clients, forbidden. 3. Conflict of interest suppliers, etc. The FOURLIS Group’s employees 2. C  ommunication of cases do not allow their professional 5. International Business going against the code transactions to be influenced Behaviour of conduct or illegal or appear to be influenced by As an international player, the behavior personal or family interests. FOURLIS Group recognizes The FOURLIS Group’s Code of its responsibility towards the Conduct Line operates 24 hours a 4. P rofessional gifts, interests of the country in which day. One can report anonymously, payments and fair it conducts its transactions. or divulging their identity, if transactions The Group complies with all they wish, any violations of the The FOURLIS Group’s employees laws and regulations, respects Code of Conduct or failure to must never offer or receive legal charges of the countries comply with the law by calling (directly or indirectly) any objects welcoming it and does not this line. Anyone can reach the of value whatsoever to or from a participate in actions of trade Code of Conduct Line by calling customer, in order to influence or embargo. Social Responsibility Report 2010 19 6. P recision and of responsibility (official or a result of their access to maintenance of corporate unofficial, explicit or implicit) privileged information, which files and figures between competitors to increase, they are not allowed to disclose The companies of the FOURLIS decrease or stabilize prices is to anyone, even members Group keep files and financial illegal and strictly forbidden. of their family. For example, data and record all their For example, detailed analysis guidelines are provided transactions with accuracy and is made and emphasis is placed regarding the proper use and precision and apply internal on the practical compliance with storage of information. auditing systems. anti-trust law. 14. P articipation in 7. Corporate announcements 10. Q  uality of Merchandise communal affairs Through its Corporate and protection of the By participating voluntarily Announcements Division, natural environment in communal matters, the FOURLIS HOLDINGS S.A. The FOURLIS Group’s FOURLIS Group employees provides valid and timely employees inform their superior improve the social environment communication with shareholders immediately on any problems and contribute to the and agents, with full and precise concerning the quality of enhancement of consumer information concerning the merchandise. The FOURLIS confidence and the Group’s financial condition of the Group’s Group is committed to adhere to reputation. companies and the results of their an environmentally responsible For example, it is stipulated that activities. Only natural persons position with socially the sponsoring of political and authorized by the FOURLIS responsible methods based social activities on behalf of Group’s Board of Directors may on scientific and economic FOURLIS is forbidden without communicate with public entities sustainability. prior permission. and the Media and announce data relative to the Group’s activity and 11. U  se of Group’s assets results. (equipment and services) The FOURLIS Group’s assets, 8. T he FOURLIS Group’s installations and resources work environment -human and materialare used The FOURLIS Group’s basic by employees for the Group’s operating principle is respect for activities alone. People. The Group’s companies provide all employees with a 12. Confidentiality positive, productive and safe No employee is allowed access work environment. The FOURLIS to the FOURLIS Group’s Group’s policies on equal confidential material unless employment opportunities, there is direct and material need forbidding of sexual harassment, for his work. work places without violence, drugs or alcohol, provide a safe 13. T  he use of privileged and healthy work place without information in carrying discrimination or harassment. out transactions is forbidden 9. T rade and competition The FOURLIS Group employees practices cannot trade in the FOURLIS Every agreement or undertaking HOLDINGS SA shares as F. Internal Regulation Charter We have developed and apply standardized Internal Regulation Charter which has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Group in order to ensure that employees respect the rules and regulations. 20 Management and Corporate Governance In particular, the Internal Regulation Charter addresses the company’s operational ethics, commitment to implementation of the local labor legislation, the organizational structure and composition of the Group, basic company practices, the duties of the Audit Committee, the responsibilities of management, the imposition of disciplinary measures, and the duties of the Audit Department. Furthermore, an annual review is foreseen so that the Internal Regulation Charter always confers with company practices and existing regulations and laws. Audit Committee The Board of Directors maintains an effective internal audit system , in order to safeguard the company’s assets and detect and troubleshoot major risks. It monitors company strategy and re-examines it regularly. It reviews the main risks that the company may be faced with as well as the effectiveness of the internal audit system regarding the management of the said risks. The review covers all essential audits, including financial and operational, compliance, and risk management system audits. The Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee, is in immediate and regular contact with the inspectors so as to be regularly updated on the correct functioning of the audit system. Department of Internal Audit The Internal Audit Department is independent and objective and designed to add value and improve company procedures. It helps the company to achieve its goals offering a systematic and structured approach for the evaluation and improvement of the audit system, risk management and corporate governance. It reports the results of its tasks to the Audit Committee which is the internal audit’s supervisory body (N. 3693/2008). On behalf of Management (Ν. 3016/2002) every quarter, the Board of Directors is informed through the Audit Committee in writing on work carried out. The internal auditors perform their duties in compliance with the Code of Conduct, therefore applying the principles of independence, objectivity and confidentiality. Furthermore, they act in complete compliance with International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, as well as the policies and company procedures.. G. Our Activities Over the Following Year The company’ s goal is to continue implementation of policies and actions already applied, and also to: ✓ c ommunicate the summarized Code of Conduct to all new employees ✓ e valuate the process for communicating the Code to suppliers ✓ c onduct an opinion survey among its stakeholders ✓ further expand the system for collecting and analyzing data included in the Social Responsibility Report ✓ p ublish the 2011 Social Responsibility Report, at level “B”, on the basis of GRI G3.1. Social Responsibility Report 2010 21 4. Human Resources Διακυβέρνηση Α. Introduction A t FOURLIS Group we are aware of the fact that if we want to achieve our strategic goals and strengthen our competitiveness in a volatile market, we need to invest in the People who support the Group’s operation on a daily basis. For this reason, we cultivate an environment of respect, freedom, meritocracy and safety for all our employees through provision of training opportunities, advancement, appraisal, rewards, care, and of course, through maintaining and creating employment. Β. Employment We employ about 3.100 employees in total, out of which about 2.600 work in our companies in Greece and Cyprus. Despite the volatile economic conditions over the last few years, we try to maintain the number of employees at a stable rate, and if any of our companies require new staff, we cover these needs immediately either internally or through new hires. In 2010, the percentage of employees who had left the company was at 18,9%. The following table shows the breakdown of employees by company in the FOURLIS Group for the year 2010. 22 Human Resources FOURLIS Group Employee Breakdown Employees Company 31/12/2010 Fourlis Holdings 3 Fourlis Trade 86 Service One 111 Trade Logistics 53 IKEA Greece and Cyprus 1.968 IKEA Bulgaria 16 INTERSPORT Greece and 441 Cyprus Genco Romania 354 Genco Bulgaria 63 Total Employees 3.095 The following table shows in total the profile of FOURLIS Group employees for the year 2010. FOURLIS Group Human Resources Profile MANAGERS/ POSITION EMPLOYEES MINORITIES SUPERVISORS Employees (%) 14 86 6,77 AGE 18-25 26-40 41-50 >50 Employees (%) 20,25 52,36 18,92 8,47 JUNIOR HIGHLEVEL OF EDUCATION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL UNIVERSITY LEVEL SENIOR HIGH Employees (%) 1,30 70,94 27,76 SEX WOMEN MEN Employees (%) 54 46 WORKPLACE STORES OFFICES Employees (%) 85,66 14,34 * Statistics as on 31/12/2010 Social Responsibility Report 2010 23 C. Merit-based Recruitment and Advancement The basic axes of our policy  qual opportunities for internal ✓E both men and women to Director’s regarding staff recruitment and advancement and promotions positions. the advancement of our Human both at company level and This is especially visible when Resources are: at Group level apply for all looking at the total number of female employees. employees in the Group, which is at ✓ Recruitment is based on 54%, while the number of women specific standardized evaluation Similarly, it is very important that, as in managerial positions reaches criteria across all companies of far as possible, a balance between the particularly high percentage of the Group, so there is no room the sexes is maintained and we 40,32%. for discrimination. are especially careful not to apply different employment practices for Furthermore, it is notable that in ✓ Discrimination in the workplace our female employees. 2010, 159 internal promotions due to employee diversity is not movements took place within the allowed. For this reason, we have ensured Group, while 711 new recruitments equal advancement opportunities for made. Ratio of Women in the Group Percentage of women in total workforce (%) Percentage of women in managerial/ supervisory positions (%) 54,00 2010 40,32 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 * The data pertain to 31/12/2010 D. Employee Appraisals In order to ensure that employee ✓ It was created by the employees appraisal is and remains transparent, themselves in order to assess we have adopted a single Performance their progress in relation to the Appraisal System for the Group, which job requirements and in relation is implemented twice a year (June and to the Values that govern the December) since 2008. Group. The Performance Appraisal System of  mployees have free access to ✓E the FOURLIS Group was created to their appraisal forms. ensure a fair working environment and to create a functional management  mployees are given the ✓E succession plan for senior positions. opportunity to object if they disagree with any part of the The characteristics that make this appraisal. appraisal system objective are: 24 Human Resources Ε. Employee Rewards and Recognition At FOURLIS Group we believe we are obliged to reward our Human Resources for their contribution to the company. For this reason, we introduced the reward program presented below, aimed at recognizing the importance of their contribution towards the progress of the Group. The reward program is summarized as follows: ✓ Long term Employment Award Employees who have contributed to the company for a number of years (10, 20 & 30 years of recognized contribution) are rewarded. In 2010, 51 employees of the Group were rewarded for long-term employment.  ✓ “Highlight those who Stand Out We Live by our Values.” Through this program, which became an institution, employees whose professional behavior is in line with and reflect the Values of the Group, are rewarded. The number of employees who are rewarded every year is decided by the Board of Directors and is relative to the total number of employees of each company. In 2010, 17 employees were rewarded. F. Ongoing Vocational Training At FOURLIS Group, we believe that there is a permanent increasing need for ongoing vocational training which is completely dependent on the increased demands of the competitive market. For this reason, the training of each employee of the Group begins upon their employment. The first training session for each employee of the FOURLIS Group is an Induction Program through which we ensure that all new recruits are informed about the Structure of the Group, the Values, the Code of Conduct and the Internal Regulation Charter. The Group and / or each company ensures that the specialized training programs are realized either internally with the aid of its own executives’ know-how and that of internal trainers, or externally in collaboration with organizations and training centers. To ensure the training programs’ effectiveness for each employee, the following parameters are examined: •T  he company goal to be achieved through the specific training •The specifications of the employee’s position •The demands of the employee’s position •The level of knowledge of the employee Social Responsibility Report 2010 25 The following training programs took place in 2010 within the Group: • Development of managerial skills through sessions like: Management Skills, Legal, Finance for Non-Financials, Giving Constructive Feedback, Coaching skills, Appraisal Training, Language Skills. • Training in technical areas like Information and Technology, Finance, Electronic Transactions Invoicing, Communication, Interior Design, Income Tax, Internal Control and Regulatory Compliance. • Training in Customer Service and Sales Techniques • Product Training and Supply Chain training • Safety and Evacuation training, Fire Safety training The following table presents analytically the employee training undertaken by the FOURLIS Group in 2010. FOURLIS Group Employee Training 2010 Total Man-hours of training 87.434 Average training hours / employee 27,03 Amount spent on training (euros)* 142.008 Number of participants in training programs 8.800 * The amount concerns only educational programmes conducted by external agencies. G. Health and Safety At FOURLIS Group we are well aware that it is our obligation to provide a safe and healthy work environment. For this reason, on an annual basis, we make sure that we follow the provisions of Greek legislation laid out in the labor law, evaluate the possible risks we may face over the following year and implement the appropriate measures to ensure prevention of accidents as far as possible. The main measures the Group has taken to achieve the above-mentioned goal are: • We chart the areas of possible risks and take actions depending on the level of risk. • Periodic inspections are carried out on all the premises by the safety technicians • A Professional Risk Assessment Study is drawn up by the Occupational Health and Safety Technician • Training programs on health and safety are implemented. First aid training is provided for specific groups. Fire safety training is provided for specific groups The following table presents, by case, accidents in the workplace, safety training and absences due to illness recorded in the FOURLIS Group during 2010. Accidents Illness 2010 Number of workplace accidents 272* Number of workplace accidents resulting in more than 3 day absence 30 Total man-hours devoted to safety training 14.079 Days of absence due to sick-leave (over 3 days) 4.771,7 Days of absence due to sick-leave (under 3 days) 3.873,3 * refers, mainly, to minor injuries 26 Human Resources “Well Being Love Yourself” Program In 2010 a new program “Well Being (EF ZIN) Love yourself” was implemented. The aim was to inform employees about health and well-being topics as well as motivating them to adopt a healthier way of living. The basic themes of the recently launched programprevention, balanced diet, and regular exerciseand the activities relating to them, were introduced to the employees through a “fresh” idea: a recycled bag with fresh fruits; the goal of the launch idea was to encourage employees to take the first step towards a healthier lifestyle, starting with a more balanced diet. Through the “Well Being Love yourself” program, all employees had the chance to enjoy several benefits such as free medical examinations, discount packages in collaboration with well-known gyms, outdoor activities and nutrition consultancy centers, participation in athletic tournaments as well as informative seminars given by qualified scientific consultants. In addition, on a regular basis, the Well Being Newsletter (Ef Zin Newsletter) is distributed both electronically and printed form and also posted on Social Responsibility announcement boards. EXAMPLES OF THE WELL BEING GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Medical Examinations for all employees Free examination for diabetes (Blood Sugar) In March of 2010, as part of the “Well Being” program, free blood sugar examinations were realized on the Group’s premises for all employees in collaboration with ERRIKOS NTINAN, EUROMEDICA and the CYPRUS DIABETIC ASSOCIATION. Employees responded dynamically and 67% of the total employees participated. Employees, who took part in the blood sugar examinations, were provided with an individual examination card with the date and the result of the reading of the examination. Free Mammograms, Pap Tests and Examinations of the Large Intestine From 11th October to 10th November 2010, in collaboration with the Hellenic Anticancer Association, free mammograms, Pap Tests and large intestine examinations were provided for all women employees over the age of 40 who registered. In total, 50 female employees of the Group participated in these free examinations. It’s worth noting that throughout the year many programs at special prices for all the employees of the Group and their families were offered by BIOATRIKI and YGEIA, like check ups, check ups for children, eye checks, osteoporosis examinations, blood pressure examinations, etc. Social Responsibility Report 2010 27 Sporting Activities Employees of the Group, who are sports enthusiasts had the opportunity to show their talent in soccer, basketball and tennis in «The F1 Team 2010» tournament organized by the Social Responsibility Department in May 2010 at athletic centers in Loutraki Athens, Thessaloniki and Cyprus. All employees of the Group and their families could watch the athletic tournament as special activities have been organized for the children. Student awards for employees’ children At FOURLIS Group, we aim to function as a family and so the family of each employee is important to us. We put this desire into effect in 2010 through the following actions: • Moral and material rewards for 25 junior high school students and 6 senior high school students, children of employees, who showed outstanding school performance over the previous year. • Moral and material rewards for 24 students, children of employees, who succeeded in gaining entrance to higher education institutions. 28 Human Resources Η. Human Rights At FOURLIS Group, we follow the internationally recognized principles of human rights, as set out in the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN’s Global Compact Principles, which we subscribed to in 2008. In this context: • We do not employ children under the legal age limit • We do not apply forced labor practices • We have adopted high standards of professional ethics, which are outlined in detail in our Code of Conduct, and include the following: We provide a safe, stable and healthy working environment for our employees We respect the right of our employees to join workers’ unions We deter any cases of violence, sexual harassment, drug and alcohol use in the workplace We provide equal employment opportunities We aim for balance between the two sexes and our entire workforce We apply a liberal policy on sex, age, origin and religion I. Two Way Communication At FOURLIS Group, we believe that on: Customer Care, Loyalty, published by the employees we have to keep our People informed Security / Safety, Direct Supervisor, themselves. about the actions of the Group and Management, Communication, also enable them to communicate with Secure Environment, Organizational • IKEA’s “Proposals and Ideas” the rest of the employees, regardless Issues, Equal Opportunities, Training program. Since 2009, all the of level of seniority. & Development, Compensation employees at IKEA have had and Stress and included questions the opportunity to put forward In 2010 we provided the following regarding Social Responsibility. suggestions regarding new opportunities: practices that the company could • Circular communication among all adopt aiming at progress and • Information on Social Responsibility levels of employees through the greater operational productivity. An issues of the Group through the internal intranet. indication of the effectiveness of the electronic newsletters «Live to program is the fact that in 2010, 322 Learn» and Εf Ζin (“Well Being”). • Information and news regarding employees took part and a total of the activities of the Group through 607 new ideas were presented of • Information on the results of the “Sharing our News.” which 345 were implemented and Annual Climate Survey that has 150 are under evaluation. been organized by the Group’s • Information regarding the activities Human Resources Department of INTERSPORT ATHLETICS and its since 2008. The survey focused new products through a newspaper J. Our Activities Over the Following Year The company aims, over the following year, to continue implementing the already existing policies and actions, while at the same time it aims to: • continue the plan for implementation of Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS) abroad specifically in Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. • begin the process for the development of an educational academy in the Group (FOURLIS Learning Institute “Sharing the Knowledge”). Social Responsibility Report 2010 29 5. Society Α. Introduction I n 2008 we adopted the central motto “Together we can!” for our Social Responsibility Program, thereby entering a new era in Social Responsibility. We believe that the company, as Responsible Citizen, “Can”, and must create value as much for its shareholders as for its stakeholders, including the Society. Especially for the Society, we ensured that we met its needs through: • the annual blood donation we organized once again • donations from the employees of the Group to charities in Greece and Cyprus • aid provided to institutions and non governmental organizations 30 Society Β. The Participation of our Employees Annual Blood Donation Since 1985, the employees at In total, 439 blood bottles were the FOURLIS Group, have been collected, out of which 43 have taking part in the Voluntary Blood been used for employee needs, and Donation organized twice a year the rest to cover the needs of the in collaboration with ”Agia Sofia” hospital. children’s hospital. In 2010, the number of donors increased with 439 employees donating compared to 209 in 2009. Annual Blood Donation Donors (numbers) 2010 439 2009 209 0 100 200 300 400 500 Clothing Collection The employees of the FOURLIS Group, responded to the Social Responsibility Department’s call to collect and donate clothing just before the Christmas holidays in 2010. The clothing was donated to the following charities in Greece and Cyprus: • Volunteers of the World (Athens) • Greek Children’s Village (FiliroThessaloniki) • ARSIS (Thessaloniki) • Mayoral Social Policy (Thessaloniki) • Red Cross (Larissa) • Anakyklos Textile Recycling (Cyprus) The clothing gathered was organized and distributed to all the institutions, taking into account each institution’s needs. C. Our Social Actions The social activities of the FOURLIS Group, like the donations to non-profit organizations, financial and material support to needy societal groups, and the informational programs of the Group, characterize its social policy. The actions of the FOURLIS Group contribute both materialistically and morally to the community for the improvement of life for our Stakeholders. Social Responsibility Report 2010 31 The following table presents some of the institutions and organizations that benefited from the FOURLIS Group social actions during 2010. ✓ Naousa Paros High School ✓ Fire Brigade Academy ✓A  g. Ioannis Rentis First High School ✓M  ake a Wish non-profit organization ✓ T rikala Second Nursery School ✓S  OS Children’s Village ✓ Floga Association of Parents of Children with ✓K  ETHEA NOSTOS Therapeutic Foundation Neoplastic Disease ✓ “ To hamogelo tou paidiou” (The Smile of the Child)  reek AntiCancer Association ✓G Foundation ✓M  akario Hospital Limassol ✓ “Elpida” Association ✓A  thens Municipality ✓ V olunteers of the World ✓ “ Mazi gia to paidi” (Together for the Child) ✓U  niversity of the Peloponnese Foundation ✓ Nikaia Municipality Larissa Prefecture Kindergarten ✓ Arodafnousa Anti-Cancer SocietyCyprus ✓ “ Hatzipaterion” Social Work Foundation Despite adverse economic conditions, the total amount contributed to social actions by the FOURLIS Group in 2010, came to €169. 240 up from €103.000 in 2009 for similar actions. Annual Social Contributions of the FOURLIS Group Financial Support (euros) EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: 2010 169.240 Design and Furnishing of Foundation Guest House An important activity undertaken by IKEA was the complete design, 2009 103.000 furnishing and decoration of the Hatzipaterion Social Work Foundation’s guest house. 0 50.000 100.000 150.000 200.000 The company donated all the necessary goods converting an unused space into a functional guest house. And of course, nothing would have been possible without the voluntary work of the employees of IKEA and the Group’s companies. Specifically, five rooms, the living room, dining room and kitchen of the Hatzipaterion guest house were completely furnished. This guest house was created to host the families of children from the rural regions who participate in the foundation’s program. 32 Society EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: UNICEF IKEA contributed €1 from each sale of stuffed toys that took place in its stores between 1st November and 31st December 2010, to UNICEF Greece. The amount collected in support of UNICEF Greece came to €115.000 and was made available for the support of educational programs for children in Asia, Africa and Central and Eastern Europe. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: Greek Anti Cancer Association IKEA contributed €1 from each sale of plants carrying a special label, that took place at its stores from 1st April to 30th June 2010. The amount collected in support of the Greek Anti-Cancer Association came to €39.000 and was made available for the expansion of the Center for Immediate Diagnosis of Cancer in Peania Athens. Social Responsibility Report 2010 33 EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: «Fit For Life» Through the program «Fit for Life», implemented for the second consecutive year, the FOURLIS Group aims to inform children, urge parents and encourage the family to adopt a different way of life. The “Fit for Life” program offers the following benefits for the participants: ✓ Free scientific measurements and advice on exercise and nutrition ✓ Measurement of flexibility and spine mobility, strength, balance and physical fitness ✓ Assessment of the distribution of weight in a standing position, spine curvature, strength of grip, balance standing on one leg ✓ Provision of personalized advice regarding proper nutrition and physical exercise In total, 1.500 children took part in the program in 2010 compared to 535 in 2009. 34 Society EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: INTERSPORT Camps INTERSPORT adopted a new initiative for children in 2010 the INTERSPORT Camps thus taking another step towards bringing the society closer to sports. INTERSPORT Camps are sports camps for children between the ages of 6 and 14. In collaboration with Arsenal Schools and the Cavaliers Youth Hoops program of The National Basketball Academy, the Camp offered unique athletic experiences for the children who took part in 2010. Για περισσότερες πληροφορίες & εγγραφές: www.intersport.gr, www.sportcamp.gr τηλ.: 27440 23999 66860 fax: 27440 26930 Για αγόρια και κορίτσια 6 έως 14 ετών, που θέλουν να ζήσουν µια αξέχαστη εβδοµάδα συστηµατικής προπόνησης, διασκέδασης και οµαδικής ζωής στις αθλητικές Mε την υποστήριξη των: ακαδηµίες των Arsenal Soccer Schools & Cavaliers Youth Hoops Program της The National Basketball Academy, στις εγκαταστάσεις του µεγαλύτερου ιδιωτικού αθλητικού κέντρου, SPORTCAMP στο Λουτράκι. EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: Tennis Tournament Intersport organized, for the second consecutive year, the INTERSPORT Tennis Open, a great athletic event, which took place on 1st October 2010 in Thessaloniki and on 13th October 2010 in Athens. The tournaments lasted from 10 to 19 days. The FOURLIS Group employees could participate in the tournament with only restriction the priority in the list of entries. D. Our Activities Over the Following Year The company aims to continue the implementation of the existing policies and actions, while at the same time it aims to: • increase the number of voluntary blood donors in the annual blood donation • increase the number of employees participating in company voluntary actions Social Responsibility Report 2010 35 6. Environment Α. Introduction E veryone in the FOURLIS Group knows that our company, just like any other humanistic and business activity, needs natural resources. We are also aware that we need to take into consideration the activities of the Group and the way in which these activities influence the environment so as to reduce, as far as possible, our negative impact on the environment. Our aim is to increasingly systemize our practices each year so as to minimize any negative impact on the environment. The first step in minimizing our impact is to recognize which activities affect the environment, like for example, the way in which we consume natural resources, the quantities of liquid and solid waste we produce, the amount of energy we consume, etc. Β. Analysis of the Results of Our Actions Being aware of the global environmental problems, such as the shortage of water and raw materials, and having knowledge about our impact on the environment, we implement a structured Impact Analysis that we have been applying over the last few years with the aim of becoming aware of our basic impact on the environment. 36 Environment Furthermore, we try to directly manage any impact we may have on the environment by adopting environment friendly technologies, but also indirectly by cultivating environmental awareness within and outside the Group. We believe that our actions will be more effective if they are combined with information dissemination on the practices we adopt and the reasons for applying them. For this reason, we regularly set up information dissemination and awareness campaigns for the public and our workforce. C. Management of our Materials We ensure the responsible management of consumables used in an ongoing effort to reduce related impact. Use of Paper Through a series of practices we manage our consumables, starting with the use of recycled, recyclable, chlorine free paper, the minimization of the use of paper and the final recycling of waste materials. FOURLIS Group Paper Management Practices Paper recycling (tons) Fax server use (%) Duplex printing (thousands) Purchase of recycled paper (tons) 1.540,3 279,5 2010 7 26,7 1.541 131,6 2009 29,4 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 Recycled Paper Over the last two years, we have implemented the exclusive use of recycled, recyclable and chlorine free paper. In total, the percentage of this paper bought by the Group for office use in 2010 came to 26.727 kilos, in comparison to 29.390 kilos in 2009. Paper Saving Our goal was to minimize, as far as possible, the use of paper for printing. For this reason, we avoid printing and we prefer the use of the internal electronic network and the use of document sharing within the network. Social Responsibility Report 2010 37 In particular we apply the following: ✓ Use of fax servers We have installed fax servers in 7% of our premises. Through this practice we were able to control faxes so that only absolutely necessary ones are printed and paper is saved. ✓ Duplex printing This practice has helped us cut in half the use of paper for printing. The total number of pages printed in duplex printing in 2010 came to 279.467 in comparison with 131.620 pages in 2009. The number of employees who are able to make use of duplex printing comes to 377. ✓ Creation of an internal Intranet network With the implementation of an internal network we were able to minimize unnecessary printing, since all information regarding the Group was made available electronically and there is no need for printing. ✓ Application of Human Resources electronic tools We noticed that a significant amount of paper was being used by the Human Resources Department which handles all the CVs sent to the Group, employee payment receipts and vacation applications. All these are now handled through an electronic system which helps us successfully reduce the use of paper in this particular department. Paper Recycling At FOURLIS Group, we have adopted paper recycling in all our companies. Especially at IKEA, we have installed recycling bins at all our stores over the past two years, aiming to encourage clients as well as our workforce to use the recycling bins, in the hopes that this will become a habit. It’s worth noting that through this practice, in 2010, IKEA managed to recycle 1.495 tons of paper compared to 2009 when 1.435 tons of paper was recycled. In total, FOURLIS Group recycled 1.540,3 tons of paper in 2010 compared to 2009 when 1.541 tons of paper was recycled a small difference due to the fact that use of paper was reduced. Use of Ink As far as use of ink is concerned, the company’s impact on the environment was significantly reduced with the application of the above for the minimization of printing. However, the Group’s consumption of ink remained high. 38 Environment Ink Saving In 2008, we adopted new technology practices, like laser printers, which contributed significantly to the protection of the environment since less ink is required for their use. Laser printers make up 84% of the total number of printers at FOURLIS Group, from 83% in 2009. However, at IKEA and INTERSPORT stores there was an increase of 35% in the purchase of ink because of the operation of new stores, as in 2010 we bought 4.317 units of ink while in 2009 the corresponding number was 2.790 units. In addition, out of the total amount of ink we bought, we finally recycled 547 units, while in 2009 we recycled 2.072 units. The reduction in recycling of ink cartridges is justified as in 2010, the management of consumables is handled by the printer supply companies. Recycling of Other Waste Materials A priority of the Social Responsibility program applied by the FOURLIS Group regarding environmental protection, involves the recycling of all recyclable materials used by the company for its operation. For this reason, we continue to focus on the benefits of recycling, investing in improving infrastructure and informing our employees and clients. The table below presents the total recycling of the FOURLIS Group in 2010, compared to the amounts for the same materials recycled in 2009. FOURLIS Group Total Recycling MATERIALS 2010 2009 Paper** (kilos) 1.540.095 1.541.070 Ink cartridges Toners (units) 547 2.072 Batteries (kilos) 7.019 2.266 Cooking fat*** (liters) 13.980 30.743 Aluminum (kilos) 648 1.613 Glass (kilos) 6.840 4.268 Fluorescent lamps (kilos) 800 284 Plastic (kilos) 103.660 16.120 Metals (kilos) 22.610 19.590 Wood (kilos) 260.900 * The recycling statistics pertain to the companies of the FOURLIS Group in Greece and Cyprus ** The paper recycling statistics pertain to amounts collected from all uses, like wrapping paper, carbon boxes, office paper, etc. *** The cooking fat is collected from the restaurants in IKEA stores Social Responsibility Report 2010 39 Use of Water Due to our daily needs for store hygiene, and the sheer number of employees, our company consumes a significant amount of water, and therefore includes water as an environmental action item. In 2010, IKEA, INTERSPORT and TRADE LOGISTICS consumed 3.100.860 liters of water, compared with 1.902.314 liters in 2009. The increase was due to the creation of new stores. The following chart presents the water consumption for IKEA (except Athens), INTERSPORT and TRADE LOGISTICS of the FOURLIS GROUP for 2010 in comparison with consumption of water in 2009 and 2008. Consumption of Water for IKEA, INTERSPORT & TRADE LOGISTICS 2010 2009 2008 ΙΚΕΑ water consumption (except Athens) (liters) 29.879 22.496 25.418 INTERSPORT water consumption (liters) 1.891.000 1.335.000 896.000 TRADE LOGISTICS water consumption (liters) 1.179.981 544.435 320.734 Total water consumption (liters) 3.100.860 1.902.314 1.242.152 EXAMPLE OF IKEA THESSALONIKI ACTION Reduction in water consumption IKEA, recognizing that due to its volume of work and employees it has a significant impact on the environment, tries to minimize its environmental impact wherever possible. Based on the above principle, the Thessaloniki store reduced its total water consumption by 4,8% in comparison to 2009, while the store’s specific water consumption declined by 2%. The following table represents the total and specific consumption of the IKEA store in Thessaloniki in 2010, compared to 2009 and 2008. 2010 2009 2008 Total water consumption (liters) 15.348 16.115 17.726 Specific water consumption (liters/employee) 50 51 52 40 Environment D. The Energy We Consume The Electricity Conservation program is one of the main environmental protection programs we apply. We systematically monitor the consumption of energy in the companies in our Group, through various sources, with a view to implementing actions that will allow us to reduce it. Electrical Energy Conservation Given the fact that the company is active in various ✓ T he replacement of conventional lamps with energy sectors, our facilities are not uniform throughout and saving lamps throughout our premises display significant differences. ✓ T he replacement of information systems with corresponding low energy consumption systems Therefore, we have taken note of differences in the ✓ T he completion of the replacement of «CRT» screens buildings so we can intervene effectively to reduce with new technology in 100% of all screens of the electricity consumption. Group ✓  xpanding use of blade servers to 65% of all servers E Typical company practices which contributed to reducing in the Group from 60% in 2009. The reduction in electricity consumption in 2010 were: electricity consumption due to the use of blade servers ✓ Careful use of lighting is estimated to have reached 30%. The chart below presents the total energy consumption (electrical energy, natural gas and oil) in all the Group’s premises in Greece and Cyprus in 2010. FOURLIS Group Energy Consumption 2010 Total consumption of electricity (KWh) 32.298.646 Total consumption of heating oil (liters) 54.607 Total consumption of natural gas (m3) 105.754 Due to electricity consumption, total vast majority, 98,4%, being due to carbon, oil and gas emissions in the indirect emissions from electricity Group came to 23.990,1 tons; the use. Carbon Emissions from energy consumption Oil (CO2 Tons) Electrical Energy (CO2 Tons) Natural gas (CO2 Tons) 227,0 146,4 23.616,7 * Conversion indexes: Electrical Energy 0.7312tn CO2e / MWh, Heating oil 0.002681 tn CO2e / lt, Natural Gas 0,2025 tn CO2e / MWh. Social Responsibility Report 2010 41 EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: Energy and Natural Resources Conservation From the very beginning of its foundation, IKEA has displayed concern for the environment. Openly concerned, it has made systematic efforts to reduce consumption of natural resources. In 2010, IKEA stores realized the following actions: ✓R  eduction in hours of use of the surrounding lights at night and the number of lights which operate in alternation ✓D  eactivation of lights operating behind the stores ✓S  ole use of energy conserving lamps ✓R  eduction in hours of operation of lights in the warehouses, showroom and public areas wherever possible ✓ Installation of automatic electricity management (B.M.S.) wherever possible ✓ L imited use of air conditioners through the use of wind curtains at customer exits and warehouses wherever possible More specifically, as a result of the above actions it is noted that: ✓ The airport store reduced its consumption of electrical energy by 8,2% compared to 2009 ✓ T he store in Larisa managed to reduce its consumption of electrical energy by 49,5% compared with the budget for 2010 ✓ T he store in Egaleo reduced its consumption of natural gas by 15,4% Through the above actions, IKEA has helped protect the environment by conserving natural resources, while at the same time, has had economic benefits to the amount of €82.715. The increase in consumption in 2010 is due to the operation of the store in Larisa which opened in October 2009. Reduction / Reduction / 2010 2009 Increase Increase % (2010 vs 2009) (2010 vs 2009) Total consumption of electrical 25.564.846 22.792.202 +2.772.644 +12% energy (KWh) Total consumption of natural gas 99.351 105.944 -6.593 6% (KWh) Total consumption 52.857 98.788 -45.931 -46% of oil (lt) Total natural 82.715 498.696 -415.981 -83% energy saving (€) 42 Environment EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: Electrical Energy Consumption INTERSPORT’s Electrical Energy Saving program, which started in 2009, continued in 2010 and displayed important results since the use of technology that regulates the cosine of the main switchboard reduced electricity consumption by 11%. In 2010, five INTERSPORT stores made use of technology which regulates the cosine of the main switchboard. Ε. O  ur Public and Employee Awareness Building Activities At FOURLIS Group, we believe that in addition to the actions we take to reduce our impact on the environment, we can also play an important role in indirectly protecting it through regularly informing our customers and employees. Information Campaigns Information campaigns, aimed at our customers and employees, have been implemented since 2008, and aim to cultivate interest in environmental issues through the use of posters, leaflets and symbolic gifts. In particular, in 2010, through our actions we promoted the following practices: Participation ✓ in environmental protection programs ✓ in the company’s environmental protection programs Rational Use ✓ of paper ✓ of lighting ✓ of energy in the workplace ✓ of water Recycling ✓ paper ✓ batteries Preference ✓ for recycled paper ✓ recyclable environment friendly bags Social Responsibility Report 2010 43 EXAMPLE OF FOURLIS TRADE & SERVICE ONE ACTION Environmental Information Action Through FOURLIS TRADE and SERVICE ONE, we continued, this year, our environmental awareness campaigns. In 2010, our clients were given the opportunity to rectify incorrect practices regarding choice, use and conservation of electric and electronic appliances, but also their recycling thereof (when their lifespan is up) by taking into account the advice given directly by SERVICE ONE technicians, and also indirectly through informational leaflets with environmental messages which were distributed to customers’ homes. It’s calculated that, in 2010, more than 10.500 customers were informed about the correct use of electrical appliances, compared to 800 people informed in 2009. Environment Friendly Bags INTERSPORT and SERVICE ONE are the first companies in the Group that in 2008, fully endorsed the use of biodegradable and paper bags, while in 2010, 100% of our companies no longer use plastic bags, including IKEA that uses only paper and re usable bags. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION Distribution of recycling bags As part of the whole effort of the Group to promote public and employee environmental awareness, IKEA organized the distribution of 40.000 blue re usable bags together with printed material on recycling in Thessaly, and 37.000 bags in Ioannina. Earth Hour This year, as well as in 2009, IKEA and INTERSPORT Greece and Cyprus took part in the symbolic action known as “Earth Hour”, which mobilizes millions of people worldwide who, through this symbolic act, remind everyone that saving the planet, requires the participation and compliance of all inhabitants on Earth. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION Environment Day At FOURLIS Group we take part in World Environment Day on the 5th of June. In 2010, IKEA gave special meaning to this day by giving customers a 5% discount on their purchases if they brought something even if it was only one batteryto the store for recycling. 44 Environment EXAMPLE OF FOURLIS TRADE ACTION Reforestation in Athens and Thessaloniki The initiative taken by FOURLIS Group in collaboration with the Reforestation Department and LIEBHERR, to plant trees in burnt areas of Penteli in Athens and Seich Sou forest in Thessaloniki, gave many concerned citizens the opportunity, through this symbolic action, to declare that they are trying to improve quality of life for all of us. The team spirit, collaboration and will of the volunteers who actively took part in this effort to conserve the sustainability of the planet, aided in the realization of our promise, since in 10 hours 8.000 trees were planted. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION Creation of Recycling Centers In 2010, IKEA created two Complete Recycling Centers in Egaleo and Ioannina which operate 24 hours a day and can be used by both children and adults. Through these Recycling Centers, anyone who wishes, can return plastic bottles, metal tins, glass containers, plastic bags, batteries and other packaging for recycling, thus winning discount coupons for free shopping in participating stores, or, if they wish, they can donate the corresponding amount to charities. F. Our Activities Over the During the period 01/04/2010 to 31/01/2011, the above Complete Following Year Recycling Centers, recovered 1.579.581 packages or 92.678 The goal of the company over the following year is to continue the kilos of packaging. implementation of policies and actions it already applies, and also to: ✓ increase the amount of paper recycled ✓ reduce the amount of electrical energy, natural gas and oil consumed ✓ increase recycling of ink ✓ reduce consumption of water Social Responsibility Report 2010 45 7. G  lobal Compact Table Α. Introduction T he Greek Global Compact network was founded in May 2008. The determination of the ten principles of the Global Compact was based on internationally accepted standards, as developed by the Member States and the United Nations and are based on four pillars: 1. Human Rights 2. Working conditions 3. Environment 4. The fight against corruption The aim for the creation of the Global Compact was the monitoring of corporate responsibility and to prove, as much to the employees as to the rest of the stakeholders, that a company’s commitment to responsible behavior and action is a strategic and operational priority. Over 4.700 businesses and 1.300 non-profit organizations active in over 130 countries participate in the Global Compact. This large participation of companies and organizations places the UN Global Compact as the biggest global voluntary initiative. 46 Global Compact Table Every member of the UN Global Compact is obliged to: ✓ p ublicly announce the progress of the company on the application of the principles of the Global Compact for dissemination to all the stakeholders (consumers, employees, society, investors, media, government agencies) ✓  ut into effect changes in methods p of operation to incorporate the ten principles in their strategy, culture and daily tasks ✓  idely disseminate the Global w Compact and its principles by means of the communication channels at their disposal Β. Table of Global Compact Principles The following table presents the correlation of the content of the FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility 2010 Review with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Principle Theme Unit Coverage Human Rights Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1. human rights 3E F, 4C, 6H F 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3E F, 4C, 6H F Labor Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 3. right to collective bargaining 4H P/R 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 3E F, 4H F 5. Effective abolition of child labor 3E F, 4H F 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 3E F, 4C D, 4H F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 7A F F 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 7C E F Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 9. technologies 7B E F Anti Corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 3E F, 4C-D F Social Responsibility Report 2010 47 8. G  lobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table The following table presents the correlation of the content of the FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility 2010 Report with the principles and indexes of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3). Α. GRI Principles Table GRI Standard Disclosures: Profile Unit paragraph Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization 1C D 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 1D, 2A Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 1A, 2B 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 2A B Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 2A B, 3D companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 48 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 1B, 2B Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 2.5 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability 2A B issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2Β Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 2Β customers / beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the organization 2Α Β 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership N/A 2.10 Awards received 2A B Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 1Α 3.2 Date of most recent previous report N/A 3.3 Reporting cycle 1Α 3.4 Contact point 1Β 3.5 Process for defining report content 1Α, 3Α Boundary of the report (eg. Countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 1Α joint ventures, suppliers) 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1Α Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from 2Β period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation N/M of indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 N/A reports, and the reason for such re-statement (eg. Mergers, acquisitions) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 N/A measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 8Α 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. N/M Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1 3D Ε highest governance body responsible for specific tasks 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 3D Ε State the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that 4.3 3D are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 3D direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the N/M organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest 4.6 N/M are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any 3D consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Social Responsibility Report 2010 49 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their 3Α Β, 3Ε implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s 4.9 identification and Management of economic, environmental, and social 3D performance. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4.10 N/M particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 N/M addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 2F or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 2F international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 3C 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 3C Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 4.16 3C type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 N/M engagement, and how the organization has responded. Β. GRI Indicators Table GRI Indicator Unit Unit ECONOMIC EC1 2C F EC2 7D P/R ENVIRONMENT Materials EN1 7C P/R Energy EN3 7D F EN4 7D P/R EN5 7D P/R Water EN8 7C P/R EN9 7C P/R Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 7D F EN17 7D P/R EN22 7C P/R EN29 7D P/R 50 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 4Β F LA2 4Β C F LA3 4Ε G F Occupational Health and Safety LA6 4G P/R LA7 4G F LA8 6G P/R LA9 4G P/R Training and Education LA10 4F F LA12 4D, 3F F LA13 4Β C F HUMAN RIGHTS NonDiscrimination HR4 4C Ε F Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 3Ε F P/R Child Labor HR6 4H, 3F F Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 3Ε F, 4H P/R SOCIETY Local Community SO1 5Β C F Corruption SO2 3Ε F F SO3 3Ε F P/R SO4 3Ε F F Public Policy SO5 2F P/R PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and Service Labeling PR3 7C P/R Marketing Communications PR6 3Ε F F PR7 3Ε F P/R Note: N/M= Not Mentioned, N/A= Non Applicable, F= Full, P/R= Partial Reference Social Responsibility Report 2010 51 FOURLIS HOLDINGS SA 340 KIFISIAS AV. GR 15451 NEO PSYCHICO Tel: +30 210 6293000 Fax: +30 210 6293205 E-mail: csr@fourlis.gr www.fourlis.gr In this Sustainability Report, the FOURLIS Group used paper 100% recyclable, recycled and biodegradable.
