COP 2011/UN Global Compact/ by schmidt hammer lassen architects/June 2011 Content/ About us/schmidt hammer lassen architects Statement of support by CEO Bente Damgaard The architectural approach to CSR The UN Global Compact principles/support/compliance/action human rights labour standards environment anticorruption Minding everyday behaviour The Crystal & Cloud/Copenhagen/Denmark/ About us/ With 25 years of experience schmidt hammer lassen architects is a Scandinavian architectural practice committed to innovative and sustainable design. The practice has offices located in Aarhus, Copenhagen, London and Shanghai and employs approximately 150 people. Common to the architecture of schmidt hammer lassen architects is the democratic approach. The practice creates modern, open and multi-functional spaces that also comply with the company’s ethical considerations – thus we design buildings that reflect a democratic gesture and appears open to the outside world. We develop sustainable solutions with high emotional value that benefits the environment, society, the users, and the overall economy. A building revolves around people and is not merely an architectonic shape. schmidt hammer lassen architects knows how to deal with complex architecture, and the practice has a distinguished track record as designers of high-profile cultural buildings, such as art galleries, educational complexes and libraries. The interaction with the surrounding urban and social context is essential and therefore user-driven innovation and focus groups are often included in the design process. The architecture of the practice has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. Adopting a holistic approach we believe that the basis of sustainable design is an understanding of every component that will deliver a healthy building. We continuously challenge the concept of sustainability in every aspect of the processes we take part in. schmidt hammer lassen architects joined The UN Global Compact initiative in June 2008 and this is our second COP. In this issue we address all four areas within the Founded in 1986 Global Compact principles: human rights, labour standards, environment, and 5 offices anti-corruption. 150 co-workers 23 nationalities This COP will be uploaded on the Global Compact website, and will also be 15 languages available on our website www.shl.dk International projects account for more than 50% www.shl.dk Statement of support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects maintain a strong and ambitious focus on CSR initiatives which is essentially based on what we call the architectural approach to CSR. By this we acknowledge that it is through our professional expertise as architects that we are able to contribute, support, promote, develop, explore and initiate substantial changes. The architectural field is our sphere of influence and the overall goal is to optimize the standards of modern buildings all over the world for the benefit of the environment, society, people, and economy. Our actions must comply with the expressed intentions and we aim at meeting the extraordinary challenges of today by providing excellent architectural services. Therefore we invest a serious amount of time and resources in Research and Development activities such as Industrial PhDs, green innovation projects, collaborative partnerships with both industry and higher education institutions, and targeted internal continuing education. schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported The Global Compact initiative since June 2008 and the principles continuously constitute an important and essential part of the CSR activities of our company. I would hereby like to state that we continuously support the UN initiative Global Compact and uphold the ten UN principles concerning; human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. In this COP we address all four Global Compact areas. Bente Damgaard CEO at schmidt hammer lassen architects June 2011 The Architectural Approach/CSR/ “The essential approach of CSR at schmidt hammer lassen arBy taking the architectural approach towards CSR we acknowledge the importance chitects is obviously architectural. It is through architecture that of making the right decisions in every stage of the complex project stages. we as a company can make profound difference – to people, the environment, economy, and society”. Consequently the CSR policy of schmidt hammer lassen architects is based on the Bjarne Hammer, founding partner, March 2011 architectural core services that we provide. We believe that architecture can add value and create profound changes. ORIENTATION CLIMATE INFRASTRUCTURE LIGHT/SPACE/VENTILATION ENERGY/WATER CULTURE ADDED VALUE HEALTH & WELLBEING FLEXIBILITY ADDED VALUE COMMERCIAL REALITY COMMUNITY LONGEVITY CLIENT USER USER DRIVEN INNOVATION PUBLIC CONSULTATION City of Westminster College/London/United Kingdom/ The UN Global Compact principles/ The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. In this COP we state our commitment and describe actions taken on all four areas. Human Rights/ Principle 1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour standards/ Principle 3 businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment/ Principle 7 businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption/ Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights/UN/Principles/1/2/ Declaration of support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects supports the 30 articles of The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also state that the practice comply with Danish national legislation which meets the international conventions. Action/End Poverty 2015 campaign in Denmark schmidt hammer lassen architects participated as business partner in the 2010 campaign in Denmark called The World’s Best News which is part of the Danish contribution to of the UN initiative End Poverty 2015 Campaign (supporting The United Nations Millennium Development Goals). We will also take part in this year’s event that takes place in September and October 2011 under the campaign title “Effort bears fruit” and as business partner we help by spreading the good news both inside and outside our organization telling that effort and support is actually making profound changes in the developing countries. The Danish campaign is financially supported by Danida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, and the event has been developed as a unique collaboration between the UN, DANIDA and nearly 70 Danish development organizations and NGOs. International Criminal Court/The Hague/The Netherlands/ Labour rights/UN/Principles/3/4/5/6/ schmidt hammer lassen architects are exclusively dependant on staff members’ performance to continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic and sustainable architectural solutions for a diverse and international group of private and public clients. Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of the staff members is therefore detrimental to the organisational development and a top priority in the strategic management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the practice’s ambitious visions. The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and conditions of any staff members through collective agreements and state imposed regulations concerning employee safeguarding. Additionally, schmidt hammer lassen architects engages in several specifically selected and designed activities to uphold these rights, extend them and continuously improve conditions for all staff members. In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent to safeguarding labour rights and we also include those extra activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment. A collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the organisation’s staff members. Colleagues in London and Shanghai are not covered by Danish collective agreement, but the organisation has made significant efforts to create conditions comparable to the rights and benefits included in the Danish collective agreement. National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites are followed with rigor. Labour rights/UN/Principles/3/4/5/6/ The Danish labour law and collective agreement provides the following benefits to safeguard employee interests 1. Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority 2. Pension 3. Working hours regulation and overtime compensation as well as a bonus system when winning architectural competitions 4. Favourable maternity and paternity leave 5. Holiday regulations (20-30 days pr. annum) 6. CPD funding (up to DKK 17,000 per annum per staff member) 7. Employee representation on several deciding organisational boards (Health & Safety committee, Collaboration Committee and Continuing Education Committee) 8. Free union representative elections without management intervention 9. Extensive opportunities for study leaves and company assisted learning curricula 10. Mandatory, annual EAS (employee appraisal committee) for all staff members to ensure ongoing professional and personal development Additionally, the organisation has chosen to offer extra health care insurances for all staff members after three months’ employment. Although, public health systems are well-functioning in all countries in which the organisation operates, the company offers an additional insurance scheme to secure a fast paced healing process of any staff member who accidentally falls ill. Non-smoking policy, additional flu vaccines, early warning systems for staff members with substance abuse problems are also in effect. Labour rights/UN/Principles/3/4/5/6/ Extra benefits/ Non-discrimination/ The health and safety of all staff members is highly valued by the organisation. The architectural practice has devised an internationalisation strategy and the orHence, dedicated committees are in place and the organisation’s strategic manageganisation’s strategic management expects that the division of revenue generated ment participates actively and cooperatively. The meeting frequency in all three in Denmark and internationally will – and shall – shift from 50/50 to higher revenues committees is quarterly. generated outside Denmark over the coming years. The Health & Safety Committee prevent any form of counterproductive physical This goal clearly demands that the organisation is able to attract and retain a culturand non-physical working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related ally diverse workforce, composed of culturally open minded and non-discriminating accident staff members. The Collaboration Committee ensure a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union representative about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and retention The Continuing Education Committee organise and administer the organisation’s strategic engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. Measurement/ To monitor organisational development on ‘hard’ aspects (physical working conditions) and ‘soft’ issues (non-physical working environment), the organisation administers a detailed employee survey once every third year. The work place assessment (WPA) gives any employee an opportunity to voice general impressions about the organisation’s many conditions. Among these conditions are the physical working environment, cross-organisation collaboration, work-life balance, work content and professional challenges, evaluation of the strategic management, CPD etc. All results are analysed and shared with the organisation at local office meetings and special action plans are designed to face specific challenges. The results from the survey conducted in 2009 showed a positive result for the general well being of staff members despite a notably difficult year due to the international credit crunch. Although, many colleagues had been made redundant and significant cost cutting schemes had been administered, the general well being score was 75,91 on a scale from 1-100 (> 70 is considered positive). Response rate in the survey was 72,6 % Data has been used to inform the work in the health and safety committee and the overall HR strategy as score-effect diagrams has been created to identify major issues of impact to increase general well being. Staff member nationalities/2011/ Total number of staff/1 June 2011 154 Full time employees 129/83,7 % Part time employees 10/6,5 % Interns 13/8,4 Industrial PhDs 2/1,2 % Women (total) 71 Men (total) 83 Danish staff members 104/67,5 % Non-Danish staff members 50/32,5 % Australia 1 Belgium 1 Bulgaria 1 Canada 1 Chinese 3 Czech Republic 1 Germany 11 Great Britain 6 Greece 1 Iran 1 Ireland 1 Iceland 1 Japan 1 Latvia 1 Norway 1 Poland 5 Portugal 2 Spain 1 Sweden 3 The Netherlands 3 Turkey 1 USA 3 Anti-discriminating activities/ We encourage people irrespective of gender, age, political conviction, sexuality, religion, disability, ethnicity, nationality or social heritage to apply for a job at schmidt hammer lassen architects. This is actively communicated on the company website and the e-recruitment system automatically takes candidates through identical steps to ensure a fair treatment of all candidates irrespective of background. All recruiting managers are offered training in competency based recruitment assessment interviews and HR participates and administers 95 % of all recruitment activities to ensure unbiased evaluation processes. Screening and selection tools are chosen consciously to prohibit any form of discriminating effects. Currently, the organisation employs assessment tools from SHL (see www.shl.com) and Saville Consulting (www.savilleconsulting.com). These psychometric tools abide by international standards and have proven to by significantly predictive and unbiased, as well as culture sensitive through compilation of diverse norm groups. Any internal promotion within the organisation is carefully considered according to skills, competencies and career development – consciously disregarding personal life style, gender or cultural background. Focusing on competencies and skills naturally detracts attention from discriminating and biased staff assessments. Conclusively we declare that schmidt hammer lassen architects do not employ children under age. SHLdays/Middelfart/Denmark/2006 Environment/UN/Principles/7/8/9/ Commitment/ “As architects we do not only have the opportunity but also the schmidt hammer lassen architects has established a reputation for devising truly responsibility to design a better world. Sustainability must not solely sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. Adopting a become a question of CO2 reduction. We consider sustainability from holistic approach, we believe that the basis of sustainable design is an undera holistic point of view that considers financial, cultural, and social standing of every component that will deliver a healthy and enduring building, issues as well as wider environmental aspirations.” a building in which people will feel comfortable – both physically and socially. “The Green Manifesto” of schmidt hammer lassen architects, 2007 Above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client, which can be an individual, a commercial enterprise, a school or an entire community. In the final analysis, sustainability is about delivering design that functions successfully as a catalyst for positive change. In other words, we are talking about successful placemaking: when it works, sustainable design can engender a sense of civic pride, a sense of identity. This is an extraordinary challenge for architects – it is at the very heart of why we do what we do. Action/ We support a precautionary approach to the environment by following a thoroughly defined methodology such as listed below: – We design sustainable solutions for sustainable communities, – We use local manufacturing and labour when possible – We strive for reductions in running costs by utilising passive solutions, optimising natural ventilation, providing local controls and reclaiming heat. – We design in thermal stability with night cooling and high level of insulation. – We optimize the use of daylight, saving on electricity. – We maximise the reduction of waste through the reduction of ground works and off site production. – We seek the reduction of CO2 and examine the Life Cycle embodied en ergy of a project. – We incorporate alternative sources of energy; wind, solar, alternative fuels, alternative heat sources. Danfoss Head Office/Nordborg/Denmark/ Methodology/ People/ Ecosystem/ Our architecture is for people. We seek to design exceptional and healthy living, working We seek to create self sustained, healthy ecosystems providing natural habitat for birds and social environments. We seek an open, democratic, social inclusive architecture that and wildlife. We encourage a circular metabolism minimizing the need for consumption of accommodates the environmental aspect as well as the financial, cultural and social. natural resources and the output of waste and maximizing self production and recycling. Context/ Soil & Landscape/ Each project encompasses its genius loci, its sense of place. They are in tune with their Landscape and ground works is designed to enhance the imbedded qualities of the site context, and maximize the benefits of their orientation, daylight and natural resources. to make the best possible setting for the buildings and public space. When necessary Through thorough analysis of context, cultural heritage, the core functions, adaptability cleaning and remediation of site contamination will be an integrated part of the landscape and flexibility over time and appropriateness of scale and grain, we seek to design projects design to provide a sustainable, healthy living environment. in tune with their context and resonant of a sense of place. Microclimate/ Form & function/ We seek to control the microclimate within and around the buildings through the use of We strive to reduce running costs and energy usage firstly by utilizing passive solutions, land formation, vegetation, water features etc. to create comfortable, controlled climatic analyzing the form and function to benefit the most from the natural context in which the zones. project is located. Through careful analysis we shape the projects to optimize the use of daylight, natural ventilation, and passive heating and cooling. Waste/ We consider the waste generated by each project in the widest possible sense, from Energy/ reduction of waste through the reduction of ground works and off site production down to We pay careful consideration to the source of energy required for power, heating and integrated recycling systems minimising the waste generated by our projects throughout cooling is derived from. First we look to existing sustainable systems or to where existing their lifetime. waste energy can be used. Where appropriate we incorporate alternative sources of sustainable energy such as: wind, solar, biomass, heat pumps, heat recovery, combined Materials/ heat and power etc. We consider the impact of the materials we use have on the environment throughout their lifetime, from their production; to the imbedded qualities the materials can benefit the Light/ project, i.e. thermal mass, hydroscopic qualities etc to the materials ability to be recycled Light plays a key role in our projects. We seek to make the most of the natural daylight or reenter the environment in a sustainable fashion. available on the given location to reduce the energy demands but not least to make the architecture come alive, creating exceptional spatial experiences. Noise/ Through careful consideration of form, orientation, and materials we seek to mitigate Ventilation/ against the impact of noise. Ventilation and air flow is designed according to the needs of the individual project; we consider natural, balanced or controlled systems to find the appropriate solution to Certification/ achieve reductions in energy consumptions, healthy working and living environments and We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international an efficient and rational architecture. assessment tools and certification systems such as: “BEAT 2000 Build Environmental Assessment Tool” BRE Environmental Assessment Method, Estidama, BREEAM Gulf or Water/ LEED. We strive to conserve the natural water resource by looking at all aspects of water within the projects, considering conservation, recycling and harvesting, from the large scale Economy/ urban drainage systems to the use of grey water systems within buildings and simple We seek through an integrated design process to make financially viable projects. We believe water savings methods. that above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client to create financially successful, social inclusive environmentally-friendly projects with considered use Infrastructure/ of natural resources, projects that can be a catalyst for positive change and growth. We design comfortable and efficient infrastructure with focus on sustainable public transport systems and a strong emphasis on good design of public space to encourage self propelled transportation such as walking, cycling, rollerblading etc. Environment/UN/Principles/7/8/9/ Sustainable Architecture exhibited/ The Crystal contains a multitude of sustainable elements such schmidt hammer lassen architects’ new sculptural building The Crystal in Copenhaas solar energy, recycling of rainwater, three-layer glass facades gen was part of the official Danish pavilion when the 12th International Architecture and natural ventilation throughout the building as well as a seaBiennale opened in Venice in August 2010. water heat exchanger using water from the harbour to cool the air in the building. Under the heading ”Urban Questions – Copenhagen Answers” the Danish pavilion, curated by Danish Architecture Centre (DAC), focused on Copenhagen as a city which provides answers to some of the urban challenges of the world. The Crystal, the new sculptural building for the mortgage bank Nykredit located on the Copenhagen harbour front was selected by DAC as one of these architectural answers. The Crystal, schmidt hammer lassen architects’ contribution to the Danish pavilion on the 12th International Architecture Biennale, is an extension to the head office of Nykredit. It consists of a new building, The Crystal, and a beautiful open square, The Sky, on a triangular site close to the old city of Copenhagen. In essence, The Crystal consists of a large three-dimensional structure which at the same time constitutes the walls, floors, stories and roof of the building. The structure is clad in a glass façade and metal roofing which make it appear as a sharply cut crystal resting on a single line and a single point. The Crystal integrates with the city by offering a seeview beneath major parts of the building, as the bottom floor is lifted from the ground and resting on three points. The official Danish contribution to the 12th International Architectural Biennale in Venice is curated and produced by Danish Architecture Centre and sponsored by The Danish Ministry of Culture, Realdania, The National Art Foundation, City & Harbour, Carlsberg and Copenhagen X. Biennale 2010/Venice/Italy/ Taking environmental responsibility by adding knowledge/ R&D/ The GREEN 2.0 featured three sessions/ localize it/optimize it/materialize it/ Research and development is an integral part of our practice and has been for many years we believe that architecture of the future will be largely shaped by in-depth Localize it/ knowledge relying on abilities to combine research and practice. We aim at extensive Managing Director, Dipl. Phys. Stefan Holst from Transsolar Klima Engineering from international cutting-edge knowledge about sustainable and intelligent materials Germany gave a lecture on integrated energy design and this was followed by a case as an integrated part of the architecture designed by schmidt hammer lassen archistudy on developing a fully integrated energy design of a housing programme. tects. Optimize it/ Internal Green Group/ CEO and founder of Fore Solutions, Gunnar Hubbard from USA gave a lecture on In 2010 R&D responsible Torsten Sack-Nielsen established the shl Green Group. The LEED certification and this was followed by a case study on certification. group is open for all employees and at weekly lunch meetings interested employees share their knowledge, discuss and exchange information about sustainable issue. Materialize it/ The meetings take place across SHLs office locations by videolink and information IWE Principal, Dr. Ing. Heiko Trumpf from Werner Sobek Engineers gave a lecture on and regular updates is published in the internal newsletter. cutting edge technologies and materials and this was followed by a case study the implementation of new technologies in the housing programme. GREEN 2.0/ In order to secure that all employees continuously develop and maintain the highest Exhibition/ level of knowledge we support the individual continuing education of all employees. The GREEN 2.0 was completed with the presentation of three selected projects. Furthermore the architectural practice arranges annual seminars and workshops for both leaders and employees – we call it shl Green Days. We invite capacities from all Sharing/ over the world to share their knowledge and thoughts on the newest technologies – The programme and documentation of GREEN 2.0 has been collected and published and we learn, play and have fun – and we get smarter and better at what we do. in a GREEN 2.0 book. The annual SHL Day in 2010 featuring GREEN 2.0 took place at The European Film GREEN 2.0/ schmidt hammer lassen architects College in the beautiful surroundings of Ebeltoft in eastern Jutland. The overall purpose of the event was to share experiences and gain new knowledge on sustainable solutions and challenges related to the architectural practice in the future. 100 employees, partners and professional consultants participated in the ambitious programme of nearly twelve hours of case study, lectures and exhibitions. www.shl.dk Head Office Aarhus Aaboulevarden 37 PO box 5117 8000 Aarhus C Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 F +45 86 18 45 13 E Info@shl.dk Office Copenhagen Flaesketorvet 68 1711 Copenhagen V Denmark T +45 70 20 19 00 F +45 70 20 19 07 E Info@shl.dk Office London 79 Weston Street London SE1 3RS United Kingdom T +44 (0)20 7367 0770 F +44 (0)20 7367 0779 E Info@shl.dk Office Oslo Sørkedalsveien 6 PB 7057 Majorstuen 0306 Oslo Norway T +47 90 72 18 63 E Info@shl.dk Office Shanghai Room 711, Bldg 2 100 Qin Zhou Road Shanghai 200235 China T +86 (0)21 6085 2020 F +86 (0)21 6085 2005 E Info@shl.dk GREEN/ integrated energy design/ leed certification/ cutting edge technologies/ future perspectives/ 2.0 New environmentally friendly technologies/ Commitment/ As a tool, the building certifications take the client directly into responsibility to keep schmidt hammer lassen architects work targeted to develop new technologies that the ambition towards sustainability high in order to reach the requested level. will heighten and improve the standards of sustainable solutions in architecture in order to be equipped for future challenges. A selected group of people at schmidt hammer lassen architects divided on these four certification system will participate in professional training courses to become Building Information Modelling/ auditors. Subsequently they will be able to offer this guidance through these proThrough the use of Building Information Modelling/BIM, schmidt hammer lassen cesses internally as an additional service to the clients. The knowledge outcome of architects is investigating the use of environmental analysis and simulation tools to the courses and experience will also be shared in courses/lectures to all employees. improve the sustainability of the projects the firm develops by software tools such as Ecotect and Green Building Studio among others into the design process. When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of design, projects can be developed to take advantage of local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar access and seasonal winds as well as the materials used to construct them. The most economical means to improve the sustainability of a building is through the improvement of its geometry to take advantage of local conditions. It has been found that when analysis software is used at the earliest stages of design economic benefit can be gained. schmidt hammer lassen architects is researching ways to use this new technology as integrated part of the design process. This research has been conducted in cooperation with Betech Data and AutoDesk. Action/ The research project “Experience gathering on BIM processes” is conducted in cooperation with the public funded project “New Knowledge”. The contributors are among others the European Union, Real Dania and the Digital Construction initiative. 3D BIM model/VIA University College/Campus Skejby/ The research project maps and investigate the changes in the project processes when working with BIM compared to the traditional 2D working method. A highly valuable knowledge as some of schmidt hammer lassen architects most prestigious projects are being conducted as a BIM model. JN indsæt foto/ link til Pixi bog BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic education plan in connection with the CPD funds but BIM also upholds its own internal taskforce and a separate internal budget as schmidt hammer lassen architects acknowledge that being a first mover on this field requires constant research and education. Certification/ International building certification systems, like DGNB/LEED/BREEAM/CRADLE2CRADLE offer the possibility to actually document the effort regarding sustainability and the building design at all levels. The process and the result of a building certification is a valuable documentation for the client afterwards. New environmentally friendly technologies/ New Innovative project/The Intelligent Climate Screen/ In cooperation with Esbensen Advising Engineers and Astrid Krogh Design, schmidt Key vision/intelligent climate curtain/ hammer lassen architects was granted financial support from the Danish Business Innovation Fund for the innovation project ‘The Intelligent Climate Screen’ in November 2010. The aim of the Business Innovation Fund is to promote growth, employment and export by supporting business opportunities within green growth and welfare. The Business Innovation Fund will distribute 101 million Euro between 2010-2012. The interdisciplinary project team will work to create a solution to the problem that transparency transparency transmitting lightlight transmitting energy producing energy producing the majority of the energy consumption in buildings is spent on cooling, ventilation and heating. On this background, the team is developing the next generation of intelligent building envelopes which will combine advanced technology and ‘smart materials’ with elegant design. This intelligent screen will be much easier and more inexpensive to mount than an extensive façade solution or replacement of the windows. At the same time the façade can be kept untouched from the outside, which is especially interesting for existing building stock which has to be energyrenovated. The main principle behind the idea relies on a combination of reflection of the solar sound absorbing sound absorbing aesthetial aesthetical sensual sensual climate regulating climate regulating radiation through the window, insulating qualities as well as accumulation and delay of the heat emission through phase changing material (PCM). Besides that, integrated thinfilm solarcells in the screen make it possible to produce energy for other electrical equipment. The project will be made in cooperation with The Danish Construction Association. Anti corruption/UN/principle/10/ Commitment/ The Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) 2010 results place Denmark as the world’s least corrupt country. The CPI was completed by Transparency International (TI) – The global coalition against corruption. The result underlines high standards in best practices performed by Danish companies working against anti-corruption, extortion, and bribery. “The Royal Danish Embassy’s Anti-Corruption Partnership is both a strateschmidt hammer lassen architects support the UN Convention against Corruption. gic and a practical oriented partnership created to advance commitment The practice’s business relationships are based on transparency and respect. and implementation of anti-corruption practices. The aim is to secure an ongoing update on trends and best practices and committing members to Actions/ continuously evaluate and improve their anti-corruption tools and activiIn February 2011 schmidt hammer lassen architects joined the Anti-Corruption ties in order to contribute actively to prevent corruption” Partnership in China which is facilitated by the Danish Embassy in Beijing. (Partnership Guidelines, Danish Foreign Ministry, 2010) By taking this step we state the practice’s dissociation from corruption in any form. Future actions/ A Code of Conduct is in preparation and will be implemented. schmidt hammer lassen architects is member of Andersen Garden/Beijing/China/ Minding everyday behaviour/ At schmidt hammer lassen architect we are proud to say that responsible behaviour is integrated in our everyday work life. As architects we improve the living conditions and the working conditions for people all over the world. The environmental benefit of building green is today indisputable and we are proud to contribute to this important progress towards a global sustainable community. We are committed to working towards the most sustainable solution possible in every project we engage in. In our everyday work life we spread the knowledge about sustainable design through our contact with clients, collaborators, and users of the buildings we design. We work all over the world. If possible we travel by public transport and we keep travel activities at a minimum by establishing alternative communication platforms such as Smart Boards and video link equipment. This enables us to hold meetings and workshops between office locations in China, UK, or Denmark. In our own offices we show the good example by recycling used paper, using energy efficient light bulbs, buying organic products and drinking Fair Trade labelled coffee. The Crystal & Cloud/Copenhagen/Denmark/ Credits/ All rights in this COP is reserved by schmidt hammer lassen architects/ Aaboulevarden 37 PO box 5117 8000 Aarhus C Denmark info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/Photos/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer PA & Communications Officer T +45 87 32 52 41 M +45 28 63 14 36 E trs@shl.dk The Crystal & Cloud/Copenhagen/Denmark/
