CSR Report 2010 Content CSR Report 2010 Page Preface 2 Creating value through sustainable solutions and genuine commitment 3 Independent auditor’s report on Tryg CSR Report 2010 4 Summary 6 The Nordic region is our context 9 CSR is an integrated part of our business 11 Strategic CSR 13 The CSR organisation 14 Engagement of external stakeholders 14 CSR organisation 15 About the CSR report 16 Climate 18 Climate/Product 18 Climate/Process 19 Climate/Partnerships 21 Climate/Performance 22 Prevention 24 Prevention/Product & Performance 24 Prevention/Process 25 Prevention/Partnerships 25 Inclusion 28 Inclusion/Product 28 Inclusion/Process 28 Inclusion/Partnership 30 Well-being 33 Well-being/Product 33 Well-being/Process & Performance 34 Well-being/Partnerships 36 Information on CSR 38 Documentation on CSR 41 The Global Reporting Initiative 42 Preface The following report constitutes Tryg’s CSR statement for the year 2010 under the Danish Financial Business Act, section 99a and will account for Tryg’s CSR effort and results during the year. The outline is based on four thematic areas covering our CSR effort, but will in addition adhere to the Global Reporting Indicators (UN GRI), level C+. The report will also be submitted as Tryg’s second Communication on Progress report under the UN Global Compact. Editor Birgitte Kofod Olsen, Strategi & CSR Design e-types Layout amo design 2 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Creating value through sustainable solutions and genuine commitment Since Tryg joined the UN Global Compact in 2008, we have uct Young Living, and our partnership with Ungdomsbyen and worked continuously with integrating the ten principles into our Nordea in which we reach out to pupils in secondary school and strategies and policies, and applied them as guiding principles empower them as responsible citizens and consumers to handle for our daily procedures and practices, as well as activities and their insurance, pensions and private budgets. events. By translating the principles into four thematic areas that are logically linked to our company history and products, we Key efforts in 2011-2014 aimed at including standards for human rights and labour rights, Our CSR efforts have mainly focused on impacting stakeholders environment and climate into our business in 2010. who are directly affected by our business on a daily basis, especially our employees and customers. In 2011, we will expand Effective risk handling our dialogue and work with suppliers and investment managers Mitigation of climate change is an area in which we as an insurin order to create a solid basis for responsible procurement and ance company have an important role to play in providing the responsible investment schemes. correct advice and tools to our customers. In 2010, our customers were introduced to new products and solutions that enable Also in a future perspective, we want to be perceived as the them to identify and handle risks stemming from; climate change, leading peace of mind provider in the Nordic region. Our ability from the daily use of IT systems and from negative impact on the to conduct Corporate Social Innovation is pivotal for achieving environment. Also, we further improved our stakeholder dialogue this goal and is listed as an important endeavour for the stratethrough active engagement with municipalities, NGOs and other gic period 2011-2014. insurance companies in initiatives that can mitigate climate related risks and prevent personal injuries and damage to property. During the next years we will also take steps to further improve the documentation of our commitment to responsible and Internally, we managed to increase focus on CO2 reducing mechasustainable products and behaviour. We will improve the data nisms; our newly renovated buildings in Denmark and Norway collation and validity by monitoring our processes and activities facilitated the process as well as the linking of CO2 reduction in air on the basis of the Global Reporting Initiative and disclose our travel to the bonus systems for managers. We acknowledge that results and impact in compliance with this standard. we still have to improve in this area and will work on a stronger focus and documentation of our overall carbon footprint. We do believe, however, that full integration of the CSR principles and standards in our business practice requires more than Room for diversity quantitative data. We also need to communicate our successful As a Nordic peace of mind provider, it is important for us to show stories and share the good practices that are found throughout that we embrace the diversity in the populations of the Nordic reour organisation due to a genuine commitment on all levels of gion and are capable of including minority groups in our workplace. our organisation. This commitment is reflected in daily activities, and ensures that our customers are met by a compassionate, In 2010 we sat up a goal of increased representation of perdynamic, and innovative “handshake” every time they contact sons with a non-western background among our employees. us. Without this we could not achieve our goal of being a reWe initiated programmes that will help our managers to identify sponsible and sustainable insurance company. the resources in diversity, to tackle it and benefit from it in our daily practices. In 2011, we will expand these activities and run a thematic workshop for all employees on diversity. Ballerup, 8 februar 2011 Our customers experienced our inclusive approach in 2010 in connection with the launch of a health insurance to customers aged 60 and above, the first of its kind on the marked. Young Morten Hübbe people will continue to be in focus in 2011 through our prodCEO Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 3 Independent auditor’s report on Tryg CSR Report 2010 To the management of Tryg A/S In such an engagement, less assurance is obtaine than would be the case had an audit-level engagement been performed. We have reviewed the TRYG CSR Report 2010 (”the Report”). The Report is the responsibility of and has been approved by Conclusions the Management of the Company. Our responsibility is to draw In conclusion, in all material respects, nothing has come to our a conclusion based on our re-view. attention that causes us not to believe that: We have based our approach on emerging best practice and 1. TRYG has applied detailed procedures to identify, collect, standards for independent assurance on sustain-ability reportcompile and validate the data and information about mateing, including ISAE 3000, ”Assurance Engagements other than rial CSR aspects to be included in the Report as described on Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by page 16-17 and page 41. The data for 2010 as presented the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The in the Report are consistent with the data accumulated as a objective and scope of the engagement were agreed with the result of these procedures and are appropriately reflected in Management of the Company and included those subject matthe Report. ters on which we have concluded below. Data for the reporting years 2009 were not included in our review. 2. TRYG applies reporting practices in accordance with its objectives and principles for reporting, and these practices Based on an assessment of materiality and risks, our work inare aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reportcluded analytical procedures and interviews as well as a review on ing principles as described on pages 16-17. The GRI Index a sample basis of evidence supporting the subject matter. presented in the Report on pages 42 appropriately reflects We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for us to the extent to which the Report aligns with the indicators in conclude with a limited level of assurance on the subject matters. the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Ballerup, 8 February 2011 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionsaktieselskab Lars Kronow Preben J. Sørensen State Authorised Public Accountant State Authorised Public Accountant (Corporate Responsibility) 4 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Summary Tryg is the second largest insurance company in the Nordic Prevention region and we perceive ourselves as the leading peace-of-mind We are faced with yet another challenge; the profitability of the provider. It is deeply rooted in our company history to offer Nordic insurance industry is under pressure due to increasing solutions to our customers that help them prevent personal claims expenses. As a response, the insurance industry generinjuries and damages to their property, as well as effective ally is increasing premiums significantly for a large number of processes that provide peace of mind. Acting responsibly with products, Tryg included. From a CSR perspective, this creates a respect for the specific customer needs and continually looking new avenue for us to explore new means of effectively supfor sustainable solutions is therefore an inherent part of our porting our customers in preventing damages and reducing corporate identity and culture. risks related to climate change as well as to social, health and safety issues. Our websites are important tools in the reach out Thus, we work actively with social and environmental responto our customers with advice on daily risk reducing initiatives, sibility and sustainability in all parts of the value chain and and our advisors and agents play an important role in providing vis-à-vis all stakeholders who are impacted by our products our customers with individualised advice on their operations and services: our customers and suppliers, our employees, our and systems to ensure that preventive measures are in place investors, and the communities, which we form part of in the in relation to fire, water and snow damages, traffic accidents Nordic region. and IT security. Also, a new software and backup insurance was introduced in 2010 with the purpose of preventing IT damages occurring from essential data loss. The thematic areas cover Climate, Prevention, Inclusion and Well-being In order to increase the protection of personal data and business related data, we launched a new internal guideline in 2010 on how to use social networks as facebook and twitter Climate in a responsible way that ensures confidentiality and security. Mitigation of climate change is an area where we as an insurIn 2011, we will focus on traffic safety and include a group of ance company can play an important role. Our data on weather employees in the process of drafting a code of conduct on good related damages clearly document changes in the climate, traffic behaviour. and leads us to focus even more on providing our customers with advice and tools to prevent such damages. In 2010, we Throughout many years Tryg has engaged in an active partnerintroduced two new products to our customers in industry and ship with the Night Ravens in Norway. The partnership repagriculture that will enable them to identify and handle risks resents an important contribution to the Norwegian society stemming from their environmental impact and from weather as it helps to ensure safe communities and urban spaces and related factors, such as flooding and cloudburst. improves, upon peace of mind for young people and children who are outduring night time hours. In 2011, we are planning Internally, we have tracked and sat goals for reduction of our a conference for the Night Ravens groups in order for them to CO2 consumption since 2008 and have introduced a bonus share their knowledge and experience, and engage in a discusparameter for the management team to ensure effective execusion with Tryg on how to enhance our common efforts. tion. Energy consumption and waste handling are among the areas that will be integrated in our climate efforts in 2011. Inclusion We reduced premiums for customers with electric and hybrid The Nordic societies and their demography are changing at a vehicles (EVs) in 2009 in order to encourage environmentally rapid pace and our customers’ needs and what they expect from conscious behaviour, and framed our effort in promoting EVs insurance companies will change as part of the process. We in society at large in 2010 by further developing our strategic wish to be at the forefront of developments and to adjust on partnership with Better Place. an ongoing basis as this will enable us to meet our customers’ requirements in the future. 6 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Also, in 10-15 years the structure of the labour market will be Our international commitment characterised by more people with an immigrant background Our CSR focus is first and foremost related to our Nordic context being active of the labour market and a much larger group of as this represents our sphere of impact. On a global scale, the people with life experience. This calls for us to be innovative appointment of former CEO Stine Bosse by the UN Secretaryin attracting the best employees and to be open minded in General Ban Ki-moon as member of the Millennium Developrelation to recruitment from all groups of the Nordic societies. ment Goals (MDG) Advocacy Group in 2010 gave us a unique Social inclusion and diversity among our employees are already possibility to promote the responsibility of the business sector key factors in the development of our organisation and will be in general and the financial sector in particular in line with pursued in the coming years. global efforts to find new ways to eradicate poverty and ensure well-being and growth through solutions that are economically, To ensure diversity in the composition of employees, we track socially and environmentally sustainable. the gender balance throughout the organisation and have a specific focus on gender balance in management. In 2010, we Read more on tryg.com > sat up goals for the number of employees with a non-western CSR > Stakeholder magazine background and are striving for a level that corresponds to the national level of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries. We did not reach our goal in 2010, due to constraints on management to take in new employees. To prepare for future recruiting we initiated a number of mentor programmes during 2010 that will help build the competence and experience with our managers to handle diversity and turn it into a valuable resource. In 2011 we will create further awareness on diversity throughout the organisation via workshops, presentation of role models and sharing of good practices. In order to embrace religious and cultural diversity we inaugurate a reflection room in February 2011 to accommodate the need for a short retreat to pray, meditate or otherwise reflect during the work day. Well-being We are convinced that the well-being of our employees and customers is beneficial not only to them selves but also for us as a company and for the society at large. We are therefore committed to find new ways of ensuring well-being in our organisation via peace of mind solutions to our customers. Thus, we track follow the employee satisfaction by annual surveys and have a strong focus on absence due to sickness, as well as on measures that can help improve well-being in the daily setting. To increase well-being and peace of mind within our group of customers aged 60 and above, we introduced a health insurance in 2010 which accommodates the needs of persons with life experience in their every day life. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 7 The Nordic is our context Our employees and customers with regard to health and work-related injuries. And more than The vast majority of Tryg’s activities are concentrated in the 140,000 commercial and corporate customers experience our Nordic region. We operate as peace-of-mind providers in Denpeace-of-mind solutions in the running of their businesses as mark, Finland, Norway and Sweden and have offices throughpart of our provision of insurances within motor, property, liabilout the region with a total of approximately 4.300 employees. ity, environment, worker’s compensation and health. Our customers count 2.7 million private customers who receive peace-of-mind in their daily life through insurances of their Premiums homes, cars, property, contents and liability, during travels and DKKm Private Nordic 10,181 Commercial Nordic 4,263 Corporate Nordic 5,044 8 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Our vision | is to be perceived as the leading peace-ofmind provider in the Nordic region Our mission | is to secure a stable, high-quality supply of products and services offering peace of mind to private households and businesses In order to facilitate the realisation of our vision we created a common Nordic brand in 2010 Read more about our new brand on page 16 in the annual report. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 9 Our values | We create peace of mind because we show people respect, openness and trust. we show initiative, share knowledge and take responsibility. we provide solutions characterised by quality and simplicity. we create sustainable results. The peace-of-mind delivery | is anchored in our handshake Dynamic Compassionate Innovative CSR is an integrated part of our business Anchoring CSR in our values broader commitment to our customers and society at large, Our CSR commitment is anchored in the core values of our comthan just providing a financial safety net. pany, and the CSR effort derives from our mission and vision. We believe that CSR and profitable business go hand in hand Hereby Tryg’s ambition for our customer delivery and our vision and we see the two as interdependent. of being “perceived as the leading peace-of-mind provider in the Nordic region” directly underpins our CSR commitments and Through our handshake we visualize our value based approach constitutes the basis for strategic CSR in Tryg. to business and create a profile that also reflects our role as a good corporate citizen. In Tryg, the concept of corporate citizenship concerns the way in which we interact with society at large and especially the As such, our ambition of being a good corporate citizen, while Nordic societies that constitute the Groups operational boundaat the same time running a profitable and sustainable business, ries. By working towards ensuring our private and commercial underpins our CSR approach. We prioritise our engagements, customer’s peace of mind, we strive at involving our entire and seek to engage in endeavours, that enable us to apply and value chain, from claims handling to the development of new share our knowledge and insight, while at the same time being products, in a two-way dialogue with the societies to whom we able to grow as a company and as individuals. provide our services. Ensuring peace of mind By doing so we are strengthening Tryg’s innovative capabilities As a modern insurance company we provide peace of mind as well as enhancing our knowledge base, while involving stakethroughout the Nordic region and make it possible for our holders in the development of our products and services. customers, suppliers, employees and investors to take responsibility in their daily life. As such we contribute to the socially, Providing peace of mind within the context of the Nordic environmentally and economically sustainable development of welfare states entails a societal commitment not only to our the societies we are part of. customers but to the welfare systems we aim at complementing. By viewing our products and services as an extension of Tryg’s efforts to ensure our customer’s peace of mind, not only public welfare offerings we give nourishment to the continuous upon facing injuries or damage, but in their daily lives, forms evolvement of these offerings, while simultaneously supplethe basis of our CSR approach. The peace of mind deliverance menting public services. comprises sound advice and guidance, risk handling and implementation of preventive measures, as well as ensuring sufficient In this way CSR in Tryg is intertwined with our core customer coverage, it focuses on reducing our customers vulnerability and offerings and constitutes a driver for continuously doing better ensuring their sense of being safe and carefree. These being in providing peace of mind to our Nordic customer base. essential prerequisites for “being our best selves”, it entails a Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 11 Strategic CSR Documentation In order to track the performance and progress of our CSR efStrategic CSR is the way through which we combine being a forts, we monitor and report on our activities. Internal monitorgood corporate citizen with driving a profitable business. By ing is decisive for our ability to document our performance and combining our corporate values with a CSR ambition and the contributes to the commitment to the CSR efforts among our obligations derived from legislation and our commitment to managers. It moreover provides the necessary data platform for international standards such as the Global Compact, Principles disclosing our results and producing reports on the progress for Responsible Investments and charters for climate change made. As such it contributes to the credibility of our CSR profile. mitigation, safe traffic, and women in management, we have identified four strands that focus our CSR efforts. Our focus on CSR thematic areas Since Tryg joined the UN Global Compact in 2008, we have Value chain worked continuously with integrating the ten principles into our It is of major importance to us that CSR is included and visible strategies and policies, and applied them as guiding principles in all parts of the value chain. We are thus in the process of for our daily procedures and practices, as well as activities and finding ways to apply CSR as a relevant tool in the development events. By translating the principles into four thematic areas of new products, and to integrate a CSR perspective in sales and that are logically linked to our company history and our prodclaims, branding, responsible procurement and investment as ucts, we include standards for human rights and labour rights, well as in the development of Tryg as an attractive and inclusive environment and climate into the development of our business. workplace. Thus, we work actively with social and environmental responStakeholder dialogue sibility and sustainability in all parts of the value chain and An active dialogue with a variety of stakeholders is pivotal for vis-à-vis all stakeholders who are impacted by our products our ability to offer relevant and efficient peace of mind products and services: our customers and suppliers, our employees, our and solutions, but also to impact upon other actors to engage investors, and the communities which we form part of in the in CSR. We therefore share our knowledge on e.g. damage preNordic region. vention with our customers and public authorities, and seek to engage in constructive dialogues and active partnerships within the insurance industry and with civil society organisations on From 2010-2014 the thematic areas sustainable solutions and lasting results. By interacting with a cover Climate, Prevention, Inclusion broad spectrum of stakeholders, both within and outside the and Well-being Nordic countries, we strengthen our knowledgebase and ensure a broader financial and societal perspective on strategic disposiTHE CSR POLICY tions and day-to-day business. A CSR policy sets the organisational and thematic frame for CSR efforts in Tryg; it explains the background and goals behind our Information CSR commitment, and guides the organisation in integrating the Being the second largest insurer in the Nordic region and as thematic focus on climate, prevention, inclusion and well-being such an important societal actor, we assume a responsibility to in their operations, and engaging in dialogue with stakeholders. inform and communicate our CSR principles, practice and perIt also guides the assessment of the performance and impact of formance. Thus, we take part in public debates on CSR related CSR activities and creates the structures for internal monitoring issues and present our CSR activities in lectures, conferences and external reporting. and seminars, articles and books. By doing so, we demonstrate our CSR efforts and the way we pursue sustainable solutions to The CSR policy is maintained by the division Strategy & CSR and business and societal challenges. approved by the CSR Board and the Supervisory Board of Tryg, 12 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Extract from Tryg’s CSR Policy In Tryg, we consider CSR an opportunity to develop sustainable solutions, products and processes, and to attract and retain customers, suppliers, investors and employees. We believe in doing business while also taking active responsibility: Our social responsibility is embedded in our history as a peace-of-mind provider and contributor to the Nordic welfare states. It aims at meeting the standards laid down in the UN Global Compact and the UN Principles for Responsible Investments. The CSR activities pursue the goal of ensuring respect for human rights and labour rights in the Nordic region and to promote the underlying principles of these rights within the Group as well as in relation to our customers, suppliers and other external stakeholders. Our contribution to the protection of the environment and our engagement in sustainable solutions to mitigate and adapt to climate change is designed in alignment with the UN Global Compact and supplementary standard setting, including the Carbon Disclosure Project, Nordic standards as well as goals defined within the insurance industry, e.g. Geneva Association’s Kyoto Declaration and ClimateWise. Also, we acknowledge our responsibility to act responsibly in our investments and to set up structures that ensure anti-corruption and good corporate governance. Our corporate values, national standards and UN PRI are guiding us in these efforts. In all areas of endeavour, our CSR ambition is to ensure and promote respect, to challenge stereotyping and prejudice, to provide sustainable solutions and promote sustainable behaviour, and to act responsibly via active engagement and dialogue with a variety of internal and external stakeholders. We seek to provide complete and relevant data on all activities that are material for Tryg’s, social, environmental and economic impact and disseminate our results and progress as part of the company´s Annual Report, our website and international reporting schemes. Adopted 5 October 2010 Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 13 and must be applied within all business areas and functions. Strategy & Innovation, which is also placed within the division The policy is revised annually immediately after the launch of for Strategy & CSR. Thereby we wish to ensure that CSR is fully the Annual Report and the Statutory CSR report, and in case anchored in the strategy and organisation in general under the evaluation and/or impact assessments necessitate amendments. term Strategic CSR. With the CSR policy as an overarching framework, amendments In the execution of CSR efforts, the CSR department is working to other company policies and instructions or guidelines will be closely together with all business areas. The CSR department introduced in 2011 on responsible procurement, responsible takes the lead when designing and initiating CSR projects or investments and anti-corruption processes in the areas, and subsequently facilitates or supervise the business areas in implementing and maintaining the CSR An updated company policy for the CSR was adopted by the activity. Supervisory Board in October 2010. Engagement of external stakeholders The CSR organisation Tryg has a long tradition for involving stakeholders in a variety To realise the full potential of our CSR efforts vis-á-vis our cusof activities. Focus groups, workshops, observations and intertomers, suppliers, investors, employees and the society at large, views with relevant customers, suppliers or other groups are we aim at fully anchoring CSR in all areas and activities of Tryg. used as part of innovative or strategy processes. Also, all CSR This requires an efficient and effective integration of CSR in projects are designed and carried out in partnership or active business plans, plans of action, daily practices and routines and dialogue with NGOs, municipalities and other civil society actors. has led to an organisational design that facilitates and supports dedicated leadership and commitment to CSR throughout our We are in the process of improving our stakeholder dialogue organisation. even further and will be setting up a structure that ensures active involvement of our suppliers in the planning of our responTryg has established a CSR Board composed of the CEO as sible procurement scheme in 2011. chairman and three participating members of the executive management team. Standing members include the Chief ComEven though Tryg’s sphere of impact is limited geographically munication Officer and the Director of Corporate Branding. The to the Nordic Region, we find it important to show our stakeCSR Board meets four times a year and sets the strategic goals holders that we see ourselves as part of a global economy and and priorities, and monitors activities and budgets. The CSR development. We are in a position that gives us the possibility board is the deciding organ for the area, and is for that reason to take responsibility not only within our own region, but also also an important role model internally and externally. in parts of the world that experience human rights violations due to e.g. climate change and social injustice, or hunger, lack A Nordic CSR department is developing and planning the CSR acof adequate health care systems, discrimination etc. This is tivities, and provides support and counselling to the CSR Board. mainly done via our engagement in the international think tank To help realise the full potential of CSR for our business develfor insurance economics, Geneva Association, but also in supopment and to facilitate a business driven CSR approach, the port to Danish civil society activities that highlight the needs in CSR department works closely together with the department for developing countries. 14 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S CSR organisation Supervisory Board CSR Board Group Executive Management CSR Department Communications . Corporate Custumer Claims Corporate Strategy and Process and IT Service & Branding & Human Sales Direct/ Business Competence Partners Centres Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 15 About the CSR report level A+ by the end of 2014. This is in line with our ambition of strengthening the transparency, accuracy, validity and eligibility Purpose and documentation scheme of our documentation. The annual CSR report is our way of complying with The Danish Financial Statements Act as well as an opportunity for us to Already in the current report we have focused on adapting the communicate our efforts internally as well as externally. It is our indicators to our concrete context, and have chosen the performway of taking stock over the CSR activities in the given year and ance indicators that are adaptable to and relevant for our current asses the impact of our efforts. The CSR report is released in CSR activities. This also implies that the outline will follow our the beginning of February in the following year alongside the CSR focus and not necessarily the sequence of GRI indicators. company’s annual report. We have compensated for this by outlining a chart of reference to the indicators used that is found in the end of the report. The report will follow the structure of our CSR policy, and will thus focus on the areas; Climate, Prevention, Inclusion and Material boundaries Well-being. We will present our current efforts and activities By choosing the business specific thematic areas as core elewithin the thematic areas, and illustrate results and outcomes. ments in our CSR efforts, we translate the Global Compact We have succeeded in executing most activities, while others principles into the local setting of our operations. This is done are still at a “work in progress”stage, which will be further on the basis of analyses of the relevance of the Global Compact developed in the coming year. Going through the four areas we Principles in the Nordic region. will structure our report along the lines of four categories Product, Process, Partnership and Performance. The purpose is to We moreover adhere to Danish recommendations on good illustrate our strategic approach to CSR and how it is relevant for corporate governance, and see a transparent and robust govour business, our employees, our partners and society at large. ernance structure as a precondition for carrying out sound and relevant CSR activities. It is an important part of our general CSR effort to be able to document our initiatives and results. CSR is deeply rooted in our strategy and we believe that it makes great sense for Presumptions framing our CSR efforts our general business sphere. Compared to last year, we have decided to use GRI as the underlying reporting principles and Human rights and labour rights indicators, but we will continue to present the report as more Protection of human rights and labour rights in the Nordic region than just an enumeration according to the indicators. We have is to a very large extent ensured by detailed national legislation, decided to do so, in order to improve our ability to track and collective agreements in the labour marked, ethical guidelines, compare our results over time. During 2011-2014 we will furand branch specific code of conducts or recommendations. In ther develop our use of GRI, thereby enabling us to report on addition we benefit from a long and solid tradition for compliAmbition 2010 2012 2014 UN GRI Level C+ UN GRI Level B+ UN GRI Level A+ 16 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S tryg.com > CSR ance with mandatory or voluntary standards, and for upholding Anti-corruption is ensured as part of compliance with strict the welfare state principles of equality and equal opportunities. national regulation on anti-corruption and bribery, moneylaundering, insider trading and whistle blowing. In order to Even though human rights violations are not as frequent and effectively implement anti corruption rules and regulations, severe as in other parts of the world, we observe human rights internal responsibilities, accountabilities and reporting lines are challenges and the protection of indigious people in the Nordic systematically defined in all divisions of Tryg. societies and in the business sector that we address as part of our social responsibility. Ensuring non-discrimination and equal Tryg is a politically independent company and makes no finantreatment irrespective of age, gender, ethnicity, disability, sexual cial contribution to politicians or political parties. We ensure orientation, faith and religion in relation to access to and affilithat our knowledge is at the disposal of decision makers, but ation with the labour market is one area of concern, which also entail our right to act as an independent organisation. We includes women in management; another is the inclusion and operate in a free competitive market and have not been subject active participation of minority groups or marginalized groups in to any form of actions related to anti-trust, monopoly or antiour societies. competitive behaviour. As a private company handling personal insurance related data Corporate governance we are aware of the impact of our business with regard to the Tryg adheres to principles and standards for corporate governright to respect for privacy and data protection in this area ance, some of which are laid down in Danish legislation or in vis-à-vis our customers and employees, and in relation to our recommendations from the Danish Committee on Corporate suppliers. Governance. The fulfilment of such obligations and recommendations is documented in the Annual Report and in a separate Climate and environment report to the Committee on Corporate Governance. Climate change exposes us to a new risk landscape. The future will show known types of risk but also new risk types such as Geographical boundaries cloudbursts, windstorms, flooding, landslides and increased Tryg being organised as a fully Nordic company is an ongohumidity, while unknown risk types relate to larger challenges ing process, which has been initiated only a few years ago. to society, such as climate migration, food safety, and health Therefore not all systems and data are currently aligned. In the and welfare changes. coming years this will be done as a natural consequence of the new organisational order, but currently it unfortunately has the As an insurance company Tryg is highly exposed to risks resulting effect that we are not able to report on data from the entire from such changes. Both our private and commercial customers’ Nordic organisation. We will in some cases be limited to only reexposure to physical risks from climate change are considered to be porting on numbers from the headquarters in Ballerup, Denmark substantial and may result in larger insurance claims. These physical and Bergen, Norway; this will primarily be the case concerning risks will affect both our customers and suppliers in different ways, climate-data. For other data we will report based on the entire and require us to develop sustainable solutions to prevent damages organisation, as will be the case regarding i.a. employees and and reduce carbon dioxide emissions as well as other activities with financial results. a negative impact on environment and climate. Regarding the general CSR effort, it is at this point primarily Anti-corruption concentrated around activities in Denmark and Norway, since The Nordic countries are among the least corrupt in the world. Tryg’s presence in the Finnish and Swedish market are still preUntil present, Tryg operates in the Nordic region only and is mature. In 2011 activities will however start up in both counthus not exposed to high corruption levels. We are thus not as tries, due to both a strategic goal of doing so, but also due to strongly exposed to bribery and corruption issues, as companies highly motivated and enthusiastic employees in both countries with a global profile. eager to start CSR up on a local level. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 17 Climate Climate change produces a new risk landscape for us – both as a advice, in cases where a business involves itself in polluting acpeace-of-mind-provider and as a corporate citizen. Although the tivities. The insurance maximally covers 10 mio DKK per damage Nordic region is less vulnerable to climate change than the rest of per year and covers the entire EU. the world, the new risk patterns present an unprecedented challenge to the Nordic welfare societies. Being a peace-of-mind proThe Nordic industrialand agricultural businesses are aware of vider, Tryg has a duty to provide products and solutions advising their responsibilities surrounding environmental damages. Preour customers and helping them prevent climate-related damage cisely 1100 of these businesses chose in 2010 to reduce their and reduce their vulnerability to weather-related damage. risk for causing environmental damages via seeking advice and coverage based on Tryg’s environmental insurance. Climate | Product Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine We wish to promote climate friendly behaviour among our customers, and to provide them with solutions to mitigate risks Environmental and climate related risk screening tool stemming from their impact on climate and environment, and Insurance is based on the ability to identify and classify risks adapt to climate changes. We have had a strong focus on how potentially affecting our private and corporate customers. To ento integrate the preventive measures into our product line for sure sufficient focus on emerging climate related risks, Tryg has many years, but have strengthened the effort in 2010. This has developed a risk screening tool for our corporate customers. resulted in the following product initiatives: The tool focuses on the customers own systems to identify Environmental insurance risks and how these systems interact with customers’ day to In the future, inevitable climate based damages will demand exday operations. In addition, the screening tool consists of pansive economic resources, special competencies and enduring a detailed field guide focusing on the risks and vulnerability commitment. In addition, the environmental damages law builds posed by cloudbursts, flooding, lightening, storm/extreme wind, upon placing unlimited liability for environmental damages on landslides and extreme temperatures. The risk screening procthe shoulders of corporate and agricultural companies. This ess is conducted by Tryg’s risk engineers and underwriters in entails corporate and agricultural business bearing full risk for close collaboration with the customer. By first identifying risk activities that may result in pollution causing damage such as management systems on site one is able to facilitate a screenwater and soil contamination, the destruction of different types ing process in accordance with established systems, either of ecosystems, and the extinction of animal species. confirming or revising these practices. Hence our engineers and underwriters are working with the customers to further develop In order to best ensure our customers, Tryg has developed an the risk culture and management systems within the customer’s environmental insurance that ensures professional help and operational boundaries. CSR Policy In our efforts to protect the environment and prevent climate change, we provide sustainable solutions and promote sustainable behaviour within our stakeholder groups: employees, customers and suppliers, investors and the society at large. We aim at having a positive impact on their behaviour, consumption, choice of products and solutions and investments as well as on the Nordic agenda for climate change. 18 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine In 2010 Tryg conducted 40 extended risk screening processes Climate | Process with additional focus on environmental and climate related risks for our corporate customers in both Denmark and Norway. We want to contribute to creating a healthy environment for all and decreasing the impact of climate change. We therefore Electric and hybrid vehicles focus on our own internal processes and improve them in order Tryg helps to promote increased focus on and awareness of to contribute to the overall aim at mitigating climate change. climate changes among our customers. We intend to achieve this by integrating climate considerations into our products and The Living House services, either by adapting existing products or developing new Tryg has over a three-year period renovated the company head ones. In 2009 we offered car insurance for Electric Vehicles at office in Ballerup and Bergen. We have used the opportunity 40% of the premium for petrol and diesel powered cars. This to create a more climate friendly workspace, in which we can creates a price incentive for purchasing electric cars. handle waste and reduce the use of electricity in an efficient and sustainable way. The announced introduction of EVs in the car fleet, and the goal of migrating 25 % of the fleet into EVs in 2011 cannot be Video meetings upheld. This is caused mainly by external factors encompassing During the past years Tryg has decreased the number of physia delay in the setting up of an infrastructure of charging points cal meetings by the introduction of video conference facilities in the areas where Tryg is located. in all Nordic countries. Apart from cost cuttings at a level of around DKK 110m, when compared to a similar number of The consumer demand for EVs did not live up to market based physical meetings, it has had positive impact on cross-border expectations which was reflected in a very low number of EV interaction and has proven to be an effective means to iminsurances since 2009. A total of 110 insurances were effected mediate knowledge sharing as part of daily operations. During in Denmark and Norway. the ash clouds subsequent to the eruptions of the Icelandic Volcano Eyjafjallajökull in spring 2010, the access to video In order to enhance the costumer support to Electric Vehicles meetings gave us the possibility to conduct meetings by video, we aim at developing our strategic partnership with Better Place which helped us to continue our operations without delay or further in 2011 through customer information and promotional critical interruption. activities. Electricity Waste In 2010, we In 2010, we • introduced new electronic collaboration tools • improved in-house waste management for employees • eliminated the use of paper cups • increased video conference capacities within the group • reduced the amount of paper waste by reducing • established automatic lighting control in our the number of printers, introducing “double screens”, conference facilities promoting paperless case handling • established sun screening in the company head office in Denmark Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 19 By limiting the budgets for travel costs in 2010, we succeeded lished the goal of reusing 75% of our well-functioning invenin increasing the number of video meetings even further and tory and donating a great part of it to voluntary organisations ended the year with a total of 14 721 video meeting. and schools. Reuse of furniture and building materials A total of 100 of Norwegian NGOs, including “Børne Mission”, As part of the Living House Project, which included extensive the humanitarian organisation “Working School” and “Care 4 refurbishment and renovation of the company buildings, Tryg You Association” received parts of our old inventory. Below had a lot of excess furniture and old but well-functioning are a few examples of what devices were sent to what kind of equipment, including chairs, computers etc. Thus, we estaborganisations. Reuse Electronic devices Glass • In collaboration with FAIR, electronic devices were • The youth organisation “New Page” received sent to Guatemala. glass walls • Other glass walls were donated and are now used in greenhouses. Furniture Indoor trees • The orphanage “Hardanger Fartøyvernsenters” • Copenhagen ZOO received 50 trees from received office chairs and meeting room furniture. the indoor arcades in Ballerup for use in their Tropicaland Ape house. 20 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Climate | Partnerships Regional: Nordic industry collaboration In May 2010 the four major players within the Nordic insurance As an insurance company we have a long experience within market launched a joint action statement on climate change. the field of climate impact and weather related damages, The statement outlines six prioritized areas for insurers to especially in identifying, handling and reducing risks. We wish promote both mitigation and adaptation practices in the Nordic to share this knowledge with the insurance industry and public region. One of these areas consists of a collaborative effort to authorities, and pave new ways for preventing climate related undertake research on climate change in regards to adaptation damages. Thus, we engage with relevant actors and enter measures. into partnerships with external organisations and companies. We seek to have a broad partnership platform and engage in The four companies promise DKK 1,00 for each private property groups and network on a local, national, regional and internainsurance sold to be put into research. This constitutes a joint tional basis. DKK 4.4m investment in research projects in 2010. Tryg’s share is approximately DKK 1.2m. Local: The city of Bergen Tryg collaborates with the city of Bergen, a regional capital and Global: ClimateWise one of thirteen cities partaking in the government-initiated Tryg has in 2009 started a collaboration with ClimateWise, an “Cities of the future” program. In 2010, Tryg participated in insurance initiative for the insurance industry through which regional workshops as well an international conference to share members aim to work together to respond to the myriad of best practice on adaptation to climate change. risks and opportunities connected to climate change. Through the joint collaboration with ClimateWise, Tryg intends to share Tryg also participates as a partner to Bergen in the international knowledge and to use the forum to explore various strategies MARE collaboration focusing on strategies to handle the risks of of climate mitigation in order to reduce our vulnerability, as flooding and developing preventive measures to reduce vulnerwell as the vulnerability of our stakeholders and society. ability on a local regional and national level. Global: The Geneva Association National: The Directorate for Civil Protection Tryg is an active partner in the International Association for the and Emergency Planning Study of Insurance Economics, Geneva Association. The assoTryg has initiated a collaboration project with the Norwegian ciation is a non-profit enterprise consisting of a maximum of 80 Directorate for Civil Protection and Emergency Planning (DSB) chief executive officers from insurance companies around the in order to identify regional and local climate related risks in world. The objectives of the project are to identify and analyze three municipalities in different parts of Norway. The project is issues that are of specific relevance to the insurance industry motivated by a joint interest in developing and promoting “best and external challenges to be addressed at the political, educapractices” in regards to climate adaptation on municipality level. tional and social levels. The goal is both to raise awareness on a local and regional level, as well as developing low-cost measures to reduce the Tryg and Geneva Association hosted a side event during the vulnerability of the local population in these areas. COP15 in 2009 on “Insurance and Climate Change – A Partner for Governments on Risk and Policy.” If the project is successful, both DSB and Tryg are prepared to broaden the scope of the project. The project is well underway Tryg’s CEO is member of the Geneva Association Board, and a in one of the three Norwegian municipalities, Kristiansand. On Group Executive Vice President participates in the Associates 18 June 2010 we conducted a “climate risk” seminar for Krisgroup. tiansand and five collaborating municipalities. Read more on genevaassociation.org > climate change > COP Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 21 Climate | Performance Emission account 2010 – facts and figures In late 2007 Tryg sat the ambitious goal of reducing the Group’s Total CO2 emissions CO2 footprint by 10 percent over a three year period spanning Explanation and trend: Tryg’s total CO2 emissions has been from 2008 to 2010. The reduction was to be carried out by reduced by 7,8 % over the reduction period, constituting 607 the realisation of The Living House, a “green rebuild” of the tons CO2. company headquarters in both Ballerup and Bergen, and by reducing CO2 emissions from air travelling. This compared to the reduction target of 10 %, which would have constituted 774 tons CO2. Emissions accounts 2010 Emission accounts for 2010 show that Tryg has not achieved the CO2 emissions from energy consumption Group’s reduction target for the three year period spanning from Explanation and trend: Tryg’s emissions from air and car travel 2008 to 2010. The total reduction compared to base year 2007 has varied throughout the reduction period. With an increase has been 7,8 %, compared to 10 % which was the Group’s target. in air travel in both 2008 and 2009, the account for 2010 illustrates a reduction compared to the previous year. The failure to comply with the target is partly due to a delay in connecting Tryg’s main office in Ballerup to a renewable energy A further decline in emissions from air transport is expected in heating-system being built in the region. While originally being 2011. Emissions from car transport are believed to be constant. scheduled ultimo 2009, there was a delay on the part of the A further decline in emissions from air transport is expected in contractor making it impossible to connect Tryg to the system 2011 while emissions from car transport are believed to be apuntil April 2010. The renewable heating system is meant to proximately constant. substitute the use of natural gas for heating purposes and the delay resulted in a lower reduction for 2010 than previously CO2 emissions from travel estimated. The reduction is still substantial, reducing the use of Explanation and trend: Tryg has experienced a marked reduction natural gas by 40% compared to 2009, hence reducing emisin CO2 emissions from energy consumption over the period. In sions by 247 tons CO2. Due to an expansion of the offices in Ballerup we have experienced an increase in the use of electricity. This increase must be compared to the relative increase also in the number of employees. Towards the end of the reduction period we have also expeTotal CO2 emissions rienced a considerable decrease in emissions due to air travel Tonnes (6,2 % compared to 2009), illustrating that the financial incen8,000 tive introduced into the bonus programs has had an positive effect. 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2008 2009 2010 Electricity Natural gas Heating oil Air travel Cars 22 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Norway the positive trend was triggered by the implementaCar transportation covers rented company cars as well as tion of a heating pump in 2008 giving a substantial reduction employee car allowance schemes based on reimbursement. (15 %) in electricity consumption in 2009. The trend for 2010 In Norway, it is based only on reimbursement schemes. Statishas also been positive. In Denmark, Tryg has reduced emistics surrounding distances driven are collected based on kilomesions from the use of natural gas by 40 % compared to 2009 tres reported within our economy system. level, hence reducing emissions by 247 tons CO2. The trend is expected to continue in 2011. Air travel within Denmark and Norway is based on CO2 consumption that is reported from our travel agencies. In 2010, Tryg In connection with the rebuild of the Living House, Tryg has received CO2 reports from both Carlson Wagon Travels in Denexpanded its offices in Ballerup to facilitate an increase in the mark and Berg Hansen in Norway. Due to a lack of standardized number of employees. As a consequence there has also been methods for CO2 air-travel reporting, varied reporting standards an increase in electricity consumption. from the two travel agencies have resulted in a higher CO2 estimate per journey as of 2010. Applied standards The aggregated energy use represents output from our Danish The aggregated CO2 emissions are based on energy consumpheadquarters in Ballerup and our Norwegian headquarters tion, air travel, as well as car transportation. Calculations surin Bergen. The statistics reflect out actual consumption as rounding CO2 emissions are based on emission factors presented reported from our Domicile departments. in EnerginetDK, the Norwegian Climate and Pollution Agency, and the Climate Promise. Consumption of natural gasses is a result of our heating needs for our headquarters in Ballerup. Alternatively, our offices in Bergen depend on heating oil in order to meet our heating needs. The statistics reflecting our actual consumption have also been reported from our Domicile departments. CO2 emissions from energy consumption CO2 emissions from travel Tonnes Tonnes 3,500 5,000 3,000 4,000 2,550 2,000 3,000 1,500 2,000 1,000 1,000 500 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Electricity Natural gas Heating oil Air travel Cars Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 23 Prevention Prevention of damages is a key factor in the insurance industry. CSR Policy It is one of the areas, in which prevention efforts yield positive impacts for society in social as well as economic terms As peace-of-mind provider we contribute to safety and and moreover make perfect business sense. Prevention efforts damage prevention within our sphere of influence, inprevent individual, societal and economic damage and are cluding our customers, staff and local communities. important for us when it comes to delivering peace-of-mind We engage actively in ensuring safe communities and to our customers, employees and society. urban spaces and provide counselling and guidance on peace-of-mind solutions. In particular, we focus on safety at day and at night, on the road and at the sea. Also, our activities include fire and crime preventions and IT security. Through these activities, we support our goal and main strategic pillar, namely peace-of-mind delivery to our stakeholders. Advice on websites Prevention | Product & Performance We have launched a website where we provide concrete In order for us to have an effective preventative policy, we have advice on how to prevent fire, water damages, burglary to engage in a close dialogue with our customers. As part of and travel related damages. this we have implemented damage preventing tools and advice into a range of products. The website also includes a section directed towards children between the age of 6 and 12. Knowledge about fire Fire and prevention is important and valuable for all ages, and Tryg was founded as a response to the Copenhagen Fire of we have created a fun and educational universe, which at 1728. In fact the oldest component of Tryg’s history is the eye level teaches children how to prevent fire and act in Danish insurance company “Kjøbenhavns Brand” (Copenhagen’s case of a fire. The section is supported by an audio narraFire). Fire prevention is therefore still of central concern to us tor, which makes it possible for all to participate. and we actively engage in efforts to prevent fires and to deliver peace-of-mind to society. tryghedsrådgiveren.dk tryghedsrådgiveren.no Tryg was founded as a response to the On a day-to-day basis we provide advice to those of our Copenhagen Fire of 1728. In fact the oldest customers who are linked to our facebook group. Our facomponent of Tryg’s history is the Danish cebook sites have a total of nearly 2000 fans distributed with approximately 800 Danish fans and 1200 Norwegian. insurance company “Kjøbenhavns Brand” (Copenhagen’s Fire). facebook.com/TrygDanmark facebook.com/TrygNorge Fire course for commercial customers A fire may have a tremendous impact on a company, but knowledge and experience can be some of the factors, which prevent a fire turning into a catastrophe. A proper instruction on how fire can be prevented and potentially fought is immeasur24 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine able. Tryg has in 2010 held courses for some of our commercial Prevention of snow damages customers in collaboration with Copenhagen Fire Department Since 2009, Tryg faced an increase of 200 claims compared to (Københavns Brandvæsen) and Tivoli. The participants were 2008 due to heavy snow on roofs. Thus, in 2010 we engaged in given theoretical and practical training on how to prevent and a partnership with Sydslam A/S whom our customers can call in act in case of fire. and within 2-3 hours the company cleans a roof of snow. As a result of the partnership, Tryg’s customers get special price Safety at sea offerings at Sydslam A/S and can prevent heavy snow from In Norway, Tryg has for many years made an effort to promote ruining their roof. safety at lakes and by the sea. More than 32,000 lifebuoys have been placed along coasts all over the country. The arrangement is facilitated through local sponsors, such as local authorities Prevention | Process or private individuals who are in charge of the physical location of the buoys as well as supervision and maintenance. The Prevention is a natural part of our internal processes and is buoys have, in particular, been used to save lives in large towns deeply inherited in the way we work. We continuously seek to with port calls. It is estimated that the lifebuoys since their first be at the forefront in protecting our data to avoid any breach installation in 1952, have been part of more than 1.000 lifesavof customer trust and to ensure a full implementation of the ing actions. peace-of-mind delivery. This also includes protecting our employees and making sure that they have the proper settings for In 2011, Tryg initiates the installation of lifebuoys in Finland. providing peace-of-mind to our customers. Safety on the road Road safety We aim at promoting road safety and actively encourage our As part of our participation in the EC Road Safety Charter, we employees as well as our customers to drive responsively. In this provide information to our employees on road safety. area our engagement yields positive social impact and is at the same time beneficial for our business results. In the beginning of 2011 we will initiate a process involving employees in a workshop with the purpose of drafting an internal In relation to our customers, our work includes supplementary Code of Conduct for Good Traffic Behaviour. standard terms for buses and trucks as well as setting out regulations for observance of driving and rest hours and speed IT Security and Data Protection limits. Through an electronic catalogue, we share our experience Internally, we are guided by an IT security policy that protects and useful tools with our corporate customers. our data, assets, earnings and employees. Moreover, the policy defines guidelines for responsible behaviour, security and confidentiality when using IT systems. trygtransport.dk A new guideline was adopted in 2010 with the purpose of guidSoftware and backup insurance ing our employees when using internet based social networks As an extra feature to our commercial software insurance we as e.g. Facebook and Twitter. have added a backup insurance which was introduced in 2010. We know that a lot of our commercial customers are very dependent on proper IT functionality, and we therefore wish Prevention | Partnerships to prevent IT damages occurring and evolving by essential data being lost. The software and backup insurance is unique in DenWe engage in a range of partnerships with external stakeholdmark and is being offered with support from one of the World’s ers and organisations with the purpose of sharing knowledge best online backup services. and providing information about various preventative actions. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 25 Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine Creating a peaceful and secure environment is in the common which correspond to approximately 500.000 individuals over interest of the society and as a good corporate citizen, we wish the age of 18. A total of 34% would consider volunteering to be a part of this. again, which means that there potentially exist approximately 1.2 million new ravens. Norwegian ministry of justice and the police directorate Tryg recognizes that crime prevention is good for society natteravn.no because it provides peace-of-mind. An integral part of our business strategy is to further peace-of-mind delivery and we help to strengthen collaboration among different stakeholders in Examples: order to improve the common crime prevention effort involving public as well as private institutions. International Transport Denmark (ITD) Tryg has collaborated with the Norwegian Ministry of Justice and Tryg has cooperated with ITD for several years. the Police Directorate in order to develop a new and innovative Together with ITD, we have developed the Website platform for sharing knowledge about crime prevention in Nortrygtransport.dk in order to improve traffic security on way. At annual regional conferences we have forged close ties the road and for transportation companies. The website between various industries and promoted collaboration across had 844 visitors in 2010. industries with the purpose to introduce individual and industryspecific measures to prevent crime. Old Bergen Tryg is engagned in an interdisciplinary network by The Night Ravens Bergen Næringsråd for strengthening fire security and In Norway, Tryg has partnered with the Night Ravens for the prevention. Especially older tree houses in Bergen are at past 14 years and provides the groups with waistcoats and focus, some of which are included on the UNESCO world jackets, first-aid kits, brochures and other necessary equipment. heritage list. The network advices the community on Such equipment is provided free of charge to all groups. improving security locally. From the time of the beginning of the project until present, the Prevention forum with Night Ravens have grown from merely seven groups to approxi“Finans og Næringsforbund” mately 370 active groups in the end of 2010. With roughly 50 The goal of this partnership is to coordinate damagemembers in each group, this adds up to nearly 20.000 volunpreventive actions as well as to improve and continue teers, who help make night life a safer place for young peodeveloping best practices. 6 meetings were held in ple. The number of the group is slightly lower that what was 2010 and a pamphlet on children, water and safety was estimated in 2009. This is however not due to a decrease in the launched together with the Norwegian organisations number of active groups, but to a new method for how we renew Utdanningsforbundet og Skadeforebygende Forum. our contracts and what we consider to be a truly active group. Security Days (NTNU) In the fall 2010 Respons Analyse AS made a countrywide For 10 years we participate in this research and expert analysis of the degree of knowledge in Norway regarding the environment in the areas of risk assessment and risk Night Ravens. 99% replied that they know the Night Ravens, handling. This helps us develope knowledge internally and furthermore that 90% consider it to improve peace of mind and learn to handle risks collectively. Each year Tryg and to some or to a great extent. These are solid numbers, which NTNU organise a security conference on risk mitigation reflect the respect and acknowledgement that the Night Ravens strategies and emerging risks. receive locally. In addition it was reported that 14% of the respondents at some point had volunteered as a Night Raven, Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 27 Inclusion CSR Policy We contribute to inclusive societies; create rooms for diversity in the Nordic countries and in Tryg as a workplace. We ensure representation of diversity in Tryg and show how diversity may be used as a driver for innovation and development of products and solutions that are attractive to customers, irrespective of their background. Tryg’s employees make a difference to our customers and we – The reactions that I meet from our wish to attract employees with a positive approach to innovative Turkish customers is that they feel more thinking, change, diversity and development. In that context, peace-of-mind, when they are able to equal opportunity is a cornerstone at Tryg and we believe that communicate in their mother tongue. a high degree of diversity supports our goal of being a flexible, Aynur Yildiz, Sales Advisor, Næstved dynamic and innovative business. Hence, we provide equal opportunities for all and demonstrate how diversity in our company can be used as a resource for innovation and growth. Also, in relation to our customers, respect for all stages of life Inclusion | Process plays a key role in our distribution, sales and customer service of peace-of-mind. Moreover, Tryg wishes to contribute to diverWe approach our employees and the society in general in an insity and inclusiveness in societies in the Nordic region. Part of clusive manner. By doing so, we embrace diversity and see it as this effort is achieved via engagement in the public debate on a way to become more innovative and dynamic. In our recruitinclusion and projects aimed at including marginalised groups in ment and career planning, we protect applicants and employthe labour market. ees against discrimination and ensure equal treatment of all, regardless of gender, age, ethnic background, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief. Also, we encourage all people, Inclusion | Product irrespective of their background, to apply for vacant positions at Tryg. Tryg’s products are relevant for everyone and generate peace of mind for our customers, regardless of their background. Tryg’s The Voyage efforts to promote inclusion have had a positive effect on our In 2008, Stine Bosse, our former Group CEO, initiated a 100 business. Customers who are not of Nordic origin are appreciakm hike on the El Camino pilgrimage route in Spain with four tive for the ability to communicate with Tryg in their mother young men of Non-Western descent and with a criminal record. language. The purpose of the hike was twofold: to give the young men a chance to choose a new way of life; if they succeeded to walk the entire path and show commitment and an interest in chang28 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine ing their life, they would be offered a job opportunity at Tryg. But it was also a chance for the Tryg representatives to meet Danes with minority background and face their as well as their own stereotypes and prejudices. Due to the very positive results of the El Camino project, it was developed into a leadership training concept, the Voyage in 2010. The idea was to engage more managers in a project with a social scope and to improve their abilities to understand and handle diversity. Two members of the Executive Management Group and eight general managers went trekking in Norway with two groups of young people; the Norwegian group was composed of young women with refugee status in Norway and a higher education level. The Danish group counted young men with a criminal record and ethnic minority background. After completion of the tour, both the women and the young men are offered training and access to a job at Tryg. The Voyage is – Diversity is a goldmine for the company now an integrated part of our leadership training for managers. as it creates potential earnings. Danes with other ethnic backgrounds are good Mentoring at benefitting from each other and we In Tryg we have a huge capacity of very engaged and expetypically have a large network which is rienced employees and we see it as an honour to be able to valuable. guide and counsel coming talents on choice of career path. We put our employees at disposal for students and engage in menMustafa Deveci, Agent, Roskilde toring programmes as part of management education. In the fall of 2010, Tryg signed up as a mentor company for the initiative “Mind Your Own Business”, which is a programme New ways to a job focusing on teenage boys of ethnic minority origin. Three employees from Tryg communication, human competence and Finding new ways to the labour marked is difficult for business centres will advice the boys in their attempt to start many young people with a background as immigrant up and run their own business, and three venture pilots will or descendant of immigrants. The Danish Association support the boys during the planning process. The project is a “Nydansker” launched a mentor programme in 2010 to way of empowering 12 boys and helping them make the right help young men and women aged 18-29 with a weak afchoices for their future. filiation to the labour marked. Tryg participates with four mentees. At the same time the project is a way to expand the horizon of our employees and further develop their skills of working in a In the beginning of 2010, the option of achieving experidiverse work environment. ence in mentoring was given to four employees as part of the Kubulus programme at Københavns Universitet. The Reﬂection room mentees were students in the last phase of their studies In 2010 we decided to designate a room for reflection in our preparing for entering the labour marked. head offices in Denmark and Norway with the purpose of accommodating the needs of our employees to conduct their Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 29 religious prayers, to meditate or to find a quiet place to reflect during work hours. A group of potential users among the emThe potential of diversity ployees were invited via the Intranet to participate in a workshop and came up with proposals for the design of the room, We support organisations of people wanting to contribute accessibility and location. The reflection room will be in place in to the Nordic job market by participating in seminars and the beginning of 2011. conferences, teaching young people with a non-Nordic heritage about the local job markets. Inclusion | Partnership In 2010 we continued our collaboration with the Danish Association “Foreningen Nydansker”, as a member of the Creating an inclusive society in the Nordic region is not someorganisation. thing we can do alone. We engage in a variety of partnerships with the aim of strengthening our own knowledge on inclusion Together with O.N.E. Århus and O.N.E. København, and the potential in diversity as well as passing on some of our a Danish/Turkish youth organisation, we conducted own experiences and encourage others to do the same. 6 workshops on how to write a CV and an application, and to prepare for a job interview. Disability To underline our profile as an inclusive workplace, we seek to adjust the surroundings and work stations to the specific needs of our disabled employees. Also, we contribute to inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market by offering jobs at Tryg for qualified individuals with a disability. Disability Since 2009 Tryg has been running a project on disability and sports together with the Danish Disability Sports Federation with the purpose of building competence with our claims handling sections to advice customers with acquired disabilities. As part of the project, a whole day seminar was conducted in Ballerup in February 2010 for 70 employees in claims. In 2010, we initiated a constructive dialogue with the Disabled Peoples Association Denmark, which aspires to turn into a project on active recruitment of persons with disabilities in 2011. Together with Danish Society of Polio and Accident Victims (PTU), Tryg shed light on the access to the labour market for disabled persons with another ethnic background than Danish. We hosted a seminar for members of PTU, and a Tryg service assistant told about her experience with the labour market in a television show. on DR1 30 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Inclusion | Performance Raising awareness within Diversity in employee composition the business community In order to reflect the surrounding society, we focus on diversity in our employee composition. We have a vision of being the In September, Tryg in collaboration with Ambisjoner.no, leading peace-of-mind provider for the entire Nordic region and hosted a seminar in Oslo focusing on how a multicultural not just a part of it. For us to understand and embrace the difwork force can enhance innovation and product developferent needs within the diverse societies, we seek to recruit in a ment. The seminar was based on a survey documenting way that reflects the diverse composition of society. that the financial sector has a lower share of employees with Non-Western background than most other sectors. Gender equality This constitutes both a societal challenge as well as major With the purpose of creating an attractive workplace for men potential for the business community at large. and women alike and with the need to be able to recruit future leaders and talents of both genders, we have in 2010 decided Both major private and public employers as well as to put focus on gender equality. As a part of this we have researchers participated with cases and small lectures signed “Operation Chain reaction” (Operation Kædereaktion), an during the seminar. initiative coming from The Danish Ministry of Gender Equality. We have committed ourselves to work actively with the development of female leaders and to put the topic on the agenda internally as well as externally. In Tryg this is however a two way street; we wish to work We did not reach the 2010 goal of 3,7%. In Denmark the peron creating equal rights and opportunities for both men and centage was 3,2% and in Norway 3,5. Statistics Denmark and women and to break down some of the “socialized” structures Statistics Norway provide the data. and norms. We will focus on developing new perks for our employees with the aim of contributing to and enhancement of Disability balance in general work-life. In 2011 we will start establishing In order to include persons with disabilities into the workplace initiatives directed at men and fathers, with the aim of making it is essential to show a proper level of flexibility. Tryg offers the it easier and more attractive to take e.g. paternity leave. opportunity of working in flexi-jobs for both existing employees suddenly facing some form of disability as well as others with Age the need of special work settings. In light of Tryg’s firm commitment to promoting non-discrimination throughout our business, we employ all age groups and By the end of 2010, Tryg employs 20 individuals in flexi-jobs. actively practise recruitment regardless of age. We assigned 3 new employees to the programme, while 6 individuals left during the year. The decrease is due to a shift in the Ethnicity general policy in Tryg regarding a slowdown in hiring. Having employees with other ethnic origin than Nordic helps us to understand and reach the surrounding society in new Employee perception of diversity initiatives ways. It opens our minds and limits our prejudice and stereIn our April 2010 survey, Tryg measured the degree to which otypes. Eventually, we want to mirror the ethnic composition employees feel accepted in the company regardless of their of the Nordic societies, and thus have an employment rate of background or lifestyle, to what extent derogative speech takes approximately 6.5% of employees with a Non-Western backplace in the company and to what extent employees feel they ground. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 31 have equal opportunities. It is the first time that Tryg measures on diversity as part of its CSR initiatives. Tryg is proud of the Employee perception of room for diversity results, however, we have the ambition to reach even higher 100 results and to create an even better environment in which employees thrive and can be their best selves. In order to better 80 evaluate changes in the near future we will increase our focus 60 on this area and measure diversity even more thoroughly. 40 20 0 All employees in Derogative speech of In Tryg there Tryg are accepted, ethnic, religious are equal opportunities regardless of or sexual character for all employees, their background or does not take regardless of their lifestyle place in Tryg background or lifestyle 32 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Well-being Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine a continuous basis on developing this further and making it an CSR policy inherent part of our behaviour and interaction. This behaviour is reflected in our annual survey regarding customer satisfaction As a company and corporate citizen we contribute to where we rate on average or above on nearly all markets. welfare in the Nordic countries through improved wellbeing. This is done via our products and solutions as The survey was conducted in september 2009 and september well as health promoting activities vis-à-vis our staff. 2010 by the external research institute “Userneeds”. The survey We strive to contribute to improved well-being globally, is based on 5000 anonumous responses in each of the four where relevant and possible. countries. The data was later processed by the external company “Enalyzer”. 60+ insurance As part of our ambition to be as inclusive as possible in our As a business and corporate citizen, Tryg feels responsibility reach out to customers and to accommodate their needs, Tryg towards our employees’ and society’s well-being. We work prohas introduced a health insurance for persons over the age of actively in order to create healthy working conditions and a safe 60 by lifting the age limit on health insurances. Since May 2010, working environment. We are convinced that societal and emit is possible for this group to buy health insurances without ployee well-being is to the benefit of all. We seek to enchance presenting a health certificate. higher quality of life, better job satisfaction and presumptively a reduction in absence due to sickness. It makes good business A unique component of our health insurance is the access sense to secure well-being for our stakeholders and have it to have a holistic pain diagnosis established by a team of integrated in our peace-of-mind delivery strategy. physicians. When focusing on well-being we focus on those themes The portfolio of insurance policies accounted for 44.482 in relevant to our Nordic context. We therefore have no further 2010, or 6 % growth compared to 2009. In total we covered initiatives towards the prevention of child or compulsory labour 190.000 persons ultimo 2010. or the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining since they are all integrated in Nordic national legislation and, in general are not area of concern in a Nordic context. Customer satisfaction Well-being | Products 100 We want to be perceived as the leading peace-of-mind provider in the Nordic region, which means that we have attention to80 wards our customer’s well-being. We operate in an industry that 60 is strictly regulated by national legislation, and we have thus 40 not found it necessary to implement further actions regarding 20 our customer responsibility. 0 Denmark Norway Sweden Finland When handling customers in sales and claims we are guided Satisfaction Tryg '09 Satisfaction Average '09 Satisfaction Tryg '10 Satisfaction Average '10 by using our good sense and high morality, which are both Loyalty Tryg '09 Loyalty Average '09 Loyalty Tryg '10 Loyalty Average '10 elements deeply founded in our corporate culture. We work on Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 33 Well-being | Process & Performance The number of overall work satisfaction may appear moderately low, but is a result of rather low scores regarding the physical Having employees who thrive in their job and surroundings is a work environment and degree of knowledge sharing. precondition for delivering peace-of-mind to others. Being able to We will continuously focus especially on these areas and have have employees acting as their best selves is a unique and attracalready engaged in initiatives in order to improve. Our Living tive competence for us as a company, and we thus have high focus House project was initiated exactly for the purpose of improving on creating the proper settings for work and work/life balance. knowledge sharing throughout the organisation and to improve physical working conditions. The project was initiated in year Employee satisfaction survey 2007 and will be completed in March 2011. Each year we conduct an internal survey of the satisfaction rate among our employees. This is supplemented by a large examiBenefits nation every second year, where we measure on a variety of Tryg offers healthy and varied food in the canteen every day indicators. Among these is the EEI (European Employee Index) as well as fresh fruit to all employees. We give our employees where we have seen a rise regarding employee satisfaction from the opportunity to have their personal health status checked by 71 in 2008 to 72 in 2010. educated specialists, and have appointments with physiotherapists and masseurs coming to the office. The sports facilities In addition, we have an ongoing dialogue internally, which each have undergone a renovation in 2010 and are now again open year results in new initiatives being launched with the purpose for use. The benefits are available to all employees working of improving the work environment. more than 8 hours a week. Overall, Tryg employees rate their overall work satisfaction to be Absence due to sickness index 74. It is comprised of 1) the psychological work environment, One of the main indicators of the employee’s well-being is the both in terms of management and cooperation at a score of index level of absence due to sickness. 81 and 78, respectively; 2) the physical work environment at 70%; 3) the degree of process and knowledge sharing at 70%, and 4) The numbers have shown a slight decrease, which is mainly due employee familiarity with strategy, targets and values at 88% and to a decrease in Norway. Internally, there are significant differ5) having an up-to-date personal development plan at 86%. ences among the four countries. Psychological working environment Absence due to sickness 100 7 6 80 5 60 4 40 3 2 20 1 0 0 yc cu Denmark Norway Sweden Finland Tryg total ho en log rit re F g . ee v m iro ical an nm w ag e or y w lg em nt k en se im t m S ed up Jo or o kl od ia po te rsu t fr pe om b ha Imm s rio r oa 2010 co edi d nf at id e s en u ce pe in rior m Ps It ru e st im m su edi pe ate rio r 34 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Health and safety committees ments in the event of critical disease. Furthermore, Tryg offers free We continually seek to provide a safe and healthy work environpsychological help up to 10 hours and addiction counselling. Emment for our employees. Unfortunately injuries do happen. In ployees can use this arrangement without having to involve Tryg. Denmark there was a total of 13 work related injuries in 2010, while Norway did not have any work related injuries during the Education and training year. Through our Employee Investigative Survey (Medarbejder Developing our employees and their respective competences Undersøgelse = MU) conducted each year we try to continuousis of utmost importance. As a part of our annual Employee ly interview employees in regards to improving working condiDevelopment Dialog (MUS: Medarbejder UdviklingsSamtale) the tions. A part of this survey is related to our efforts of decreasing employee and relevant leader draw up a development plan. The the number of work related injuries. share of employees with development plans has gone up from 78% in 2008 to 86% in 2010 and employees seem satisfied As we focus on limiting the number of work related injuries, we with the MUS, as depicted in the chart below. engage our employees in the process of developing solutions that supports this. We have 16 cross-Nordic Work Environment Overall, most employees feel they have been able to develop, Groups (Arbejdsmiljøgrupper) and a Nordic Work Environment both on a personal and professional level. From 2008 to 2010 Committee (Nordisk Arbejdsmiljøudvalg). the degree of satisfaction has risen with 2 points and gone up from 73 to 74. The overall degree of satisfaction in regards to Serious diseases “professional and personal development” is comprised of an When employees or their closest families are struck by serious average measurement of three questions. See chart below. diseases, we try to help and support them in various ways. We offer health insurance for all employees, which cover expenses Each year we provide training and education for our employees. for treatment, examination, medicine and operations. In 2010 we had a total of 7.183 registered course participants of which 1.336 were leaders and managers and 5847 were emIn Denmark we have an independent medical consultant that gives ployees. This amounts to a total of 142.000 hours of education support and advice in case of serious and long-term diseases. and training, or close to 19.000 training days. In average this is Danish employees covered by some specific collective bargaining equivalent to each employee receiving one week of education agreements are covered by an insurance which gives cash payand training during 20101. Work environment groups Professional and personal development 100 Denmark 16 Work Environment Leaders 80 (currently 2 vacant) 60 60 Work Environment Representatives (currently 2 vacant) 40 20 Norway 16 Work Environment Leaders 0 (currently 2 vacant) Professional Your opportunities The attention My competences and personal for professional given to are developed 46 Work Environment Representatives development and personal your professional continually in (currently 3 vacant) development and personal my present job development Tryg EEI Nordic EEI Nordic Financial Market 1 The numbers are referring only to Norway and Denmark. Similar data for Sweden and Finland are not available. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 35 Read more on tryg.com > CSR > Stakeholder magazine Strategy alignment throughout the organisation includes teaching about e.g. which insurances are absolutely Moreover, in an organisation the size of Tryg we need to ensure necessary, and how much it will cost to move out of home, why that our employees have correct and proper knowledge about pensions are necessary to reflect on already at a young stage, our strategy and goals. In recent years we have focused on imand how expensive it is to borrow money for a new computer. proving our strategy communication in order to reach all levels of the organisation. As a result the percentage of employee The course is based on the idea that young people should have knowledge of our strategy and goals has increased from 83% in basic financial and economic understanding in order to be com2009 to 88% in 2010. petent consumers and responsible citizens. It links to the product Young Living that was introduced to the market in 2008. Well-being | Partnerships In the spring of 2011, 30 classes with more than 700 pupils have signed up for the training programme and an equivalent “Ungdomsbyen” (City of Youth) number is expected in the autumn. Recent research illustrates that young people are insufficiently equipped with necessary competences in relation to insurance, UN Millennium Development Goals daily economy and pension. To accommodate the need for The appointment by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in knowledge in this field, Tryg has developed a training pro2010 of former CEO Stine Bosse as advocate for the UN Millengramme in collaboration with Nordea Bank and “Ungdomsbyen” nium Development Goals, has given us a unique possibility to (Rødovre City of Youth), a youth centre that provides education stress the need for support to the 2015 goals for eradication of to pupils in primary secondary school. poverty. The training programme “Get hold of Financials” focuses on fiStine Bosse’s personal engagement in the MDG Advocates Group nancial skills, and is designed to teach students how insurances includes participation in the UN Summit in New York in Septemand pensions may provide them with peace-of-mind and secuber 2010. Prior to that Tryg co-hosted a roundtable meeting in rity. Also, they are taught specific skills of how to calculate inCopenhagen together with the Danish Minister of Development terest, do budgeting, and risk assessment in their daily life. This and with the participation of representatives from large business corporations, NGOs, researchers, business and industry federations. The focus of the roundtable was “Women in Business – an Inclusive Way to Growth” and concentrated on ways and means to empower Strategy, targets and values poor women and guide them in setting up small businesses. % Best news in the world 100 To raise awareness about the 2015 goals, Tryg also engaged in 80 a project in which a coalition of Danish NGOs launched a cam60 paign on “Verdens Bedste Nyheder” (best news in the world). 40 The idea was to disseminate knowledge about the good results achieved in developing countries due to economic support. This 20 was done by handing out bread rolls in paper bags printed as a 0 Knowledge of I am familiar with I know what newsletter on the 2015 goal in workplaces throughout DenStrategy, targets Tryg’s vision, values Tryg's corporate and values and handshake strategy and goals are mark, in the streets, in busses and at train stations. 36 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Information on CSR | We see it as an inherent part of our social responsibility to disseminate and share our knowledge on and experiences with applying a strategic approach to CSR. We fulfil this task by providing substantial information on our website, in reports and as part of presentations in lectures, conferences, seminars and workshops and via interviews and memberships of committees and associations. Lectures, conferences, seminars and workshops Topic Date Organisation/Place Stine Bosse, Former CEO Companies’ Social Responsibility 27 May 2010 DJØF, DM & AC Samfundets forventninger til den finansielle sektor i fremtiden 30 September 2010 Finansnæringens arbejdsgiverforenings årsmøde The Danish Model – a Leadership Perspective 3 March 2010 The Scandinavian Manager, Dagbladet Børsen Forsikring og velfærd 28 October 2010 Vest Jysk Erhvervsklub Welfare in the future 12 April 2010 Christiansborg Klubben Long Term Thinking 11 November 2010 Bergens Næringsråd Lars Bonde, Group Executive Vice President, Customer Service and Sales-Direct Reducing Risk through collaboration 1 December 2010 The ClimateWise Third Year Progress Event, London Kjerstin Fyllingen, Group Executive Vice President, Customer Service and Sales-Partners Mangfold og ledelse i DLH 9 September 2010 Toppledertreff Bergens Næringsråd (Bergen) Norsk næringsliv og fremtidens multikulturelle arbeidstakere 23 September 2010 Divesrity Seminar in Oslo at Tryg Kvinner og ledelse 21 October 2010 Arbeidsmiljøkongressen på Grieghallen (Bergen) Reisen og veien videre, et inkluderingsprosjekt i regi av Tryg 2 November 2010 Lunch meeting in Bergen at ”Næringsråd” Jens Stener, Group Executive Vice President, Corporate Branding and Business Centres Alcohol, drug and traffic safety 25 August 2010 Norwegian Council for Road Safety, Oslo Truls Holm Olsen, Group Executive Vice President, Corporate Branding and Business Centres Klimarisikorådgivning for nordisk næringsliv 1 November 2010 Sikkerhetsdagene, Trondheim Climate Change in Key Words Det Norske Teater 38 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Lectures, conferences, seminars and workshops Topic Date Organisation/Place Birgitte Kofod Olsen, CSR Director Corporate Social Innovation – 27 January 2010 Erhvervsog Selskabsstyrelsen, dynamisk og robust forretningsudvikling Center for Samfundsansvar og CBS Mangfoldighedens positive potentiale 28 January 2010 CKI conference, Kunsten at inkludere IT-sikkerhed og privacy 12 February 2010 PriceWaterhouseCoopers Academy CSR i praksis 17 Februar 2010 DI CSR-rapportering 24 Februar 2010 Kommunikationsforeningen Menneskerettigheder og virksomheders samfundsansvar 24 February 2010 Copenhagen Business School, Instintute for økonomi og filosofi CSR in Trygvesta 29 April 2010 CBS – cand.merc. studiet Strategisk CSR 6 May 2010 Deloitte, CFO konference Strategis planlægning af CSR 6 May 2010 Bech Bruun, CSR i Servicebranchen Kvinder i ledelse 19 May 2010 WOW exenet Mangfoldighed og innovation 20 April 2010 Statsbiblioteket, Eigveds Pakhus CSR in Trygvesta 14 June 2010 Copenhagen Business School, Nordic Symposium on CSR CSR strategisk planlægning – set fra bestyrelsen 7 June 2010 DI Disability in the work place 23 August 2010 Copenhagen Business School Inklusion i København 18 September 2010 Blender Battle, Københavns Kommune Mangfoldighed og inklusion I Tryg 2 November 2010 Nordisk Forum CSR i Tryg 2 November 2010 Gladsaxe Erhversråd Etnisk inclusion i SMu-er 4 November 2010 AAK, Christiansborg MDG and corporate social responsibility 17 November 2010 MDG Roundtable– Danish Institute for Human Rights CSR i bestyrelsesarbejdet 1 December 2010 DI CSR i praksis 16 December 2010 DI Tom Anders Stenbro, CSR advisor Adaptation to climate change 25 May 2010 Climate Conference MARE, Bergen Samfunnsansvar i TrygVesta 16 June 2010 Seminar Utdanningsformbundet, Oslo Et risikolandskap i endring: klimaendringer og forsikring 19 October 2010 Climate workshop, Bergen Klimarisikorådgivning for nordisk næringsliv 1 November 2010 Sikkerhetsdagene/NTNU, Trondheim Natteravning: et spørsmål om å bry seg 22 November 2010 Night ravens Seminar in Follo Police district Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 39 Interviews Topic Date Organisation/Place Stine Bosse, Former CEO Erhvervslivet skal ind I kvindekampen 8 September 2010 Berlinske Tidende Kvindekamp I Afrika er kampen økonomiske magt balance I verden 8 September 2010 P1Business The Voyage: Eksperimentet 21 May 2010 Ukeavisen, page 1, 11, 12, 13, 14 Kjerstin Fyllingen, Group Executive Vice President, Customer Service and Sales-Partners På vej mot mer mangfoldighed 19 September 2010 Aftensposten På vej mot mer mangfoldighed 19 September 2010 Bergens Tidende Mangfoldighed: Snakk Business 26 September 2010 Dagbaldet Climate: Finanselitens styrebord klar for opphugging 21 February 2010 Bergens Tidende Lars Bonde, Group Executive Vice President, Customer Service and Sales-Direct På Vandring mod Mangfoldighedsledelse 8 September Berlinske Nyhedsmagasin På Vandring mod Mangfoldighedsledelse October Ledelse I Udvikling Birgitte Kofod Olsen, CSR Director Inklusion og mangfoldighed Nr. 3, 2010 Magasinet Cultures Inklusion og mangfoldighed 19 February 2010 P1 Orientering Om CSR indsats Nr. 3, June 2010 CSR-magasinet Om samarbejde med o.n.e. Århus/København Nr. 9, June 2010 Gazette Flexjob og handicap 20 November 2010 Kristeligt dagblad Mind your own Business 29 November 2010 TV2 Lorry Lounge 40 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Documentation on CSR In CDPs Nordic Report 2010 Tryg is ranked amongst the “top three” within the Nordic financial sector, and with the highest International commitment and awards disclosure score within the Danish financial sector. 2010 was In addition to the CSR report we annually honour our internathe third year Tryg reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project. tional commitments, and report to a variety of organisations and international networks. This includes international, regional In order to accommodate the demand from international invesand national standards on human rights, labour rights, environtors, investment managers and consultants we provide substanment and climate sustainability, anti-corruption, responsible tial documentation on our CSR performance and results on an investments, responsible procurements, good governance, road ad hoc basis. safety, and women in management. In 2010. Tryg was included on the FTSE4Good list of companies We have signed the following international principles concernthat meet globally acknowledged standards for corporate social ing our CSR responsibility: responsibility. • UN Global Compact Reporting practice • UN Principles for Responsible Investments, PRI The compilation of CSR data within Tryg is based on existing • UN Principles for Women’s Empowerment – internal systems for generating key indicators and monitorEquality means Business ing performance. Where such systems are not in place, data is • Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP provided by the business areas and administrative units. The • ClimateWise process with obtaining data is documented in an internal file • European Road Safety Charter system on the basis of a template covering data owner, date of delievery, source, justification for collection and frequency. In a Danish context we adhere to • Recommendations for Corporate Governance We aim at applying acknolwledged standards and definitions, or • Operation Chain Reaction methodologies that ensure the validity of data. The boundaries of the report are described on page 16-17, whereas specific In 2010, reports have been submitted under Global Compact, standards and definitions applied in the report are found in each PRI, CDP and ClimateWise, and to the Committee for Corporate thematic section under performance. Governance. All reports are available on tryg.com. Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 41 The Global Reporting Iniative | The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a networkbased organisation that pioneered the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Sustainability reports based on the GRI Framework can be used to demonstrate organisational commitment to sustainable development, to compare organisational performance over time, and to measure organisational performance with respect to laws, norms, standards and voluntary initiatives. Note Content Page Relevant UN Global Compact Princip Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from CEO 3 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 8 2.2 Primary brands and services 8 2.3 Operational structure AR 9 2.4 Location of headquarters 8 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 8, AR 18-19 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 58, 59, 144 2.7 Markets 8, AR 18-19 2.8 Scale of the organisation AR 8, 26f 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 5f 2.10 Awards recieved in the reporting period 41 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 16 3.2 Date of most recent report 16 3.3 Reporting cycle 16 3.4 Contact point for questions 2 3.5 Process for defining report content 16-17 3.6 Boundary of the report 16-17 3.7 Specific limitations of the on the scope or boundary of the report 16-17 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidaries etc. 16-17 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 16-17 of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 16-17 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 42-43 Governance, Commitment and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 14-15 4.2 Organisational role of the Board’s chairman 14 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive members of the Board 14 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to give recommendations to the Board 14 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 14 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 14 Economic Disclosure on management approach AR 8, 38f Princples 1, 4, 6, 7 EC2 Financial implications due to climate change 18 Principle 7 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 18 AR = Annual Report 42 | CSR Report 2010 | Tryg A/S Note Content Page Relevant UN Global Compact Princip Environmental Disclosure on management approach 18 Principles 7, 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products 18-19 Principls 8, 9 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 22-23 Principle 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 22-23 Principles 7, 8, 9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 18-19 Principles 7, 8, 9 Labour Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach 16, 28, 33 Principles 1, 3, 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 34 LA6 Workforce represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees 35 Principle 1 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism 34-35 Principle 1 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place regarding serious diseases 35 Principle 1 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 35 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 35 Human Rights Disclosure on management approach 16, 28, 33 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 16 Principles 1, 2, 3 HR6 Risk for incidents of child labor 16-17 Principles 1, 2, 5 HR7 Risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 16-17 Principles 1, 2, 4 HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 17 Principles 1, 2 Society Disclosure on management approach 16-17 Principle 10 SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions 17 Principle 10 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 17 Product Responsibility Disclosure on management approach 33 Principles 1, 8 PR5 Customer satisfaction 33 AR = Annual Report Tryg A/S | CSR Report 2010 | 43
