Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 1 Corporate Responsibility report 2010 Building the Greening with IT next generation Smart IT can help reducing greenhouse emissions. We have reduced the CO2 emissions of our customers more than data centres we emit from our own operations. >>page 16 In 2010, Tieto opened in Sweden one Best GRI reporting of the world’s safest and environmentally efficient data centres. >>page 45 tool on the market? Our Sustainability Intelligence services help our customers monitor, analyze, store and report all CR parameters efficiently. >>page 18 Economic Social Environmental Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Aiming for sustainable Improving our employer Leading Green IT profits >>page 20 brand >>page 30 company >>page 40 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 2 About this report This is our second Corporate performance. These areas were identified in CR KPIs, the coverage is complete; i.e. 100% of our Responsibility (CR) report based on reporting workshops that were organised during 2010. employees. When we use the term “CO2 emission” This report includes the Parent company Tieto we mean CO2 equivalent emission. GRI´s framework. Last year (2009), Corporation and all subsidiaries over which the This is the first year for third party assurance of the CR report had an application level Parent company has direct or indirect control. GRI’s our CR Report. The performance data, disclosures C. This year (2010) our application Standard Disclosures cover the entire Tieto Group. and statements in this report are assured to a level is a B+. This report and our Unless otherwise stated, all information and moderate level in accordance with the AA1000 data pertains to activities from 1 January to 31 Assurance Standard (2008) – see page 46 for the Annual Report 2010 provide December 2010. Mergers and acquisitions during statement. Our assurors, Ethos International and the basic information on our 2010 have only affected data marginally. TwoTomorrows, have provided a third party check performance. Our environmental Key Performance Indicators confirming our application of the GRI G3 guidelines This CR Report focuses on issues that we (KPI) are based on 73–100% of our employee to be B+. Assurance increases transparency and is consider to be the most relevant and material count, depending on KPI, covering the essential key to delivering a high-quality report. regarding our economic, social and environmental parts of this corporation. In terms of all other Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Output Report Report Externally Assured Assured 1.1 Level C plus: Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 Profile Same as requirement Disclosures 2.1–2.10 1.2 for Level B Standard Disclosures 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9–3.13 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Output G3 Management Management Approach Management Approach Approach Not Required Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category G3 Performance Report on a minimum of Report on each core G3 and Sector Output Indicators & Sector 10 Performance Indicators, Report on a minimum of 20 Performance Supplement* Indicator with due regard Supplement including at least one from Indicators, at least one from each of to the Materiality Principle by either: Performance each of Economic, Social and Economic, Environmental, Human Rights, a) reporting on the indicator or Indicators Environmental. Labor, Society, Product Responsibility. b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector Supplement in final version. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 3 2010 in brief Year 2010 was an eventful one. • Integration of corporate ISO 14001 compliant In spite of economic challenges, environmental management system (EMS) into our internal business process system, Way to we have continued to drive progress Excellence (W2E). >>page 41 across our business. Here are some • Improvement of internal data collection practices. of the key achievements: In 2009, Carbon Inventory data was based on • R evision of our strategy to better meet the collected data from only Finland and Sweden. In changing market conditions, where IT is 2010, we have collected data from 58 offices in increasingly consumed as a service. The 21 countries covering activities from more than new strategy seeks higher differentiation and 84% of all employees. >>page 42 specialisation to further strengthen our market • Increased volume of sustainability services. For position. >>page 5 instance, we increased the volume of electronic • Investments in new generation data centres, B2B transactions from 623 million in 2009 to over amounting to EUR 25 million in Finland, Sweden 763 million during 2010. The CO2 savings from our and Russia. The new data centre in Sweden, is one customer services, by far, exceed our own CO2 of the most secure and energy efficient in the world. emissions. >>page 17 >>page 45 • R enewal of our Code of Conduct. 91% of employees have signed it. >>page 36 • Launch of an anti-corruption policy. >>page 37 • S tart of a CR community for all employees, including CR information, news, discussions and e-training. >>page 33 • L aunch of the Eureka platform as an internal global channel for innovation, ideas and engaging employees in business development. >>page 35 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 4 Contents About this report 2 Social responsibility 30 2010 in brief 3 Our people 31 Message from the CEO 5 Case: Unleashing creativity 35 Corporate responsibility Human rights and supply chain 36 performance review 6 Business ethics 37 About Tieto 7 Supporting social development 39 Strategy for CR and sustainability 8 Environmental responsibility 40 Materiality assessment 12 Environmental responsibility Materiality results 13 – part of our way to excellence 41 Stakeholder dialogue 14 Vision: 100% CO2 neutral 42 Our sustainability offerings 16 Greener offices 43 Case: Contributing to smart grids 19 Case: The world’s safest and most Economic Responsibility 20 efficient data centre 45 Our financial performance 21 Assurance statement 46 Corporate governance 24 GRI content index table 48 Quality and customer satisfaction 26 Contact information 50 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 5 Message from the CEO T he world of IT is in continuous transformation. Modern IT offers from our own operations. We are serious about contributing to the many benefits for our customers and has great potential to development of sustainable societies. In 2010 alone, we invested contribute to a sustainable world. We at Tieto want to become EUR 25 million in a new generation data centres. Recycling and reuse the leading Green IT company and a thought leader in sustainability IT of excess heat are an integral part of overall design in these centres. solutions and services. Our new unit in Sweden is one of the safest and most energy efficient Sustainability is about managing risks as well as opportunities. data centres in the world. We have also continued to implement our In order to be perceived as a good corporate citizen and manage our Green Office programme in Finland and plan to expand the concept business profitably, we have to act in an environmentally responsible to other countries as well. way and maintain sound business ethics that safeguard our good We are a globally operating company, present in close to 30 reputation. Sustainability offerings and Green IT services strengthen countries with differing cultures and business environments. This our businesses and reduce the environmental impacts both from us poses certain challenges in data collection as well as maintaining and our customers. common internal processes and practices. We have zero tolerance towards any kind of unethical behavior. In 2010, we updated our “ We are serious about contributing to the development Code of Conduct and launched an anti-corruption policy that give clear guidelines to all our employees and business partners. Our of sustainable societies. In 2010 alone, we invested Board of Directors and I fully support and enforce this policy. The Code of Conduct is based on UN Global Compact’s 10 principles, EUR 25 million in a new generation of data centres. and Tieto continues to be a Global Compact signatory in 2011. Recycling and reuse of excess heat are an integral In December 2010, we announced a new operating model which drives growth, and better supports competence and offering part of overall design in these centres.” development work. I am sure that this will further accelerate our sustainability work as well. In 2011, we will continue to implement and Energy consumption and climate change are some of today’s most integrate sustainability awareness and practices in all Tieto operations. important and most discussed sustainability topics. We can reduce This is our second corporate responsibility report based on GRI’s our customers’ CO2 emissions by efficient IT services. Tieto’s longframework. On the following pages, you can read more about our term vision is to become 100% climate-neutral. Our environmental work concerning economic, environmental and social sustainability objectives for 2013 include a continuous annual decrease of our total – our objectives, achievements and challenges. I hope you find CO2 emissions and lower energy consumption per employee. For 2010, this report informative and useful. Your feedback and thoughts on we have met these targets, lowering energy consumption per employee the topics discussed in this report are naturally welcome. An open by 7% and per server by 22% on average. and honest dialogue with our stakeholders helps us become more I am very proud of the work we have done so far, and excited sustainable and contribute to our common task of saving our planet. about our sustainability initiatives and new services that we are Let’s make sure we achieve it – together. working on at the moment. These initiatives and services will bring great value to us and our customers’ businesses in the coming years. With great satisfaction we conclude that during 2010 we have not only reduced our CO2 emissions, but also, the reduction of customer’s Ari Karppinen CO2 emissions through our services by far exceeded the emissions Acting President and CEO Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 6 Corporate responsibility 2010 100’ 80’ Total CO2 60’ emissions (tons) 40’ 52 646 52 646 20‘ No data performance review available 250’ 200’ 2009 2010 150’ Customer CO2 162 705* savings (tons) 125’ No data 100’ available 162 705 5.0 2009 2010 4.0 * Electronic transaction services Total CO2 3.0 and other e-services replacing paper. /employee (tons) 2.0 2.92* 2.83 Based on our materiality Customer and employee 2 500 2.83 1.0 analysis, certain sustainability satisfaction 2 000 Net sales 2009 2010 1 500 1 713.7 * Employees in the Nordic countries Another important aspect of our sustainability 1 706.3 (MEUR) aspects are more important 1 000 only. All data centres not included. than others to us and our key performance is the quality of our solutions 500 1 713.7 100 and services. Our competitiveness depends 2009 2010 80 stakeholders. These aspects and on the value we add to our customers. High Operating profit, 60 75.3 EBIT (MEUR) 72.4 their measures are summarised customer satisfaction can only be reached with 40 below in a few concrete key the support of competent, satisfied employees. 5 72.4 20 Competence development is therefore crucial 4 2009 2010 performance indicators. for us as a company, at all times. 3 Customer 3.30 3.26 benefit index* 2 Both customer and employee satisfaction 1 3.26 1000 Environmental performance constitute opportunities, but also challenges. 800 2009 2010 Our biggest contribution to a sustainable Several measures, including strategy renewal Employee 600 627 * Tieto index for customer satisfaction. satisfaction index 400 society lies first and foremost in the and the launch of a new operating model, No data environmental area, where our data centres, have been taken to increase the customer and 100 627 200 available* employee satisfaction. More information on 2009 2010 offices and business travels constitute the 80 Training * Index definition changed in 2010. most important factors. By using the latest customer satisfaction can be found on page 60 68.3 hours/employee 40 58.3 28. Employee satisfaction and our actions in technology and state of the art IT solutions and this regard are elaborated on on page 32. 20 68.3 services we can lower the CO2 footprint from 2009 2010 our own operations, and also the footprint of our customers. Ethical performance Our value-adding, sustainable services are Being present in countries with high corruption used by many companies and organisations, rates could pose challenges. However, only In 2010, the Code of Conduct was renewed competition, price pressure, adoption of new and we are proud to say that the reduction of one incident occurred during 2010. As the and has now been signed by almost all delivery and business models. All of this is true customers’ CO2 emissions through our services whole industry is growing in developing employees. Our actions in the area of business for us as well, and we have worked hard to by far exceed the CO2 emissions from our countries, there is a clear need for explicit ethics are described in more detail on page 37. tackle the challenges posed by the economic own operations. Our ambition is firm: we will values and procedures in the area of working development in our main markets. This has continue developing new smart IT solutions, conditions and human rights. Here our Code Financial performance resulted in strategy renewal, increased global both for IT infrastructure and applications of Conduct guides all employees and business The IT services market has gone through delivery capacity and streamlining activities management and digital end-user services. partners, no matter the location. We have zero difficult times during the past years. The in selected parts of the organisation. More On page 16 you can read more about our tolerance for discrimination, corruption and global downturn that started in late 2007 has information on financial performance can be sustainability services. unfair competition. impacted the whole sector, resulting in tougher found on page 20. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 7 About Tieto T ieto is the leading IT service company in Market presence and growth Northern Europe providing IT and product We aim to be the market leader in IT services in engineering services. With approximately North-East Europe. Our main markets are the 18 000 experts, we aim to become a leading service Nordic countries, Russia and Poland. In addition, integrator creating the best service experience in IT. we serve our customers globally in certain areas of expertise and have industry-specific activities in Knowledge, passion selected countries. and sustainable results Our customers are large and medium-sized Our highly specialised IT solutions, expertise in organisations in various sectors – for example digital services and superior customer centricity telecom and media, finance, energy, healthcare and set us apart from our competitors. We believe in welfare, public, manufacturing, logistics and retail. long-term business relations and we know that the knowledge and passion of our employees is what creates sustainable results for our customers. Sustainability is one of our strategic cornerstones Net sales by customer sector (EUR million) and an integral element in everything we do. Our operations are organised into four Business Telecom : 571 Tieto facts and figures: Lines (Industry Solutions, Enterprise Solutions, Finance: 358 • Full name: Tieto Corporation. Managed Services and Transformation as well as 33% Industry sectors: 785 • Headquarters in Helsinki, Finland. 46% Product Engineering Solutions) and four Market Total: 1 714 • Listed on NASDAQ OMX in Helsinki and Stockholm. Units (Finland and the Baltic countries, Scandinavia, • Approximately 18 000 employees. Central Europe & Russia and Global Accounts). 21% • Net sales: EUR 1 713.7 million. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 8 Strategy for CR and sustainability We believe that long-term becoming a survival issue for many companies. profitability requires a business CR is also increasingly important from a brand management point of view. Several of our major model that takes into account all customers have set minimum requirements for CR aspects of corporate responsibility. related activities. We see efficient risk management We are a signatory of the UN Global Compact as an opportunity, giving competitive advantages which clearly demonstrates our values in terms of in order to strengthen our market position and environmental care, human rights, workers’ rights achieve our financial and non-financial targets. and anti-corruption. Hence, our strategy is to mitigate the risks related to CR issues such as business ethics, human rights Integration of CR and sustainability and the environment. Generally, IT companies are somewhat behind Sustainability for us as a company is about other industries in sustainability efforts. This may be managing risks as well as opportunities. Global because the IT companies don’t see themselves as warming and climate change are some of the “polluters”. Nevertheless, many IT companies are most discussed topics of today. Our goal is to now seeing great potential for modern IT systems understand the consequences of our business to affect not only their own CR performance but operations on the environment and take this into also to impact positively on almost all other sectors. account in our decision making. In addition, we This was the main reason for us in 2009 to set up aim for our strategic priorities to be aligned with the goal of becoming a global leader in “Green IT”. our impact on our stakeholders and our long term We are confident that in the long-run, this will have business goals. a positive impact on both our financial performance Sustainable IT Solutions and CR related matters and brand value. have gone from “nice to have” to “must have”, Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 9 Our first priority is ensuring we take responsibility • F ull organisational coverage of sustainability for our direct social and environmental impacts. Our data. sustainable IT solutions and services can also help our • Integration of mandatory sustainability items customers improve their sustainability performance. into the business planning process. • Inclusion of CR into incentive systems. Sustainability • Full integration of ISO 14001 compliant – a strategic cornerstone Environmental Management System (EMS) Sustainability constitutes both challenges and into our business systems. opportunities and therefore it is considered one of • Prioritising sustainable suppliers and our strategic cornerstones. In addition to fostering partners. sustainable business practices, we want to be the • Improve customer satisfaction. employer of choice to attract new employees to the • Improve employee satisfaction. company and at the same time retain the talented • Improve diversity throughout the company. and skilled people we already have. • Further mitigate environmental impact Our vision is to become 100% CO2 neutral through Green Offices, efficient data centres and be a thought leader in sustainability as well as and reduced travelling. to include sustainability as an integral part of our • Significantly increase our sustainability services. services and offerings. This supports our strategic intention to provide our customers with the best Key sustainability risks service experience. Risks are measured on their possible impact, To improve our sustainability work further, likelihood and level of management. Risks are we will continue to develop our operations in the inherent in all business operations and activities, and following areas: all employees are responsible for managing them. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 10 Strategy for CR and sustainability We have created a risk management framework succumbing to unethical business practices. We with selected risk categories (strategic, financial, have a fairly centralised governance model and will operational). Our most critical risks are related to not under any circumstance tolerate corruption or key business processes such as: any other unethical behaviour. • Sales and delivery processes. Another strategic risk within the sustainability • Capability to run successful mergers and area is sufficient availability of the right acquisitions operations. competencies. Inability to attract and retain top • Ability to proactively adapt our business to talents and increased personnel turnover might market changes. compromise operational quality and efficiency. Additionally, we will not accept risks that: This can lead to declining competitiveness. More • Affect personnel safety. on this topic can be found on page 31. • Jeopardise the safety and quality of Other sustainability risks are not considered processes and products. material in terms of impact and likelihood. • Break laws or regulations or contradict our The use of energy, however, is an important values, Code of Conduct or similar policies or topic for all IT companies. The IT sector as a whole guidelines. consumes large amounts of energy. Most of this • Endanger our clients’ assets. consumption is related to data centres. We strive • Endanger intellectual property rights. to reduce energy consumption in our data centres • Endanger our reputation, brand or image. by using the latest technology, reusing heat and Part of our strategic risks are related to introducing free cooling where possible. See also Corporate Governance, an area with great concern page 43. in the sustainability field. Certain markets pose greater risks regarding our ability to operate without Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 11 The external stakeholders’ concerns for this The Corporate Responsibility (CR) Steering ecological footprint are not yet significant. Internally, Group is our highest body in CR issues. It it is viewed as more of an opportunity to address coordinates, monitors, and provides advise to the these issues in a responsible way and thus gain Board of Directors, President and CEO and the trust as a responsible company. Group management on CR issues. Information security, however, is an area of The Steering Group has nine members. The great importance for our external stakeholders, chairman is Carl-Harald Andersson. In 2010, the especially now that the market is moving towards other members were: buying IT as a Service, i.e. cloud services. • Esa Hyttinen, Legal Counsel In the following chapters, you can read more • Reeta Kaukiainen, Vice President, about how our strategies have been put into action Communications & IR and how the management approach to these vital • Elina Kulovesi, Brand Management processes is designed. • Johanna Louhi, Director, HR Excellence • Pilar Lundholm, Corporate Marketing CR organisation • Harri Pajunen, Head of Global Facilities & Senior Vice President & Head of Corporate Procurement Responsibility, Carl-Harald Andersson, reports to • Johanna Pyykönen-Walker, Executive Vice the Executive Vice President & Head of Strategy, President, HR who is a member of the Leadership Team. A few • Sampo Salonen, Head of Tieto Global Delivery & times a year, the head of Corporate Responsibility Quality also participates in Board meetings and leadership meetings to report on Corporate Responsibility related issues. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 12 Materiality assessment For this report, we conducted an Materiality assessment process: external and an internal materiality assessment in order to determine the most important aspects regarding sustainability. These are also the areas that are addressed in this report. Internal stakeholders Matrix of Survey and complementary interviews of external Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility stakeholders based on aspects identified internally material Senior Advisor and with the possibility of adding aspects aspects Head of CMO Office prioritised Head of Marketing both by Business Unit Manager, Forest internal Executive Vice President, HR and external Director, HR Excellence Internal identification of stakeholders Corporate Marketing Manager key external stakeholders Director, Marketing & Communications Vice President, Communications & IR Investor Relations Manager Prioritised list of Director, Global Facilities & Procurement Internal prioritisation of the most material aspects Legal Counsel important sustainability aspects Lead Sustainability Intelligence Consultant Lead Sustainability Intelligence Consultant Principle Business Consultant Executive Vice President, Global Delivery & Quality Internal identification of Country Alliance Manager sustainability aspects Director, Head of Global Certification Head of IT Project Services Controller, Human Resources External stakeholders Internal identification of Customers NGOs representatives for Investors Labour Unions key internal stakeholders Shareholders Suppliers/partners Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 13 Materiality results In line with our expectations, our internal and external stakeholders view sustainability offerings, business ethics and competence development as the most important sustainability aspects. Additionally, financial 4 13 performance, quality and environmental procurement 24 requirements are perceived as crucial success factors. 15 Importance to external stakeholders 19 22 5 Economic 15 Procurement and supply chain; 2 8 environmental requirements 9 1 Financial performance 16 Environmental certification 2 Corporate governance 20 17 3 Effective / lean business processes 1 Social 10 4 Quality of products and services 17 Working conditions and work 14 7 5 Customer satisfaction life balance 6 (Product) Innovation 18 Employee health and safety Important Very Important 7 Information security and data 19 Competence development and 12 6 11 23 privacy training; career opportunities 3 18 8 Transparency and openness 20 Employee relations – employee engagement / satisfaction and 21 16 Environmental labour union relations 9 Energy consumption 21 Social engagement – community engagement and charity 10 Greenhouse gas emissions, climate change 22 Business ethics – partner relations, anti-corruption; competition law 11 Use of materials and chemicals issues 12 Waste management; end of life 23 Diversity and equal opportunities of products 24 Procurement and supply chain; 13 Sustainability offerings human rights and other social (e.g. Green IT) requirements Important Very Important 14 Driving standardisation and Importance to internal stakeholders certification (products and services) Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 14 Stakeholder dialogue We want to foster continuous collaboration and dialogue with all our key stakeholders. We want to know and understand their needs, expectations and concerns, and to respond to them promptly and proactively. In our internal workshops, including all core functions, we have identified our primary stakeholders i.e. all those who have a direct relationship with, or are affected by, our business operations. Certain types of stakeholder cooperation, such as investor relations and Group-level media relations, are centralised within the Group functions. However, most relations are managed throughout the organisation. On the next page we outline what issues are dealt with in relation to the particular stakeholder, and what the main interactions are. In general, stakeholders are not very active in addressing CRrelated issues with us. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 15 Frequency of Actions regarding issues Stakeholders Key issues identified Interaction interaction raised by stakeholders Employees • C areer opportunities • S ecure working •  mployee satisfaction surveys (Voice) E Voice survey and development Training, career • Training and personal environment • Employee representative/Union dialogue discussions annually. Monthly development, job rotation, development • Equal and fair • Development discussions meetings with Union and employee support for physical exercise • Job satisfaction treatment • Eureka and other social media tools representatives. Continuous use of and leisure activities. social media tools. Customers • R eliable and efficient • C ost-effectiveness • C  ustomer satisfaction surveys (CSS) CSS and MA annually. Adaptation and collaboration services • Responsible way of • Customer magazines, audits, seminars, Operative activities on a in service/product • Sustainability offerings conducting business exhibitions, workshops continuous basis including development. Planning and • Quality of services and • Sound business ethics • Governance models governance. strategy discussions. deliveries • Materiality analyses (MA) Investors • P rofitability and return  ransparent and • T • S  hareholder meetings (AGMs) AGM, CMD and MA annually. Increased investor information and shareon investment honest communications • Capital Market Day (CMD) Meetings and other investor on the web including corporate holders • Good corporate • Accurate, up-to-date • Road shows and investor and collaboration on a continuous responsibility. governance information analyst meetings basis. • Materiality analyses (MA) Suppliers • S olid business ethics • M utually beneficial • Supplier audits MA annually. Other activities on Collaboration in service/ and • Aligned practices relationships and • Alliance program an annual, quarterly, or more product development and partners and targets business activities • Governance models frequent basis. business models. Planning and • Materiality analyses (MA) strategy discussions. Students • C ollaboration and • C orporate • C  areer days Career days and student fairs a Theses work, seminars and and job opportunities responsibility • Student fairs few times a year. lectures, recruitment. potential • Joint projects • Development projects employees • Research collaboration Tieto’s sustainability offerings Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 16 Our sustainability Consolidation & optimisation offerings Unified business Digital Logistics communiservices cations Digital workplace (Future office) E-invoicing Service Sustaindesk & IT ability support intelligence Data Waste Centres managePerforSmart ment & mance grids recycling manageIT has great potential to telecom sectors contribute as much as Materials balance ment help reduce greenhouse gas air travel to global warming, partly due (ERP, MES) Green IT to energy consumption for running and emissions. We are committed cooling data centres. Energy Business process to help our customers The IT industry has a key role in manageperforment mance reduce their environmental tackling climate changes – by influencing Materials impacts, cut costs and politicians, introducing industry standards and by developing smart IT solutions Efficiency create profitable businesses Workflow Business consulting and services. According to the Smart managethrough innovative Green 2020 Study by the Global e-Sustainability ment Test centres Embedded systems IT services. This mindset Initiative (GeSI), IT has the potential to help has made sustainability an reduce emissions globally by 15% by 2020. Operations integral part of our business Smart Management Product strategy. Sustainability in all our metering (AMI) developofferings ment In Tieto, we are working to ensure all our Energy The IT industry has a solutions are sustainable, regardless of R&D responsibility Efficiency whether a customer is purchasing cloud IT is part of the solution to climate change, services, financial services, advanced but also an underlying cause. Research metering solutions or any other of our IT say that information and communication services. In 2010, we started a project to Sustainability technology (ICT) equipment and services define and declare the environmental and Offerings consume over 8% of electrical power in sustainability performance of our services. the EU and produce about 4% of its CO2 The development of environmental emissions. These figures could double by declarations on selected services will 2020. Other studies say that the IT and continue in 2011. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 17 Our ambition is to become the preferred E-invoicing and to business (B2B) electronic transactions in Green IT partner. We continuously work to other electronic transactions Europe. In 2010, we conducted over 763 million Reducing more develop new ideas and offerings, in cooperation electronic transactions (623 million in 2009). CO2 than we emit Electronic transaction services is one area where with research institutes and other strategic 219 million of these replaced individual printing modern IT has a created a change in behavior In 2010, the reduction of alliances and partners. Today our sustainability and sending paper copies by ordinary mail. At among consumers, with significant positive customer CO2 emissions offerings include solutions for financial efficiency, least another 300 million paper transactions effects on the environment. According to Gartner through Tieto’s services energy and material efficiency, IT operations were replaced by other IT services. Below is we are one of the biggest actors in business exceeded our own emissions. management, Green IT and R&D. an estimate of the CO2 savings only from these types of services. Our CO2 emissions were estimated to be 52 646 tons, Electronic transactions and other e-services replacing paper mail compared to approximately Future Office 162 000 tons saved only Quantity CO2 emissions Reducing travelling is another way of reducing through the electronic (million mails) saved (tons CO2)* our environmental impact. Our Digital Workplace transaction services replacing B2B e-transactions replacing paper 219.0 75 346 and Future Office solutions, which have been printing and ordinary mailing. implemented in all our offices, and also in Tieto e-invoices 0.2 75 several of our customer’s offices, enable Other e-services e.g. Electronic 300.1 87 233 online collaboration and communication by account statements, campaigns, using digital tools such as live meetings, video secure mail (estimates) and teleconferences. Internal social media Total 519.3 162 705 technologies are widely used. We also design, deploy and host communications solutions for *CO2 savings refer to printing, envelopes and sending each paper transaction/information by several customers. ordinary mail. The conversion factor has been taken from a recent Finnish study. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 18 Our sustainability offerings Sustainability Intelligence Services As a result of our own internal sustainability work, we have developed a “Sustainability Intelligence Service” that helps our customers minimise expenses and maximise profits by adding value to their services and products. The service enables customers to collect, analyse, store and report the sustainability performance of their business. It can be used to make sustainability reports and calculate CO2 emissions, and it uses standard GRI and CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) indicators. The cloud-based service is easy to take into use, is scalable and can be used both by small and large organisations. In Tieto, we use it internally as our main CR reporting tool. The development and commercialisation of the offering will be further expanded in 2011. In the beginning of 2011, we entered a joint research project with Nokia and Kone focusing on improving business by gathering data from the whole product life-cycle. Our Sustainability Intelligence Service will be used as the platform for gathering the life-cycle data in this project. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 19 Case: Smart grids Contributing Green IT award for Tieto Tieto Norway was honoured for the project “Manage Smart with Smart Grids” with a diploma as top three amongst 16 nominees to smart grids in the Norwegian Computer Society’s Rosing Green IT award 2010, an initiative to promote the best Norwegian IT companies. According to the jury, Tieto has a “Smart Grid approach that will form the foundation for many new environmentally friendly business models in the future”. The future energy infrastructure, “Tieto is a company with an innovative culture strong driving forces for the development of smart the Smart Grid, makes it possible for and a profound knowledge and experience from grids. For Tieto, this creates the possibility to take the energy sector. During the past years, we have the leading role in the Nordics, through developing end-users to automatically control been involved in the roll-out and maintenance good “win-win” business models for the different energy consumption and sell excess of AMI through projects with approximately one actors involved. Jan Berntzen describes the next energy that has been generated, million new “smart meters” that enable automatic steps: back into the grid. We take active meter reading and new energy services in homes in “In 2010, we launched “Manage Smart in Sweden and Finland”, says Jan Berntzen, Energy Smart Grid”, a three-year project sponsored by part to deliver the foundation for Solutions Architect at Tieto. the Norwegian Research Council that explores Smart Grids. the potential of AMI and Smart Grids for improving Smart grids are about planning, building and From consumers to “prosumers” energy efficiency, both in private homes and larger operating electricity networks that improve energy In the future, smart grid consumers will become buildings. The project is a cooperation with the efficiency and help reduce greenhouse gas “prosumers”, meaning they are able to sell any Norwegian Centre of Expertise (NCE) Halden and emissions. The “smartness” of the grid is enabled excess energy they generate – for example, was initiated by Knut Gustavsen, Tieto Norway. through intelligent use of new technologies and from solar panels – to the grid and take control During the first year we have focused on building solutions. This helps to integrate renewable energy of the energy they buy. To cut consumption partnerships with key stakeholders developing resources, reduce energy consumption, promote peaks, it could also be possible to use temporary business models increased end user involvement and enable new energy storage in, for example, plug-in electric and establishing energy services. vehicles. The environmental benefits of smart two pilot studies grids come from increased use of renewable that will start AMI systems and Smart meters energy sources and increased energy efficiency. during 2011.” Key characteristics of a smart grid are the use of Realtime measurement and feedback of energy two-way digital communication to control energy consumption and costs also increases consumer generation and consumption, local production awareness, and has been proved to lower from renewable sources and decentralized consumption significantly. energy storage. With real-time reporting of energy Jan Berntzen, consumption, there is a better possibility to balance Taking the lead Energy Solutions energy generation and demand. To enable this, we Regulations in the energy sector and continuously Architect at Tieto are heavily involved in the implementation of AMI increasing environmental awareness are two (Advanced Metering Infrastructure) systems. Economic Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 20 RESPONSIBILITY chapter 2010 Key achievements Aiming for sustainable in 2010: • O  ur strategy was revised to meet profits changing market conditions in which IT is increasingly consumed as a service. The new strategy seeks higher differentiation and specialisation to further strengthen our market position. >>page 22 The goal of any business is • N  et sales growth and profitability were to make a profit and create flat in 2010, but the order backlog increased by approximately 25%, shareholder value by providing totalling EUR 1 574 (1 258) million at the goods and services that people end of the year. >>page 21 want to buy or invest in.  earing decreased to 9.3% (12.7). • G Sound financial performance enables >>page 22 us to develop our operations, including corporate responsibility work. Any company • N  et cash flow from operations with an interest in the future needs to plan increased to EUR 142.9 (126.4) million. its sustainability work from an economic perspective. However, we also strongly • D  ividend per share in 2010 amounted believe that our corporate responsiblilty work to EUR 0.70 (0.50). >>page 21 leads to sustainable profits. Sustainable • A  t the end of 2010, 37% of our business practices, sound governance and employees were working in global risk management and social sponsring are delivery centres. >>page 28 crucial parts of our economic responsibility. In this report, we have also included quality and • O  ur social sponsoring totalled EUR 0.6 customer satisfaction. million. >>page 22 Financial Overview of Our quality performance >>page 21 governance >>page 24 work >>page 26 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 21 Financial performance Finacial Indicators 2010 2009 Net sales, EUR million 1 713.7 1 706.3 Operating profit (EBIT), EUR million 72.4 75.3 Operating margin, % 4.2 4.4 Operating profit (EBIT) excl. one-off 110.0 108.0 items, EUR million Operating margin excl. one-off items, % 6.4 6.3 Profit before taxes, EUR million 66.1 70.3 Earnings per share, EUR 0.69 0.77 In 2010, we signed a number of social sponsoring are integral parts of economic important new customer contracts. responsibility. Equity per share, EUR 7.80 7.25 The IT services market did not grow in 2010. On a full-year basis, our sales were Outsourcing of ICT infrastructure and application Dividend per share, EUR 0.70 0.50 flat, but growth started to pick management as well as business process up towards the end of the year. outsourcing were active throughout the year but Investments, EUR million 101.4 58.9 Net sales for 2010 amounted to demand for project services was stagnant. In Tieto, we continued building our global delivery Return on equity, % 9.2 11.0 EUR 1 713.7 million (1 706.3) and capability as well as streamlining of the company to operating profit was EUR 72.4 improve performance, especially in our international Return on capital employed, % 15.1 16.8 million (75.3). operations. Our profitability was strained by substantial Full-year net sales amounted to EUR 1 713.7 Gearing, % 9.3 12.7 (1 706.3) million. Growth came mainly from the restructurings in our international businesses leading to an EBIT margin of 4.2% or 6.4% excluding outsourcing of ICT infrastructure and application Equity ratio, % 47.6 46.0 one-off items. One of our key targets in 2011 is to management. The increase in net sales was curbed fix the underperforming businesses to improve our by the divestments of non-core businesses in Full-time personnel on average 17 097 16 568 profitability and ability to invest in our future. North America and France. Full-year operating profit (EBIT) amounted to EUR 72.4 (75.3) million, Full-time personnel on 31 December 17 757 16 663 Focus on improving business representing a margin of 4.2% (4.4). Operating profit includes EUR 30.4 million of one-off costs. Wages and salaries, EUR million 763.6 739.4 performance and driving growth Capital expenditure, including financial leasing, For us, economic responsibility means striving amounted to EUR 99.5 (57.5) million. Development Significant financial assistance 4.2 2.7 to ensure that we are profitable while providing costs totalled EUR 44.2 million representing 2.6% received from government, EUR million value for all our stakeholders. Sustainable of net sales (EUR 53.1 million in 2009, representing business practices, sound risk management and 3.1% of net sales). These development costs were Tax payments, EUR million 19.6 14.5 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 22 Our financial performance mainly related to the development of offerings, At the end of 2010, the consolidated balance Economic value for different stakeholders, EUR million own software products, data centre services sheet totalled EUR 1 240.6 (1 195.3) million. The and global delivery platform as well as quality. equity ratio was 47.6% (46.0). Gearing decreased Stakeholder 2010 2009 Investments in new data centres in Finland, Sweden to 9.3% (12.7). Net debt totalled EUR 51.8 (66.0) Customers (net sales) 1 713.7 1 706.3 and Russia amounted to EUR 24.8 million. Personnel million, including EUR 152.0 million in interestcosts excluding currency effects and restructuring bearing debt. Employees (wages and benefits) 1 017.1 986.7 remained at the same level as in 2009. After the exceptionally difficult times in the In Finland, we received EUR 0.4 million overall operating environment during the past Shareholders (dividend) 50.0 35.7 from TEKES, the Finnish Funding Agency for years, we now aim to grow our sales and improve Technology and Innovation for product development our profitability. The main growth drivers are still Suppliers (purchases and services) 563.2 591.1 purposes. The government of the Czech Republic our strong offerings in outsourcing areas and granted EUR 3.6 million to support employment and specific industry solutions. We aim to strengthen Government (paid taxes) 19.6 14.5 business activities. In Poland, we received EUR 0.2 our enterprise services – horizontal IT offerings million from Polish Ministry of Economics for R&D – to build real competitive advantage and investment for 2010–2011. differentiation, and use our innovation power to The social sponsoring activities during 2010 help our customers harness the many benefits of amounted to EUR 0.6 million and included both modern IT. Non-Governmental Organisations and institutes for education. On top of this, we have also been involved in a few pro-bono projects. Read more on page 39. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 23 Indexes We are a member of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI), Kempen SNS Smaller Europe Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index and OMX GES Sustainability Finland Index. At the end of 2010, we received a “prime” status (good sustainable investment) from Oecom research AG. Due to our current market capitalization, we are now classified as a small cap company in some sustainability evaluations. As a medium cap size is often required, we are no longer eligible for some major indexes such as DowJones Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good. The Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) The ESI provides a comprehensive perspective on the financial performance of the world’s leading Our strategic companies in terms of sustainability for institutional participations investors, asset managers, banks and retail – UN Global investors. Compact – The Federation of Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index Finnish Technology Industries The Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index is the – Confederation of Finnish first index to track the SRI performance of smaller Industries EK companies in Europe. – Almega – employer and trade OMX GES Sustainability Finland Index organisation for the Swedish (OMXSUSTAINFI) service sector Tieto became a member of the OMX GES – SIS, Swedish Standards Sustainability Finland index (OMXSUSTAINFI) Institute in 2011. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 24 Corporate In 2010, the AGM elected the following persons to the Board governance of Directors Markku Pohjola (Chairman) Olli Riikkala (Deputy Chairman) Kimmo Alkio Christer Gardell (new member) Kurt Jofs (new member) Eva Lindqvist (new member) Risto Perttunen Teuvo Salminen (new member) Personnel representatives elected by employees Tieto Corporation is committed Board of Directors Assessments review the Board’s knowledge of Anders Eriksson to good corporate governance Tieto’s Board members shall be professionally the company’s operations and management as Jari Länsivuori well as its understanding of business conduct. and fully complies with the competent, and as a group, have sufficient Additionally, the effectiveness of the Board Finnish Corporate Governance knowledge of and competence, inter alia, in the company’s field of business and markets. The work is evaluated. Code issued by the Securities Shareholders’ Nomination Board determines Tasks of the Board The main internal Market Association in Finland the expertise requirements of the members policies and external in 2010. Below we outline the of the Board for guiding the organisation’s The main duties and working principles of principles guiding our governance issues that are key for strategy on economic, environmental, and the Board have been defined in the written activities social topics and prepares a proposal on the Working Orders. Additionally, the work of the sustainability reporting. composition of the Board to be presented to the Board is based on an annual action plan. More • Code of Conduct Tieto’s highest decision-making body is the AGM. Shareholders may also propose Board specifically, the Board: • Human Resources Policy Annual General Meeting (AGM). The AGM elects members to be elected by the AGM. In addition • Approves the company’s values, strategy • Occupational Health and the members of the Board of Directors. to the members elected by the AGM, Tieto’s and organisational structure. Safety Policy Tieto is committed to good corporate personnel elects two members and two deputy • Defines the company’s dividend policy. • Approves the company’s annual plan and • Environmental Policy governance and a culture of business integrity members to the Board of Directors. This is done and accountability. The Finnish Corporate by the personnel representatives in accordance budget and supervises their implementation. • Corporate Governance Governance Code, our Code of Conduct and • Monitors management succession issues, Statement with the Personnel Representation Cooperation Charter of the Board and its Committees provide Agreement. appoints and discharges the President • Anti-Corruption Policy the framework for our governance activities. The According to Tieto’s Articles of Association, and CEO. • Competition Law full report on the company’s compliance with the Board of Directors shall consist of at least • Decides on the President and CEO’s Compliance Policy the Finnish Corporate Governance Code can be six and no more than twelve members. Board compensation, sets annual targets and • UN Global Compact found on our investors website. members have a term of office of one year. evaluates their accomplishment. principles The performance of Tieto’s Board is • Decides on the compensation of the President assessed annually; the latest assessment was and CEO’s immediate subordinates. • OECD guidelines for carried out by an external partner in late 2010. • Addresses the major risks and their multinational enterprises management at least once a year. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 25 Governance at Tieto • R eviews and approves interim reports, annual Board if any changes in these circumstances Shareholders reports and financial statements. occur, in which case the independency will be AGM and EGM • Reviews and approves the company’s key re-evaluated. policies. External Internal Control: Control • Meets with the company’s auditors at Renumeration of the Board and Auditors least once a year without the company’s the Leadership Team Board of Directors management. According to the decision of the AGM, the Shareholders’ Remuneration Audit and Risk • Appoints the members and Chairmen of the Board members and the Chairman of each Nomination Committee Committee Board’s committees and defines their charters Board Committee receive fixed monthly Board • Reviews assessments of its committees as cash compensation. In addition, the Board Objectives and strategies Control and compliance President and CEO Internal Audit well as the President and CEO. members will be paid a remuneration for each • Evaluates its own activities. Board meeting and for the meetings of all Leadership Team Reporting Reporting Extended Leadership Team permanent or temporarily set Board committees. Independence Remuneration of the Leadership Team members Business Units Steering functions In 2010, all Board members were non-executive consists of: Market Units Finance, Risk directors and independent of the company. • Base salary and benefits. Business Lines Management, Internal Control, Legal, HR, The majority of Board members shall be • Short-term incentives: an annual bonus. ICT, Procurement, independent of the company and at least two • Long-term incentives, such as option or other Facilities, CR, Communications, of the members representing that majority shall share-based programmes and pension plans. Marketing be independent of significant shareholders The shortand long-term incentives are (not employed by the company nor having described here. External rules and regulations Internal rules and regulations any material relationship with the company Companies Act Articles of Association or its significant shareholders). The Board of Securities Markets Act Charter of the Board Directors carries out a self-evaluation on their Rules of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and Stockholm Charters of the Board’s Committees Standards of the Financial Supervisory Authority Code of Conduct, values independency at the Board’s constitutive Finnish Corporate Governance Code Policies, rules and guides meeting. The Board members shall inform the United Nations Global Compact Principles OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 26 Quality and customer satisfaction Quality is one of the top priorities at Tieto and an integral part of our daily work. We focus on issues which add most value to our customers’ businesses and deploy Quality journey standardised and scalable approaches to Recognized IT industry increase efficiency, agility and innovation. leader in quality Quality Excellence ’s Lean, Lean six sigma, 010 Certifications Cu Our goal is to become a recognised IT industry leader in 2010: 1st CMMI Maturity Level 3 2 (ISO 20000, CMMI ML5), sto quality, and we continue our work to achieve higher process m an er int Global delivery model maturity. Our customers and partners benefit from this d in era in terms of minimised delivery overruns, managed risks, ’s 00 vol cti decreased quality costs as well as agility, proactivity and 2002: 1 ISO 14001 certificate st 20 Agile methodologies, vem on Process improvement frameworks flexibility through transparency. en We have defined four essentials for delivering quality 1999: 1st ISO 27001 certificate (CMMI, ITIL) t and working systematically with follow up and continuous improvement: 1998: 1st ISO 9001 certificate Excellence models ’s • Customer benefit – measurable and predictable quality to 990 (Malcolm Baldrige > EFQM) 1 meet customer needs and expectations. ISO Certifications • Performance – superior and sustainable performance, (QMS, ISMS, EMS) innovation and agility through world-class capabilities and Process thinking standard processes. ’s • Continuous improvement – frequent dialogue with key 980 Systems thinking, Development of 1 stakeholders and integration of their feedback to improve s& in-house methodologies and tools our operations. 70’ (e.g. project management, systems developement, • Commitment – everyone in Tieto is committed to quality as 19 quality assurance) a high management priority. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 27 Tieto Way management systems. Our selected certification Our way of working is described in our W2E (Waypartner is Det Norske Veritas (DNV), an accredited to-Excellence) business system. It is a repository of certification body. processes based on best practices gained during At the end of 2010, over 50% of our business over forty years. It is continuously benchmarked (employees) were covered by ISO 9001 certificates, and compliant with international standards and and close to 30% of our units were certified frameworks like ISO 9001 (quality management according to ISO 27001. Internally we implement systems), ISO 27001 (information security an annual audit and assessment programme to management systems), ISO14001 (environmental ensure compliance of our operations with our management systems), ITIL (IT Service standard processes. There were several minor Management) and CMMI (Capability Maturity Model non-conformities identified in the audits and Integration). assessments during 2010. The corrective actions We are also compliant with many other have already been taken. frameworks like Project Management Book In 2010, DNV reported three major nonof Knowledge (PMBOK) and Unified Process. conformities in its audits. One originated from ISO Furthermore the compliance is ensured with some 9001-based audit and was related to the practices industry standards, e.g. ISO/IEC 15504 (SPICE) for management review and follow-up on quality within automotive industry, EU Medical Device performance. An action plan was developed and Directive (2007/47/EC) within healthcare industry corrective actions are now taken. As a result the and ISO 13485:2003/AC:2007 for medical devices. non-conformity has been down-graded to minor. The other two originated from ISO 27001-based audit and were related to our process for risk Management systems analysis and risk assessment. As a result of an Many of our operations are externally certified immediate action plan and measures taken, these according to these international standards for were corrected before the end of 2010. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 28 Quality & customer satisfaction Customer Benefit Index* 5 4 3 3.30 3.26 2 1 2009 2010 *Tieto index for customer satisfaction In 2010, we achieved CMMI Maturity Level CSS Benefit Index is the overall index for customer 3 for our projects implementing agile software satisfaction. In 2010, the customer benefit index development. Our global delivery centre in India was 3.26 compared to 3.30 in 2009 (scale 1–5). To was the first unit in Tieto externally recognised as realise our target and become a leader in quality, a CMMI level 3 organisation. Our aim is to achieve we want to create a remarkable improvement in the the CMMI level 3 in all our units by the end of 2013. customer satisfaction. Selected units aim at CMMI Maturity Level 4 or even During 2010, we started several improvement 5 during 2012–2013. activities. The realisation of the Service Excellence is Our Global Delivery Model – “Customer-driven one concrete example. This is a cultural change that Global Delivery” – is designed to ensure costwill affect the whole company, aiming for increased competitive delivery excellence and hence to provide quality awareness and commitment at all levels and our customers with the best service experience. We in all areas. The implementation of the initial phase have actively been increasing our capacity in global of Service Excellence has already been conducted delivery centres. By the end of 2010, 37% of our in Finland and the target for 2011 is inclusion of employees were working in these centres. eight more countries. Delivery Excellence is another example of Customer satisfaction customer satisfaction-driven activity. It is a five-year Customer satisfaction reflects the way we interact programme that was launched in the autumn 2010 with our customers. We aim to provide our aiming for improved productivity and efficiency in customers with the best service experience. In deliveries. practice this means listening to our customers, In addition to the annual customer satisfaction analysing and recognising possible gaps in services survey, we also use other feedback processes on and proactively improving service levels. a regular basis. These help us understand different Customer satisfaction is measured through an customer perspectives and improve quality at annual customer satisfaction survey (CSS). The strategic, tactical and operational levels. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 29 Information security Security Organisation as well as specific Information The Internet has revolutionised our way of working. Security Processes that must be followed. Customers, partners and suppliers are connected Upholding the Information Security level is and sharing information digitally, which means based on the general security awareness of all employees are more mobile than ever before. employees and their knowledge of the ISMS. These virtual business processes require a new Every manager is responsible for implementing level of information security. Information has business the system and raising IT awareness of the rules value and needs to be protected in accordance with and instructions set out by the ISMS. We have not agreed commitments and customer expectations. experienced any losses of customer data or other Our products, services and internal operations must serious incidents or complaints during 2010. comply with customer and other interest group demands on information security. At Tieto, information security is defined as the preservation of: • Confidentiality – protecting information from unauthorised access and disclosure. • Integrity – safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of information and processing methods. • Availability – ensuring that information and associated services are available to authorised users when required. An Information Security Management System (ISMS) is defined within the business system Way to Excellence. The ISMS defines an Information Social Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 30 RESPONSIBILITY chapter 2010 Improving our Key achievements in 2010: employer brand • T  he Code of Conduct was renewed and 91% of employees have signed it. >>page 36 • A  n anti-corruption policy was launched. >>page 37 • R  evision of competition law compliance policy. >>page 38 Our social responsibility is Our Code of Conduct applies also to outlined in the Code of Conduct our suppliers. With this we aim to ensure • L  aunch of a CR community for employees, that our whole supply chain respects the including CR info, news, discussions and and reinforced through our agreed policies and guidelines of human e-learning courses. >>page 33 participation in the United and workers’ rights. Nations Global Compact and Additionally our social • T  he global rollout of Success for People platform, the OECD’s guidelines for responsibility encompasses also our launched in 2009, was completed. >>page 31 role as a corporate citizen, to take Multinational Enterprises. • T  he annual talent evaluation process, based on responsibility within our sphere of We work according to these influence and capacity. our global career path framework, was renewed. principles and guidelines. >>page 31 First and foremost, our social responsibility • O  ur sales incentives programme was renewed concerns all employees. This is the area in order to boost sales and reward good sales where we must make sure that workers’ performance. >>page 32 rights are protected. Equally important; our employer brand is dependent on • O  ur sponsoring work from last year continued us delivering a work place and working (IF in India, Children’s village in Poland, Latvia conditions exceeding the ones of our and Russia). We also started a pro-bono project competitors and thus becoming the for Baltic Sea Action Group and made a donation employer of choice. to the Aalto University in Helsinki, Finland. >>page 39 • T  he Eureka platform was launched as an internal Human resource Overview of human Our work on channel for innovation and engaging employees management >>page 31 rights >>page 36 business ethics >>page 37 in business development. >>page 35 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 31 Our people A rapidly changing business employees. Therefore, we offer our employees environment, transformation inside challenging jobs, diverse development and training opportunities, and interesting career paths through our own company, and customer job rotation. We have competitive compensation demands set new requirements for packages, including bonus and incentive systems human resources management and across the business. development. Working at Tieto offers the opportunity to develop and deploy IT solutions and technologies In 2010, we continued building a global HR function that have a real impact on people’s lives, such as that supports strategy implementation by efficiently Green IT solutions that reduce CO2 emissions. This combining business goals with individual objectives. is an important aspect for many young people when The main focus areas were implementation of the choosing an employer and one of our competitive Success for People platform and development advantages in the targeted labour markets. We also of the compensation framework and talent offer a truly international environment with modern management. networking tools that help promote knowledge sharing and cooperation across cultures. Policies The career path framework, implemented in The HR policy, Code of Conduct and the Health and 2009, was further developed in 2010 to address our Safety policy form the basis for all HR management. strategic competence areas. The framework gives Naturally, we follow local employment laws and employees an overview of the career opportunities practices, collective agreements, and individual in the company. Starting from 2010, the annual contract terms. When terminating employment talent evaluation process is based on this contracts, we apply the appropriate notice period framework. The special focus areas in 2010 were and pay the related compensation to employees in managers, project managers and young talent. all countries. The Success for People platform, launched in 2009, includes processes and tools for goal and Managing human resources performance management, competence evaluation Our success as a company is built on the and development planning, talent management, competence, experience and performance of our compensation management as well as individual Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 32 Our people and company incentives. It is designed to facilitate Goals and Performance the translation of business goals into individual Our goal is to be the employer of choice. Working objectives that define more clearly what is expected at Tieto should be enjoyable and rewarding, and from each employee. The global rollout was we want to offer our employees opportunities for completed in 2010 and the tool is now available for personal and professional growth through training all employees. and on-the-job learning. This is why we actively Our compensation system aims to ensure that encourage internal job rotation. we can retain our skilled professionals and attract Our annual employee satisfaction survey, new talent. The system creates a clear connection VOICE, aims to analyse our strengths and between compensation, individual performance and weaknesses, to develop business operations and the company’s financial position. The key elements help the management to measure and understand are clearly defined goals and performance-based how goals, strategies and values are implemented compensation. in daily work. In the 2010 survey, the response rate In 2010, we also started streamlining and was again very high, reaching 89%. renewing our sales compensation programmes to Compared to the previous year, the overall boost sales performance. The purpose of the annual employee satisfaction level remained relatively bonus schemes is to reward exceptionally good stable in 2010 reaching an index of 627 of performance and encourage reaching the agreed 1 000. Several areas saw a positive trend, e.g. goals. All employees are included in the annual bonus awareness of customer satisfaction, leadership, system, which is strictly based on financial results. communication and follow-up on goals as well as Development of our HR information systems understanding of company’s strategy and values. covered, for example, an automated global solution Nevertheless, the survey also defined development for employment life-cycle management that was taken areas in order for us to become best in class, into pilot use at the end of 2010. Solution development such as our operational capabilities, working and global roll-out will continue during 2011. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 33 Employee turnover in 2010, % Age Male Female Total 1 < 30 18.79 13.61 17.50 30–39 12.27 8.47 11.38 40–49 6.63 6.76 6.67 > 50 3.67 2.24 3.21 Total 10.43 7.31 9.58 environment and the relationship between Tieto development planning process which helps equals the present value of the defined benefit and our employees. We have used the results of us manage and develop our employees’ obligation less the fair value of the plan assets this survey to define key development areas for performance and competencies in alignment adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and 2011. These will focus on implementing our new, with business targets. losses and unrecognised past service costs. simplified operating model and organisational In 2010, we invested in the transformation The cost of providing pensions is charged to the design that aims to increase efficiency and clarify of competences to increase the agility and income statement. accountabilities across the organisation. business growth. We also created a new CR At the end of 2010, we had 17 757 full-time Our employees are our key asset and community for all employees, including CR employees. Out of these, approximately 15 400 retention of employees therefore a strategic info, news, discussion and 6 new CR related employees were covered by defined contribution sustainability issue. While our targeted level e-courses. In this internal community all CR plans and approximately 2 300 by defined penfor corporate wide employee turnover was related material are collected in one place. sion benefit plans. Some employees are covered 7% globally in 2010, the twelve-month rolling The total average training hours per employee in both plans. For example, in Finland this applies figure stood at 9.5% (6.3 in 2009) at the end of was 68.3 (58.3 in 2009). to 900 employees. December. The main reason for rising figures, especially in emerging markets, such as India Pension plans Employee representation and China, is the positive market development We operate a number of different pension plans We respect freedom of association and collective which has led to competition for best IT talents. in accordance with national requirements and bargaining, and maintain good relationships This trend is creating challenges in retaining and market practices. The majority of the plans and active collaboration with personnel hiring talent. Due to rising attrition rates, salary are classified as defined contribution plans. representation bodies. In countries where these inflation is expected to rise. Payments to defined contribution plans are rights are restricted by national law, parallel recognised as expenses for the period to which means of independent and free association Learning and they relate. After payment of the contribution, the are facilitated to ensure equal treatment of competence development Group has no further obligations in respect of employees globally. Our management sees We offer employees excellent potential for such plans. co-determination bodies as important partners. personal growth. We use a competence For defined benefit pension plans, the liability The purpose of these bodies is to promote Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 34 Our people Forms of employment Permanent employees 99.2% Temporary employees 0.8% Employment type permanent employees Full time 96% Part time 4% interaction between management and staff, and related illness completely. We recognise and accept enhance relations between employees. our responsibility as an employer to provide a safe A Personnel Representative Body (PRB) and healthy workplace and work environment has been established to exchange information for our employees and others who are visiting or between the employees and the employer. It working on our premises. acts as a platform for personnel representation in deciding bodies. Moreover, our personnel elects Diversity Total number of two members and two deputy members to the Diversity is a priority for us. In organisational permanent employees: Board of Directors. This is done by the personnel 18 582 (31 Dec 2010) development, we strive to ensure that upper representatives in accordance with the Personnel management layers have a certain representation 100% Representation Cooperation Agreement. Through of females, young people and different nationalities. Age: 4 461 (24%) < 30 personnel representation, it is possible to utilise the Some industries, such as the IT industry, are still 30–39 6 025 (32%) staff’s expertise in decision-making concerning, male dominated and certain gender targets might for example, business operations, financial matters be difficult to fulfil. 40–49 4 472 (24%) and personnel considerations. Our Board of Directors consists of nine men and one woman; while our nine person Leadership > 50 3 624 (20%) Occupational health and safety Team includes two women. Employees have the right to a good working 100% environment and a good balance between work Female 5 029 (27%) and private life. The physical and mental well-being Male 13 553 (73%) of our employees is important and critical to the way we conduct our business. Our aim is to avoid any physical or mental illness caused by the work environment. The ultimate goal is to eradicate work Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 35 Case: Eureka Unleashing creativity Innovation in RealityTM is our new improvements to complex ideas for service Next step: proactive approach to promote development or new IT solutions. Each idea-maker Partnerships and alliances conducts a self-evaluation to clarify the benefits creativity and business ideas that of the idea for the company or its customers. All During 2010, the implementation of Innovation in will create new offerings to our Reality™ had an internal perspective, focusing ideas are published on the company’s intranet. on all Tieto employees. In 2011, we will expand customers. The Eureka platform for “Our message to everyone at Tieto is: your idea the programme to involve customers and other sharing and developing ideas was matters. There are no restrictions on who can come stakeholders, building collaborative partnerships up with an idea about what. We believe crosslaunched in May 2010. and alliances for innovations. functional discussions and different perspectives We value an innovative culture and have several are good for innovations”, says Anni Reimers. examples of successful creative new solutions, Results in 2010 developed for and sometimes in collaboration with Evaluation and acknowledgement At the end of 2010, approximately 50% of our customers and partners. However, in order to be employees had visited Eureka. The number of Posted ideas are evaluated by mentors who have recognised as an innovative fore-runner, further posted ideas was 1 250, of which more than 50 competence from various technology and service development is needed. were recommended for further development areas. If the mentors decide that an idea is worth “With Eureka we can show our customers that after evaluation. Four ideas were developed into developing, the idea-maker is granted funding to we are both innovative and proactive in creating prototypes, one example is a solution for medical further develop the idea or to build a prototype. new solutions. With this common platform we can records on iPad. “The mentors encourage people to share ideas capture and develop ideas from our employees and help them to develop the ideas into tangible as we have designed a structured way and a tool business results. It’s important everyone experiences to realize the power of creativity of Tieto”, says that their ideas are noticed and taken care of in a Anni Reimers, responsible for communication and proper way, through a clear process, guidelines and marketing in Innovation in RealityTM. timelines”, says Anni Reimers. Ideas are acknowledged and rewarded in Message: Your idea matters different ways, based on the level of development Eureka is available to all employees via our intranet. and evaluated value. Ideas recommended for Sami Heikkinen, The aim is to inspire everyone to share and discuss further development can be presented to all the initiator of the their ideas for innovation and improvements. Ideas colleagues in a webcast. ”Medical record range from practical suggestions for small on iPad” idea. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 36 Human rights and supply chain We comply with the principles set Purchasing practices Follow up and monitoring out in the United Nations Universal Our aim is to make the majority of our purchases The CoC and other corporate responsibility Declaration of Human Rights, the from large corporations that already comply with related policies are owned and co-ordinated by ILO Declaration on Fundamental the principles of Global Compact. The rule is that the corporate responsibility function, however unless the supplier has an equivalent policy, they the Group’s Human Resources (HR) organisation Principles and Rights at Work, the should sign and abide by ours. is responsible for the implementation of the Rio Declaration on Environment In terms of implementation, the CoC is general arrangements, development and followand Development and the United included in all new contracts. Regarding old conup of the HR and health and safety policies. Nation’s Convention against tracts, we started an investigation in early 2011 Immediate managers and local HR monitor in order to go through all suppliers with valid that Tieto as an employer and all our employees Corruption. contracts and put the same requirement on them behave in accordance with human rights laws, These values are also outlined in the Tieto Code as we now do with new suppliers. ensuring non-discrimination, equal opportunities of Conduct which gives all employees and By 2013, our goal is to purchase 90% of and a safe and healthy working environment. All suppliers clear guidance on what behaviour is goods and services from suppliers who follow managers are responsible for ensuring that the considered acceptable. the ISO14001 standard. Additionally, we want content and the spirit of our Code of Conduct to ensure that all our suppliers are committed are communicated, understood and acted upon Management approach to the principles of Global Compact as soon as within their respective organisations. Our Corporate Responsibility Framework possible. Violations of the Code of Conduct can be and Code of Conduct (CoC) apply to all our In 2010, a new e-learning course about our reported anonymously and in confidence to employees in the nearly 30 countries in which we updated CoC was created and made mandathe General Counsel of the company. Persons operate. Our CoC was initially launched in 2005. tory to all employees. By the end of 2010, 91% reporting violations in good faith will naturally not It was updated in 2010 to ensure alignment of all employees had confirmed the abidance of be subject to any retaliation. However, failure to with the principles of the United Nations Global our updated Code of Conduct. In addition to the act in compliance with the Code of Conduct can Compact initiative. We started to adhere to the e-learning course, signing was also arranged in result in appropriate disciplinary actions. principles in the Global Compact in 2009, and in meetings with employees. early 2010 we became a signatory. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 37 Business ethics Business ethics to us means considered uncorrupted minimize the risk for behaviour before the deal is closed. Additionally, safeguarding sound business corrupt behaviour to occur. the whistle blowing process enables anonymous The new Anti-corruption policy that was reporting on unethical behaviour. practices in line with the values approved and taken into use in October 2010 As our business operations are based on outlined in our Code of Conduct. is one example of our anti-corruption work. the production and delivery of services requiring While the Code of Conduct regulates the entire few authority approvals, we are less exposed to Managing of anti-corruption business ethics area, the anti-corruption policy potential corruption compared to many other clarifies the corruption sections in the Code industries. Governments are investing both money and of Conduct. The responsibility and ownership resources to tackle the instability of financial of the Code of Conduct, Anti-corruption Compliance of anti-corruption markets, climate change and poverty. and Competition law compliance policies lie In 2010, we encountered only one corruption Corruption, remains an obstacle to achieving with the Senior Vice President of Corporate incident that also constituted a Code of Conduct the much needed progress. According to Responsibility. Our support functions, Human breach. The Board of Directors’ Audit and Risk Transparency International’s, 2010 Corruption Resources and Legal, are responsible for Committee was informed of the suspected Perceptions Index 75% of the 178 participating implementing the policies in the business misconduct and the issue was investigated countries scored below five, on a scale from 0 operations. together with an external auditor. Corrective (highly corrupt) to 10 (highly clean). The cost of In addition to the Code of Conduct e-learning actions were taken, including immediate corruption to societies is enormous – politically, course, we plan to start a specific anti-corruption dismissal of the persons involved and informing economically, socially, and environmentally. training in 2011. relevant local authorities. No other Code of China, India, Russia and Belarus are some Our approach is simple and clear. Our Conduct incident was reported during 2010. of the countries with a low corruption index. Board of Directors and top management are We have operations in all of these, and as committed to anti-corruption. Zero tolerance is Managing of anti-competitive in all operating countries, we have a zeroalso embedded in our monitoring and follow-up behavior tolerance against unethical behaviour and processes. have taken several precautionary actions to In tough market conditions, the risk for “collusion” Every acquisition and large outsourcing avoid corruption. These actions and the fact between competitors increases as companies deal is preceded by a thorough due diligence that the majority of our employees, managers seek more co-operation to boost their sales. process, mapping out any potentially corrupt and customers are based in countries that are In the IT industry, the development of new Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 38 Business ethics Code of Conduct – the Tieto corporate policy on ethical business practices Safeguarding corporate assets Political involvement Safeguarding Tieto assets – both tangible Tieto does not take political stands and intangible (such as intellectual and therefore the company does not property rights) – is vital to Tieto’s business give financial or other kind of support success. Employees have a duty to use or assistance to individual politicians, Tieto assets only for legitimate business candidates, political parties or institutions. purposes and to protect them from loss or Neither the Tieto name, nor any resources unauthorized use. It is forbidden to use the controlled by Tieto, shall be used to company’s assets for unlawful or improper promote the interests of political parties or technologies sometimes creates new markets Compliance of anti-competitive purposes. candidates. as well as new types of partnerships and behavior customer relations. This increases the need Conflict of interest Insider trading In 2010, The Finnish Competition Authority for awareness of do’s and don’ts in these In order to operate in a fair and open Tieto expects its employees to act in (FCA) investigated a potential anti-competitive relationships. manner, it is important that all employees the way required of insiders, even if they behaviour between e-Invoicing operators in As the first step, we renewed our own and the members of the Boards of are not officially registered as insiders. Finland. FCA did not find any such behaviour competition law compliance policy and Directors avoid any situation or interest Employees must keep all information in Tieto. introduced an executive summary. These were which might interfere with their judgement and secrets that relate to Tieto’s present This was the only time when we were approved by our President and CEO in the regarding their responsibilities to Tieto’s and future business operations strictly involved in an investigation by FCA or other beginning of 2011. employees, customers, suppliers and confidential. It is prohibited to misuse or competition authority in 2010. According to our To ensure attention on competition law other partners. Should such a conflict disclose to any third party any information own records, we have not been involved in any compliance, our Leadership Team has been of interest arise, it must be reported about Tieto’s business operations or violations or suspected violations pertaining to briefed on competition law cases outside the immediately by the person subject to the information about specific projects. competition law. company as well as reminded of the importance conflict to his/her immediate superior. of competition law. Awareness building for Accounting and reporting key personnel, especially in sales, marketing Anti-corruption All accounting and reporting by Tieto and purchasing, is regularly conducted. No abuse of power, nepotism or bribery, must be conducted in accordance with During 2010, we also had training sessions including improper offers of payments to or generally accepted financial accounting with the company’s Strategic Alliance Team, from employees or organisations, shall be practices, and accounting records must procurement personnel as well as lawyers to tolerated. Gifts or similar benefits may only give a true and fair view of the financial understand and identify the most critical issues. be offered to, or accepted from, a third position. Tieto shall strive to provide The plan for 2011 is to implement an party if modest in value and if consistent disclosure that is open, fair, relevant, timely e-learning and e-signing procedure for key with reasonable hospitality given in the and understandable. managers and key personnel in the competition ordinary course of business. law compliance area. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 39 Supporting social development Pro bono projects 2010 As a good corporate citizen we the area. The MLCs were originally initiated by Idenactively support people and tity Foundation (IF), a charitable trust organisation Baltic Sea Action Group that was founded by one of our employees. (BSAG) specific projects, to enhance the As a result of our social sponsorship, the buses Tieto has made a commitment development of the societies in had reached more than 7 000 underprivileged to support BSAG, that works to which we operate. During 2010, children by the end of 2010, giving them education save the Baltic Sea from further our donations to NGOs and other as well as a shelter from the harsh living conditions pollution, with IT services for on the streets. Of these, around 2 000 children have free. BSAG is an initiative from organisations totalled EUR 0.6 started regular schools after participating in the the Finnish government with a million. MLC activities. number of countries and large corporations participating. See Social sponsoring is a strategic activity and managed at corporate level in Tieto. We have SOS Children’s Villages also www.bsag.fi. chosen to focus on activities that benefit children We also support SOS Children’s Villages’ work in Tieto iReach and promote education. We also conduct pro bono several countries. Our donations contribute to for Tieto is developing a digital work for chosen Non-Governmental Organisations example the following initiatives: social sponsoring platform, (NGOs) supporting their work in selected projects and regions. Latvia – Educational support. Our donation available for NGO’s for free. covers costs for physical, intellectual and social The platform includes several development for approximately 70 children and functions like “give-need list”, India – Mobile education youngsters. voluntaries’ matchmaking for street children and other communication and One of our main social sponsorships is the Poland – Living support to a family house with community tools. The purpose Mobile Learning Centres (MLC) that are providing seven orphan children. is to support and build a social education for street children in Pune, India. This Russia – Family strengthening. Support to change network, including work was started in 2007, and in the autumn of vulnerable families, such as young mothers or drug Tieto’s customers and partners. 2010 our sponsorship was extended with an addicted and HIV affected parents. The project, partly based on additional three years. voluntary work, was initiated Today the sponsorship covers two yellow Supporting Aalto University in the end of 2009. BSAG is buses, equipped with all the basic tools for educaIn 2010, we also donated of EUR 0.5 million to the planned to be the first user tion and “infotainment” – laptop, whiteboard, DVD newly-created Aalto University in Helsinki, Finland. in 2011. player and surround sound system. The volunteer workers come from the charitable organisations in Environmental Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 40 RESPONSIBILITY chapter 2010 Leading Green IT Key achievements in 2010: • O  ur new data centre, one of the world’s company safest and most energy efficient, was opened in Stockholm, Sweden. >>page 45 • T  he volume of sustainability services increased. For example, the number of electronic B2B transactions increased from 623 million 2009 to over 763 million during VISION: Tieto Corporation 100% CO2 neutral 2010. The CO2 reductions from our services We support a preventative now by far exceed our own CO2 emissions. approach to environmental >>page 16 challenges and a responsible • Integration of corporate ISO 14001 compliant way of conducting our business environmental management system (EMS) operations. In line with our goal into Tieto’s internal business process system. to become the leading Green IT >>page 41 company, we have a vision to • Improved internal data collection practices. In be 100% CO2 neutral. 2010, environmental data was collected from Today, the environmental considerations 58 offices in 21 countries, covering more than are on top of most companies’ agendas. 84% of employees. >>page 42 Energy consumption and climate change are the major concerns. The IT sector can climate change. At the same time, IT has On the following pages, you can read • U  pdating of procurement process, including be regarded as part of the problem as well the potential to help reduce emissions more about our environmental work and our requests for environmental declarations from as the solution. At a global level, the amount through smart buildings, intelligent cars, journey towards becoming the leading Green existing suppliers and tighter demands on of energy used to run and cool data centres cloud services consumed over the internet, IT company and the preferred IT partner for new suppliers. >>page 44 is increasing rapidly, negatively impacting communication and collaboration tools for all our customers. • O  ur “Manage Smart in Smart Grid” greenhouse gas emissions and replacing travelling etc. project received prestigious Green IT acknowledgement in Norway’s Rosing 2010 event. >>page 19 Part of our Way to Vision: 100% CO2 Our environmental • W  WF Green Office certification of head office Excellence >>page 41 neutral >>page 42 objectives >>page 44 and another office in Helsinki area in Finland. >>page 43 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 41 Environmental responsibility – part of our way to excellence Our environmental policy applies Environmental management ISO 14001 certificates. During the year, the new to all employees and covers the system and ISO 14001 data centre in Stockholm was certified, as part of certifications Tieto’s ICT infrastructure services that have been company’s business operations in certified since 2004. all countries. In 2009, we converted our various environmental We aim to have a corporate level ISO 14001 management systems (EMS) into one corporate Our policy states that employees are responsible certificate by 2013. Following our roadmap, the wide system. During 2010, we have integrated for including environmental awareness and next step for 2011 is to certify all our Swedish the environmental processes into our common actions in their everyday work. Managers operations, and our large data centre in Finland. business system Way to Excellence (W2E). That shall ensure that the environmental policy Our two global delivery centres in India and means they are available for and apply to all parts is understood and acted upon within their the Czech Republic have also started their impleof Tieto. Even if the basic integration is done and organizations. mentation and certification processes. our EMS covers the whole company, more work The environmental awareness is part of our is needed to ensure full integration between EMS corporate responsibility framework. The Head and of our W2E system. Green IT management framework of Corporate Responsibility is responsible for During 2011, this work will continue We have developed a Green IT management the coordination, implementation and follow-up especially from the training point of view. We will framework to manage targets for greenhouse gas of environmental processes and practices on also focus on the implementation and follow-up emissions, achieve CO2 neutrality and the corporate level. All units that are ISO14001 of environmental requirements in procurement, support the company’s strategy to become the certified have at least one environmental with the support from external auditors. leading, sustainable green IT service company. coordinator, and offices certified by WWF Green ISO 14001 certification is primarily driven by The framework includes IT policies, technology Office standard have a Green Office coordinator. customer demands. In the end of 2010, approxiprocurement, policies and practices for business mately 11% of Tieto employees were covered by communications, travel guidelines, energy efficient data centres, and office environment guidelines. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 42 Vision: 100% CO2 neutral Our vision is to become a 100% CO2 Corporate Carbon Inventory 2010 Data centres neutral company. We continuously – Scope and protocols for calculating Data was collected for nine data centres (three in CO2 emissions Sweden, four in Finland, two in Russia). This represents examine ways to reduce greenhouse about 80% of Tieto’s total data centre capacity in gas emissions of our activities, as Our data coverage for environmental indicators has 2010. The energy consumption of other data centres is improved significantly in 2010. Data have been collected well as those of our customers. from 58 offices in 21 countries, corresponding to 73–90% included based on estimates. The emissions are reported on EN indicators Annual reduction of the total CO2 emissions caused of our employees depending on the specific indicator. and GHG scopes. Several emission factors from by our activities is one of our main environmental Scope and protocols for calculating CO2 emissions governmental and international organizational sources objectives. 2010 are described below. were used to calculate the generated emissions. Our climate strategy focuses on the actual reduction of the emissions caused by the company. Offices In the end of 2010, we started to study the Collected data on office energy consumption accounts possibilities of climate off-set compensation, as a for 84% of the company’s employees. To account for the potential complementary measure. These studies remaining 16% of the employees an estimate was made, will continue in 2011. based on Tieto global average values and with a safety margin of 10% added. Sources of our CO2 emissions (tons) CO2 emissions 2010 For 2010, our CO2 emissions were estimated to Business travel expenses: Data centres: 21 693 52 646 tons. This corresponds to approximately Collected data for travelling accounts for Office work: 15 802 • taxi – 77% 29% 2.8 tons per employee. 41% Travel: 15 152 The reduction of customer CO2 emissions • car – 85% through Tieto’s services exceeded our own • flight – 93% of Tieto’s employees. For the remaining employees, business travel 30% emissions. In 2010: approximately 162 000 tons CO2 were saved only through our electronic expenses were estimated based on our global average. transaction services. Read more on page 17. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 43 Greener offices Energy consumption and emissions 1 Litre = 0.2642 US Gallons of greenhouse gases, 2010 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ Energy consumption for heat compared to 2008, or by 7% annually. Emission class Description/sources Unit Value Per person and electricity in our offices 2010 we met this target – office energy consumption per person was reduced EN 16 direct and indirect accounts for approximately by 7%, mainly due to more efficient use GHG emissions 29% of our CO2 emissions. of office space. Diesel Back up in data centres tCO2 93 <0.005 In 2009, we signed an agreement Electricity Officies and data centres tCO2 28 870 1.55 with WWF in Finland with the aim of Energy efficiency in data Heating Offices tCO2 6 119 0.33 applying WWF’s Green office standard. centres Our office in Imatra, Finland was the Data centres account for a great Cooling Offices and data centres tCO2 2 413 0.13 first to be certified. In 2010, the Green part of our energy consumption. The GHG protocol scopes 1 & 2 tCO2 37 495 2.02 Office programme continued, and energy needed for running servers and total the company’s head office as well as computers in the data centres, and the EN 17 other indirect GHG another office in the capital area in additional energy consumed for cooling, emissions Finland were certified. The Green Office usually represents 20–30% of the total criteria includes efficient use of energy energy consumption. Taxi Business travel tCO2 1 076 0.06 and well developed sorting of waste for We work in several ways to improve Flights Business travel tCO2 11 588 0.62 recycling. Prior to certification an audit is energy efficiency at the data centres, Own cars Business travel tCO2 2 488 0.13 conducted by a WWF auditor. shutting down electronic equipment when not in use is one example. Energy GHG protocol scope 3 total tCO2 15 151 0.82 can also be generated through recycling EN3 direct energy and reuse of excess heat. consumption For the data centers monitored in Diesel Back up for data centres litres 352 687 18.98 2009 and 2010, energy consumption per server was reduced with 22% on Total litres 352 687 18.98 We seek to maintain the occupation average 2010, meaning our target for EN4 indirect energy rate of its premises as high as possible, improved energy efficiency in data consumption to maximize the efficiency of facility centres was exceeded. Electricity Offices and data centres kWh 141 337 369 7 606.14 utilization. We measure the energyWe begun already in 1978 to reuse efficiency of our premises with Groupenergy from servers to heat our own Heating Data centres kWh 32 149 293 1 730.13 wide sampling, and monitors trends at office space in Älvsjö in Sweden. Today Cooling Offices and data centres kWh 6 633 519 356.99 both unit and Group level. the heat reuse from Älvsjö’s servers Total kWh 180 120 181 9 693.26 Our objective is to lower the energy corresponds to the energy consumption consumption per person in offices for more than 200 private homes. Total CO2 emissons 2010 tCO2 52 646 2.83 and other facilities by 30% by 2013 Since 2010, heat from our data Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 44 center in Värmland, Sweden has been reused virtual meetings and videoconferences, IP and level of environmental work is sent to Our objective is that by 2013 all suppliers and delivered by the local energy company, telephony, document sharing and internal all new suppliers and partners. The signed are committed to follow the principles of the to offices, private homes and to heat a public social media tools, is implemented in all our self-assessment document is binding and United Nations Global Compact, and at least swimming pool. The local energy company offices. This reduces CO2 emissions and saves constitutes a part of any contract with Tieto. 90% of all purchased goods and services Hammarö Energi has managed to lower their money and time for our employees. The Future During 2011, we will map and start to come from suppliers certified according to ISO energy prices by 20%, and Tieto in return gets Office concept is also sold to our customers. follow up on the environmental performance of 14001 or equivalent standard. free cooling for the servers. our existing suppliers (contracts before 2010). Responsible use of consumables Business travelling In 2010, the consumption of printing paper Being an international IT services company was reduced by 20%, exceeding the target of requires travelling by air, car and taxi. To an 10% annual reduction. reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other Our environmental objectives Our main corporate environmental 6. Reduce travelling by at least 9% per environmental impact, we strive to replace Consumption of printing paper* year*** by annually increasing the usage travelling when possible. Our travel policy objectives are set for 2009–2013: (tons) of video and audio conferencing and states that travelling to internal meetings 1. Annual reduction of the total CO2 120 related technologies, and encouraging should be minimized, and that digital tools equivalent emissions caused by our 100 employees to work remotely such as live meetings via computers, video105.81 activities 80 7. Lowered total paper consumption by at and teleconferences should be used instead. 84.72 2. Certification of all Tieto sites according 60 least 10% per year Travel expenses per person decreased to WWF Green Office standard and 40 8. Significantly increase Green IT offerings with approximately 3% compared to 2009, corporate level ISO 14001 certification 20 to key customers to EUR 1 230 per person 2010. Given the 3. All our suppliers are committed to background that business travel expenses following the principles of the United 2009 2010 Nations Global Compact, and at * = annual reduction of average energy decreased with more than 25% in 2008– least 90% of all purchased goods consumption per person during 2009– 2009, we are still ahead of our target. Travel *Data coverage accounts for 64% of our employees. and services come from suppliers 2013 (by 2013, 30% lower than in 2008) expenses are partly depending on external ** = annual reduction of average energy factors such as fluctuations in flight fares. Procurement certified according to ISO 14001 or an equivalent standard consumption per server during 2009– To avoid environmental risks and reduce 2013 (by 2013, 34% lower than in 2008) The Future Office environmental impact from purchased goods 4. Lowered energy consumption of our *** = annual reduction of work-related – a sustainable workplace and services, we require all suppliers and offices and other facilities by at least travelling cost per person in average We have designed a Future Office solution, sub-contractors to follow the United Nation’s 7% per year* 5. Lowered energy consumption in data during 2009–2013 (by 2013, 38% lower with the ambition to simplify everyday life for Global Compact principles. than in 2008) the employees and to increase productivity. As of 2010, a self-assessment document centres by at least 8% per year** Future Office, with advanced technology for with questions regarding code of conduct Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 45 Case: Data Centres The world’s safest and most efficient data centre In June 2010, we opened one produced once and used twice,” says Kent Bergelin. of the world’s most secure and Energy efficiency is further improved by using energy efficient components and a high level environmentally efficient data of consolidation and virtualization in the IT centres in Sweden. “Tieto Cave” infrastructure. The power used to run Tieto Cave is located inside a former military comes from renewable energy sources and meets base, a 20 000 square meter space the criteria for environmentally labeled power according to the Swedish eco-label Bra Miljöval. with 20 meter thick solid rock walls. “We needed more capacity and also noticed an Security first increasing customer demand for green and topAt Tieto, security and service quality come first. secure data centre services”, says Kent Bergelin, “Environmental adaptation is important but safedirector for data centre services at Tieto. ty is the priority. For example, in this case ignoring “Environmental performance has been one of separate systems for power and cooling could have the highest priorities throughout the project. Our saved even more energy – but that would make it executive management decided on this major green less safe,” says Bergelin. investment during the economic downturn when A similar energy efficient data centre has also many companies were focusing on cost savings. been built in Espoo, Finland. The facility was taken This verifies that we are serious about our CO2 into use in the beginning of 2011. This data centre vision and being a role model for sustainability.” uses free cooling technology and will generate heat enough for 1 500 Natural cooling and reuse of heat homes when fully in use. The cool environment inside the cave offers natural In return, we will get cooling for the data centre, saving a significant cost-efficient cooling amount of energy. From 2012, heat produced by for the servers in the the data centre will be reused for heating a new centre. area of private homes, through an agreement with the local heat distribution company, Södertörn Fjärrvärme AB. When fully utilized, the data centre Kent Bergelin, will supply 1 000 homes with heat and warm water. Director for data centre ”As an example you can say that the energy is services at Tieto Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 46 Independent assurance statement Scope and objectives These were freely selected by the assurors and included the former President and CEO, the acting President and CEO and members of the Corporate Responsibility Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited and Ethos International AB has undertaken Steering Group. independent assurance of the Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010. The • Review of Tieto approach to stakeholder engagement and recent outputs. assurance process was conducted in accordance with AA1000AS (2008). We were • Review of information provided to us by Tieto on its reporting and management engaged to provide Type 2 assurance, which covers evaluation of adherence to processes relating to the Principles. the AA1000APS (2008) principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness (the • Site visits, freely selected by the assurors, to Tieto offices in Stockholm, Sweden and Principles) and the reliability of specified sustainability performance information. The to the new data centre in Stockholm to review process and systems for preparing site performance information included in scope was all data and key claims in the report with level sustainability data and implementation of sustainability strategy. the exception of data that is subject to mandatory auditing and is also contained in the • Review of supporting evidence for key claims in the report. Annual Report 2010. This includes all financial information and key employee data. We • Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating data and, for a sample, used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Quality of Information Principles as criteria for checking the data consolidation. evaluating performance information. Additionally, we were engaged to provide a third • For both data and claims checking, this included accessing all key reporting and party check on the application of the GRI Guidelines v3. performance management systems from Tieto offices as well as via remote collaboration software as well as electronic documents, e-mails and other sources of evidence. Responsibilities of the directors of Tieto and of the • An independent assessment of Tieto reporting against the self declared B+ Application assurance providers Level for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines. The directors of Tieto have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. We were not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report. Ethos International has Findings and Opinion previously advised Tieto on Code of Conduct, CR related policy development and CR We reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report and where necessary work within Tieto. This is the first year that we have provided assurance. changes were made. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention Our statement represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform all of Tieto’s to suggest that the Report does not properly describe Tieto’s adherence to the Principles stakeholders including management. or its performance, with the following exception: We adopt a balanced approach towards all Tieto stakeholders. Our assurance team There is a need to inform stakeholders’ views on the opportunities and constraints, was made up of experts from both partner companies. Our team comprised Dave Knight which could shape the company’s management approach to health, wellbeing, and Malin Lindfors Speace, Elvin Ozensoy Anne von Stockenström and Anne Eliasson Further safety of employees across different country operations. We recommend Tieto improve information with individual competencies relating to the team on: www.twotomorrows.com disclosure of initiatives in place and associated key performance indicators. and www.ethosinternational.se. Tieto refer to the CO2 emissions from its direct activities and those it has helped to reduce through customers using the electronic transaction service. This data is reliable Basis of our opinion and means that overall Tieto’s contribution to emissions reduction is positive, i.e. the Our work was designed to gather evidence with the objective of providing moderate company creates a net decrease in emissions. However, this is only through one type of assurance as defined in AA1000AS (2008). We undertook the following activities: services and the actual position is likely to be better if other service contributions were • R eview of the current sustainability issues that could affect Tieto and are of interest to included. We recommend that further work is done to understand and report on the stakeholders. overall emissions profile. • Interviews with selected directors and senior managers responsible for management We can confirm that we have checked Tieto’s self-declared application of the GRI G3 of sustainability issues and review of selected evidence to support issues discussed. guidelines to be B+. Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 47 Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the following observations. evidence is thorough and useful. It is important that Tieto recognises the challenges and This is Tieto’s second Corporate Responsibility Report and the first to be assured to the uncertainties that face all companies in this sector. For example, the role data centre AA1000 AS (2008). The IT industry has a particularly significant role to play to enable efficiency plays in overall IT CO2 emissions and the extent to which these improvements others to become more sustainable. From the evidence we have reviewed, it appears will slow and reduce absolute emissions. that Tieto, not only understands this, but is structuring the company and operating in a way that will help accelerate this trend. The development of a wide range of products and Performance information services with sustainability benefits is an example of this. In terms of data accuracy, nothing came to our attention to suggest that these data As one would expect with an IT company, the performance management and reporting have not been properly collated from information reported at operational level, nor that systems are of a high standard and enable a consistent application of standards and data the assumptions utilised were inappropriate. We are not aware of any errors that would capture across global operations. Although evidence suggests that this is group wide, materially affect the Group data. A small number of data errors where highlighted during the for future assurance we recommend on the ground checks in significant countries of assurance process and have subsequently been corrected in later versions of the report. operation such as India should be included within the assurance process. Data collection processes are adequately described and supported through evidence seen during assurance process. Inclusivity concerns the participation of stakeholders in We observed some instances where data protocols, definitions and reporting developing and achieving an accountable and strategic arrangements could be improved. As health and safety is considered as an important response to sustainability. issue for stakeholders, this area is an example. • W e observed and saw evidence for engagement at all levels of the organisation, which can contribute to changes in business decisions and strategy. Examples of this include Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited Ethos International that over 50% of employees have used the new Eureka idea sharing platform and that London Stockholm customer demands for IT services reducing energy and materials are a core part of 6 May 2011 6 May 2011 Tieto’s offerings. • We recommend that future reports include more information throughout the sections on how stakeholders are involved and how their views influence Tieto’s management approach. Dave Knight, Elvin Ozensoy, Malin Lindfors Speace Material issues are those which are necessary for Group Director Senior Consultant Senior Advisor stakeholders to make informed judgments concerning Tieto and its impacts. Economic conditions have resulted in significant changes in corporate structures and employment in many companies. Tieto is no different and implemented changes to its business that concluded in 2011.We recommend that future reports should provide Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited trading Ethos International AB is a Nordic consulting more information on actions taken by Tieto to address employee related challenges as Two Tomorrows is an international firm specialized in Corporate Social faced as a result of reducing the direct workforce, outsourcing and acquisitions. consultancy licensed by AccountAbility to Responsibility. We help corporations and provide AA1000 AS (2008) assurance. organisations with everything from strategic Tieto include limited information in the report on ethnic and gender diversity of workforce, advice to the implementation of concrete tools. recommendation to provide greater insight into how Tieto is approaching this issue. Recognising that considerable work has been done to require suppliers to sign the Code of Conduct, we recommend that information is provided on how Tieto monitors compliance with these requirements such as through third party checks. Responsiveness concerns the extent to which an organisation responds to stakeholder issues Tieto has included many examples of best practice performance, such as data centre energy efficiency. We recommend the inclusion of more benchmarking information to help stakeholders understand Tieto’s position in relation to their peers and in relation to targets. The response to material issues shown through the Report and the supporting GRI content index table Fully reported Partially reported Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 48 Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference / direct answer Explanation Global Compact Principles www.unglobalcompact.org 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO. 5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6, 8–11 2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 7 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 7 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 7 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 7 2.7 Markets served. 7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. No significant changes occured 2010 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 19 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 50 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12 3.6 Boundary of the report. 2 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc. 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 2, 42 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information. No changes occurred requiring re-statements of information. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope. 2, 6, 42 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. 48–49 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 46 4 Governance, commitments and stakeholders 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 11, 25 Principles 1–10 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 24–25 Principles 1–10 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure. The Unitary board structure does not exist in Finnish corporations. Principles 1–10 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations etc. 24 Principles 1–10 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization’s performance. 25 Principles 1–10 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 25 Principles 1–10 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the highest governance body. 24 Principles 1–10 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles. 24 Principles 1–10 4.9 Procedures for overseeing the management of economic, environmental, and social performance. 24–25 Principles 1–10 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance. 24 Principles 1–10 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed. 40 Principle 7 4.12 Externally developed charters to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 24–25 Principles 1–10 4.13 Memberships in associations and organizations. 23 Principles 1–10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 14–15 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 14–15 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 15 Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 49 Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference / direct answer Global Compact Principles www.unglobalcompact.org Performance indicators and management Economic DMA EC Management approach economic. 8–11, 20–29 Principles 1, 4, 6 & 7 EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. 22 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities. 8–11, 16–19 Principle 7 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 33 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 22 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments. 39 Environmental DMA EN Management approach environment. 40 Principles 7–9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 44 Principle 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 43 Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 43 Principle 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 43 Principles 8 & 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services etc. 17 Principles 8 & 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 44 Principles 8 & 9 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 43 Principles 8 & 9 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 43 Principles 8 & 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 19, 17, 42–43 Principles 7–9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 44 Principles 7–9 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Zero Principle 8 Labour practices and decent work DMA LA Management approach labour practices and decent work. 30–34 Principles 1, 3 & 6 LA1 Total workforce by employment type. 34 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover. 33 Principle 6 LA10 Average hours of training per year. 33 Human rights DMA HR Management approach Human rights 36 Principles 1–6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening etc. Zero Principles 1–6 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Zero Principles 1, 2, 6 Society DMA SO Management approach society. 37–38 Principle 10 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 25% (4 500 employees of 18 000 in 4 countries) Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 30 Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 37 Principle 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 38 Principles 1–10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 38 Principle 10 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust etc. 38 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Zero Product responsibility DMA PR Management approach product responsibility. 29 Principles 1 & 8 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy etc. 29 Principle 1 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Zero Tieto Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 50 Contact information Carl-Harald Andersson Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility Phone +46 10 481 4503 Mobile + 46 70 535 3601 E-mail Carl-Harald.Andersson @ tieto.com Customers Your contact person at Tieto E-mail: firstname.lastname @ tieto.com
