Ketchum’s Communication on Progress October 2011 United Nations Global Compact: On behalf of Ketchum employees around the world, I am pleased to present the accompanying sixth Ketchum Global Compact Communication on Progress. This report represents our company’s abiding commitment to the Compact’s 10 principles through both internal implementation and external communication. Sincerely, Raymond L. Kotcher Senior Partner and Chief Executive Officer Ketchum Introduction Ketchum is proud to be a member of the United Nations Global Compact and since 2001 has practiced the principles of the Compact through both active participation in the Compact as well as through the promotion of this international initiative to our clients, business partners and other prospective Compact members. I. A Proud and Active Member of the Global Compact Ketchum was the first public relations agency to join the United Nations Global Compact and has been a member since 2001. We have interpreted membership to include not only adherence to the Compact’s 10 principles but also voluntary initiatives in the spirit of the Compact’s global mission. A. Ketchum Policies, Performance Consistent With Global Compact Principles Each member company of the Global Compact must fulfill its social responsibilities in accord with the nature of its business. As a global communications counseling organization, Ketchum focuses its Communication on Progress on addressing those Global Compact principles that are particularly relevant to the way we operate our business in society. Labor Rights and Human Rights Ketchum is in a knowledge-based business. Our human resources policies are therefore tailored to a global workforce that is highly educated and professional. Our services to clients – strategic and tactical communications counsel – require a highly motivated workforce performing in optimum working environments. Many of the Compact principles on human rights and labor standards are not directly relevant to our operations. However, several Ketchum policies support the Compact’s labor and human rights principles:  Harassment and Discrimination Policy All employees should be able to enjoy a work environment that is free from harassment -including sexual harassment -and free from discrimination including that of race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, disability, medical condition, marital or veteran status, sexual orientation, age, or gender. Any harassment or discrimination of employees or others at Ketchum undermines the integrity of our employment and our relationships. This conduct is unacceptable and is not tolerated. Ketchum expects its business partners and clients to support these guidelines. 1  Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Ketchum is an equal opportunity employer with individuals hired and promoted solely on the basis of ability, training and experience. The company makes every reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of qualified employees with disabilities unless the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on other employees or inhibit the efficient service of our clients.  Code of Business Ethics Agreement At the request of Ketchum’s CEO, this policy document is formally acknowledged by each employee. It provides standards for virtually all operations of the company, including truth and accuracy in communications, record keeping, gifts and entertainment, union agreements, conflicts of interest, and privacy.  Workplace Violence It is Ketchum’s intent to provide a safe workplace for all employees. Threats, threatening language, or any other acts of aggression or violence made toward or by any Ketchum employee are not tolerated. Threats include but are not limited to any verbal or physical harassment, attempts at intimidation or instilling fear in others, menacing gestures, flashing of concealed weapons, stalking, verbal or physical abuse, or other hostile, aggressive, injurious, and destructive actions undertaken for the purpose of domination or intimidation.  Anti-Corruption/Transparency Ketchum is acutely aware of its responsibility as an active participant in the free flow of information and ideas in our society. The integrity of independent media is a cornerstone of this vital process. A revised policy document, “Ketchum Disclosure Guidelines,” ensures that Ketchum employees are transparent in their dealings with the media, identifying the client or other entities as sources of the information. II. Ketchum Voluntary Initiatives Supporting the Global Compact Mission As a company with more than 85 years of history of voluntary public service through employee volunteerism and corporate contributions, Ketchum in recent years has applied this commitment to global and local pro bono assignments consistent with Global Compact objectives. Ketchum and its employees have donated time and money to various charitable and philanthropic organizations ranging from humanitarian institutions to relief agencies to nonprofits: 1. Room to Read In 2008, Ketchum formed a partnership with Room to Read, a nonprofit that is a leader in providing educational opportunities to underprivileged children around the world. Room to Read was established in 2000 based on the belief that education is crucial to breaking the cycle of poverty in the developing world. Over the last decade, Room to Read has scaled exponentially to impact over four million children in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Laos, Nepal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Vietnam and Zambia through its worldwide network of more than 1,400 schools and 12,000 libraries filled with over nine million children’s books. Working in collaboration with local communities, partner organizations and governments, Room to Read has empowered children with increased access to high-quality educational opportunities. Ketchum found a kindred spirit with Room to Read. Ketchum believes that companies make the best contributions to such programs by offering whatever it is they do best; in Ketchum’s case, this core competency is communications, and Ketchum is involved with a wide range of communications support activities to reinforce the Room to Read mission around the world. With its goal of communication closely aligned with Room to Read’s goals of literacy and education, Ketchum provides pro bono media relations, reputation management and event management support to Room to Read, among other services. Ketchum also has “loaned” a senior consultant to Room to Read at its San Francisco headquarters to provide high-level technical support and to coordinate Ketchum teams around the world on a range of projects and initiatives. Below is a rundown of these activities. 2010  New Library in Nepal In parallel with Room to Read’s 10th anniversary in 2010, Ketchum made a commitment to raise $15,000 before the end of 2009 to fund a new library in Nepal to honor Room to Read’s 10th anniversary, and succeeded in meeting 2 this commitment through fundraising events and individual donations made through automatic paycheck withdrawals. The library was completed in May 2010 as part of the Shree Pandit Chaur Lower Secondary School in an agricultural village called Panit Chaur, located about 15 miles (30 kilometers) west of Kathmandu, the nation's capital. This one-room building houses more than 800 books and plays host to regular library periods for students from grades one through five as well as art competitions, quiz contests and community events. Most of the school's approximately 150 students come from very poor families, and the new library is used not only for their education but also as a resource to benefit the community as a whole.  10th Anniversary Media Support In 2010, Room to Read celebrated its 10th anniversary, the construction of its 10,000th library, the addition of its 1,000th school, and a scholarship program that offers 10,000 girls critical life skills education. The celebration included a Trek to 10,000 -an expedition through the Himalayan highlands of Nepal to revisit the site of Room to Read's first book delivery and to dedicate the milestone 10,000th library with a ribbon-cutting ceremony led by Room to Read founder John Wood, whose travels in the region more than a decade ago inspired the organization's founding. To support these developments, Ketchum used its proprietary Multimedia Release and developed a media strategy to communicate these events to media. The Multimedia Release included videos and photos from the Trek to 10,000 as well as a traditional news release and other media materials developed by Ketchum. Ketchum also supported Room to Read’s 10th anniversary by revisiting overall messaging for the organization and helping to develop language that reflects Room to Read’s significant accomplishments and goals for the future.  Los Angeles Chapter 10th Anniversary Celebration Ketchum helped the Room to Read Los Angeles chapter celebrate its 10th anniversary with a gala at the historic Vibiana Cathedral in downtown Los Angeles. Ten Ketchum volunteers were on hand to handle guest check-in and donation collection as well as to assist with the live and silent auctions. The Los Angeles office also conducted media outreach to local press before the event to raise awareness. Room to Read founder John Wood gave a keynote address, which was followed by a live auction where guests could bid on prizes including bottles of wine, vacation packages, a dinner party hosted by Top Chef contestants, Justin Bieber concert tickets and backstage passes. Guests were also encouraged to bid on specific Room to Read donations, including yearlong scholarships, children's books and desks and chairs for newly built classrooms. In total, Ketchum’s volunteers helped Room to Read raise more than $113,000, which was $13,000 more than the organization had raised the previous year.  Local San Francisco, New York, London, Washington, Chicago and Pittsburgh Ketchum Office Fundraisers  San Francisco Ketchum San Francisco hosted at its office a global Room to Read advisory group meeting, a three-day event that brought Room to Read advisors together for their annual planning session and involved 30 to 40 hours of event planning and management support by various Ketchum colleagues.  New York Ketchum’s New York office held a Room to Read Story Hour where colleagues read passages from their favorite children's books. More than a dozen colleagues volunteered to be storytellers, and about 100 employees voted with $1 donations to determine which four contestants would perform readings at the event. The event raised $900 for Room to Read and collected children's books for a local charity. Additionally, throughout the year, the New York office regularly holds bake sales where colleagues bring in home-cooked treats to sell to the more than 200 people at the office to raise funds for Room to Read.  London The London office provided a range of media support events for Room to Read. Colleagues developed and pitched a news release announcing Room to Read’s Big Book Swap initiative, and helped generate placements that generated over five million impressions. In addition, staff pitched and secured media interviews for cricket players in the U.K. media to support Room to Read’s partnership with the International Cricket Council. London office members also 3 hosted a women’s business breakfast workshop, attracting professionals from a range of London professionals to raise funds and engage with Room to Read’s mission while providing a valuable networking opportunity for the business community. Finally, the office hosted a message training session for the Room to Read’s U.K. branch to enable Ketchum to better understand how to communicate Room to Read’s core messages.  Washington Ketchum’s Washington office partnered with an elementary school called Ketcham, both because of the similarity of the names and because the Washington office learned that a teacher and student at the school had been killed on Sept. 11, 2001. In addition to general campus cleanup, colleagues from the Washington office landscaped an area where memorial trees had been planted to honor the victims. Colleagues also regularly support food drives, coat drives, book drives and a local chapter of Dress for Success, a nonprofit organization that promotes the economic independence of disadvantaged women by providing professional attire, a support network, and career development tools to help women thrive in work and in life.  Chicago In November 2010, Ketchum’s Chicago office participated in its second annual silent auction for Room to Read. Colleagues donated over 40 homemade items and special gifts to help raise a total of $3,000. Also in November 2010, Ketchum’s Chicago office helped sponsor the third annual Special Olympics Inspire Greatness Gala. As a bronze medal sponsor for the event, the office helped the Special Olympics of Illinois welcome over 370 guests and raise nearly $600,000.  Pittsburgh The Pittsburgh office held a take-your-kid-to-work day that featured an ice-cream-creation fundraising activity where kids broke into teams and created ice cream flavors; news releases were created to market their inventions; and colleagues paid $1 to sample the ice cream and vote for their favorites.  Cambodia Trip In November 2010, Ketchum’s senior consultant for Room to Read traveled to Cambodia for Room to Read’s first-ever international communications summit. There, she led training sessions for communication representatives based in seven Asian countries. In particular, she focused on helping the organization improve its relationship building and information sharing to create a more collaborative and unified global communications team.  International Literacy Day On Sept. 8, 2010, Room to Read joined forces with Twitter in a social media campaign to increase awareness of illiteracy for International Literacy Day. On that day, Twitter and Room to Read began posting illegible tweets to symbolize how every sentence looks to the more than 776 million people worldwide who cannot read or write. Users were able to decode or read the indecipherable tweets and tweet other coded messages through a special Twitter website. Ketchum helped support this project by asking its colleagues to spread the word about it to media contacts around the globe and by developing a news release that could be sent to interested media outlets. 2009  Launch of Twitter/Room to Read Partnership In October 2009, Ketchum launched the Twitter/Room to Read partnership by announcing Room to Read as the exclusive nonprofit beneficiary of Twitter’s Corporate Social Innovation Initiative, and generated more than 200 million media impressions.  Development of Room to Read Tool Kit for Chapter Leaders Ketchum developed a comprehensive communications tool kit to support the leaders of over 40 chapters around the world with media outreach and guidance for general communications to chapter members and potential donors.  Creation of Fundraising Guidebook for Chapter Leaders In mid-2009, Ketchum’s San Francisco and Los Angeles summer fellows provided $45,000 of donated time, helping produce a comprehensive chapter guidebook on how to plan and develop fundraising events at all levels and a signature “Cycle for Literacy” event for chapters to implement in their own markets. 4  Publication and Distribution of 5,000 Children’s Books in Laos Ketchum led a fundraising effort in the U.S. and U.K. that resulted in the agency’s ability to produce a book as part of Room to Read’s local language publishing program and distribute thousands of books Laos in June 2009. Ongoing  Contributions from 22 Ketchum Offices and Affiliates Ketchum offices and affiliates from North America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia have participated in the pro bono partnership, and the number of active offices continues to grow.  Media Placements Ketchum has helped Room to Read gain media placements in such media outlets as the Associated Press, USA Today, Parade magazine, the Sydney Morning Herald (Australia), the Gulf News (Dubai), and the Sunday Times (Singapore).  Establishment of 12 local Room to Read/Ketchum Partnerships Ketchum offices and affiliates around the world have teamed up with 12 local Room to Read chapters to support their ongoing efforts to raise awareness and funds for the organization with media outreach, collateral development, and ongoing PR strategy and counsel.  Media Training for Room to Read Executives Ketchum has provided media training to founder John Wood, CEO Erin Ganju and several members of the Room to Read development team.  Multiple Language Translations Ketchum has translated communications materials into Dutch, German, Japanese and Mandarin to ensure the Room to Read message reaches as many people as possible. 2. Hopenhagen As an advocate for sustainable environmental business practices, Ketchum was a proud adviser to the U.N. and its Conference of the Parties 15 – the Copenhagen summit to negotiate the details of the Kyoto Protocol. The United Nations, together with the International Advertising Association and a coalition of the world’s leading advertising, marketing and media agencies created Hopenhagen – a movement to empower global citizens to engage in the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) in Copenhagen in December 2009. In an unprecedented effort agreed upon by the heads of the holding companies of the world’s major communications firms (Omnicom Group, WPP and Publicis), Ketchum took the lead for Omnicom as the sole public relations organization devoted to communicating the next-step details of the Kyoto Protocol. Ketchum ran the global public relations campaign for the movement and led a program that focused on traditional and social media and used its global network to tailor outreach in the most effective manner in each local market. The coalition that Ketchum was a part of developed a platform that gave citizens, governments, nonprofits and businesses the tools to rally support for a positive outcome at the COP15 Climate Change Conference. Ketchum offices in virtually every major market reached out to media and influencers to drive awareness and encourage action on climate change. Among the results of the public relations campaign, more than six million people around the world signed up as Hopenhagen citizens, and coverage promoting the campaign appeared in more than 50 countries. Michael Lee, Executive Director of the International Advertising Association, said: “Ketchum was an invaluable partner from the beginning in promoting the Hopenhagen campaign. The team combined keen sustainability expertise with world-class PR skills and an impressive global network to raise awareness and spur action around the U.N.’s climate change summit in Copenhagen.” 3. World Economic Forum Since 2004, Ketchum has contributed services to the World Economic Forum to increase public visibility and appreciation of three key World Economic Forum initiatives: the Global Health Initiative, the Global Greenhouse Register and the Global Governance Initiative. Ketchum has been an active participant in the World Economic Forum, contributing to its mission to “improve the state of the world” with delegations to its 2009 annual conference in Davos as well as to regional forums in Brazil, Jordan, South Africa and India. In keeping with a commitment to supporting organizations with technical expertise, Ketchum “loaned” a consultant from its London office to the Forum’s Geneva headquarters for 2009 and 2010 to support activities related to global health, anti-corruption and general media relations and communications. Similarly, from 2010 to 2011, Ketchum has contributed the skills of one of our account supervisors to the Forum’s Media and Communications team. Ketchum executives also play advisory roles on key World Economic Forum initiatives. Ketchum’s CEO of Europe sits on 5 the Forum’s global health advisory board along with leaders from organizations in public health, management consultancy, medicine, technology, energy and consumer products. The board provides advice and guidance on a wide range of Forum health-related activities, including the fight against HIV, TB and malaria, as well as new initiatives to address chronic disease, nutrition and obesity, and health system infrastructure improvement. 4. We Are Family Foundation Our global CEO serves on the board of directors of Nile Rodgers’ We Are Family Foundation, a leading nonprofit dedicated to building global coalitions that foster tolerance and respect. One of the foundation’s signature initiatives is Three Dot Dash, a program that regularly brings together exceptional global teen leaders who are actively working on projects that address basic human needs and promote peace. To help the organization gain visibility, Ketchum volunteers each year to handle the media relations around the nonprofit’s annual redcarpet gala, as well as during its Just Peace Summit – a weeklong event that engages these inspirational teen leaders from around the world and brings them to New York to help them learn how to effectively communicate and better tell the stories of their efforts and NGOs. 5. GCLead In spring 2009, Ketchum provided artistic and technical services to produce communication materials, including the official brochure, “Moving Forward in Tumultuous Times,” in support of the launch of the Global Compact’s GCLead program. Subsequently, Ketchum also participated in the first GCLead webinar and in the May 2010 workshop “Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership Within the UN Global Compact.” 6. Ketchum Social Responsibility In December 2007, Ketchum launched Ketchum Social Responsibility, a companywide initiative to reinforce Ketchum’s and each employee’s responsibility to care for the communities, environments and stakeholders we touch. Ketchum adopted literacy as its cause for 2008 to improve literacy qualitatively and quantitatively by doing what Ketchum does best: communicating ideas that raise awareness, change attitude and foster action. As part of this effort, Ketchum looked at literacy in the broadest possible sense and searched for partners and ways to improve literacy “horizontally” across a spectrum of skills and “vertically” in areas related to both society and our business: health, nutrition, business, work, recreation, and government, among others. Subsequently, Ketchum formed a partnership with Room to Read, a nonprofit that is a leader in providing educational opportunities to underprivileged children around the world. Building on its initial effort with Room to Read, Ketchum expanded its Ketchum Social Responsibility program in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 with a number of volunteer activities led by local offices. Although Ketchum is a global family of businesses, with offices in capitals and business centers of the world’s busiest and most competitive markets, the agency is also a collection of community businesses. Every Ketchum office is located in a neighborhood – in Midtown Manhattan, Spitalfields in East London, or Hong Kong’s North Point – and each of these communities is a unique and important fixture that figures not just in where Ketchum does business, but how. For this reason, Ketchum businesses around the world are committed to making their neighborhoods better. Projects to paint schools, plant gardens or refurbish community centers as part of our second global Volunteer Day have been launched in dozens of locales around the world. These projects reflect thousands of hours of people time and significant financial investment by Ketchum companies to have its actions speak louder than words when it comes to supporting local communities. Here are some of the specific office efforts on this front: 2011  Ketchumanjaro In April 2011, the Public Relations Consultants Association sponsored a trek to ascend Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania to raise funds for Leonard Cheshire Disability, a U.K. organization that provides support for people with disabilities. For this trek, dubbed “Ketchumanjaro,” five colleagues from Ketchum’s London office helped raise a combined £80,000 for Leonard Cheshire Disability. In addition to receiving private donations, the team received funds through Ketchum colleagues that were raised through an online auction.  Dallas Ketchum’s Dallas office joined forces with the Every Child Ready to Read @ Dallas program, a program that focuses on educating parents about pre-reading skills while also providing them with children's books to share with their kids at home. Most of 6 the program’s outreach is conducted in low-income areas, as low-income families are less likely to have books at home and are less likely to engage in book sharing with their preschool-aged children.  New York Members of the Ketchum New York office participated in a Partnership for Parks initiative at Lincoln Terrace Park in Brooklyn, where they helped clean up the park by painting benches, restoring fences and removing trash. 2010  Madrid Ketchum’s Madrid office partnered with Omnicom to donate over 14 tons of food to the Madrid Food Bank through its “Hambre contra el Hambre” (Hunger against Hunger) initiative. The food products collected were sufficient to feed 146,310 people and were donated to the Madrid Food Bank, which distributes food to various support centers.  Amsterdam and The Hague Both our Netherlands offices actively support the Dutch McDonald's charity, Ronald McDonald Kinderfonds, a program that provides a temporary “home-away-from-home” for cancer patients and their families.  San Francisco The San Francisco office started working with a local organization called scrap, which is a nonprofit reuse center, materials depot and workshop space with a mission to stimulate creativity and environmental awareness in children and adults through promoting creative reuse of materials that traditionally have been discarded as waste. In addition, the office implemented a program for its summer fellows that focused on providing media assistance to get the word out for a nonprofit called Two Degrees, which has a mission to feed 200 million hungry children by raising awareness of global malnutrition and donating a high-nutrition pack for every Two Degrees food bar that is sold.  Pittsburgh Ketchum’s Pittsburgh office joined forces with the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh to clean up the children’s department. In a four-hour period, Ketchum colleagues helped process approximately 12,000 books, cleaning them, replacing the stickers on them, and pulling any books that needed to be repaired.  Brazil In Brazil, Ketchum’s São Paulo office is involved in a number of CSR initiatives:  +Unidos Ketchum is a member of +Unidos, an initiative that includes more than 50 U.S.-based companies that have signed on to share best practices in CSR and to promote partnerships among companies, nongovernmental organizations and the public sector. In an effort to help +Unidos share information on how CSR can make a meaningful impact on communities, Ketchum Estratégia has contributed case studies about its pro bono work in Brazil for the embassy to feature on its new website at www.embaixadaamericana.org.br/csr-index.php.  Refugees United This nonprofit helps refugees relocate missing family through a unique search engine. Ketchum Estrategía began working with this organization in May 2008, creating marketing materials to distribute to humanitarian agencies, NGOs and refugee camps in Brazil and worldwide.  United Way Brazil Ketchum Estrategía helps implement the public relations program for United Way Brazil, which carries out the “Crescer Aprendendo program,” an initiative to promote improvements in the school performance of children from all economic classes, through educational campaigns targeting parents, relatives and caregivers of the 21 million Brazilians who are 6 years old or younger.  TUCCA TUCCA (Association for Children and Adolescents with Cancer) was founded with the goal to increase the cure rates and improve the quality of life of disadvantaged young people with cancer, who cannot afford adequate treatment. Ketchum Estrategía helps produce public relations materials that are used to help the organization raise funds.  Projeto Acesso Ketchum Estrategía helps with the education initiatives of the program, which helps students with special educational needs in the visual deficiency area. Ketchum donates time to promote Projeto Acesso and its new headquarters, which has the capacity to help more students and offer scholarship support. 7 2009  New York In 2009, a conference room was transformed into the Ketchum Diner, where staff could purchase breakfast items donated by other colleagues with 100% of proceeds going to Room to Read. With great participation, the event raised $762.67. The year prior, Stromberg Consulting, alongside Ketchum staff, helped prepare 1,500 gift bags for an annual fundraising event for Dress for Success and provided media training to students of the Reciprocity Foundation, an organization that enables homeless and highrisk youth and young adults to exit social services system and start sustainable careers in PR, marketing, etc. In addition, teams coached students from the Coalition for the Homeless on interviewing, résumé writing and applying for jobs, helped build a library at P.S. 28, an elementary school in New York City, and offered other services to additional nonprofits.  London In both 2008 and 2009, colleagues stepped out from behind their desks, and were hands-on with a variety of projects in the heart of their city and in some of the most deprived areas in the country. Community center hallways that were previously scant or covered in graffiti were repainted, the Glamis Road Adventure was painted and cleaned up, and a community garden was transformed after much work was done collecting leaves, pruning and mowing the grass, similar to how in 2008 staff transformed the Brady Arts Center. The London volunteers transformed areas that are now more likely to be used by various community groups.  San Francisco Continuing a focus on education and literacy established in 2008 by volunteering at a local school, colleagues participated in a Room to Read local chapter fundraising event and a Room to Read book sorting event. Colleagues also helped with a Thanksgiving food drive in 2009 to benefit a local food bank.  Washington In 2009, staff helped support a series of local Room to Read fundraising events, which focused on creative design and printing of invitations to setting up venues and serving guests. Also, in continuation to the commitment to local schools that was established in 2008 when staff worked on campus cleanup projects at Ketchum Elementary, in 2009, staff partnered with WVSA ARTs Connection, a nonprofit that provides arts-infused educational and vocational programs for children and adults. Putting its PR skills to use, staff donated time and efforts to media outreach to raise awareness of events at the WVSA gallery.  Pittsburgh In 2008 and 2009, colleagues from the Pittsburgh PR and Corporate Operations teams supported the Neighborhood Academy, a private college preparatory school for low-income students. Staff participated in classroom activities, a basement “makeover” project, and general cleanup. In addition to this effort, in 2009, staff also volunteered with the Greater Pittsburgh Literacy Council, where they worked with students from various countries to help sharpen their English conversation skills. In addition, staff visited the Carnegie Library, where they helped sort 16,000 books.  Hong Kong In 2009, the office participated in the Green Council’s International Coastal Cleanup, which is designed to help alleviate the problem of marine pollution, and aligns well with Ketchum’s CSR commitment to help protect the environment. In just a few hours, colleagues removed 160 kg of debris from Stanley Main Beach. One of the great things about calculating the amount of debris is that this information will be compiled into an International Coastal Cleanup Data Report by the U.S.-based NGO Ocean Conservancy, and it will be used to educate the public, business, industry and government authorities.  Milan In 2008 and 2009, colleagues partnered with the Franciscan Friars Association. Year over year, the breadth of activities expanded, and in 2009 staff worked in a soup kitchen, call center and help center at a railway station. A true success, in 2009, staff distributed 1,300 meals in the soup kitchen and fielded 80 calls from the elderly who called in to the center. In the railway station, staff worked with social assistants to help people with many different problems ranging from unemployment, homelessness and hunger. 8 2008  Chicago In 2008, staff volunteered to brainstorm ideas to enhance marketing and visibility on behalf of seven local nonprofits. The organizations included the Gateway for Cancer Research Foundation, dedicated to curing cancer through funding patientcentered clinical studies that make an impact on those battling cancer, the Twilight Wish Foundation, which grants individual wishes and plans group celebrations for elders in poverty who have served others throughout their lives, and Sarah’s Circle, which offers daytime supportive services in a welcoming, safe refuge for women who are homeless, or at risk of becoming homeless.  Atlanta In 2008, the office hosted a brainstorm for Ferst Foundation, an organization that provides local communities with books to prepare Georgia preschoolers for reading and learning success. One of the areas of focus was coming up with ideas to celebrate the mailing of the Foundation’s millionth book. 7. Corporate Sustainability Program Ketchum has long been an advocate of responsible energy use, and our businesses around the world have set policies to reduce waste, increase energy efficiency and promote sustainable business practices with employees. In 2010, we developed a set of global guidelines to help all of our businesses establish improvement targets in energy use reduction; travel/carbon offset policies; supply/service procurement; waste management and recycling; and indoor air quality. These are based on established programs in our London, New York, Paris, San Francisco and Los Angeles operations, and set specific measures for constant improvement. We have launched an ambitious initiative in North America to dramatically reduce the use of paper in daily operations through the use of new information technologies, updated reporting procedures and simple awareness of the unnecessary paper use. This initiative was rolled out in Europe in 2010 and worldwide in 2011, with the dual benefits of helping the environment and reducing business costs. 8. Volunteer Day In April 2008, Ketchum offices around the world held a Ketchum Social Responsibility Volunteer Day in which employees throughout 24 offices donated a half-day to serve such organizations as the Geoff Ashcroft Community in London (a special-care facility for people struggling with mental health issues), a soup kitchen run by the Saint Francisco's Friars in Milan, the Coalition for the Homeless in New York, and Bryan's House (a special-care facility that provides child care, adolescent programming and support services to families coping with serious medical issues) in Dallas. 9. New Orleans Relief In November 2006, Ketchum’s partners spent more than 200 volunteer hours building homes for the Habitat for Humanity Katrina effort in New Orleans’ devastated Ninth Ward. In November 2007, Ketchum built on this project when its global finance department met in New Orleans to donate a day to help restore Wilson Elementary School, a school housed in a temporary location because the original campus remained badly damaged from Hurricane Katrina. 10. 24/7 Brainstorms Since 2004, Ketchum’s Atlanta and Chicago offices have put their public relations expertise to work through their 24/7 brainstorm programs. During a 24-hour period, Ketchum teams have generated marketing and communication strategies for local nonprofits that don’t ordinarily have the resources to spend for such counsel. Ketchum employees attend at least one brainstorm session and match their expertise with each nonprofit’s need and interest. In addition, Ketchum recruits guest brainstormers from local business, academic and nonprofit communities. 11. Ethical Decision-Making/Media Transparency Ketchum has continued its Ethical DecisionMaking/Media Transparency training program for all employees and donated the program to the Council of Public Relations Firms in 2006 for the benefit of other agencies throughout the industry. 12. Speeches – Ketchum’s Senior Partner and CEO has made several speeches that address the value of and imperative for corporate social responsibility: o On April 12 and 13, 2007, our global CEO chaired the 22nd Spring Seminar of the Arthur W. Page Society, titled Prove It With Action: The Case for Improving Business Performance by Improving Society. The Arthur W. Page Society 22nd Spring Seminar, which was held in association with the World Economic Forum Global Corporate 9 Citizenship Initiative, offered broad and fresh perspectives on the issue of corporate trust and responsibility, and had a record attendance of over 300 people. o On Sept. 15, 2005, our global CEO delivered a speech on corporate social responsibility and Ketchum helped organize the 2nd Guangming Daily Corporate Social Responsibility Awards ceremony. The event honored 20 transnational companies, including Motorola, DaimlerChrysler, Kimberly-Clark, Samsung, Siemens and Microsoft, that were selected according to a survey among more than 180 companies' corporate social responsibility activities in China according to the China Ministry of Civil Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Commerce, the State Council Information Office and the State Administration of Industry and Commerce. 13. Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund – Ketchum’s Senior Partner for North America has served as a director of the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund, the only national organization of its type that provides merit-based scholarships and programmatic support to students attending the nation's public historically black colleges and universities. Since its inception in 1987, the program has awarded more than $50 million in scholarships and programmatic and capacity support, enabling more than 5,000 students to attend public historically black colleges. III. Preaching What We Practice We believe that as a communications counseling company, our core competency – communications – should be applied to sharing the Global Compact message. We do that by communicating that message – the Compact principles and the value of membership – in many venues. Below is a sampling of our activities: A. Global Compact Meetings Ketchum participates and/or helps develop Global Compact meetings of members and potential members:  2010-2011 Global Compact Meetings Ketchum extended its long participation in the Global Compact, especially in its active involvement with the Compact’s U.S. network. A Ketchum representative attended two network meetings that advanced the Compact agenda. In addition, Ketchum provided liaison service between the Compact and a new Washington-based nongovernmental organization addressing global water issues.  International Integrated Reporting Committee The Global Compact is a leading member of this new and very significant NGO, which seeks to give new standing to environment, social, governance and corporate commitments. The International Integrated Reporting Committee is developing guidelines for integrating nonfinancial and financial data for review and reflection by shareholders and other corporate stakeholders. A Ketchum representative is a member of the International Integrated Reporting Committee task group on communication and engagement, and he has attended three planning meetings in London and New York. In addition, Ketchum has generated several messages on International Integrated Reporting Committee progress on the website of the Global Alliance For Public Relations and Communication Management.  U.S. Global Compact Network Meeting, April 2008, Harvard University Business School A Ketchum representative offered the “capstone” presentation at this conference on “Business Human Rights” introducing the newly published “Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Case Study Report, Volume Two.”  U.S. Global Compact Network Meeting, October 2007, San Francisco Ketchum participated in this meeting examining “responsible procurement” and promoted the meeting and its outcomes in several 2007 speaking engagements and published articles.  Global Compact Summit, July 2007, Geneva Ketchum was an active participant in the Global Compact Summit meeting in Geneva, issuing a summary report of the meeting for both internal and external distribution and featuring both the Geneva Declaration and the deliberations of the Summit’s many breakout sessions. 10 B. Speeches, Presentations and Published Articles  “The Rise of CSR 3.0 in Asia,” October 2011 A Ketchum CSR expert discussed the rise in CSR professional affiliations, including the United Nations Global Compact, in Asia.  “Transparency, Collaboration and Public Service: Three Opportunities for Public Relations as a Global Profession,” February 2009 A Ketchum CSR expert discussed how transparency, collaboration and public service represent three of the biggest opportunities for today’s businesses.  “How More Companies Are Embracing Social Responsibility as Good Business,” March 2008 In an article in the Wall Street Journal Online, a Ketchum CSR leader talked about the rising importance of corporate social responsibility over the last few decades and the imperative it has become for today's companies.  “The Arrival of Authentic CSR,” CSR Wire, March 2008 A Ketchum commentary cites “the growing membership in . . . the United Nations Global Compact.”  Lecture at New York University Graduate School, New York, March 2008 As a key part of a presentation in international public relations, a Ketchum CSR expert told two dozen graduate students of the development and operations of the Global Compact around the world.  “New Proof: CEOs and Investors – and Many Others – ‘Get It’ on CSR” article in CSR Guidebook, January 2008 In referring to the Compact as a leading example of the growth of CSR, a Ketchum author cited Gavin Power’s comments on the theme, “Responsible Procurement.”  “CEO Efforts Key to Consumer Trust,” January 2008 In a January 2008 article published in PRWeek magazine, one of Ketchum’s practice leaders explained how the public's opinion of CEOs is driven by their performance with the environment, ethics and employees.  Schranz Lecture, November 2007, Ball State University, Muncie, Indiana In an address to this university’s academic community, a Ketchum executive included a report on the Compact Geneva Summit with excerpts from the remarks by U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki Moon and Coca-Cola CEO Neville Isdell.  “Globalization and Corporate Social Responsibility,” July 2007, Columbus, Ohio The Global Compact was featured in illustrating how Compact resources and programs are supporting responsible globalization and the pursuit of Millennium Development Goals.  Communications Research Conference, June 2007, Certified Institute of Public Relations, London In discussing contemporary corporate social responsibility, a Ketchum representative cited the Global Compact at length as an outstanding example of global cooperation in addressing the opportunities and challenges of business in society. C. Miscellaneous  Human Rights Case History, 2007-2008 The Global Compact office, New York University and Ketchum combined to document Ketchum’s work in communicating the tragedy of global human trafficking and how public increased awareness can mitigate it. This case history was included in the Compact’s second volume on the subject and the remarks delivered by a Ketchum representative at the April 2008 Network meeting.  “Win-Win Partnerships With U.N. Agencies,” December 2007 Ketchum arranged and sponsored a day-long meeting at U.N. headquarters during which six U.N. agencies summarized their missions and achievements for some 60 communications professionals and educated them about how the U.N. offers corporations an unparalleled opportunity to achieve social responsibility goals by helping the U.N. meet needs where demand is greatest around the globe. Compact representatives were not only present but were contributors to this dialogue, which was aimed at generating more partnerships between the private sector and U.N. programs.  Client/U.N. Liaison, fall 2007 Ketchum introduced its client, Clorox Company, to the U.N. Office of Partnerships to explore a relationship with UNICEF in the interest of increasing cleanwater supplies in developing countries.  Milwaukee/Marquette University Lectures, May 2007 In a special communications course and in two lectures to the Marquette University academic community – as well as in an address to the Milwaukee Chapter of the Public Relations Society of America – a Ketchum executive 11 emphasized the important role the Global Compact is playing in advancing corporate social responsibility around the world. IV. Continuing Commitment In the years ahead, Ketchum looks forward to building on its Global Compact commitment and experience with additional internal initiatives and external outreach to all Global Compact audiences. 12
