CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010/2011 COMMITTED TO 2020: SHAPING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE IN EUROPE Contents 14 About this report Inside front cover A message from our Chairman and CEO 02 A message from our President, European Group 04 Where we operate 05 20 Our business at a glance 06 Our products 08 Energy conservation/climate change 14 Water stewardship 20 Sustainable packaging/recycling 24 Product portfolio 28 Community 32 Active healthy living 34 Workplace 36 GRI Index and CEO Water Mandate Index 40 Assurance statement 41 24 UN Global Compact Index and further resources 43 Front cover feature: The front cover shows our biogas truck, which is powered by gas from a landfill site, delivering to customers in London. It has around two-thirds less CO2e emissions than a regular truck and we plan to introduce another 13 trucks over the next two years to our fleet. Address: Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. 2500 Windy Ridge Parkway Atlanta, GA 30339 +1 678 260-3000 CCE Website Address: www.cokecce.com Contact: crs@cokecce.com Coca-Cola Enterprises is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Copyright 2011, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. “Coca-Cola” is a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company. 34 Designed and produced by Salterbaxter. Printed by Innovative Output Solutions. This report has been printed on 9 Lives paper which is certified as FSC 100% recycled, and certified ISO 9001 and ISO 1400. About this report Reporting boundaries operations in Norway and Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are Determining materiality and standards Sweden and workplace data for independent of any greenhouse and boundaries of our headquarters in the United gas trades. We have set 2007, — responsibility States. We aim to integrate the year when we first calculated This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ sixth Norway and Sweden fully into our corporate footprint, as our — annual Corporate Responsibility Coca-Cola products are made our 2011/2012 report. baseline year. and Sustainability (CRS) Report by over 300 bottling companies and our first as a European worldwide on behalf of The Our carbon footprint is calculated Additionally, the water use data business. It replaces CCE’s 2009 Coca-Cola Company, which in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD in this report refers to production Corporate Responsibility and creates and markets brands and Greenhouse Gas Protocol. facilities, where we have the Sustainability Report and contains trademarks and manufactures An operational control consolidation greatest water use, and energy a full year of data from January 1, syrups and concentrates. Licensed, approach was taken to determine data includes only the distribution 2010 to December 31, 2010 for independent bottling companies organizational boundaries. impacts of beverages that we our business operations in six such as Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) Data is consolidated from a distribute but do not produce, European territories: Great Britain, purchase these items and produce variety of sources, including our such as Ocean Spray products. France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and package beverages to sell and manufacturing facilities, fuel use All financial data in this report is in The Netherlands and Monaco. distribute to retail and wholesale information and estimated cold U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated. It also includes illustrative case customers. Our relationship with drinks equipment energy use, studies and business activities The Coca-Cola Company therefore and is then analyzed centrally. This report has been verified by from 2011. influences the way we work and This report includes data covering SGS (see page 41) and is aligned how our spheres of responsibility the emissions from our whole with the Global Reporting Initiative This report is a statement of our and our material issues are business (but does not include (GRI), self-assessed at level B+. European data over the last year determined. Norway, Sweden and our United The report also serves as our and charts referring to the last four States office locations), divided into Communication on Progress years represent only our legacy There are seven areas of focus for three ‘scopes’: (COP) for the United Nations European territories. This means the Coca-Cola system which are key Global Compact and the water that previously reported corporate – Scope 1: the fuel we use for to its sustainability. Each focus area stewardship chapter serves as data may differ significantly as it manufacturing, our own fleet of has a set of measurable goals and our COP-Water, as part of our also contained our North American trucks, vans and cars and our targets, and collectively these make endorsement of the UNGC CEO business which was sold in October process and fugitive emissions up the ‘Live Positively’ platform. Water Mandate. 2010. Therefore, unless otherwise – Scope 2: the electricity we use indicated, the environmental and As the local manufacturer and at all our sites workplace data in this report covers distributor of Coca-Cola products all operations owned or controlled – Scope 3: the electricity used by in Western Europe, Coca-Cola (production, sales/distribution, our coolers and vending Enterprises’ own sustainability combination sales/production machines at our customers’ focus areas are aligned with facilities, administrative offices premises, our business travel ‘Live Positively’ and we work closely and fleet) for Great Britain, byy rail and air and the fuel used with The Coca-Cola Company to mbourg, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, by our third party distributors. deliver against these commitments. The Netherlands and Monaco. The national and local demands erenced, In some places, as referenced, of our countries and communities ctory data it also includes introductory sometimes require our own for our newly acquired business approach, goals or targets within this framework. Our seven commitments are shown opposite. Material information Country reports – where to find it Each of CCE’s territories produces a Coca-Cola system report in — conjunction with The Coca-Cola CCE’s CRS programs are Company. Each of these reports communicated in a number of gives local examples of how CCE’s Energy conservation/climate change: Reduce the overall ways in a variety of publications. CRS commitments are being carbon footprint of our business operations by an absolute This report is a summary of our brought to life in our communities. 15 percent by 2020, as compared to our 2007 baseline. key initiatives. We also provide These reports can be found online Coca-Cola system reports in at each of the following websites: Water stewardship: Establish a water-sustainable operation each country, which give more by protecting our water sources, minimizing our water use detail on how we work in each Great Britain: www.coke and replenishing the amount of water used in our beverages. of our territories. Additionally, corporate responsibility.co.uk The Coca-Cola Company provides Sustainable packaging/recycling: Reduce the impact of reports and resources which France: www.coca-cola-rse.fr our packaging; maximize our use of renewable, reusable provide further information on and recyclable resources; and recover the equivalent of some of the global issues that Belgium and Luxembourg: 100 percent of our packaging. touch our business. www.cocacolabelgium.be Product portfolio: Provide refreshing beverages for every This report The Netherlands: lifestyle and occasion, while helping consumers make — www.coca-colanederland.nl informed beverage choices. This report aims to provide a concise overview of the progress CCE has Norway: www.coca-cola.no Community: Make a positive social, economic and made against our CRS commitments environmental contribution to the communities in which in 2010 and our ambitions for the Sweden: www.coca-cola.se we operate. future. It includes information on our business, our governance The Coca-Cola Company Active healthy living: Support active healthy living through and management of CRS, our physical activity programs, nutrition education, and by stakeholders and the work we — The Coca-Cola Company providing a wide choice of products. are doing in each focus area. provides many global sources It contains a summary GRI Index of information to detail its Workplace: Create a culture where diversity is valued, every and indices showing our compliance ‘Live Positively’ commitments. employee is a respected member of the team, and our workforce with The UN Global Compact and its These include its website, is a reflection of the communities in which we operate. CEO Water Mandate. www.thecoca-colacompany.com, which contains many corporate Online – www.cokecce.com In addition, there are issues such as codes and policies which inform On our corporate website we cover sustainable agriculture that, while CCE’s own approaches to CRS. the same issues as in this report, important to our business and its Referenced in this report in particular based on our CRS focus areas. Here long-term sustainability, have varying is The Coca-Cola Company’s work we sometimes provide further detail impacts across the Coca-Cola system. on water replenishment and and case studies, for example on The management of these issues is sustainable agriculture, further our carbon footprint. On our website led at a global level by The Coca-Cola details of which can also be found you can also find our CRS-related Company and we support this work on its website. The Coca-Cola policies and direct weblinks to other as it applies to our territories Company’s 2009/2010 Sustainability policies and documents in this report (see page 23 – Replenishment in our Review, found at http://www. as well as a detailed GRI index. supply chain). thecoca-colacompany.com/ citizenship/index.html, contains a summary of the global Coca-Cola system sustainability work. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 01 IT’S OUR COMMITMENT… ...to be the leader in Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability in the food and beverage industry. In 2009, we created ‘Commitment 2020’, a set of goals and targets in key areas where we believe we can make the most difference to our company and the world around us. Today, as a European business, we are reviewing these commitments and listening to our stakeholders to understand how we can continue to make progress towards our leadership aspirations. We know the path to sustainability is a long one and we have a long way to go. We look forward to your views and support. This report illustrates our progress along this journey so far... For more information visit: www.cokecce.com Message from John Brock 30 percent emissions reduction within the food and beverage This is an exciting time in the history target by 2020. CRS is integral to industry. To begin this next part of everything we do and is built on our journey, we are developing a of Coca-Cola Enterprises and we the belief that we can continue our new CRS vision in response to these enter this new era with Corporate growth trajectory in a responsible challenges, encapsulating how and sustainable way. In this – we aim to grow our business Responsibility and Sustainability our first CRS Report as a European sustainably in the coming decade. at the very core of our business. business – we hope to show We will then set new goals and you how. targets in each of our focus areas to make this vision a reality, revising In recent years, we have made our established ‘Commitment 2020’ significant strides and are proud of metrics. We aim to achieve what is our progress, but we also recognize right for our business and also for the challenges that are ahead of our communities, and I look forward us. Our stakeholders’ expectations to sharing our new commitments are rising and they want more from and targets with you later in the year. us – increased transparency, better results and a renewed exploration By now, most organizations realize of how we can be part of the that sustainability is not a niche solution to some of the pressing pursuit or something that is ‘nice to environmental and social issues do’. There are real benefits to being facing our territories. a sustainable, responsible company. For CCE, CRS drives operational As we entered this expanded efficiencies and effectiveness and European operating environment, helps create better relationships we asked a number of stakeholders with our suppliers and customers. to tell us what sustainability Our commitment to sustainability leadership entails – now and in the addresses the expectations of future – and how we should shape policymakers, NGOs and other A new era for Coca-Cola CCE’s journey. They told us that stakeholders, and helps us build Enterprises we must embed CRS deeper into a company for which our employees — the heart of our business, that our are proud to work. This is an exciting time in the history responsibilities extend beyond our of Coca-Cola Enterprises. In October immediate operations and exist We are committed to CRS, and to 2010 we completed a transaction throughout our value chain, and 2020 and beyond. We look forward with The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) that we should choose an area for to continuing our CRS journey in by acquiring their bottling operations leadership in which we can begin to Europe with you. in Norway and Sweden and selling challenge current business models. our North American operations to Above all, we know we need to be TCCC. We enter this new era with a more visionary, expanding our solid history of success, a platform influence beyond the concept of for continued growth and a strong ‘reducing our impacts’ and exploring John Brock heritage as The Coca-Cola ways to drive true change. Chairman and CEO Company’s pre-eminent strategic Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) bottling partner in Western Europe. These conversations helped us expand our thinking around Even at this time of transition, sustainability leadership, and we Corporate Responsibility and are now working to understand Sustainability (CRS) remains at the what this means for our business forefront of our priorities. We are a and our communities. In fact, signatory to the UN Global Compact we do not believe that striving to and its CEO Water Mandate and we be the most sustainable company in have recently signed a ‘business call’ the beverage industry is enough any for the European Union to adopt a more. We want to be the CRS leader Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 03 The path to leadership What is sustainability What does CCE We want to be the leader in Corporate leadership? need to explore? Responsibility and Sustainability within the — — food and beverage industry. In early 2011 • A holistic approach – integrating • Articulating a strong, memorable sustainability thinking into core we asked our stakeholders what we need business models CRS vision to do to get there. “Being a leader is something to be • Taking broad responsibility – demonstrated, judged by a clear up and down the value chain vision and backed up by action.” • Having a compelling vision – • Developing stronger targets of a sustainable future in priority focus areas • Strong leadership – from the “We’re talking about 2020 CEO, supported by strong and what will be demanded governance of companies in 2020 is significantly greater than • Development of innovative what is required today.” solutions – to global problems, through research and • Expanding our work to reduce development impacts up and down the value chain • Leading edge aspirations – leaders will aim high and set “It will be important to identify the targets that they may not at first various elements in the value know how to achieve; their goals chain where greater sustainability aim to meet the greater needs is needed and the responsibilities of society of the companies involved.” (From left to right, seated at table) Hubert Patricot, Executive Vice President and Now is the right time to President, European Group, CCE; John Brock, evaluate what we must • Transparency – leadership Quotes are from participants Chairman and CEO, CCE; and Graham Baxter, is a journey and honest do to continue on our in our stakeholder roundtable. Director of Global Programmes, International communication along the Business Leaders Forum, Roundtable Chairman. leadership path in Europe. way builds credibility — Our ambition is to be the leader • Focusing on material issues in Corporate Responsibility and – leaders focus on where they CCE Commitment 2020 Roundtable: Sustainability within the food and have expertise, but must participants from across our territories beverage industry. In early 2011, demonstrate best practice met via telepresence. we convened a group of 25 key across all areas stakeholders from our European territories using telepresence • Collaborating and networking technology to tell us what they – with experts and other believe leadership entails, and businesses to deliver what what CCE needs to do next to get society needs. there. Their counsel, along with benchmarking studies and advice from regular advisors, is now guiding the development of our new ‘Commitment 2020’ goals and targets. Message from Hubert Patricot Three key areas of progress during in 2012, the facility is expected to 2010 was a great year for CRS in Europe. 2010 demonstrate how we are double the amount of recycled PET working towards industry leadership available in the country at present We have made considerable progress and creating a step change in – a demonstration of our against key targets and are proud of our business: commitment to creating a low-carbon future. It will also what we have accomplished. • Energy conservation/climate help us ensure that we have the change: In 2010, we reduced our greenest bottle at the 2012 London overall carbon footprint by 35,600 Olympic Games, made from tonnes CO2e (four percent) from a combination of PlantBottle 2009, while growing our volume and 25 percent recycled PET. by four percent. We invested $8.1 million in making our cold drinks equipment more efficient Looking to the future and installed 2,800 doors on our — open-fronted coolers, reducing Our CRS business planning helps the emissions from each cooler us develop programs which meet by around 50 percent. This the needs of our business and our industry-leading practice is stakeholders. In 2011, we introduced changing the way that soft drinks ‘carbon allowances’ for each of our are sold throughout our territories. business units, providing guideline limits for carbon emissions, and • Water stewardship: We are driving our reductions yet further. succeeding in driving down the We are looking for new innovation amount of water we use to make and ideas and are excited to learn our products. In 2010 we used from the sustainability successes an average of 1.42 liters of water of our colleagues in Norway and to produce one liter of product, Sweden as we integrate their down from 1.51 liters/liter in businesses. We know there are 2009. This exceeded our target challenges ahead related to the Operational one year ahead of schedule. environmental and social issues successes this year • Sustainable packaging/ facing our planet, from climate — recycling: We introduced change to public health. We want Our strong work on Corporate PlantBottle, a fully recyclable to be part of the solution and are Responsibility and Sustainability 4% PET bottle made from a blend excited to set new goals and targets throughout 2010 has helped us of petroleum-based materials to make this happen. bring added value to our suppliers, and plant-based materials, our customers and decision on some products in Norway We need your partnership and makers throughout our territories. and Sweden and will introduce collaboration and will share our In particular, we hosted our first this in Great Britain, France and progress with you. — ever Supplier Sustainability Benelux in 2011. In early 2011, volume growth Summit, bringing together we also announced our while reducing representatives from our top $7.75 million investment in a joint our overall carbon 50 suppliers to discuss how we venture with ECO Plastics to can work together to innovate develop a new purpose-built footprint by 35,600 and reduce our impacts throughout recycling facility in Lincolnshire, tonnes CO2e our value chain. We believe that Great Britain. This will be one of Hubert Patricot developing partnerships with the biggest plastic reprocessing Executive Vice President stakeholders such as these facilities in Western Europe and and President, European Group across our territories will be key a step change, we believe, in the Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) to meeting the challenges along British plastics reprocessing our CRS journey. industry. When fully operational Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 05 Where we operate Coca-Cola Enterprises in Europe Serving 165 million people Our countries of operation across seven countries in In 2010 we added the Coca-Cola Western Europe, Coca-Cola bottling operations in Norway and Enterprises (CCE) is one Sweden to our existing European of the world’s largest territories – Great Britain, France, independent bottlers of Monaco, Belgium, Luxembourg Coca-Cola beverages. and The Netherlands. 17 — manufacturing sites 7 — countries CCE European Headquarters Country head offices Bottling plants Figure 1: Coca-Cola Enterprises in Europe – key statistics 2010 DATA Great Belgium & TOTAL Britain France Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Sweden Employees per country 4,600 3,000 2,600 850 1,400 850 13,3001 Number of manufacturing sites 6 5 3 1 1 1 17 Carbon footprint (‘000s metric tonnes CO2e) 476 2 99 107 113 n/a n/a 7943 Water use ratio (liters water to make 1 liter product) 1.36 1.33 1.76 1.48 2.474 1.86 1.425 1. Please note we also retain an office of 160 people at our headquarters in Atlanta 2. Great Britain is our largest market and has carbon-intense electricity 3. Not including Norway and Sweden 4. Norway’s water use ratio is higher as we use water to wash our refillable plastic bottles 5. Not including Norway and Sweden – to be added in 2011 Our business at a glance Figure 2: Our impacts CCE is one of more than 300 the manufacturing and distribution process bottling companies that produce and distribute Coca-Cola products 95 percent of our products are made from as part of the world’s largest concentrates supplied by our brand owners. beverage distribution system. The rest are finished products that we distribute. Our sweeteners, juices, mineral waters, carbon dioxide, fuel and packaging materials come from a range of approved suppliers. We purchase Our supply chain Our business approximately 11 billion bottles and sugar directly, but our low calorie sweeteners — cans (or 560 million physical cases) are already contained in the concentrates we In 2010, Coca-Cola Enterprises sold throughout our territories during 2010 and generated approximately buy. We are looking at ways to reduce the carbon its North American operations to The $6.7 billion in revenues and and water impacts of these raw materials in our Coca-Cola Company and acquired $810 million of operating income. supply chain. The Coca-Cola Company’s bottling operations in Norway and Sweden, We remain a public company adding to our existing operations in incorporated and headquartered in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the United States and publicly traded The Netherlands, Luxembourg and on the New York Stock Exchange Monaco and creating a European under the symbol CCE. In May 2011, beverage business. Our operations we announced CCE’s secondary within Europe have achieved listing on the NYSE Euronext in Paris. year-over-year growth in volume We are committed to continuing and operating income for the last our success in Europe and creating five years. Including the contributions more opportunities for European We use water, energy and packaging materials of Norway and Sweden in the investors to benefit from our to produce our beverages. We are focused on fourth quarter of 2010, we sold long-term growth plans. increasing our operational efficiencies and minimizing our waste. The distribution of our Our business products uses fuel, so we are looking for new, low-carbon ways to get our products to market. $6.7 billion As an employer of approximately 13,500 people, in revenues we provide jobs and pay taxes in the countries and communities in which we operate. 11 billion bottles and cans 1.42 liters Our wide range of products reflects the changing The marketplace needs and demands of our consumers across average water our territories. Refrigerating our products uses use to make 1 liter energy, so we are increasing the efficiency of our of product coolers on our customers’ premises. Our empty packaging becomes waste unless it is collected for recycling, so we are working to increase $810 million recycling rates across our territories. operating income Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 07 13,500 — employees Our business has environmental and social impacts across the life cycle of our products, from the sourcing and use of raw materials and ingredients, Concentrate plants to the manufacturing of our products, to their disposal. We aim to reduce our impacts at each stage of our value chain and to make a positive difference to the communities in which we operate. Figure 2 shows the different impacts of our business at each stage of the value chain, and Packaging materials (pages 24-27) identifies where, in the Ingredients and raw remainder of this report, you materials (page 21) can read about how we are Third-party transport CCE manufacturing seeking to reduce them. by road/rail (page 17) facilities (page 16) CCE fleet transport (page 17) So far we have mainly focused on measuring and reducing our operational impacts and the impacts we can control, such as emissions from our cold drinks equipment. Being a leader means taking responsibility up and down our value chain. We are increasing our work with suppliers and customers to identify ways 165m to reduce these wider impacts. — consumers Customers Cold drinks equipment Consumers (pages 11,26) (pages 18-19) (page 11) 90% — volume from brands owned by The Coca-Cola Company Our products Our portfolio of beverages includes owned by The Coca-Cola Company Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) manufactures some of the most recognized brands and its affiliates represent more in the world: Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, than 90 percent of our volume, and distributes some of the most popular Coca-Cola light, Coke Zero, Fanta we distribute several brands for beverage brands in the world. and Sprite, as well as a growing other franchise partners, such range of water, juices and juice as Capri Sun and Ocean Spray. drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks The Coca-Cola Company is our and ready-to-drink teas. We strive primary strategic partner. to offer the leading brands in each of these categories. While beverages Product category1 Sparkling soft drinks Brand Coca-Cola Diet Coke/ Coke Zero Fanta Sprite Dr Pepper Schweppes Fernandes Lilt Coca-Cola light Country Belgium & Luxembourg France2 Great Britain Netherlands Norway Sweden Product category1 Juices and juice drinks (continued) Energy Brand Fanta Still Mer 5-alive Appletiser Innocent Kuli (still) Oasis Burn Monster Country Belgium & Luxembourg France2 Great Britain Netherlands Norway Sweden Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 09 Top 5 — during 2010, our top five brands by volume were: Coca-Cola, Diet Coke/Coca-Cola light, Fanta, Coca-Cola Zero and Capri Sun Waters and enhanced waters Juices and juice drinks Tab X-tra Urge GLACÉAU ChaudBonaqua Rosport Schweppes Viva Minute Capri Sun Ocean vitaminwaterTM fontaine Abbey Well Maid Spray Sports RTD teas and coffees Squash Nalu Relentless Urge Powerade Aquarius Nestea Chaqwa Kia-ora Intense 1. As defined by Canadean 2. Including Monaco $2.6bn — spent with over 12,000 suppliers in 2010. Of this, 90 percent was spent in our countries of operation. Stakeholders Did you know...? — CCE was ranked #1 in the Food and Beverage industry A wide range of stakeholders influence and in Newsweek’s 2010 Green are influenced by our business. We listen to Rankings. We are also listed on the FTSE4Good index of their views and use them to shape the way socially responsible companies. we operate and plan for the future. Who are our Figure 3: How we work with our stakeholders stakeholders? — At the beginning of our CRS Non-go ve journey, we mapped our loyee s organ rnment stakeholders into key groups Emp isati ons al (see Figure 3). We are currently reviewing this landscape within ny pa ers s, Ro u n Europe to see how we can better om wn r ve y dtab S nt s u r s, Th o le s, li e me s tr understand and incorporate s an e Co ier gag ewslet te c ts, inte r ate gic p s te ning d o ca pl up e en our stakeholders’ views and netproje base ar tne rsh tours, the -C n u p s, To loye pth ensure that we align with r b ola wi Emp cus gro munit y eek p i n e to -to boa rd m d e ngag ips, ra C lot w a c ts hip their expectations. re s , p p ro p b o com tion W nd tr s ) fo e mb e on on M net, e rsh me nt, g u ro d t t la c uc le c t c ati (S R r intra CR S in A o f r co u r e t / i n r m e e n Re l n t ’ p l i e m i t t h nt m e n o e t ips em er e p m While all our stakeholder groups e o a c n va i n ur pli ge m , Su Su r g t a t co t i o g s , oc p s y are important, we have focused a n t a nt n P r ‘ S u a n a ce s b i l i t i za l l l r a c M p ro i n a t i o e ve t s, our CRS engagement on our n ls s ta Su ers Custom employees and on subject matter experts who have Media Pres s re le De dicate d customer ases, digita ent te ams such as Tw l media m an ag em been able to provide valuable itter and re cycli ng te am insight into how we can improve our efforts. An nua l Re c s, s h a o n f e r p o r t, q ing re o e n c u eet gs w n e ca a r t e r s g s, m y filin e r m lls ly I nv fin or , s e et , d Brie gulat rc h o c u e wn s t or s, ing an es e a d f ola re s nt r i t i re s a n a C e r eys oc r ers me t ho , an >1m Me um r v e C e a lys t ns su T h um nd Community engagement ern u e co t i n g s C o t i o n u g h co n s e s a s i t e s G ov t o r y a lla b o , re p f a c ro y ) , o t l i n e b tis (th n w eo la ra t o r t s a u p s m p a i n t h o ke ’ ar regu i o n s, o g ro C m p l a u r C sh s programs, volunteering co e Yo ac — ‘ Tr Tr customers, from a de s as er small independent so um c ia ns retailers to large t io ns Co international chains. L o c a l co m m u n i t i e s , a n d c i v i c o a n i za t i o n s rg Stakeholder groups Ways we engage with each stakeholder Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 11 Our key collaborations Customers Our customers range from small Engaging our suppliers: Sustainability Summit 2010 in 2010 include: — independent retailers to large — In 2010, we held our first ever Supplier Sustainability Summit, international chains and we seek Non-Governmental attended by representatives from 50 of our top suppliers to to be their most valued supplier. Organizations discuss our goals, targets and the ways we can work together. We set annual targets for customer We are a signatory to the UN This meeting demonstrated our commitment to CRS to our satisfaction and measure our Global Compact and its CEO Water supply chain and created an opening for innovation and performance using surveys such Mandate and work closely with collaborative dialogue. The meeting helped us develop a as those by the Advantage Group. the International Business Leaders number of key CRS projects, from piloting ‘Eco-Combi’ trucks In 2010, for the fifth consecutive year, Forum (IBLF). We also work with in The Netherlands (see page 14) to harmonizing the colors we remained the top supplier in the the World Wildlife Fund as part of of our bottle caps. We held a second meeting in 2011, focused Advantage Group rankings of most The Coca-Cola Company’s global on reducing carbon in our supply chain. valuable fast-moving consumer partnership and we maintain a wide goods suppliers in Great Britain. range of relationships with national A workshop at our 2010 Supplier Summit. In 2010 we also received the #1 rating NGOs such as those involved in in Benelux and the #2 rating in France. packaging recovery (see page 27). In 2010, we convened a roundtable We want to continue to meet our with water experts from academia customers’ expectations. In 2010, and NGOs in North America we worked with the Institute of and Europe to discuss our water Grocery Distribution (IGD) and asked stewardship approach and our design agencies, packaging experts replenishment target. In 2011, and retailers to think about ‘The Store we aim to convene a further three of the Future’. We sought to examine roundtables on different topics shopping in 10 to 15 years’ time material to our business. and the role of technology in the shopper experience. The final Employees report suggested that CRS will In 2010, we launched a partnership remain very important to ensure that with the University of Cambridge our products meet our customers’ Sustainability Leadership Program evolving environmental needs. and developed a tailored sustainability course into which we Engaging our employees: CRS in Action Week Consumers — enrolled more than 80 members of The Coca-Cola Company leads To celebrate Coca-Cola Enterprises’ commitment to CCE’s senior management with the on consumer engagement and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability, we held aim of embedding CRS further into research, monitoring brand ‘CRS in Action Week’. From 11 to 15 October 2010, we engaged our decision-making. In 2011, we performance and consumer in community and environmentally focused activities across will continue to run more courses. trends, and CCE operates consumer all our countries. This was launched via a video message We also held our third ‘CRS in Action response centers to monitor from our Chairman and CEO and employees were involved Week’ (see case study opposite). consumer feedback and product in a wide range of initiatives – from bike races to river and issues. In 2010, we received 82,539 beach clean-ups; from healthy eating to workshops turning Suppliers consumer contacts, of which waste packaging into works of art. The week was well-received We spent more than $2.6 billion 16 percent were product qualityby our employees and communities and we are planning with over 12,000 suppliers in 2010. related. This represents 1.23 product another week of action in 2011. Of this, 90 percent was spent in quality complaints per million units our countries of operation and 96 sold, six percent lower than the percent within the EU. We expect previous year. Our consumers want Employees removing litter in France. all our suppliers to adhere to our to know more about our products, Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs), our ingredients and where they are a set of standards that includes made. In 2010, we introduced ‘Trace health and safety, human rights, your Coke’ in Great Britain, Benelux labor, environment and business and France – a website that allows integrity. We also incorporate consumers to receive information environmental criteria into our about a product, where it was Supplier Relationship Management produced and its carbon footprint process, which covered 80 percent by selecting the brand and package of our 2010 spend with suppliers. type and entering a code printed We are looking at ways to work on the pack. with our suppliers to encourage innovation throughout our value chain (see case study opposite). Governance Our leadership team also Risk management and CCE’s vision is to be the best beverage participates in The Coca-Cola business planning Company’s European System CRS sales and customer service company. Board, a pan-European leadership — Social and environmental risks are Our Operating Framework outlines the group which includes other strategic business risks and are Coca-Cola bottlers. This group meets strategic priorities that will help us drive bi-annually to evaluate policy on assessed annually. Risks that could adversely affect our business and consistent, long-term, profitable growth matters of strategic environmental financial results are disclosed in the and social importance to our and CRS is a key pillar of this framework. business. Outputs from these Form 10-K found in our company’s Annual Report and quarterly meetings influence our own internal financial reporting. These risks policy and decision-making. include health and wellness trends, cost or limitations of raw materials, Our CRS Advisory Council is a adverse weather, and global Our governance structure required to meet our internal rate cross-functional body of senior climate change2. As the Executive of return standards. We assess the managers who chair Steering Groups — for each CRS focus area. They meet Leadership Team (ELT) member We are committed to doing business financial costs and environmental responsible for CRS, Laura Brightwell and reputational benefits of each five times per year to review progress, responsibly and strive to maintain a is accountable for CRS risks. CRS is project and provide this information discuss challenges and identify the leadership position in the consumer also one of the performance to our senior leadership. They then future direction and priorities for CRS at goods sector in Europe, recognizing objectives that determine the allocate capital on a fully-informed CCE and report back to the CRS Board that this is a journey, not a destination. variable compensation of all basis. The committee is chaired by Committee. The CRS Advisory Council members of the ELT. Cal Darden, former Senior Vice is chaired by Laura Brightwell, Senior We are embedding CRS into our President, U.S. Operations, United Vice President of Public Affairs and everyday decision-making In recent years we have enhanced Parcel Service, Inc. The other Communications. processes. Our strategy is guided the development process for any by the CRS Committee of the Board members are John Brock, our major project, product or new Chairman and CEO; Curt Welling, Supporting our CRS Advisory Council of Directors1 which meets five times investment, to consider its impact President and Chief Executive, is a network of CRS managers and an a year to review our progress. on our CRS commitments. CRS is Americares Foundation; and Environmental Stewardship team that The committee also oversees the incorporated in each Business Véronique Morali, Chairman of manages quality, environment, safety capital expenditure allocated from Unit’s business plan and we have Fimalac Développement and Vice and health across our operations. a specific CRS budget designated compiled a five-year Long Range Chairman, Fitch Group, Inc. Members of this team also participate for CRS projects and technologies. Plan for CRS at CCE. in the Global Coca-Cola Environment These funding decisions are not and Safety Council. Figure 4: Operating Framework VISION Be the best beverage sales and customer service company “Best” means: Being #1 or strong #2 in every category in which we compete Strategic Priority: Grow value of existing brands and expand our product portfolio Being our customers’ most valued supplier Corporate responsibility and An effective relationship with Strategic Priority: Transform our go-to-market model to improve efficiency and effectiveness Establishing a winning and inclusive culture Strategic Priority: Attract, develop and retain a highly talented and diverse workforce Drive consistent long-term profitable growth sustainability is our business The Coca-Cola Company World class capabilities • Revenue Growth Management • Supply Chain • Sales & Customer Service Executional excellence every day Values • Accountable • Customer-focused • Team-driven Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 13 Ethics and compliance Compact, which CCE signed in incidents are investigated — 2007. It is published on our website appropriately and all activity is We are committed to a culture and intranet and all new employees reported to the Audit Committee of ethical behavior across all are informed of the Code during of the Board of Directors and Figure 5: CCE operational roles and geographies. their inductions. reviewed by our new Code of structure Business Conduct Violation Review At CCE, we follow the RIGHT Way CCE’s Compliance and Risk Committee to evaluate trends CCE Board of Directors Chairman: John Brock model of ethical values. Our actions, organization aims to foster and and ensure consistent application decisions and behavior must always enhance the ethical environment of the Code of Business Conduct. maintain Respect, Integrity, Good throughout CCE by embedding judgment, Honesty and Trust. These ethics and compliance into risk Management systems, Executive Leadership Team (ELT) management and monitoring values are the foundation of our policies and standards Code of Business Conduct and compliance with the Code of Chief Executive Officer Business Conduct. Our Compliance — Executive VP and President, we aim to embed them in We are participating in European Group everything we do, every day. and Risk program provides training, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer the Coca-Cola system’s transition communication and change SVP, General Counsel and to ISO standards for quality, Strategic Initiatives Our revised global Code of Business management related to the Code food safety, environment and SVP, Public Affairs and Communications Conduct is the cornerstone of our of Business Conduct and other SVP, Human Resources occupational safety. Sixteen of our Ethics and Compliance program and key risks. SVP, Chief Information Officer 17 production facilities now have helps us comply with the U.S. Foreign these standards in place. Corrupt Practices Act and the recent For our Code to be effective, UK Bribery Act. The Code outlines employees must feel conﬁdent Guiding our management the behavior we expect of every in raising concerns or questions Operating Leadership Team (OLT)* systems are a series of overarching employee and identiﬁes 12 guiding without fear of retaliation. CCE has corporate policies which we review principles. These include promoting an Ethics and Compliance hotline periodically. This year, we have health and safety in the workplace, to report such violations3. Employees again reviewed our Environmental complying with anti-corruption laws are also encouraged to speak to CCE Business Units Policy to further align it with the and upholding our environmental their manager or to call or email expectations of our stakeholders. commitments. Our Code is one of the Ethics and Compliance ofﬁce the ways we comply with the 10 to discuss concerns or to report universal principles of the UN Global suspected violations. All reported Great Britain France Figure 6: Management systems coverage Benelux Focus Area Standard Number of % of facilities facilities in in compliance compliance4 Norway and Quality ISO9000 16 94% Supply Chain Sweden Food Safety ISO22000 16 94% Environment ISO14001 16 94% * Support functions represented on OLT Occupational Safety OHSAS18001 16 94% and throughout the business units CCE CRS Governance (from left to right) Cal Darden, Chair, CRS Board Committee Laura Brightwell, Chair, CRS Advisory Council Véronique Morali, Member, CRS Board Committee John Brock, Chairman and CEO, and member of CRS Board Committee Curt Welling, Member, CRS Board Committee 1. Further details of our Committee and its members can be found at www.cokecce.com 2. More details on our climate change risks can be found in our submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdproject.net 3. In all countries except France 4. Includes all owned manufacturing production plant facilities only and does not include our co-packer partners, distributiononly operations or commercial facilities (e.g. Cold Drinks Operations or Vending sites). Also includes manufacturing operations in Norway and Sweden. Low-carbon distribution — We now have five ‘Eco-Combi’ trucks in our Dutch fleet. These improve the carbon efficiency of our deliveries by transporting 38 rather than 26 pallets at once, reducing CO2e emissions by 20 percent per pallet. ENERGY CONSERVATION/ CLIMATE CHANGE Introduction cause additional costs and reduce Our 2010 progress — our ability to manufacture and Climate change, caused by distribute our products. We want to 2007 2008 2009 2010 man-made greenhouse gas minimize our climate impacts by Operational carbon footprint 795,760 850,438 830,802 795,181 emissions, is considered by many reducing our emissions, increasing (metric tonnes CO2e) as the greatest threat to our planet. our efficiency and changing the way we source and use energy1. Direct energy used in operations (MWh) 203,088 223,352 221,887 218,033 We recognize the effects that a changing climate could potentially Natural Gas (%) 88.73% 83.62% 83.32% 84.66% have on the sustainability of our LPG (%) 11.27% 14.33% 14.30% 14.24% business and supply chain: threats Light Fuel Oil (%) not reported 0.59% 0.16% 0.19% to water availability, increased energy prices and regulation could Diesel (%) not reported 1.46% 2.22% 0.92% Indirect energy used in operations (MWh) 328,777 324,273 321,216 319,139 1. For more detail on our climate risks, refer to the CCE Form 10-K 2. See ‘About this Report’ section for more detail on footprint Electricity (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% boundaries. 3. A variety of methodologies were used to measure each part of this footprint. More detail can be found on the CRS section of our corporate website, www.cokecce.com. 4. Our 2010 data includes acquisition of our Morpeth, Great Britain Energy used in cold 1,234,078 1,588,036 1,471,943 1,439,269 plant (Abbey Well), in-sourcing of pre-form manufacture at our Wakefield plant and enhancements to our Cold Drinks Equipment drinks equipment (MWh) source data. These additions equate to less than 5% of our total carbon footprint. Initial calculations suggest that to incorporate these data improvements into our original 2007 baseline would increase it to an estimated 809,000 tonnes. Additionally please note that because we use anaerobic waste water biogas at Wakefield, Great Britain, this generated emissions of 137.4 metric tonnes of CO2e in 2010. We do not include this in our footprint but report it separately, in alignment with the WRI/WBCSD Protocol. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 15 Our carbon footprint In 2010, using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we measured the carbon footprint of our business, not including Norway and Sweden, at just over 795,000 metric tonnes of CO2e2. This represents the emissions we generate in our manufacturing processes, facilities, fleet, and by our cold drinks equipment3. Our commitment Our carbon footprint 2007-2010 (metric tonnes CO2e) Total 795,760 850,438 830,802 795,1814 Xxxx Reduce the overall carbon footprint of Manufacturing Cold drinks equipment our business operations by an absolute CCE fleet Third party distribution 15 percent by 2020 as compared to our Other (including business travel) 2007 baseline. 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our energy conservation/ largest part of that footprint and that Initial indications are that the addition of CCE Norway will climate change strategy cooling accounts for the secondincrease our carbon footprint by approximately 13,000 tonnes, largest part. Our work on sustainable — and CCE Sweden by 12,500 tonnes5. packaging (pages 24–27) shows This chapter concentrates on the how we are reducing the carbon way we are reducing carbon Our 2010 emissions by scope and source footprint of our packaging. within our own operations – the Greenhouse Gas (tCO2e)6 manufacturing, distribution and cooling of our products. Reducing our emissions Carbon Nitrous Dioxide Oxide Methane Hydrofluorocarbons Total (scope) % — (CO2) (N2O) (CH4) (HFCs) (tCO2e) Footprint However, over the last few years Our emissions reduction program Scope7 1 Direct 112,636 76 444 255 113,411 14% we have been working to better is based on our greatest operational (tCO2e) emissions (e.g. fuel) understand the carbon embedded carbon impacts. In 2010, we invested $10.4 million of capital expenditure 2 Indirect 98,187 n/a n/a n/a 98,187 12% in our value chain because our emissions product carbon footprinting work on carbon reduction projects. (e.g. electricity) has highlighted that our supply chain We have focused mainly on our 3 Related 582,587 62 934 n/a 583,584 73% is where most of our carbon impact cold drinks equipment, but have 3rd Party emissions lies. Our initial calculations of our also worked to improve efficiencies (e.g. cold drinks value chain carbon footprint show in manufacturing and distribution. equipment) that packaging is responsible for the Total (GHG) 793,409 138 1,379 255 795,181 We are growing our business but not the carbon it produces. During 2010 we reduced our carbon footprint by 35,600 metric tonnes of CO2e in comparison with 2009, while increasing sales volume by four percent. Figure 7: Estimated carbon emissions across our value chain CCE supply chain CCE operations (1.4m metric tonnes CO2e)8 (795,000 metric tonnes CO2e) Ingredients Packaging Manufacturing Distribution Selling – cooling and vending % CCE core business emissions – – 22% 16% 62% % CCE value chain emissions 16% 10 48% 11 7% 6% 23% (estimated)9 5. We are currently aligning the methodologies by which the Norwegian and Swedish carbon footprints are calculated and we will include their carbon emissions in our 2011 footprint calculation, in accordance with our Base Year Recalculation Policy. 6. Please note, all numbers are rounded so may not add together to create totals. We do not have PFCs or SF6 emissions. 7. These emissions are classified into three different “Scopes,” depending on their source and origin. Our core emissions are from Scope 1 (the direct emissions from our facilities and our fleet) and Scope 2 (the electricity we purchase). We also choose to report our Scope 3 emissions (emissions that do not occur at the sites of our business operations but that result from our business). For us, these are mainly emissions generated by the electricity used for our cold drinks equipment, which is operated by our customers on their premises. Under the Protocol, reporting Scope 3 emissions is optional; however, we measure and seek to reduce our Scope 3 emissions because they are almost 2.5 times greater than our core emissions. 8. This number is estimated and has not been subject to external verification. 9. Not including Norway and Sweden 10. Based on carbon footprint modeling for bulk ingredients (e.g. sugar), and does not include flavor components. 11. Based on life cycle analysis data for our main packaging types. Reducing our emissions – continued Reducing our energy use in Sidcup, Great Britain — In our facility in Sidcup, Great Britain, we have invested $125,000 to replace our standard fluorescent light tubes with new Light Manufacturing blowers, compressors and chillers. Emitting Diode (LED) technology. Each new LED uses a quarter of — These tell us where energy is the energy of a fluorescent tube, so will save 416 MWH of energy Our manufacturing operations make being used and how efficiently per year, (one percent of Sidcup’s total usage) and around 197 up 22 percent of our core business the equipment is working, and tonnes of CO2e. As LEDs last longer, we will also make annual emissions and around 80 percent of help us to identify energy-reduction maintenance savings of around $6,000. We have also installed this comes from energy used at our strategies. We installed M&T systems a Ground Source Heat pump at our Sidcup plant. This technology manufacturing and distribution sites. throughout Great Britain12 in 2009 uses the cooling properties of the cold water in the aquifer In 2010, we used nearly two percent and in 2010 invested $1.8 million beneath our plant to cool compressors and bottle blowers instead less energy in our manufacturing to install the technology in five further of using energy from the grid for refrigeration. We estimate that it operations than in 2009 – a total of facilities. We aim to reduce site will produce year-on-year carbon savings of around 1,612 tonnes 494,000 megawatt hours (MWH), energy consumption by around and save us $300,000 in energy costs per year. down from 504,000 MWH – while three percent year-on-year. We are increasing production volume. also using M&T systems to reduce Monitoring energy at our Sidcup, Great Britain, plant. We have achieved this reduction water use (see page 22) and will through monitoring energy use, extend the systems to monitor planning and training, energylosses of carbonation CO2, also efficient technologies, and known as ‘fugitive CO2’. investing in renewable energy. ‘esKO’ training: We have participated in ‘esKO’ – Energy use monitoring, a Coca-Cola system-wide planning and training energy-saving program. In 2009, — six of our manufacturing facilities13, We believe you can’t manage what along with other Coca-Cola bottling you don’t measure, so in 2010 we plants in other countries, undertook improved the systems by which we in-depth energy use assessments. monitor energy. Each facility’s Our findings informed a catalogue environmental data is reviewed of best-practice energy-efficiency regularly by senior management examples for European bottling and we want to develop even plants. In 2010, we held a series greater awareness at plant level. of training workshops for Two key initiatives in 2010 helped environmental, maintenance and us to do this: engineering managers on how Energy-efficient Lighting to use the catalogue and identify Over the last two years we have Monitoring and targeting (M&T) technologies future efficiency opportunities, invested in lighting improvements. We have placed energy meters supplementing our existing — Depending on the location and its on production lines and energyWe are rolling out new, energyenvironmental training. lighting requirements, we have intensive equipment such as bottle efficient technologies where installed new technologies such as possible. In 2010, we focused energy-efficient bulbs and sensors, our investment on new lighting, intelligent lighting systems and Light compressed air and heat recovery. CRS Masterplans Emitting Diodes (LEDs). These projects — will save approximately 560 tonnes Compressed air In 2010, each site mapped its energy and water use and of CO2e per year. We continue to We use compressed air throughout developed a CRS Masterplan to identify short, medium investigate new technologies such our bottling plants for running and long-term projects to reach our currently established as sun pipes which we are piloting our machinery and drying bottles energy, water and waste best practices by 2014. Each plan at our plant in Milton Keynes, and cans before we add labels. includes projects such as strategic equipment replacement, Great Britain. However, the process is expensive optimization procedures, refurbishment and awareness and energy-intensive. In 2010, training for employees. Heat recovery we commissioned a survey of Following successful pilots, we are compressed air leakages across also expanding our use of heat all our sites to identify problems recovery. This works by piping heat and make repairs. We identified energy from boilers to be reused around 4,700 tonnes of CO2e for other production processes, savings and formed the to reduce our use of natural gas. ‘100 Percent Club’ for sites that have repaired all their leaks. 12. Except for Abbey Well (Morpeth), which is our newest site. 13. Ghent, Chaudfontaine, Clamart, Grigny, Sidcup and Wakefield. 14. This equates to 0.6% of our 2010 mileage in France. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 17 Renewable energy geography and location. We are in our facilities investigating a water turbine at Chaudfontaine, Belgium along — with wind turbines in Northampton, Although renewable energy Great Britain and Dongen, technologies tend to be more The Netherlands and solar panels expensive than traditional fossil on our factories at Edmonton, Great energy sources, we believe they Britain and Marseille, France. We will have a part to play in helping hope to invest in combined heat and Our river transport trial in The Netherlands. us to meet our carbon reduction power, which would allow us to use targets. By adopting such Transportation Third-party fleet waste heat from energy generation technologies at an early stage, we Most of our deliveries are carried out in our own processes in Wakefield, — can reduce costs in the longer term. by third-party haulers. In partnership Great Britain. To implement these Transporting our products currently accounts for 16 percent of our core with them we saved 900,000 road projects we must first meet individual We are exploring the most suitable miles and 3,300 tonnes of CO2e planning-related requirements business emissions. We are working renewable and low-carbon energy emissions in 2010. Our partnerships at each site. to improve the efficiency of our own solution at each site, depending on have also helped us increase the vehicles and those of our distribution partners, and to optimize our logistics use of other modes of transport such network and routes to market. as rail in Great Britain and France and river in The Netherlands. A river Reducing emissions transport trial showed we could Employee spotlight from our fleet reduce our CO2e emissions by up We are piloting different engine to 20 percent per pallet, so we plan and fuel technologies across our to carry out further shipments in 2011. geographies, assessing their In France, more than eight percent capabilities and rolling out those of our transport miles are now by rail. Darren O’Donnell best suited to our needs. In The In 2011, we aim to increase this by a Logistics Asset Manager Netherlands we have introduced further 125,000 miles, to 10 percent Uxbridge, Great Britain five new ‘Eco-Combi’ trucks (see of miles travelled in the country. — page 14). “I’m proud to have helped put CCE at the forefront of green Backhauling and vehicle technology. I was given the task of reducing carbon In Great Britain, we are trialing network optimization emissions from our transport fleet in Great Britain and biogas-powered vehicles (reported We are also expanding backhauling investigated a number of options. Biogas gives us maximum to achieve up to 65 percent CO2e with customers and suppliers in emission reductions without compromising our operations. savings across the life cycle of the Great Britain and France – an We now have one biogas truck, powered by gas from organic vehicle) as well as investigating the arrangement by which customers waste at a landfill site. This produces up to 65 percent less ways in which aerodynamics and or suppliers use empty vehicles on emissions than a normal truck. We now plan to introduce stop-start engine technology can a return journey to collect or move another 13 of these environmentally-friendly vehicles over the save fuel. In Belgium, we piloted product. For example, we introduced next two years and are the first operator in the British logistics hybrid vehicles using Renault backhauling with Carrefour in France sector to be running dedicated biogas trucks.” technology in 2009 and are on two routes, to their warehouses in continuing to investigate new Bassens and Libercourt. Backhauling alternative technologies to find in France saved 780 deliveries, the best solution for our markets. 122,500 miles14 and 210 tonnes of CO2e in 2010. We are also working to reduce the environmental impacts of the Network optimization has brought vehicles in our conventional fleet. real carbon benefits. Through Trials indicated that ‘eco-driving’ improved network planning in techniques, such as early gear France, for example, we have been changes, speed limiters and able to remove about two and a minimal braking could achieve fuel half miles from every trip, saving savings of five to ten percent, so we approximately 260,000 miles will roll out training to our drivers. and 443 tonnes of CO2e per year. We have significantly improved the Through better route strategy, emissions from our corporate car production changes, and and van fleet by introducing CO2 warehouse expansion and caps for cars, providing green planning, we will continue to create choices to our employees and network and distribution efficiencies. selecting only best-in-class energy-efficient vans. Reducing our emissions – continued 2 1 3 Technology used to improve the efficiencies of our coolers. Our cold drinks equipment 1 Fitting doors – 3 Energy management Vending machine programming — We have approximately 21,000 devices (EMS-55) – We can also program certain Our cold drinks equipment open-fronted coolers across Our intelligent ‘EMS-55’ device vendor models to use energy more makes up the greatest proportion our territories. By fitting doors, recognizes patterns of use and efficiently. In 2011, we will program (62 percent) of our core business we can reduce energy use by responds by shutting off lights over 4,800 of these, to reach seven emissions. At the end of 2010 up to 50 percent. In 2010, we and adjusting temperatures percent of our total vendor fleet. we had approximately 490,000 fitted 2,800 doors and in 2011, when the cooler is not being coolers, vendors and fountain we aim to fit a further 7,500, opened regularly. In this way machines in the marketplace in to reach nearly half of our it can reduce energy our territories15, operated by our open-fronted fleet. consumption by up to customers on their premises. 35 percent per cooler. In 2010, 2 Lighting improvement – we fitted 24,275 EMS devices Existing coolers We are replacing standard and we aim to install a further We are working to improve the fluorescent lighting with 43,500 in 2011 so that by the efficiency of our existing coolers long-life LEDs which can be end of the year, we will have by in-market retrofits, so that we do up to 80 percent more efficient. fitted devices to 28 percent not take equipment out of service, We fitted 15,700 LEDs in 2010. of our total cooler fleet. or by refurbishment at one of our four service centers16. We are driving carbon reductions across our existing coolers in several ways: 15. Not including Norway and Sweden 16. We have four cooler refurbishment centers in our territories; Milton Keynes (Great Britain); Londerzeel (Belgium); Dunkirk and Courtaboeuf (France) 17. Pending commercial viability and technology availability 18. Excluding Norway and Sweden Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 19 Did you Carbon allowances: Driving accountability for carbon reductions know...? — — Encouraging accountability for the carbon implications of We are committed to our business decisions is one of the ways in which we can recycling and reusing our encourage our employees to meet our carbon goals. As a equipment – we refurbished result, we developed ‘carbon allowances’ for all our business 46,000 coolers in 2010, units in 2010 and rolled these out in early 2011. We have set more than the 31,000 a maximum emissions target for each country, and our Energy that we bought new. Conservation/Climate Change Steering Group will work with each business unit to develop a carbon reduction plan based on its annual business plan. New coolers suppliers, we aim to purchase — 100 percent HFC-free coolers by We have set high standards for the January 201317. In 2010, we bought new coolers that we buy and install over 12,500 HFC-free coolers, in our customers’ premises. For approximately 50 percent of all example, all our new coolers that our new purchases18 and four have a cubic capacity of over 250 percent of our total fleet. In 2011, liters of product now come with our we intend to purchase a further intelligent EMS device pre-installed. 16,000 HFC-free coolers. HFC-free Other cooling innovations We have also committed ourselves We are constantly looking at new to removing hydrofluorocarbon ideas and opportunities to reduce refrigerants (HFCs) from our the carbon footprint of our cooling equipment. HFCs can be powerful equipment. Among other initiatives, greenhouse gases if leaked to the we have started to investigate ways environment or released when in which we can reduce the energy equipment is disposed of incorrectly. used to cool fountain drinks in Our equipment is maintained by venues such as pubs and cinemas. our technical centers and our field Refurbishing coolers at our Milton Keynes center. engineers. In addition, we have systems in place for safe disposal and we no longer purchase Looking to the future Working with others – global partnerships equipment that contains insulation — — with HFCs. We want to ensure that We are reviewing our carbon We are working in support of climate policy at global, our coolers use HFC-free refrigerants reduction goal in 2011, looking at national, industry and local levels. In 2009, we joined more instead, which are found in the our carbon impacts beyond our than 950 companies from more than 60 countries in signing the natural environment and present immediate operations and the Copenhagen Communiqué and in 2010 we signed the follow-up no significant risk to the climate. demands of our stakeholders Cancun Communiqué. These are definitive statements from the Our challenge is the availability and policy makers. international business community to pursue an equitable deal of this equipment. Working with on climate change, agreed during the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Chan Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark and tthe e follow-up f l ow w-u meeting in Cancun, Mexico in 2010. More recently rece t we have signed a ‘business call’, organized and recently, su supported po ted by b The Climate Group, WWF and the Cambridge Prog Programme amme ffor Sustainability Leadership, for the European Un Unionon tooa ado o a 30 percent emissions reduction target by 2020. adopt 6% — improvement in water efficiency 2009–2010 Savings... — Our new bottle washer in Clamart cleans around 80 percent of all our returnable glass bottles in France. Its spraying system and water flow management uses less than half the water of the previous machine, saving 36,750 m3 of WATER water per year. STEWARDSHIP Introduction which we source ingredients such Our 2010 progress1 — as sugar. These problems are likely Water is one of the planet’s most to be influenced by climate change. 2007 2008 2009 2010 precious resources. It is the main We aim to act as responsible Water use ratio 1.64 1.57 1.51 1.42 ingredient in our products and we stewards of water and to reduce (average liters of water per also use it for cooling, washing and the impacts of our business on the liter of product produced) rinsing at our manufacturing plants. world around us. Total water use (billion liters) 8.79 8.64 8.66 8.37 Although Europe is widely seen as Volume of water municipal 2,683,117 2,462,988 2,347,720 2,167,038 a water-abundant continent, we discharged to treatment face issues of water quality and plants (m3) sometimes scarcity in some of our countries of operation as well as Volume of water treated by 873,735 842,296 762,467 586,570 CCE treatment plants (m3)2 further away in the countries from % water discharged meeting 100 100 100 100 aquatic life standards 1. Not including Norway and Sweden 2. Includes water from three of CCE’s water treatment plants (Chaudfontaine, Ghent and Marseille) which discharge directly to a watercourse. Our wastewater treatment plant at Wakefield discharges processed water to the municipal treatment system. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 21 “Over the last five years we have increased our production by around 12 percent, yet reduced our overall use of water by five percent. Our operations in Great Britain and France are the most efficient in the global Coca-Cola system.” Our commitment potential water risks to our business, Establish a water-sustainable operation the local community and the Working with partners to inform our water ecosystem. Less than 20 percent by protecting our water sources, minimizing of the water we use comes from stewardship strategy our water use and replenishing the amount groundwater withdrawal on-site — Many external influences and these on-site wells are licensed of water used in our beverages. by government. The remaining inform the ongoing 80 percent of the water we use development of our water comes from municipal sources. stewardship strategy. Our Our SVAs found no critical issues Water Roundtable brought in terms of water availability. together representatives Nevertheless, water stress could from water-focused NGOs Our water that over time we should develop such as the World Resources our focus beyond protecting our own worsen over time in some of the stewardship strategy Institute (WRI), the World water sources and reducing our heavily populated areas where — we manufacture our products. Wildlife Fund (WWF) and operational water use to reducing In 2009, we calculated the The Nature Conservancy. and safeguarding the water in our water footprint of Coca-Cola Our vulnerability assessments have We also participate in supply chain. While our present produced at our Dongen plant in informed the development of industry alliances and focus is on increasing our operational The Netherlands3. The results technical Source Water Protection public-private partnerships water efficiencies (see page 22), showed that a 500 ml plastic (PET) Plans (SWPPs) for each production on water policy in our we are also beginning to investigate Coca-Cola bottle has an embedded site in conjunction with water countries of operation ways in which we can reduce our water footprint of 35.4 liters of water4. providers, government agencies – one example being water use impacts across our whole Of this, 99 percent is used in our and community organizations. the Federation House value chain (see page 23). supply chain, and 76 percent At the end of 2010, we had Commitment which asks specifically for the growing and completed SWPPs at all sites except the food and beverage refining of sugar beet. Although the Protecting our industry in Great Britain Morpeth, Great Britain, and Oslo, footprint varies depending on the water sources to reduce its water use by Norway, where the work will be calculation methodology, it is clear — completed in 2011. In 2011, we 20 percent by 2020. that our water impacts extend We aim to sustain high quality will implement these plans at We submit data and beyond our business and into our water sources and to minimize our each site and will update them participate in watervalue chain. impacts on local communities and every two years, engaging our efficiency benchmarking ecosystems. In 2009, we started a local communities and stakeholders and the sharing of best In early 2010, we conducted a series of Source Water Vulnerability each time. practices with other roundtable with stakeholders Assessments (SVAs) at all our beverage companies and water experts to discuss production facilities. We investigated at the Beverage Industry the development of our overall the likelihood that our water sources Environmental water strategy. We heard that our will be affected by quality and Roundtable (BIER). approach should be risk-based and scarcity issues and assessed Figure 8: Water use in our value chain CURRENT FOCUS FUTURE FOCUS Stage Manufacturing Supply Chain: Ingredients, Packaging Water use 1% 99% 3. A pilot study in conjunction with The University of Twente and the Water Footprint Network. 4. Footprint did not include the flavoring contained in the concentrate. Water stewardship – continued Employee spotlight Reducing our water use Our 2020 target is to achieve an — average water use ratio of 1.3 liters Xavier Brelle We are a significant user of water, of water to produce one liter of Environment Manager using 8.37 billion liters in 2010. beverage. In 2010, we used Grigny, France Although we cannot reduce the 1.42 liters/liter, down from 1.51 liters — volume of water in our products, /liter in 2009. This marks an “With technicians Stéphane Marle and Philippe Brun, I led a we can focus on making our improvement of nearly six percent ‘water mapping’ project at our Grigny plant to reduce our water cleaning and manufacturing (14 percent since 2007), exceeding use ratio. We measured and recorded our water consumption processes more efficient. Over the our 2010 target and meeting our around the plant to see which areas needed improvement, last five years, we have increased 2011 target ahead of schedule. then introduced water-saving projects such as reducing water our production by around 12 percent, in our rinsers. We also installed 13 new water meters on-site, yet reduced our overall use of water We have set a new 2011 target of connected to a monitoring device, to alert us when we were by five percent, highlighting the 1.38 liters/liter for our operations using too much water. By the end of 2010, our water use ratio success of this work. We measure excluding Norway and Sweden and was 1.32, down from 1.49 in 2008, and our plant saved about the water efficiency of our operations 1.44 liters/liter including Norway and 39,400 m3 of water compared to 2009.” by calculating the water we use to Sweden. A target below 1.3 liters/liter create one liter of product – a term may require the use of more energy we call our ‘water use ratio’. On this and we could face a trade-off with basis, CCE’s operations in France our energy reduction goal. We will New technologies Activated water (ECA), which and Great Britain were the most continue to investigate how to Key to reducing our water use is works by electrolyzing salt efficient in the global Coca-Cola achieve water efficiencies below the implementation of new, efficient added to water to create an system in 2009. this benchmark on a consistent, technologies in our plants. In 2010, acidic cleaning solution. Pilots low energy basis. At the end of 2010, we developed CRS Masterplans show that ECA reduces energy seven of our facilities had already which prioritize potential short, use by 80 percent, chemical achieved efficiencies of less than mediumand long-term projects use by 90 percent and water 1.4 liters/liter. in each plant (see page 16) and use by 25 percent. spent $1.5 million on implementing • Bottle washers – We have proven technologies across our installed a new bottle washer business, as well as piloting new at our Clamart, France facility technologies to achieve even greater which handles approximately efficiencies. These included: 80 percent of all our returnable • Dry lube – We are now using a glass bottles in France. With its dry lubricant, rather than soapy improved spraying system water, to move containers along and water flow management, production lines and are testing it uses 7.5 m3 of water per hour, its use on glass bottle lines. compared to 18 m3 per hour in the previous machine. This means • Air rinsers – Where we install new we save around 36,750 m3 of lines or replace machinery, we Figure 9: Growing our Figure 10: CCE Water Use water per year. will introduce ionized air instead business but using less water Ratio targets and progress of water to rinse pre-blown bottles 2006-2010 (excluding Norway (excluding Norway Monitoring and targeting and cans. Approximately 30 and Sweden) and Sweden) We have enhanced the way we percent of our plastic bottle and monitor our water use to identify can lines now use air rinsers. 8.83 8.79 8.64 8.66 8.37 CCE new efficiencies. By installing • Recycle and reclaim loops – systems similar to those used for We are improving our ‘Clean in energy monitoring (see page 16), Place’ (CIP) sanitation systems we can assess our water use in which allow us to recover and real time. In 2010, we installed water 5.73 5.89 5.25 5.36 5.50 reuse rinsing water for further metering technology at five plants. cleaning processes. We are also In 2011, in Dongen, The Netherlands, trialing other CIP techniques such we will pilot software which links as the use of cold rather than hot the meters to give a comprehensive 1.42 Target water, new cleaning chemicals view of efficiencies. If successful, Target 2020 and blowing with air. We are we will roll it out further. 2011 1.3 1.38 testing Electro Chemically 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 2020 Total water use (billion liters) Liters water used to Production (billion liters) make 1 liter of product Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 23 Recycling the water we use Replenishment in Replenishment — our communities in our supply chain Looking to the future Our water use ratio 2020 target of Although not yet contributing to this Following our water footprint study — 1.3 liters/liter is made up of one liter overall goal, the key replenishment in The Netherlands (see page 21), We will review our water of water that goes into our beverage and watershed protection projects The Coca-Cola Company has led stewardship goal and targets and 0.3 liters that is wastewater. we carried out across our territories a second phase of validation work, in 2011, developing a Although we aim to reduce this in 2010 are: in partnership with our sugar replenishment strategy informed wastewater, it is our responsibility suppliers. By using speciﬁc, rather by stakeholder feedback we • Protecting aquifers – to treat this water to a level that than public, sugar beet farming have received and working with In Chaudfontaine, Belgium, CCE is supports aquatic life before data, it emerged that less water was The Coca-Cola Company to working as part of a public-private we return it to the municipality required for irrigation than previously address the wider impacts of partnership with the municipality, or ecosystem. thought. This reduced the original water use in our value chain. regional authorities and the water footprint calculation of a University of Liege, to protect the In 2010, we treated 100 percent 500 ml PET bottle of Coca-Cola from natural hot spring from pollution. of our wastewater to these high The Netherlands by nine percent7. We identiﬁed the contamination standards. The majority of our risks such as ﬁlling stations, fuel production facilities divert their As a next step, The Coca-Cola tanks, cattle farms and sewerage wastewater back to municipal Company has begun further work systems and the Walloon Region water treatment plants after it is in Europe on a water footprint supported us in implementing pre-treated on-site5. However, sustainability assessment covering 300 local protection measures four of our facilities have on-site the environmental impacts of reﬁned between 2008 and 2013. wastewater treatment plants. sugar from sugar beet8. It is engaging Last year, we discharged a total • Protecting aquifers – In Dongen, with European stakeholders and of 2,753,608 m3 to the environment The Netherlands, where our water beet sugar suppliers for consultation at standards supporting aquatic comes from an on-site well, CCE and advice. CCE will continue to work life. Of this, 2,167,038 m3 was has worked with the province with The Coca-Cola Company in this treated by municipal wastewater of North Brabant to assess how area, and will ensure that this work treatment stations, and 586,570 m3 best to protect the groundwater. informs the development of our by our own treatment plants6. A 25-year protection zone has replenishment strategy. been introduced to regulate new Replenishing and boreholes in the vicinity. The aim protecting our watersheds — is to reduce the likelihood of aquifer contamination from Did you Our business depends on clean water and healthy watersheds and surface pollution and to ensure that groundwater extraction know...? is carefully regulated. — we aim to replenish the water we use in our beverages by working • Reforestation – CCE’s Marseille In 2010, we treated 100 with our employees, engaging with manufacturing site is located in percent of our wastewater local communities and collaborating the French village of Les Pennesto levels supporting aquatic with Non-Governmental Mirabeau. The local forest, the life before returning it to the Organizations (NGOs). Massif de la Nerthe, has suffered municipality or ecosystem. recent ﬁre damage and has Each year, the Coca-Cola system lost some of its ability to retain quantiﬁes and publishes the impact rainwater. In November 2009, of its community water partnerships we signed an agreement with around the world, to show progress the Pennes-Mirabeaux city against its target of replenishing authorities and the French 100 percent of the water it uses in National Forest Authority to Coca-Cola and WWF’s Water Saver toolkit its ﬁnished beverages by 2020. reforest badly burnt areas by — The current estimate is that projects planting around 2,000 trees in The ‘Water Saver’ tool developed by The Coca-Cola Company implemented by the end of 2010 will two hectares to help to retain (TCCC) and the World Wildlife Fund helped us to reach our 2011 provide a beneﬁt of approximately rainwater and reduce run-off. water efficiency target a year early. Each participating plant 42.8 billion liters/year, representing • Participating in clean-up initiatives must record water use and production data daily and send 31 percent of the target. In 2011, we – We support local community it for external review every week, to raise awareness of the will develop a replenishment strategy water needs by cleaning up importance of saving water. The tool benchmarks each plant to enable us to quantify and include waterways, river banks and and identifies its optimal water performance based on product CCE projects in this calculation. beaches. We participated in a and packaging mix, then provides improvement suggestions. wide range of clean-up activities As a result of our success in using the tool, TCCC has asked us in 2010 with key activities in France to share best practices with other bottlers. and Sweden (see page 32). 5. We treat our water by neutralising the acidity, removing solids or oils, and regulating any organic pollution in the water (Chemical Oxygen Demand) before returning it to the municipality for further treatment. 6. Excluding Norway and Sweden. 7. Further information from a report by The Nature Conservancy and The Coca-Cola Company: “Product Water Footprint Assessments: Practical Application in Corporate Water Stewardship”, 2010. 8. In six countries in Europe – Great Britain, France, Spain, Benelux, Romania and Greece. 21 tonnes — of packaging was collected at 20 of the biggest festivals in Great Britain, France and Belgium in 2010. Our new recycling program engaged volunteers from CCE and ‘Vinspired’, a youth volunteering organization, who collected 840,000 bottles and cans over the course of the summer. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING /RECYCLING Introduction In 2010, we used a total of 396,752 tonnes of packaging materials of different — types across our countries of operation3. Our packaging plays a vital role Our packaging footprint 1 Our 2010 progress in delivering our beverages safely to our customers and consumers. Materials used Tonnes Key performance indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 It also remains our most visible Aluminium 42,650 Packaging materials avoided N/A 6,800 4,782 5,300 and high-profile environmental (metric tons) issue. It can be carbon-intensive Steel 48,044 and, while our packaging materials Avoided packaging as a N/A 1.8% 1.3% 1.3% Plastic2 170,902 % of total used can be recycled, our packages Glass 66,744 all too often end up in landfill. Recycled PET content (%) Start of 5% 10% 17.9%4 Secondary packaging 68,412 program (cardboard) CCE recycling rate 95.8% 98.4% 99.3% 99.5% (production facilities)(%) 1. Not including Norway and Sweden. 2. Includes PET, HDPE, LDPE, LLDPE, PE and PP types of plastic. 3. Not including Norway and Sweden 4. Total percentage for December 2010 5. Derived from sugar and by-products of its production. 6. For further information, see Alupro’s website: http://www.alupro.org.uk/facts-and-figures.html 7. Depending on the type of plastic being recycled and reprocessed. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 25 it is chemically and physically or steel means that the maximum identical to traditional PET. Because level in each can is around of its sustainable component, it also 50 percent. Our suppliers, the has a lower carbon footprint than can manufacturers, are trying traditional PET. By 2020, we intend to increase this figure by improving that all PET bottles will be made from can recovery rates. a combination of recycled PET (rPET) Our commitment and plant-based materials. The market for recycled PET is less developed, so rPET is not available In 2010, we launched PlantBottle in such large quantities and is more for selected Bonaqua bottles in costly. However, it takes around 60 Norway and on Coca-Cola products percent7 less energy to produce rPET Reduce the impact of our packaging; in Sweden. Our bottles are made than virgin PET – so, by increasing the maximize our use of renewable, reusable, half from PlantPET and half from rPET content of our bottles, we can recycled PET. 30 percent of the significantly reduce their carbon and recyclable resources; and recover the PlantPET is plant-based material. footprints. In 2010, we invested $0.78 equivalent of 100 percent of our packaging. We are conducting a life cycle million of our CRS capital expenditure analysis to see how its carbon on technology related to rPET in our footprint differs from our regular plants and in December 2010 we Bonaqua bottles. In 2011, we will reached an average of 17.9 percent be launching PlantBottle with 22.5 rPET in our PET packaging across our percent plant-based material for territories. We will continue to invest Our sustainable Sustainable materials our small PET Coca-Cola products to meet our targets of 22.5 percent packaging/recycling — in Great Britain, Benelux, France rPET by 2011 and 25 percent by 2012. strategy Key to developing sustainable and Sweden. — packaging is ensuring that the Sustainable secondary Packaging is responsible for materials we use come from Using recycled materials packaging nearly half the carbon emissions sustainable, renewable sources. Where possible, we aim to use We are seeking opportunities to across our value chain (see page 15) PET is one of the most recycled types recycled materials in our packaging. introduce Forestry Stewardship and we want to reduce this impact. of plastic, but is still sourced from These tend to have lower carbon Council (FSC) certified cardboard for In 2010, we studied our packaging non-renewable fossil fuels. We are footprints; for example, it takes our secondary packaging. We will from source to disposal, looking at therefore seeking new ways to use 95 percent less energy to produce convert Capri Sun and corrugated where we can intervene most renewable materials instead. recycled aluminum than aluminum trays in Great Britain to FSC-certified effectively to reduce our impacts. from bauxite ore6. The current cardboard in 2011. Our findings have informed our PlantBottle availability of recycled aluminum strategy and we are now working In 2009, The Coca-Cola Company at every stage in the process to introduced PlantBottle, an alternative “We want to focus on the carbon impacts of our to fossil-fuel based PET. A fullyreduce the embedded carbon packaging across its life cycle. This approach will in our packaging (see Figure 11). recyclable PET bottle made from a blend of petroleum-based help us reduce the carbon footprint of each pack materials and approximately at each stage from design to disposal, and will 30 percent plant-based materials5, ultimately define the packaging of the future.” Figure 11: Our packaging and recycling value chain 1 2 3 4 5 Stage Sourcing our Turning our materials After the disposal Recovering Reprocessing our packaging materials into packaging of our packaging discarded packaging packaging waste Our focus Sustainable Reduce Influence consumer Recovery Reuse materials and redesign behavior and recycling Sustainable packaging and recycling – continued Employee spotlight Reduce and redesign reduce the carbon footprint of — a 500 ml bottle of Coca-Cola by Our aim is to reduce the weight of our around five percent. packaging without compromising its Steve Neeson quality. We do this through re-design Influence consumer Production Planner and call this process ‘lightweighting’. behavior Uxbridge, Great Britain Avoiding the use of materials — — reduces our packaging carbon To meet our goal of recovering the “For five days last summer I volunteered to help spread the emissions and also our costs. equivalent of 100 percent of the recycling message at the rock festival, Sonisphere, near London. bottles and cans we place on the I worked with other CCE volunteers to encourage festival-goers Our bottles and cans market, we must raise consumer to swap their used PET bottles for recycled PET ‘swag’ such as In 2010, we met the target we set awareness of the need to recycle. torches and T shirts. We also collected rubbish, talked to people in 2008 to reduce the amount of Our research identified that most about the importance of recycling and created a ‘recycle packaging we use by 35,000 tonnes. of our bottles and cans are thrown garden’ with furniture made out of bottles. Over the weekend, We aim to remove a further away when people are at home, we collected more than six tonnes of cans and PET bottles, 25,000 tonnes by 2014. Our 2010 not when they are on-the-go, so our swapped 23,800 bottles for 2,260 items, and hosted 1,683 lightweighting initiatives focused greatest opportunity to recover more people in our recycle garden. It was a great experience, on reducing the plastic in our bottle material is by encouraging recycling and I came away feeling I’d helped to make a real difference.” closures, the thicknesses of our bottle at home. walls and the amount of glass in our glass bottles. By introducing shorter In Belgium and Holland, the • Event recycling – Our new In 2011, we aim to expand these closures on PET bottles, for example, household recycling infrastructure recycling program at 20 of the programs further, bringing bespoke we remove plastic from both the is well established and packaging biggest festivals in Great Britain, initiatives to major retailers across closure and the bottle neck, saving recovery and recycling rates are over France and Belgium aimed to our European markets. We will roll 5,600 tonnes of material per year. 80 percent in both markets. In Great increase the recycling of out a series of campaigns with a Britain and France, however, the use packaging, and encourage single focus – improving consumer Secondary packaging of ‘at home’ recycling schemes is event-goers to change their behavior at the point of disposal. In 2010, we trialed the removal of much lower and recycling rates for behavior. Our efforts in Great cardboard trays from our cases of PET bottles are less than 50 percent Britain were awarded the ‘Best Partnering for change PET bottles to meet both our own in both countries. Sponsor Activation’ award at the To reduce the quantities of used and our customers’ packaging 2010 UK Festival Awards. packages being sent to landfill, reduction requirements. The success A key part of our strategy is to work particularly in Great Britain and of this trial means that in 2011 we with our customers and other • ‘Recyclo-Man’ – Working with France, we must increase recovery will remove these trays from our stakeholders and use our brands the French restaurant chain, rates by investing and partnering small PET packages, saving 3,350 to inspire, motivate and incentivize Leon de Bruxelles, we developed with others to develop the recovery tonnes of cardboard per year, recycling, focusing on Great Britain a ‘Recyclo-Man’ table set for infrastructure. Our studies showed or 15 percent of the corrugated and France. Awareness-raising children in their restaurants that the greatest opportunity to cardboard used by our business. initiatives, undertaken in 2010 with our and provided prizes for the recover material lies at home, Initial calculations show that this will customers and other partners include: ‘Recyclo-man’ recycling quiz. so we want to work with policy• Monoprix – Working with makers and regulators to improve Monoprix in France, we launched household recycling programs an online campaign to encourage and make them simple for people ‘at home’ recycling. This offered to understand and use. Lightweighting shoppers a small kitchen can/ — bottle compactor if they ‘Coca-Cola reduces its impact purchased Coca-Cola products. through lightweighting. You can add something through • Plastic Hero – In The Netherlands, planting flowers’. we have been working to improve the recovery of our small PET In Belgium, the Coca-Cola bottles by influencing consumers system launched its first ever to recycle by taking a leadership shopper promotion related to role in the successful Plastic lightweighting. The ‘Plant a Flower’ Heroes campaign. campaign gave consumers packets of flower seeds when they purchased Coca-Cola products, linking our packaging reduction work with encouraging consumers to add something back. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 27 Packaging recovery Centerparcs and Merlin and at the re-process waste bottles and cans particularly where recycling rates — end of March 2011, we had 130 zones into high quality material for new are low, we find it more difficult CCE’s focus has been on working in place. We have also established a beverage packaging. to obtain the quality, food-grade, with existing national recovery Recycle Zone in France at the Louvre recycled PET that we need to systems such as Fost Plus in Belgium, Museum and will launch additional Recyclability increase the recycled content Nedvang in The Netherlands, zones in other key locations in 2011. Over 99 percent of the packaging in our PET packaging. Eco-Emballages in France, Returpak we put into the marketplace is in Sweden, Norsk Resirk in Norway We are also working to recover and recyclable. Sometimes, however, We are working on a long-term and WRAP, DEFRA and Valpak in recycle waste materials from our the infrastructure may not exist strategy to close the recycling gap, Great Britain. We believe that taking own sites and to encourage our locally to recover or process our focusing on Great Britain and a leadership role is the most effective employees to recycle. Over the last packaging, so it is not deemed France where the PET reprocessing way to raise recovery rates in each few years we have invested in our ‘fully recyclable’. In countries such infrastructure is least developed. of our countries of operation. own recycling infrastructure in as Belgium and The Netherlands, The current supply of rPET in Great offices and facilities and we now the waste processing stream is Britain is insufficient for our purposes, On a smaller scale, we are working recover 99.5 percent of all the well-developed and able to recycle so we source food-grade rPET from with other partners to install waste generated at our facilities. a wide range of products. In others continental Europe. In the meantime, packaging recovery infrastructure. where the recycling technology does 75 percent of Britain’s waste Our on-the-go Recycle Zone Reuse and recycling not exist, we are looking at modifying plastic packaging is exported for program provides branded bins — our packaging materials so they can reprocessing. By intervening in for consumers to recycle beverage To close the loop and turn the be reprocessed. the industry and supporting new packages in public areas such as material collected through recovery reprocessing infrastructure, we shopping malls, concert arenas and programs back into bottles and This year we improved the believe we can improve the plastics transport hubs. In 2010, we added cans, it must be recyclable. recyclability of GLACÉAU recycling industry in these countries more than 80 further zones through Additionally, the infrastructure and vitaminwaterTM bottles, adding and generate enough rPET to meet partnerships with customers such as technology must be in place to an extra 957 tonnes of plastic our target of 25 percent in all our to the regular recycling stream. bottles by 2012 (see case study). We continue to investigate We have already started to purchase ways to make other packages baled PET bottles for processing into – from pouches to Tetrapak – rPET for use in our bottles. more easily recycled. Investing in the recycling and Looking to the future reprocessing infrastructure — The existence of a processing We will review our Sustainable infrastructure to recycle the material packaging/recycling goal we collect is the determining factor and targets in 2011, looking in ensuring bottle-to-bottle recycling in particular at how we can in our territories. reduce the carbon footprint of our packaging across its Recycling rates vary by material. value chain. Our challenge Nick Brown of our recycling team at the ECO Plastics facility. Aluminum and glass, for example, will be to define and introduce both have established recovery and the sustainable packages of PET reprocessing joint venture in Great Britain recycling systems. As the market for the future. — recycled plastic is less developed, In March 2011, CCE announced a joint venture with ECO Plastics to develop one of the biggest plastic reprocessing facilities in Western Europe. Our $7.75 million investment, when operational, will make a step change in the plastics reprocessing industry in Great Britain by producing 25,000 tonnes of rPET annually, more than doubling the amount of high quality rPET produced 99.5% in the country at present. The facility will supply CCE with enough high quality rPET to include 25 percent rPET in all our plastic packaging in Great Britain by 2012. “This investment builds on the public’s enthusiasm for recycling and will make it easier for them to buy recycled plastic products such as the famous Coca-Cola bottle. Coca-Cola — and ECO Plastics’ efforts are an innovative blueprint for the of the waste produced future, and show how producers can take responsibility to at our facilities is step up to this challenge.” recovered. Lord Henley Waste Minister, Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 33% — of our product portfolio is lowor no-calorie products PRODUCT + — 10 new brands since 2008, across all our territories PORTFOLIO including Norway and Sweden Introduction Lowand no-calorie products Our 2010 progress1 — already make up a third of our We are continuously expanding portfolio, and we believe that we Key performance indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 our product range to offer more can do more to develop these % no-calorie products 30.8% 35.3% 34.4% 33.0% choice and convenience, meet new options further. At the same time (<5 cal per 250 ml/8 oz) consumer requirements and serve we want to inform consumers about the health and hydration benefits of % low-calorie products 31.2% 35.5% 34.6% 33.4% different lifestyles and occasions (see (<40 cal per 250 ml/8 oz) pages 8–9). All our beverages have our portfolio and the ingredients and their place in a balanced diet, but we calories they contain through clear Products containing juice 34.1% 40.8% 39.6% 41.2% recognize there are concerns about nutritional labeling and responsible % of our products from packs 18.2% 19.5% 19.8% 20.8% sugar levels in some of our drinks. sales and marketing. that are 250 ml or less % of our products from packs 59.7% 65.1% 65.2% 66.3% that are 500 ml or less % of our products with added vitamins, 2.9% 3.3% 2.3% 4.1% minerals or other nutrients % volume with nutritional, caloric, 85% 95% 97%2 97%3 or Guideline Daily Amounts (GDAs) labels on front of pack Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 29 Figure 12: The brands we have begun to manufacture or distribute over the last three years by country Categories Product Country Sparkling soft drinks Caffeine Free Coke Zero Dr Pepper Our commitment Functional waters Schweppes GLACÉAU vitaminwaterTM Energy Monster Provide refreshing beverages Urge Intense for every lifestyle and occasion, Sports Powerade Zero while helping consumers make Juices and stills Ocean Spray informed beverage choices. Capri Sun Innocent Fanta Still Waters Abbey Well Our product portfolio Developing our portfolio Hot beverages Chaqwa strategy — — From 2008 to 2010, we broadened “43 percent of our volume growth from 2008–2010 Coca-Cola Enterprises manufactures the range of products we offer to came from drinks which make up our ‘Active and and distributes beverages owned consumers in all CCE territories, including Norway and Sweden. Balanced Choices’ portfolio. This includes beverages by other companies. We proactively manage our portfolio of products in Through innovation, reformulation, such as Diet Coke, Coca-Cola light, Coke Zero, juices, several ways: by introducing new acquisition and new distribution stills and waters.” brands, by selecting a wide range of agreements, we launched products, by encouraging our brand more than 10 new brands and owners to develop new products to 50 new packages4 (small packs, meet new or emerging consumer multipacks and more) to meet trends and by ensuring we distribute consumers’ needs. all our brands consistently. Our core sparkling brands such Our strategy focuses on three pillars: as Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite represent around half (56 percent) • Developing our portfolio: of our product portfolio5 and the introducing new products, rest is composed of waters, sports accelerating the growth of drinks, functional drinks and energy lower-calorie and functional drinks. These categories are still products and providing package emerging. Nearly half (43 percent) sizes to suit every occasion in a of our 2008–2010 volume growth balanced diet and active lifestyle. came from drinks which make • Nutritional labeling: labeling our up what we call our ‘Active and products to educate consumers Balanced Choices’ portfolio. about the ingredients and calories This includes beverages such as they are consuming. Diet Coke, Coca-Cola light, Coke Zero, juices, stills and waters. • Responsible sales and marketing: engaging with parents, nutritionists and educators to limit beverages in schools and to give clear caloric information to consumers. 1. Data for CCE legacy territories only – Great Britain, France and Benelux 2. Does not include waters which do not require GDA labeling 3. Does not includes waters which do not require GDA labeling 4. Our term for these is ‘Brand Pack Variants’ or BPVs – which we use to distinguish not only between our different brands but also the packages in which they are sold 5. In terms of Brand Pack Variants (BPVs) – see above Noand low-calorie beverages with our brand owners to Product portfolio – continued Lowand no-calorie products reformulate other beverages to now make up 31 percent of the meet consumer demands. Our total volume of drinks we sell, reformulated Fanta Still uses Truvia, or 33 percent of our product portfolio. a Stevia-based, zero-calorie natural Figure 13: Our portfolio of products 2010 We can increase this percentage sweetener, so that it now contains (by type of product) by introducing reformulated versions 30 percent less sugar and no of our popular drinks; by substituting artificial flavors or colors. We are Regular sparkling soft drinks – 31% Noand low-calorie sparkling new, natural low-calorie sweeteners also continuing to expand our range soft drinks – 25% from natural sources; by growing of juices and juice drinks such as 100% juice – 7% sales of our existing low-calorie Ocean Spray and Minute Maid. Juice drinks – 14% products, particularly our Light Energy drinks – 4% Colas; and by ensuring consistent New package sizes Sports and functional waters – 9% distribution of lowand no-calorie Another way we provide choice Water – 7% Ready-to-drink teas and Other – 3% products alongside regular and help consumers manage their soft drinks. calorie intake is to offer smaller-sized packages. Around 21 percent of We are also introducing lowand our products are now available in Figure 14: Our portfolio of products 2010 no-calorie fitness and energy package sizes that are less than (by volume) drinks such as Powerade Zero 250 ml – our 150 ml cans, for (see case study page 31) which example – and we are looking to Regular sparkling soft drinks – 58% provides functional benefits expand this. We have also limited Noand low-calorie sparkling without the calories. cup sizes for fountain beverages in soft drinks – 28% France and Belgium, where we no 100% juice – 2% Juice drinks – 6% Functional beneﬁts, added longer sell branded cups larger than Energy drinks – 1% vitamins or minerals 500 ml in restaurant chains, leisure Sports and functional waters – 1% Since 2008, we have extended parks and most cinemas. We are Water – 3% the number of drinks with added discussing similar proposals in Ready-to-drink teas and Other – 1% vitamins, minerals or other nutrients Great Britain. (GLACÉAU vitaminwaterTM, for example) and drinks that provide functional health benefits such as Ocean Spray. In some cases, by Our sweeteners removing ingredients such as — caffeine, we have created new Our lowand no-calorie products offering new functional sweeteners provide our benefits. Caffeine Free Coke Zero consumers with the beneﬁts was launched in France in 2010 of sweetness without the and is being rolled out in Belgium calories. They are chosen in 2011. We are also continuing to on taste, quality and the introduce GLACÉAU vitaminwaterTM requirements of the markets across our markets. where we operate. Recently, the Coca-Cola system has Removing artiﬁcial colors, started to develop low-calorie ﬂavors and preservatives sweeteners from nature, We are increasing our use of such as Truvia, from the natural ingredients. GLACÉAU Stevia plant. We are Employee spotlight vitaminwaterTM is naturally flavored already using Truvia in and free of artificial colors and some beverages in France. preservatives, and we are working Olivier Dexemple Still Drinks Europe Portfolio Manager Paris, France — “Many people associate Coca-Cola Enterprises with our 97% cola brands, but we also sell a wide variety of juices and fruit drinks with a huge range of nutritional and health beneﬁts. In the last year, I have worked on new distribution agreements for these products, expanding the distribution of Ocean Spray (a cranberry-based fruit drink) and other fruit drinks such as Capri Sun, GLACÉAU vitaminwaterTM and Fanta Still. I am proud — that this work is beginning to drive our sales, contributing of our eligible products nearly half of our business growth in 2010.” have GDA labels Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 31 Nutritional labeling Responsible sales — and marketing To make the right personal choices, — consumers need to know what We follow The Coca-Cola Company’s their food and drinks contain, and Global Responsible Marketing how this information relates to a Policy and we do not market any balanced diet. Our ‘Guideline Daily products directly to children under Amount’ (GDA) labeling now covers 12. We respect the requirement for 97 percent of all the drinks we sell, the school classroom to be free by volume (except waters which from commercial influences. CCE do not require GDA labeling), worked with the Union of European up from 85 percent in 2007. Soft Drinks Associations (UNESDA) We are discussing the introduction to develop a set of industry of GDA labeling on Monster commitments that restrict beverage products with the brand owner. sales in schools throughout our territories. We also provide extra information about ingredients and nutrition on Depending on local concerns and our pack labels to help consumers. legislation, each country has Our energy drinks, for example, are different policies on the distribution not only labeled for caffeine content of our products in schools. In France, – as required by law – but also carry for example, we do not provide any a statement that they are not suitable drinks to schools. In The Netherlands for children, pregnant women or and Great Britain, we provide those sensitive to caffeine. Where drinks only to secondary schools, our products contribute to the either indirectly through catering recommended targets for fruit and operations in The Netherlands, vegetable consumption (the Capri or as controlled by law limiting the Sun 100 percent juice range and the products we can sell, in Great Britain. Powerade Zero in Great Britain Appletiser juice range, for example) In Belgium and Luxembourg, we — this information is highlighted on the provide only waters and juices and Powerade Zero is a good example of how we are adapting our pack and on the brand website. non-branded cooling equipment to portfolio to meet new consumer needs and encourage active, primary schools and a wider range healthy living. Research showed that 52 percent of consumers We work together with The Coca-Cola of products in secondary schools. who reject sports drinks do so because they claim they contain Company to play an active part in During 2010, sales of our products too much sugar. In November 2010, CCE launched Powerade the ongoing policy dialogue on in schools represented less than Zero in Great Britain – the first calorie-free fitness drink nutritional labeling at both EU and one percent of our total sales enhanced with minerals including sodium, to hydrate and national levels. volume. Independent monitoring replenish the body without adding calories. Powerade Zero in previous years verified high levels contains only natural flavors and has no added preservatives. of industry compliance. We are launching it in France in 2011. Although we now largely meet these commitments, we continue to engage in dialogue regarding the marketing of our products. In Great Britain, for example, The Coca-Cola Company has published a Responsible Marketing Charter. This in-depth document not only guides our approach to marketing, but also serves as a discussion of dilemmas and challenges. Looking to the future — In 2011, we will review our portfolio strategy and work with The Coca-Cola Company to develop specific commitments regarding the nutritional content of our products. ‘Clean the beaches’ — In Sweden, we are partnering with Städa Sverige (Clean Sweden). Together, we invite sports clubs to keep their local beaches clean in return for funding for new equipment. These clean-up events were supported by 150 of our own employees who cleaned areas in the Haninge municipality. In 2011, we are adding more beaches and educational events to the program. 30 — tonnes of litter collected from 140 beaches by 1470 volunteers across Sweden in 2010 COMMUNITY Introduction In 2010, CCE invested $4.3 million in the communities Figure 15: Type of community in which we operate.1 — investment contribution We want to be a good corporate Our 2010 progress citizen and to have a positive impact wherever we manufacture and Key performance indicator 2010 sell our products. Accordingly, we have a wide portfolio of community Charitable donations $298,761 programs, developed in conjunction Community investments $3,609,177 with local needs and demands. CCE’s bottling operations have Commercial initiatives $423,220 a long history in Europe. Over the Total community investment $4,331,159 last 20 years, our individual bottling 1. Not including the United States. plants have built strong relationships with surrounding communities. Cash contributions – 71% We aim to ensure that stakeholders Employee volunteering – 10% understand Coca-Cola is a local In-kind giving product, made by local people. (product or service donations) – 5% Management overheads – 14% Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 33 Benelux Employee volunteering In Belgium and The Netherlands, — CCE and The Coca-Cola Company We encourage informal volunteering together have focused on promoting as part of our community initiatives a stronger sports culture (see page 35). and our CRS in Action Week (see CCE also makes numerous page 11). Last year we recorded contributions each year to a variety approximately 12,000 employee Our commitment of social activities and causes. volunteering hours. In 2011, we will These include support for the pilot an ofﬁcial volunteering program King Baudouin and Queen Paola in Sweden. Foundations in Belgium and various community groups. Make a positive social, economic Making a positive economic impact and environmental contribution to the Norway — In Norway, our focus is on communities in which we operate. encouraging diversity, fostering At the end of 2010, we employed culture and improving our local around 13,500 people, paying environment. To this end, we have salaries and beneﬁts of $900 entered into strategic collaborations million and taxes of $929 million. with NGOs such as the Norwegian In addition, our business supports Red Cross. many more jobs throughout our value chain. Our work with Professor Our community strategy Great Britain Sweden Ethan Kapstein of INSEAD and — In Great Britain, our focus has been In Sweden, our focus has been on external stakeholders showed that Our community engagement on education. Key initiatives include: providing opportunities for people to a key part of our value generation in strategy is closely aligned to ﬁnd their way into the workplace as our countries of operation, is the fact our seven CRS focus areas and Education Centers: we run three well as supporting environmental that we pay above average salaries. tailored to the needs of our local centers at East Kilbride, Wakeﬁeld clean-up activities. communities. Our community and Edmonton which offer visits investment activities focus on topics to over 20,000 secondary school such as education, diversity, active students per year. Guided by healthy living and recycling. qualiﬁed, CCE-employed teachers, students connect what they learn In 2010, we worked with Professor in the classroom with real life Ethan Kapstein of INSEAD and business and manufacturing external stakeholders to understand practice. We will open a fourth the breadth of our contribution center at Sidcup in 2011. and the socio-economic impact of the Coca-Cola system in four of The Real Business Challenge: our countries of operation. Results we work with local partners to deliver showed that our business an enterprise education competition is a major contributor to the in which students from secondary communities in which we are schools form small companies located and highlighted the and work to develop new soft drink signiﬁcant economic effects of the product concepts. Our employees jobs we provide, the taxes we pay volunteer to mentor the groups. Students at our Real Business Challenge. and the business we generate We hope to engage 100,000 students in 2011. through our value chain. “Our work with Professor Ethan Kapstein of INSEAD France and external stakeholders shows that our company This work provides a baseline for further development of our corporate In France, we have focused on youth has a significant impact on each of the economies community strategy. In the next year, from underprivileged backgrounds. where we operate – a ‘ripple effect’ exists that we aim to align our community Key initiatives include the Passport to goes way beyond our gates. Our business and Employment program which brings work across our territories, so we its communities are deeply interdependent.” can measure our progress against high school students and recent our targets. graduates from underprivileged backgrounds to CCE ofﬁces and External commentary prepares them for job interviews Investing in charitable Professor Ethan B. Kapstein, INSEAD (see page 38). and community causes — — “Coca-Cola also creates ‘public goods’ that benefit entire In 2010, we invested $4.3 million societies. These include the training it provides its workers, to support a range of community the philanthropic activities that are vital to so many people, initiatives aligned with our CRS and the contributions that the company makes to support focus areas. sports teams at every level.” Wellbeing at work — We are developing an Employee Wellbeing Program (see page 39) which will support the work that we are doing in our communities to encourage active, healthy living. We are currently auditing all our current programs and will build on this platform. ACTIVE HEALTHY Our on-site gym in Sweden LIVING Participants in a Powerade-sponsored event in Great Britain. being used for aerobics. Introduction — Helping people to manage their caloric intake by providing a wide range of products addresses half their energy balance. To maintain a healthy body weight, people must also expend the excess calories they consume through physical activity. We aim to encourage active living by making sport and fitness activities accessible, and demonstrating their importance in a healthy lifestyle. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 35 Our commitment Support active healthy living through physical activity programs, nutrition education, and by providing a wide Employees and their families participate in the Velothon. choice of products. Encouraging cycling in Brussels, Belgium through the Velothon — In 2010, CCE and The Coca-Cola Company organized their fifth annual ‘Velothon’ in Belgium. This event was part of CRS in Action Week and was scheduled during ‘Car Free Day’ in Brussels. Approximately 900 employees and their families Our active healthy We also have a wide range of active, cycled a route of either 15 or 30 kilometers around the city living strategy healthy living initiatives across our and participated in activities along the way, from painting territories. These include: — and football to visiting a children’s farm. Our active healthy living strategy Great Britain is linked to our community strategy For the past two years, in advance (see page 33). It is still under “We want to encourage active healthy living in our of the London 2012 Olympic Games, development, but we intend to build on the work already in place Schweppes Abbey Well water, the communities. We are still developing our program official water of the Games, has and will build on the grassroots work that we already to invest in community-based sports offered consumers a free swim on undertake in every country where we operate.” programs in the countries where presentation of a ‘Schwim’ cap from we operate and develop ways to an Abbey Well 500 or 750 ml bottle. educate our consumers about our Belgium and Luxembourg Norway Five hundred swimming pools products’ place in an active and CCE sponsors several sporting We aim to encourage active, healthy nationwide have been involved. healthy lifestyle. programs, in particular the Special lifestyles through campaigns such Between 2009 and 2010, over Olympics, which gives disabled as ‘Gi Jernet’ (‘Never Give Up’) and 100,000 free swims have been given Encouraging away and 120 swimming teachers athletes opportunities to train and grassroots sponsorships, as well physical activity have been trained. participate in sports events. From as programmes using our sports — January 1 2010, we introduced a drinks such as Powerade. Most of our brands are aligned with five euro fee for non-student visitors France healthy living and sports initiatives. to the Coca-Cola European Visitors Sweden Our Rennes by Night program Through the power of the Coca-Cola Center in Antwerp and have Through our ‘Clean the Beaches’ keeps designated playing fields brand, we will be encouraging donated this money to the Special project, we help to provide and swimming pools open until consumers to take part in street Olympics. CCE also supports the equipment to sports associations 3 a.m. to encourage inner-city games, in partnership with the French (ADEPS) and Flemish (BLOSO) across the country (see page 32) teenagers to take part in sports StreetGames charity, in the run-up national sports associations, and are also working on initiatives and fitness activities. to the London 2012 Olympic Games. which train coaches and organize that support our employees to Other brands also play important sporting events for their linguistic lead active, healthy lives. The Netherlands roles in sports. In Great Britain, for communities, and helps to fund We support Mission Olympic, the example, Powerade is the official largest secondary school sports the Sports for Youth program Nutritional education hydration partner of the Great Events (Jeugdsport Fonds Camille Paulus — platform in The Netherlands with series (which includes the Great Program) which encourages As part of our focus on active healthy over 150,000 participants aged North Run the world’s largest teenagers to participate in living, we are investigating ways to 12–18. It aims to encourage half-marathon) along with Team GB, organized sport. build on our existing educational Dutch youth to compete in school the Rugby Football Union and the competitions in 16 different sports. tools and develop a nutritional Football League. Two hundred schools currently education program for our participate. By 2012, we aim to communities. We hope to implement increase the number to 300 – this strategy in 2012. half of all Dutch secondary schools. 13,500 — At the end of 2010 we had approximately 13,500 employees, of whom 96 percent were full time. Our workforce — In 2010, we employed approximately 11,000 people in Great Britain, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Monaco and Luxembourg. Our acquisition of the bottling operations in Norway and Sweden expands the number by approximately 1,400 in Norway and 850 in Sweden. We also have an office of approximately 160 people WORKPLACE in our U.S. headquarters. Introduction Our workforce profile — The essence of a sustainable 2009 2010 2009 2010 company lies in its people. Attracting, Workforce Total employees 11,000 13,500 Age Age profile of n/a <20 1% developing and maintaining a highly workforce Full-time employees 95% 96% 20–29 19% talented and diverse workforce is one of our three strategic business Voluntary turnover n/a 6.5% 30–39 34% priorities, as set out in our Operating Learning and Average training days – 3 40–49 31% Framework (see page 12) and a development per employee fundamental part of our Corporate Gender Females in workforce 23% 23% 50–59 13% Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) agenda. Females on Board of Directors 23% 30% 60+ 2% Females in executive roles 9% 1 25%2 Board of Directors 100% 100% Members over 40 Females in management roles3 n/a 32% Ethnic Ethnically diverse 23% 17% diversity members of the Females in non-management roles 4 n/a 21% Board of Directors5 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 37 our newly hired or promoted We have also upgraded our employees were women. In France, careers website to provide a more we hope to achieve the Gender comprehensive overview of the Equality Label in 2011, a certification variety of careers we offer. Our new awarded by the French government corporate advertising features that recognizes companies which CCE employees, focusing on their tackle discrimination, work to diversity as well as their passion and Our commitment improve equal opportunities and achievements. In 2009, we launched promote diversity. our University Talent Program (UTP) to recruit the best graduate talent Recruiting from a wide and develop a pipeline of future cross-section of the leaders for our business across Create a culture where diversity is valued, communities we serve all our territories. The program every employee is a respected member We have enhanced our recruitment provides structured training in of the team, and our workforce is a reflection procedures to ensure applications from a diverse pool of candidates the skills needed to develop a successful career at CCE. In 2010, of the communities in which we operate. and we advertise specifically to we recruited 19 graduates of which minority groups. For every open half were female. leadership position at CCE, our goal is to have at least one female on every candidate list, as well as on the interview panel and to work Our workplace strategy On a more informal basis, we also with our external recruitment — encourage employee resource partners to achieve this balance. Within our workplace, we focus groups to support diversity. In France, our CRS efforts on three key issues: our female employees have formed Left to right: Donna James, Véronique Morali, two of our four female board members. ‘Elles@Coca-Cola’, to share ideas • fostering a diverse and and experiences with other inclusive culture professional women at CCE and • working towards achieving The Coca-Cola Company. During world-class safety status in 2011, we are encouraging the our manufacturing and creation of a women’s resource sales operations group in every country where we operate and are assisting the • developing a wellbeing program formation of similar groups for other to encourage our employees communities in our workforce. We to ‘Live Positively’. are also working to embed diversity into our broader training programs Fostering a diverse such as those dealing with values and inclusive culture and leadership development. — We are encouraging diversity and Focus on gender inclusion throughout our business In 2010, our total workforce was by working in four key areas: 23 percent female. Improving the building an infrastructure to support representation of women is a top “At CCE, maintaining a diverse workforce and an diversity; recruiting a diverse priority across CCE, particularly in inclusive culture is one of our three strategic business workforce; retaining and developing our leadership and commercial priorities. We want to create an engaged workforce and operational roles where our employees; and ensuring equal that thrives on all forms of difference.” opportunities for all who work at CCE. women have historically been under-represented. As a result, Building an infrastructure we have introduced manager Setting an example of diversity in our boardroom to support diversity toolkits and coaches to support — We have established a European women returning from maternity Our Board of Directors was placed top for its diversity in the Diversity Council and Business leave. We have also piloted listening ‘Women in the Boardroom 2010 Georgia Public Companies Unit Diversity Councils in Great groups in parts of Great Britain to Study’6 by the Atlanta-based Board of Directors’ Network Britain, France, Benelux and our provide support and advice on (BDN). Our four female board members include Véronique EU Supply Chain, chaired by vice achieving a balance between Morali, who was recently appointed President of the Women’s presidents and general managers. motherhood and the workplace. Forum for the Economy and Society7, and Donna James, The councils embed our diversity Our efforts are showing results: in who was appointed chairwoman of the National Women’s vision throughout CCE. 2010, approximately 36 percent of Business Council by President Obama in 2010. Ms. James also received the BDN’s 2010 Lettie Pate Whitehead Evans Award 1. Percentage of women on the European Executive Committee in 2009, as reported in 2009 CRS Report. 2. Percentage of women on the Executive Leadership Team at CCE. 3. Percentage of females Grade 101 and above. 4. Percentage in recognition of her outstanding corporate contributions of females below Grade 101. 5. Based on official U.S. definition of diversity. 6. An organization of women and men representing boards of directors, corporations, government agencies, academia, the legal and financial professions, at board level, in her community, and in helping other not-for-profit organizations, and the media who seek to influence companies to further the advancement of women in women achieve their full potential in the business world. the boardroom and executive suites. 7. The forum promotes the ideas and visions of women on critical global economic and social issues. Workplace – continued Measuring our progress – Engagement — High engagement scores are a good indicator of a diverse and inclusive culture. In 2009 we conducted our first global Retaining and developing on-the-job training to meet our engagement survey to measure our employees’ “commitment a talented workforce employees’ career goals, we and connection” to CCE’. We had a great response: 76 percent Our voluntary turnover rates are will strengthen our individual of our employees told us what they thought about working at already low, averaging 6.5 percent8 development planning process CCE, an increase of 14 percentage points on our engagement across CCE. However, we want to in 2011. This will include an online index from the previous survey. Their comments have informed do more to retain and develop our portal to allow employees and our action plans and human resources strategy for 2011. talent, particularly by providing managers to identify personal In particular, employees wanted more communication with competitive benefits and continually development opportunities which leadership, more development opportunities, and continued enhancing our development and also support the needs of the strong commitment to CRS and we are responding to these training programs. Providing wider team identified through requests. We will conduct a second survey in 2011 to measure excellent learning and development TMR. We will also be expanding progress over the last two years towards our destination of opportunities strongly underpins our our leadership training, providing world-class engagement scores. diversity objectives. tools to help managers improve • Promotion/succession planning their people-management skills. Our six-monthly Talent In 2010, we provided 10,860 hours rules, market practices and social Providing equal opportunities Management Review (TMR) of specific leadership training. security arrangements in each We strive to offer a work environment process ensures that diverse country. Our plans are funded by that is fair and safe – one that In addition to formal training, talent is developed and prepared our general assets, asset-holding encourages open and honest we piloted formal and informal for succession. Managers have trusts and insurance contracts. dialogue, in which all employees mentoring programs in 2010. the opportunity to highlight We seek to reward employees are treated with dignity, respect and We identified candidates through talented employees and prepare competitively and benchmark our honesty. As a signatory to the UN TMR and provided training for appropriate development plans compensation on a regular basis. Global Compact, we commit to mentors. We also piloted specific for them, creating a pipeline of supporting internationally commercial training and in 2011 We are also introducing new good, diverse candidates ready recognized human rights within our will establish a ‘Commercial policies which allow our own workplace and in those of our for leadership positions. Where Academy’ for our customer employees flexibility in the way this is lacking, we work to recruit suppliers, as set out in our Supplier managers, field sales teams they work and the ways we can Guiding Principles9. The majority a wider variety of candidates to and marketing employees to communicate with them. We have reflect the communities in which of our employees in Europe are focus on customer planning, enhanced our 24-hour HR portal, covered by collectively bargained we operate. relationship building, selling ‘HeRe Online’, to allow employees labor agreements and we support • Learning and development and negotiation skills. to view their payslips, enroll for their right to membership of In our 2009 engagement survey benefits and set performance relevant trade unions. In 2010, • Compensation and benefits (see case study above), our objectives online. In 2010, we also we experienced labor disruptions We seek to cater for our employees asked for more gave every employee a CCE email at two of our sites in France employees’ diverse needs learning and development address, accessible from any and Belgium; in each case, at work, at home and in opportunities. Throughout 2010, computer, and launched digital we worked with employees and retirement – all part of our we invested $14.5 million in signage to communicate with our union representatives to find a ‘Total Rewards’ strategy. training and resources, delivering plant-based employees. We will mutually satisfactory outcome. an average of three days per Our health and welfare benefits continue to add new tools and to employee. To ensure the right and retirement plans vary simplify processes, from contract Employees are encouraged to raise mix of coaching, feedback and according to the different eligibility changes to onboarding, in 2011. their workplace concerns or issues through a variety of channels – online, by speaking to our team of HR professionals, or through Recruiting from underprivileged communities in France our 24-hour confidential Ethics — and Compliance hotline. We are We are working in partnership with the French Government reviewing our corporate Diversity on three key projects to promote equal opportunity and social and Equality Policy and will publish diversity. Each year our ‘Passport to Employment’ program a revised version in 2011. helps prepare 2,700 young people, mainly from deprived areas, for the world of work. The ‘Hope for the Suburbs’ program allowed us to recruit 14 percent of our new employees from underprivelaged communities between 2008 and 2010. We have also increased the number of apprenticeships we offer by 60 percent in the last two years, encouraging youth employment. This work was commended by François Fillon, French Prime Minister, in 2010. 8. This breaks down per country as follows: Great Britain, 6.5%; France, 3.9%; Belgium, 3.8%; The Netherlands, 6.7%; Luxembourg, 8.6%; Sweden, 17.2%; Norway, 12%. Data for the United States is not available because of the transaction. These figures do not include turnover of temporary or seasonal workers. 9. See www.cokecce.com, ‘Doing business with CCE’ tab, for details of our Supplier Guiding Principles: www.cokecce.com/pages/_content.asp?page_id=248 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 39 Working towards achieving Developing an employee Employee spotlight world-class safety status wellbeing program — — Providing safe and healthy working In 2010, we investigated the health environments is fundamental to profile of our workforce, including our sustainability and success as instances of absence and other Laurence Vanparis a business. trends. We wanted to understand Manufacturing Manager how we, as an employer, can better Dunkerque, France We aim to work to the highest help our employees to live healthy, — safety standards and 16 of our active lives. As a result we developed “I wanted to acknowledge International Women’s Day by 17 production facilities and three a company-wide strategy and holding a debate about the importance of women in industry commercial regions are certified three-year action plan to support at our Dunkerque plant. Representatives from two leading to Occupational Health and Safety our employee wellbeing vision: women’s organizations in France – ‘Women in Industry’ and management system OHSAS 18001. ‘To promote a culture of wellbeing ‘Women Business Heads’ – joined the forum. The event was a We are working closely in all that empowers and encourages huge success and helped us to celebrate the rise in the number countries to achieve a consistent, our employees to ‘Live Positively’. of women now working at our Dunkerque plant. Twenty women high level of safety performance have been recruited from 2007 to 2010.” across our business. In 2011, we are launching a series of workforce wellbeing programs In 2010, our lost time accident to supplement many of our rate was 1.52 accidents per 100 existing initiatives. These include full-time-equivalent employees flu vaccinations, on-site gyms or in our business as a whole, with discounted gym memberships and a rate of 1.13 in our production more. We aim to combine these facilities and 1.78 among our sales into a single corporate ‘wellbeing’ force. There were no fatalities. program and to include initiatives Our ultimate goal is to achieve such as an Employee Assistance zero accidents (see Figure 16). program which provides confidential We are focusing our efforts on the advice on issues ranging from root causes of accidents: manual stress to financial concerns. These handling, slips, trips and falls and initiatives will be tailored to cultural contact with stationary or moving differences in each country. objects. Because back injury accounts for the greatest number Recognizing diversity in Norway of lost time incidents, we have Looking to the future — an ergonomic program and — In December 2010, CCE in Norway was nominated ‘Best mechanical aids to reduce physical We will continue to strengthen Norwegian Diversity Company 2010’ by the Norwegian lifting. We are also extending our our workplace focus area over Directorate for Integration and Diversity. Because our tailor-made behavioral-based the coming year, supported by employees in Norway come from 46 countries, our bottling safety program across all territories, new initiatives and policies which plant in Oslo houses dedicated prayer rooms, offers canteen building management and underpin diversity and equality, menus to suit different religions and provides flexible working employee involvement and safety and wellbeing at CCE. hours that respect employees’ religious celebrations and accountability. holidays. We also provide Norwegian language training to non-native speakers during work time which has had great We are also focusing on driving results since its launch one year ago. safety. We have a number of initiatives across Europe such as an online driver risk assessment Figure 16: Lost Time Accident Rate 2007–2010 program and a safe driver program to address priority risks in our fleet of branded vehicles and company 2.71 cars. For each role in our company, we conduct safety risk assessments 2.20 and develop targeted, needs-based 1.81 safety plans, campaigns, toolkits 1.52 and training. We have in place a safety governance process and in each of our production, sales and distribution facilities, we have health and safety committees that 2007 2008 2009 2010 implement our safety programs at a local level. Number of lost time accidents per 100 full time equivalent employees 40 GRI The summary table below shows where CCE’s information and data corresponding to the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.0 Guidelines can be found. Page numbers refer to pages in this Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report. Information disclosed on the Inside Front Cover is labeled ‘IFC’. Where information is disclosed in the Annual Report and 10-K (AR) and Proxy Statement (PROXY), it is also labeled accordingly. A full GRI index is available online at www.cokecce.com Indicator Location Indicator Location Indicator Location Indicator Location 1.1 2 3.11 IFC EC 1 6, 32, AR LA 1 36 1.2 1, 2 ,12–13, AR 3.12 IFC EC 2 14 LA 2 38 2.1 IFC, AR, PROXY 3.13 41 EC 3 39, AR LA 7* 39 2.2 8–9 4.1 PROXY EC 6 11 LA 8 39 2.3 13 4.2 2, 12, PROXY EC 7 38 LA 10 36, 38 2.4 IFC 4.3. PROXY EC 8 23, 27 LA 13 36 2.5 5, AR 4.4 PROXY Environment 15, 21, 25 Human Rights 36–39 Management Management 2.6 6, AR 4.5 12, PROXY Approach Approach 2.7 5, 8–9, 28–29, 4.6 PROXY EN 1 24 HR 2 11 30–31, AR 4.7 PROXY EN 2 24–25 HR 5 38, AR 2.8 5, 6, 8–9, AR 4.8 11, 12–13, 21, PROXY EN 3 14–15 Society 11, 33 2.9 IFC, 2 4.9 PROXY Management EN 4 14–15 2.10 11, 37, 39 Approach 4.10 PROXY EN 8 20 3.1 IFC SO 1* 33 4.11 12, AR EN 16 15 3.2 IFC SO 5 13, 19, 31 4.12 IFC, 13, 19 EN 17 15 3.3 IFC Product 11, 28–31 4.13 IFC, 11, 13, 19, 21 EN 19 15 Responsibility 3.4 IFC 4.14 10 Management EN 20 15 3.5 IFC Approach 4.15 10 EN 21 20, 23 3.6 IFC PR 1 25 4.16 3, 11, 38–39 EN 26 24–27 3.7 IFC PR 3 28, 31 4.17 3, 11, 38–39 EN 27 15–19, 20–23,24–25 3.8 IFC PR 6 30–31 Economic 2–9, AR, PROXY Labor 35–39 3.9 IFC, 5, 15, 37 Management Management * partial compliance Approach approach CEO Water Mandate Communication are required to report progress Principle Page on Progress-Water annually against its six core 1. Direct Operations 22–23 principles. Our progress detailed (COP-Water) 2. Supply Chain and Watershed 21, 23 in the report is indexed opposite. CCE signed the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate 3. Collective Action 21, 23, 33 (CEOWM) in early 2009. This 4. Community Engagement 21, 33 public-private partnership helps us develop and implement 5. Public Policy 21 water sustainability policies and 6. Transparency 20–23, 33 practices. Endorsing companies 41 Assurance statement SGS United Kingdom Ltd’s report on sustainability activities in the Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Corporate Responsibility The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008) and Sustainability Report for 2010/2011 research, interviews with relevant CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS employees at European AND RECOMMENDATIONS Headquarters (Uxbridge, UK), visits to a sample of operational sites The Foundation (Ghent, Belgium; Grigny, France; Principle of Inclusivity Stockholm, Sweden; Wakefield, UK) The inclusion of all stakeholders NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE reporting history and capabilities and interviews in person and/ is fundamental to the AA1000 ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION of the Reporting Organization. or by telephone with personnel standards and an organization SGS United Kingdom Ltd was This report has been assured as responsible for country-specific needs to demonstrate that it commissioned by Coca-Cola an AA1000AS Type 2 assurance at reporting in all operational locations identifies and understands Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) to conduct a moderate level of scrutiny using (Belgium, France, Netherlands, stakeholders, their capacity to an independent assurance of the our protocols for: Norway, Sweden, UK). engage, and their views and Corporate Responsibility and • evaluation of the report content Documentation and records were expectations. Sustainability Report 2010/2011. and supporting management reviewed and validation was The scope of assurance, based • The report includes a stakeholder systems against the AA1000 conducted where relevant, including on the SGS Sustainability Report map and gives a good description Accountability Principles (2008); the observation of the Commitment Assurance methodology, included of the boundaries of the 2020 Roundtable in March 2011. text and selected 2010 data in • evaluation of content veracity and organization, its responsibilities Additional interviews and site visits accompanying tables of this systems for reporting and collation and the delineation between were conducted for verification report as described below. of data from sites and through The Coca-Cola Company and CCE of greenhouse gas reporting, to corporate level, with particular – an important delineation which as detailed in our separate The information in the Corporate focus on data related to the demonstrates the understanding verification statement (available on Responsibility and Sustainability following KPIs: of the clouding of perception www.cokecce.com). Financial data Report 2010 of CCE and its – Carbon Footprint – see by stakeholders. drawn directly from independently presentation are the responsibility of separate verification statement audited financial accounts has not • There are excellent examples of the directors and the management against WRI GHG Protocol for been checked back to source as the inclusion of key stakeholder of CCE. SGS United Kingdom Ltd has detailed findings part of this assurance process. groups in the direction of future not been involved in the preparation – Water Use Ratio strategy at a top line level and in of any of the material included in – Internal recycling and VERIFICATION/ internal engagement. It would the Corporate Responsibility and recovery rate ASSURANCE OPINION be good to see this engagement Sustainability Report 2010/2011. On the basis of the methodology expanding to other stakeholder Our responsibility is to express an – Lost Time Incident Rate; and described and the verification work groups and mirrored in opinion on the text, data, graphs • evaluation of content veracity and performed, we are satisfied that the stakeholder engagement at and statements within the scope systems for reporting at corporate information and data contained all levels of the organisation in of verification set out below with level, with particular focus on data within the Corporate Responsibility future reporting. the intention to inform all related to the following KPIs: and Sustainability Report 2010/2011 CCE’s stakeholders. • The production of country reports – % Recycled PET used and within the scope verified is is a good indicator of the accurate, reliable and provides a The SGS Group has developed – % products made available commitment to embedding the fair and balanced representation a set of protocols for assurance with no/low calorie content CSR across the company and of CCE’s sustainability activities in of sustainability reports based on – Females in Workforce. encouraging each country to 2010. The assurance team is of the current best practice guidance address the local material issues. opinion that the report can be used provided in the Global Reporting Alignment with the Global Reporting The production this year can be by the reporting organization’s Initiative Sustainability Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting used to evaluate how well the stakeholders. We believe that Guidelines (2006) and the AA1000 Guidelines (2006) was not included reports reflect corporate practice. the organization has chosen an Assurance Standard (2008). These in the assurance. appropriate level of assurance protocols follow differing options for this stage in their reporting. for Assurance depending on the Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 42 The Principle of Materiality The Principle of Responsiveness Signed: To make good decisions and actions Responsiveness is how an For and on behalf of SGS an organization and its stakeholders organization demonstrates that United Kingdom Ltd need to know the issues that are it responds to its stakeholders material to the sustainability and is accountable to them. performance of the organization. • CCE has the governance and A material issue is an issue that will management structure to influence the decisions, actions and translate feedback from performance of an organization or Jan Saunders stakeholders into action. its stakeholders. UK Systems and Services Sustainability management Certification Business Manager • The report reflects the wellthroughout the countries where June 2011 developed systems for identifying the organization has sites is www.sgs.com and prioritizing material issues developed and reporting by each at the top level. Good practice is country will demonstrate how noted in working with various well this is working. agencies for independence of • The organization has carried out view and to inform decisions and stakeholder engagement at all work has been carried out on levels and future reporting needs benchmarking and leadership. to follow through to demonstrate The development and review of how they have responded, the material issues is ongoing which outcomes and to expand on the is reflected in the report and future links from stakeholder feedback reports should follow through to the resulting actions and feedback from stakeholder decision making. engagement. • Key indicators and goals have • The report includes all key been developed to reflect material material issues and these have issues and are clearly linked to the been addressed in the report company vision. Future reporting at an appropriate level. Key should demonstrate how these indicators are mapped back to are used proactively to achieve the main material issues and the leadership position they performance. The test will be how aim for. the organization addresses these issues going on from here. A detailed internal management • CCE wants to be a leader in report with results and sustainability and future reporting recommendations against this and performance need to show standard has been provided to CCE. that this is a constant programme that takes into account the changing sustainability context and maturity of issues and stakeholder concerns. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS United Kingdom Ltd affirm our independence from Coca-Cola Enterprises, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with IRCA (Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner) and IEMA (Environmental Auditor). Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2010/2011 43 United Nations Global Compact CCE is a signatory of the UN Global Principle Page Compact and has committed to Principle 1: Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 11, 13, 32–33, 38, 39 supporting its ten principles in Principle 2: Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 11, 13, 38 the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 11, 38 Opposite is an index detailing Principle 4: Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 11, 38 where you can find our progress Principle 5: Support effective abolition of child labor 11, 38 against these principles within this report. Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 36–39 Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 11, 14–19, 20–23, 24–27 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 14–19, 20–23, 24–27 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 16–19, 22–23, 25 Principle 10: Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 11, 13, 38 Further resources Governance CCE Greenhouse Gas Recycle Zone: Norwegian Red Cross: — Verification Statement 2010: www.recycle-zone.co.uk http://www.rodekors.no/oslo CCE Environmental Policy: http://www.cokecce.com/assets/ Recycling at The Coca-Cola Company: Sweden Beach Clean Up: http://www.cokecce.com/assets/ uploaded_files/FinalGreenhouseGas www.livepositively.com/recycling www.strandraddare.se uploaded_files/CCE_Environmental_ VerificationStatement_CocaPolicyMay2011.pdf ColaEnterprises.pdf Product portfolio Active healthy living CCE Code of Business Conduct: Water stewardship — — www.cokecce.com/assets/uploaded_ — European Food Safety Authority (EFSA): Live Positively: files/2010-business-conductofcode.pdf The Coca-Cola Company 2011 www.efsa.europa.eu www.livepositively.com Water Replenishment Report: CCE Annual Report and Form 10-K: International Sweeteners Association: http://www.thecoca-colacompany.com/ Schweppes Abbey Well Schwim Free: http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_ www.sweeteners.org citizenship/pdf/replenish_2011.pdf www.schwimfree.co.uk files/irol/11/117435/2010AR.pdf Association of European Beverages Product Water Footprint Assessments: ADEPS: www.adeps.be Charter for the CRS Committee Associations (UNESDA): Practical Application in Corporate Water of the Board of Directors: www.unesda.org BLOSO: www.bloso.be Stewardship, Sept 2010: http://phx.corporate-ir.net/ http://www.thecoca-colacompany.com/ The Coca-Cola Company product Mission Olympic: External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NjI1N presscenter/TCCC_TNC_WaterFootprint website: http://www.virtualvender. www.missionolympic.nl Dl8Q2hpbGRJRD0tMXxUeXBlPTM=&t=1 Assessments.pdf coca-cola.com/ft/index.jsp UN Global Compact: Coca-Cola European The Coca-Cola Company Great Britain Visitors Center: www.unglobalcompact.org Sustainable Responsible Marketing Charter: http://www.cocacolabelgium.be/ packaging/recycling http://www.coca-cola.co.uk/about CCE 2011 Proxy Statement: Bezoek-ons-European-Visitors-Center http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_ — -us/responsible-marketing.html files/irol/11/117435/2011Proxy.pdf Vinspired: http://vinspired.com Gi Jernet: http://wn.com/Gi_jernet Truvia: www.truvia.com Eco-Emballages: Energy conservation/ www.ecoemballages.fr Appletiser: http://www.appletiser.co.uk Workplace climate change — Fost Plus: www.fostplus.be Capri Sun: http://www.capri-sun.co.uk CCE careers: — careers.cokecce.com/careers.aspx BIER Beverage Industry Sector Guidance Nedvang: www.nedvang.nl Community for Greenhouse Gas Emissions UN Global Compact: Plastic Heroes Campaign: — Reporting: www.unglobalcompact.org www.plasticheroes.nl Education Centers: www.bieroundtable.com www.cokeeducation.co.uk Board of Directors Network (BDN): Returpack: www.returpack.se Carbon Disclosure Project: www.boarddirectorsnetwork.org The Real Business Challenge: www.cdproject.net Norsk Resirk: www.resirk.no www.therealbusinesschallenge.co.uk The Board of Directors Network Carbon Trust: www.carbontrust.com DEFRA (Department for Environment, Women in the Boardroom 2010 King Baudouin and Food and Rural Affairs): Queen Paola Foundations: Georgia Public Companies Study: Cancun Communiqué: www.defra.gov.uk http://www.kbs-frb.be/index. http://www.boarddirectorsnetwork.org/ http://www.cpsl.cam.ac.uk/pdf/the%20 aspx?LangType=1033 docs/2010_study.pdf Cancun%20Communique%2016_11.pdf Waste and Resources Action Program (Courtauld Commitment): http://www.sk-fr-paola.be/ www.wrap.org.uk Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. 2500 Windy Ridge Parkway Atlanta, GA 30339 +1 678 260-3000 www.cokecce.com
