Welcome/to/climate change/Full Report 2009/10 el/ ll Fu rt Wome e po 10 R 9/ c te tolima ge 0 20 c han ectiv es. c ersp p w s. Ne e leng al ch w Ne The climate is changing. ing, it is getting warmer. stormy. Welcome to cli EVN is accepting these Meteorologically speakEconomically, it is quite mate change? Well, yes! challenges. t s / ten n Co 06 EVN in short. Rooted in Lower Austria, successful in Europe – an overview of the latest EVN projects and figures. 10 Equipped for the future. The members of the EVN Executive Board, Burkhard Hofer, Peter Layr and Herbert Pöttschacher speak about current challenges and the new EVN Strategy 2020. 18 EVN on the capital market. The most important data, facts and developments pertaining to the EVN share. 20 Facts and figures. For the first time, EVN presents facts and figures as still life photography. 24 The change is enormous. Prof. Nebojsa Nakicenovic, one of the world’s leading energy economists, on change and challenges. 28 The showcase project Dürnrohr. Electricity is generated, waste ecologically treated and numerous households also supplied with district heat. An investment in EVN’s core market, which pays off for everyone! 38 The climate protection dilemma. Prof. Mojib Latif on global warming, solutions and scenarios if no way out can be found. 42 Hydropower for South East Europe. Three EVN projects on the Devoll and Drin rivers in Albania and the Gorna Arda River in Bulgaria are arising, all with a common goal: the sustainable improvement in supplying entire regions with renewable energy. 48 Change as an opportunity. EVN is becoming more international. The Group HR Day highlights opportunities for employees. 56 Electricity and gas – safely and securely! EVN ensures a reliable supply of gas in Lower Austria with the new “Südschiene“ (southern section of trans-regional pipeline). 62 Diversity of life. The specific ways EVN stands up for maintaining biodiversity. 66 EVN Powerteam 2010. 36 five-person teams from 33 Lower Austrian municipalities compete to win the title of “EVN Powerteam 2010“. 72 Clear water for Istanbul. Istanbul’s quality of life is improving thanks to the large Ataköy wastewater purification plant constructed by EVN. 06 Editorial 78 37 News in brief from Lower Austria 46 News from EVN’s foreign markets The Wachau region is e-mobile. 54 Employee news EVN launched an e-mobility project in the 60 Security of energy supplies: the projects Wachau in 2010. Everyone can comfortably bike through the UNESCO World Heritage 65 Biodiversity newsflash Site in an ecologically compatible manner. 70 Social and societal involvement A pilot project with enormous potential! 76 News from the Environmental Services segment 82 Innovation news 83 Editorial information Editorial Ladies and Gentlemen! Acting holistically also means not forgetting the weakest among us in our society and assuming corporate social For years the sustainability aspects of our business operations responsibility towards all our stakeholders. A healthy, long-term has been dear to EVN’s heart. The demands placed on sustaincorporate development is only possible if we achieve a balance ability reporting are continually growing, and call for new, between environmental, social and economic success. innovative approaches. With this “Full Report” we are breaking new ground. Under the motto We look forward to your suggestions and wish you exciting “Welcome to change” we will reading! not only describe various aspects of climate protection which are so important to us. Change begins in our own minds, and requires the ongoing extension of CEO Dr. Burkhard Hofer our own horizon. For this reason, Spokesman of the Executive Board we attach considerable importance to the extensive further In the publication “EVN Figures, Data, Facts 2009/10” you will find the Corporate Governance Report, the Financial Report and facts on sustainability education and professional dein accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). velopment of all our employees. If a copy is not availability to you, you can request one at www.investor.evn.at. EVN in short Rooted in Lower Austria, successful in Europe – an overview of the latest EVN projects at a glance. Energy and environmental services from a single source EVN business segments. As an international, publicly listed energy and environmental services company based in Lower Austria, the country’s largest federal province, we fulfill the primary daily needs of our customers. On the basis of a state-of-the-art infrastructure, we offer our customers electricity, gas, heat, water, waste incineration and related services from a single supplier. With this reliable and top quality product and service offering, we safeguard and improve the quality of life of our more than 3.6m energy customers with respect to their energy supply. Moreover, EVN has gained extensive expertise in the planning and construction of water supply, wastewater treatment, desalination, waste incineration and waste incineration plants over the last 20 years on the basis of 82 environmental projects carried out in its markets. All in all, EVN operates in 19 countries. The reliability and security of the energy supply, the prudent use of natural resources, the creation of a modern infrastructure and the highest quality demands are the focal points of all our activities. Taking account of the stipulations contained in IFRS 8 Power generation from thermal production capacities and re“Business Segments”, which must be Generation newable energy (hydropower, solar power and photovoltaics) applied as of the 2009/10 financial year, the identification of operating segments is Network Infrastructure Operation of regional electricity and natural gas networks as exclusively based on the internal organizational Austria well as cable TV and telecommunication networks and reporting structure. Thus from a regional Trade and sourcing of electricity and primary energy sources, point of view, the Energy segment encompasses Energy Trade and Supply sales to wholesalers and end customers, heat generation EVN’s business activities in Austria and and sale Germany as well as in South East Europe with Bulgaria, Macedonia, Albania and Energy Supply Operation of electricity networks, electricity sales to South East Europe end customers, heat generation and sale, gas networks Croatia, and from a functional perspective, the energy value chain of the energy business Environmental Drinking water, wastewater treatment (generation, distribution and supply). Services and waste incineration The Environmental Services segment encompasses the business areas of drinking water, Strategic Investments RAG, BEGAS, BEWAG, Verbund AG and Other and central Group functions wastewater treatment and waste incineration in 15 countries. 06 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Markets at a glance EVN in Central, Eastern and South East Europe (since 2003) Drinking water and wastewater projects in 15 countries Waste incineration plant in Moscow EVN in Germany Electricity production (as of 2011) EVN in Bulgaria (since 2004) Electricity distribution and supply Heat distribution and supply, EVN in Austria electricity and heat generation Highest level of integration Power plant project in preparation in all segments EVN presence Energy supply EVN in Croatia (since 2009) Drinking water and wastewater projects Three concessions Newly acquired for the gas supply Large completed projects Under construction EVN in Albania EVN in Macedonia (since 2006) Waste incineration Power plant projects under Electricity distribution and supply Power plants under construction construction or in preparation Electricity production Group headquarters Regional locations Up, up and away + 0.9 % 6.9 Revenue to Euro 2,752.1m + % EBIT to Euro 187.3m Financial result to Euro 83.6m + 64.5 % + 16.3 Group profit for the period % + 11.6 % EBITDA to Euro 416.6m Energy for Lower Austria Climate protection, in concrete terms. In recent years EVN has invested more than EUR 200m to implement its Energy Concept for the Lower Austrian Central Region, thus making to Euro 207.0m a significant contribution to climate protection. In 2009, a new steam turbine was put into operation at the Dürnrohr power plant. The steam produced by the power station and waste Massive investments incineration facility is not only used to generate electricity Security of supply. EVN invested EUR 394.0m in the but also district heat for the provincial capital of St. Pölten. 2009/10 financial year, focusing on expanding and Moreover, efficiency was further optimized on the basis of a modernizing networks in Lower Austria, in particular new control technology. A turbular conveyor belt with a length the gas network featuring the southern section of the of 3.2 kilometres designed to transport coal from the Danube trans-regional gas pipeline. EVN is also continuing to river bank to the Dürnrohr power plant was put into operation massively invested in upgrading distribution networks in 2010. As a result, about half of the energy sources required and electricity metre technology in South East Europe. by the power station as well as the residual products which arise will be delivered or transported away by waterway, thus considerably minimizing the volume of lorry traffic. EVN Full Report 2009/10 07 EVN in short More energy from renewable sources Focus on wind, water and the sun. EVN is focusing on renewable energy sources in its efforts to expand its own power generation capacities. The long-term goal is to achieve a power generation mix featuring 50% from renewable. Up to EUR 200m were invested in the construction of new wind power plants in Lower Austria alone. Capacities are also been continually expanded in South East Europe. EVN in cooperation with VERBUND AG is currently building the Ashta run-of-river power station on the Drin River in Northern Albania. In 2012 the Hydromatrix power station with a capacity surpassing 50 MW is expected to come on stream. The total investment volume amounts to about EUR 200m. Feasibility studies are currently being carried out for three storage power plants on the Devoll River in Albania. Moreover, storage power plants are also being constructed in several phases on the Arda River in Bulgaria, with a total capacity of up to 170 MW. Following the beginning of construction work on the Kavarna Wind Park, a photovoltaic facility came on stream in Blatets, Bulgaria in May 2010. With a capacity of about 0.8 MW, it is the most powerful of photovoltaic installation operated by EVN. High service standards Prize for dedicated employees. EVN attaches particular importance to ensuring the satisfaction of more than 3.6m energy customers. In 2009, the EVN Service Star award was granted to employees for the first time in recognition of their extraordinarily dedicated work. Water and waste – a job for professionals Projects in Lower Austria – and internationally. Through its subsidiaries EVN carries out the planning, financing, construction and operation of drinking water and wastewater purification plants as well as waste incineration facilities throughout Europe. Thus it makes a major contribution to improving people’s quality of life. For example, EVN has been operating a waste incineration plant in Moscow in 2007. In the 2009/10 financial year, EVN was awarded a contract to build another waste incineration plant in the Russian capital. EVN was contracted to implement a second environmental project on the island of Cyprus i.e. a wastewater plant for 10,000 customers. In the 2009/10 financial year, various wastewater treatment plants constructed by EVN commenced operations e.g. in Stettin, Poland, the Turkish metropolis of Istanbul and in Tulln, Lower Austria, amongst others. Further details can be found starting on page 72. At the beginning of 2010 the third line of the waste incineration plant in Dürnrohr was put into operation. The additional capacity of 200,000t annually will enable electricity for 170,000 households as well as district heat for the Municipality of Zwentendorf and two thirds of the required district heat for the provincial capital of St. Pölten to be generated from the delivered waste in an ecologically compatible manner. 08 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Accidents in the year Social commitment under review EVN deeply regrets the fact that it has to report a total of Social Fund. The social commitment of EVN focuses 17 deaths in the 2009/10 financial year (three employees, on promoting children and youth. Numerous projects are 14 deaths of customers, abutting owners or the general supported by the EVN Social Fund, featuring an annual public). In Lower Austria, one employee from EVN’s area endowment of EUR 100,000. EVN also provides support headquarters in Scheibbs was killed in a major car accident. to local institutions in Bulgaria and Macedonia. In Bulgaria, one employee died from his serious injuries incurred by carrying out repair work on a damaged power line. Another employee in Bulgaria had a deadly accident on his way home from work. Five people died as the result of a gas explosion in St. Pölten during the year under review. A combination of coincidental occurrences supposedly led to this accident. The underlying cause was apparently a short circuit in a 20 kV underground cable, which in turn damaged a household gas supply line. The clarification of the incident has not yet been completed by the responsible authorities. Within the context of its liability without fault in connection with the natural gas explosion, EVN has already covered most of the costs for the physical and property damage which arose. A further deadly electricity accident occurred in Austria. In both cases, the surviving dependents also receive compensation from the “Gas and Electricity Accident Insurance of EVN for its Optima Customers”. Five EVN Academy people lost their lives in South East Europe trying to steal cables and three other people lost their lives through no Further education. The success of EVN is based on fault of their own. EVN sincerely regrets all of these occurthe commitment and know-how of its 8,536 employees. rences, and is carrying out all the measures at its disposal to The company invested EUR 2.7m in its further education prevent such accidents from happening again in the future. and professional development efforts. The offering is being continually revised, and ranges from trainings on occupational safety, language and IT courses to management development programmes. 09 Interview/ EVN Strategy/ Photos Michael Kammeter Wellequipped for the future The members of the EVN Executive Board, Burkhard Hofer, Peter Layr and Herbert Pöttschacher, talk about current challenges and ambitious future projects. ____ For the first time, EVN is publishing a combined annual and sustainability report for the 2009/10 financial year. What is the reason for this? hofer: For us sustainability is an integral part of our day-to-day business operations. This was once again confirmed in the 2009/10 financial year with respect to the further development of our corporate strategy. As a utility company, we have to think on a long-term basis, and in our role as an environmental services company we are by definition closely aligned with various aspects of sustainability. Our aim is to even more strongly integrate these considerations in all our business activities. The reorientation of our reporting approach also reflects this attitude in the way we communicate to external stakeholders. layr: Moreover, it must be mentioned that the external demands on our reporting are steadily increasing, whether this involves the annual financial statements or indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative. This information, which is sometimes very detailed, is not always of interest to all readers. For this reason, we considered a solution which, from our point of view, more effectively addresses the needs of the different target groups. This magazine reflects our desire to appeal to a broader target group, whereas the reporting section is designed to continue our tradition of comprehensive and transparent reporting. The approach we are taking does more than just mirror our philosophy to develop the most efficient solutions possible without offering the same thing to everyone. In fact, we aim to provide what each stakeholder needs in the best possible quality and in the most individualized and target group-oriented manner we can achieve. > 10 EVN Full Report 2009/10 EVN Ganzheitsbericht Herbert Pöttschacher, Burkhard Hofer, Peter Layr (from l. to r.) “In 2020 I see EVN growing further but also being more profitable. © Credits Blindtext We will harvest the fruits of our current investments in the years to come.“ Burkhard Hofer EVN Full Report 2009/10 Ganzheitsbericht 2009/10 11 ____ Different aspects of change are treated in the magazine. ment. But at the same time we have to confront the changes How flexible and versatile is EVN? How has the company and the transformations taking place in the environment in which changed in the past years? we operate. Here the underlying conditions have significantly hofer: Just a few years ago we were still a regional energy changed, in particular the importance attached to renewable supplier for Lower Austria, offering electricity, gas and heat. energies and also in the environmental services business. In the meantime, EVN has emerged as a leading internationally In turn, this has accelerated the process of change at EVN. operating company, both in the energy as well as in the pöttschacher: In short, we have undergone a metamorphosis environmental services sectors. Everyone involved has clearly from a regional provider to an internationally operating perceived how EVN has been transformed. company with business in 19 countries. This is a decisive layr: In this regard, it is important that we keep in mind that change, but has not affected our intrinsic values. Fairness and change always involves two aspects, the internal and the external responsibility are anchored in the corporate strategy of EVN. side of things. Internally, this relates to our own further developThis is sustainability in the true sense of the word. 12 EVN Full Report 2009/10 EVN Strategy CEO n Born 1944, Doctor of Law. Joined EVN in 1980. Member and Burkhard Hofer Spokesman of the EVN Executive Board since March 2005. Named Chairman of the Executive Board in May 2008. His term of office expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting resolving upon matters pertaining to the 2011/12 financial year. Burkhard Hofer has executive responsibility for the Environmental Services as well as the Energy Trade and Supply segments, along with the Group functions procurement and purchasing, controlling, customer relations, finance, Group accounting (incl. investor relations), general administration and corporate affairs, information and communications and human resources. Member of the Executive Board Peter Layr n Born 1953. Doctor of Technical Sciences. Joined EVN in 1978. Member of the EVN Executive Board since October 1999. His term of offices expires on September 30, 2014. Peter Layr has executive responsibility for the Network Infrastructure Austria and South East Europe segments, as well as for data processing, environmental controlling and safety. The members of EVN’s Executive Board optimistically look ahead to the future. Member of the Executive Board –––– What have been the consequences of EVN’s Herbert Pöttschacher internationalisation? hofer: This internationalisation process has been clearly n Born 1949. Degree in Surveying, Regional and Environmental reflected in our work force. The number of employees has Planning. Member of the EVN more than tripled since the 2003/04 financial year. Of the 9,000 Supervisory Board from 1991 to people employed by EVN, more than two-thirds work outside 1995, and of the EVN Executive of Austria. A new situation has arisen, featuring intercultural Board since July 1995. His term diversity, which has also posed a series of new challenges. of office expires on June 30, 2013. Herbert Pöttschacher has For this reason, an important goal of our human resources executive responsibility for the management is to take advantage of the opportunities related Generation segment, as well as to this diversity, as well as to promote knowledge exchange for internal auditing, administraand overcome language barriers and cultural differences. > tion and construction. EVN Full Report 2009/10 13 EVN Strategy “We are currently working on very the required fuels from the Danube to the power plant site, and thus considerably reduce lorry traffic. Finally, we successfully significant projects in Lower Austria concluded test series on the biomass pyrolysis pilot plant. focusing on medium-sized and Now we are carrying out tests to energetically utilise the sludge, small hydropower plants, but new in order to expand our portfolio of waste disposal services. wind parks are also being planned.” layr: We are currently working on very significant projects Peter Layr in Lower Austria focusing on medium-sized and small hydropower plants. The work on the Schütt facility and the expansion in Ybbs are progressing speedily, and should be We are on the right path, but will have to continue working completed next year. New wind parks are being planned on creating a shared corporate culture. in Lower Austria. The necessary licenses have already been layr: A further aspect in this connection is the trend towards granted, and construction will begin in 2010. The new wind the higher qualifications of employees, both with respect to power plants will come on stream in 2011. a broader expertise as well as a more in-depth specialised hofer: EVN’s large gas pipeline projects i.e. the “southern“ know-how. We support the advancement of our employees and “western“ sections of the trans-regional gas transmission whenever we can with our comprehensive further education pipeline designed to ensure the secure supply of gas to our and professional development offering. customers as well as to our power plant sites are of enormous pöttschacher: Despite our business operations abroad, we importance. The first stages of the southern section, the remain strongly rooted in our domestic market of Lower Austria. longest gas pipeline project in our corporate history featuring This is demonstrated by the orientation of our corporate strategy. a length of 120 kilometres, have already been finished. But we are also massively investing in our drinking water ____ Looking back at the 2009/10 financial year, services, for example building a connecting line between how would you summarise developments? the Waldviertel and Weinviertel regions of Austria to improve hofer: Despite several negative effects, in particular in the the supply of high quality drinking water. power generation segment, we could still achieve really good results. The Group net profit for the period of EUR 207.0m ____ Which investment projects is EVN currently is 16.3% above the prior-year level. The main external factor implementing abroad? impacting a utility company happens to be the weather. We pöttschacher: At present, we are working on several projects had a very cold winter, which affected energy consumption. which are in different phases of completion. The Ashta power The situation was quite favourable for us in terms of energy plant in Albania, a joint project with VERBUND AG is currently procurement. The growth projects in the heating segment, under construction and is scheduled to commence operations in particular the district heating pipeline to St. Pölten, had a in 2012. We are pursuing a second hydropower project in positive impact. At the same time, we were very economical Albania which has reached the final planning phase. in our expenditures, and successfully implemented two The feasibility studies are expected to be completed by the programmes to raise efficiency in the company. end of this year. The third hydropower project, Gorna Arda pöttschacher: In evaluating business development, one should in Bulgaria, was already planned several years ago and not forget to mention that the previous year’s results were is currently being adapted by us to reflect present-day shaped by the economic crisis. The crisis did not affect EVN’s conditions. The advantage of this project is that it is in Bulgaria energy sales as much as our energy sourcing business and and thus in the region which we supply with electricity. our financial results. layr: On balance, our success is based on a combination of ____ How is EVN financing these projects? consolidation and selective growth. On the one hand, we hofer: EVN has a very clearly defined financing strategy based have succeeded in keeping our operating costs under control. on the use of our free cash flow as well as highly diversified On the other hand, we have made the right investments. financing on capital markets. In addition, we are not financing the above-mentioned projects ourselves, but together with our ____ What were these “right” investments in the 2009/10 financial year? pöttschacher: Five projects which we were able to conclude “Even if we do live to experience during the year under review were the right ones, because the conversion from fossil fuels to they are of fundamental importance to Lower Austria’s energy renewable energies over the next supply. For one thing, I am talking about the completion of the district heating pipeline to St. Pölten as well as the third waste decades, we will not be able to incineration line and the new steam turbine, the “Energy Utilisacompletely do without primary tion Centre 2” in Dürnrohr. Furthermore, we also finished work energy sources such as hard coal.“ on the tubular conveyor belt which will transport about half of Herbert Pöttschacher 14 EVN Full Report 2009/10 report Burkhard Hofer, Spokesman of the Executive Board and CEO of EVN respective partners or consortiums. In this regard, we make inconsistent with our sustainability targets. However, even if do sure that the financial stability of EVN and our positive ratings live to experience the conversion from fossil fuels to renewable are not threatened. The latest capital increase which we energies over the next few decades, we will not be able to successfully implemented in November 2010 demonstrated completely do without primary energy sources such as hard that EVN has a good reputation on capital markets. coal. We cannot simply flick a switch and expect the change from fossil to renewable energy to take place from one day ____ What are the key cornerstones of the Strategy 2020 to the next without endangering the security and reliability which you developed during the year under review? of our energy supply. Ensuring sufficient energy supplies in hofer: The most important point is the fundamental reorientation the future must also be part of our sustainability strategy. The of our power generation capabilities. Following completion of hard coal-fired Duisburg-Walsum power plant ranks among the hard coal-fired power plant in Duisburg-Walsum, Germany, the most technologically advanced of its kind in all of Europe planned for mid-2011 in which we have a 49% stake, we want and features an efficiency level of 46%, considerably higher to exclusively focus on efforts on renewable energy projects. than the average. At the same time, this project enables us to The current projects in Lower Austria and abroad have already further diversify our power generation capacities. been mentioned. All in all, we want to ensure a 50:50 ratio between electricity generated from renewable energy sources ____ EVN is helping its customers to save energy. Isn’t this and thermal power generation by the year 2020. At the same at variance with the business model of an energy provider? time, we are working on achieving our goal of increasing the hofer: On the one hand, we are striving to retain the loyalty of coverage ratio from EVN’s own production facilities from 40% our customers by providing sound consulting services on all at the present time to 60% of our sales volumes. energy-related issues. On the other hand, we are aware of our long-term responsibility as an energy provider. This ____ How does the hard coal-fired power plant in responsibility not only demands that we do our best to ensure Duisburg-Walsum fit in with EVN’s sustainability strategy? a secure supply of energy, but also that we strive to ensure the pöttschacher: At first glance, the project would seem to be efficient use of energy, both at our own facilities as well as by > EVN Full Report 2009/10 15 EVN Strategy The cornern Expansion of power generation capacities – The focus in Lower Austria will be on expanding hydropower and to come on stream in 2012. Three storage power stations are planned stones of with a strong focus on renewable energy sources building new wind parks. – Several hydropower plant on the Devoll River in Albania. In Bulgaria storage power stations EVN’s Strat– The share of renewable energy sources should be increased to projects outside of Austria are in the planning stage. The Ashta with a total output of up to 170 MW are to be constructed on the Arda egy 2020 50% by 2020, and the Group-wide own level of efficiency from power station in Albania, which is being implemented in cooperation River in several expansion phases. Feasibility studies for these projects 40% to 60%. with VERBUND AG, is scheduled are currently being carried out. our customers. Irrespective of this fact, the prudent and thrifty also planning to develop concepts for the energy-efficient use of natural resources is the order of the day in the light of operation of commercial facilities. In all these cases, the the limited resources at mankind’s disposal. important thing is to be able to offer our customers the best layr: The efficient energy use on the part of our customers also and most efficient energy solution possible. contributes to flatten peak demand and thus improve capacity utilization at our own power generation facilities. This will also ____ Is EVN also pursuing research projects which go above lead to positive economic effects for EVN in the form of lower and beyond what you have mentioned? costs per generated or transported kilowatt hour. pöttschacher: Of course, we are particularly active in pursuing the development of smart grids, to give one example. The is____ Which new business areas will emerge for EVN as sue involves finding ways to intelligently combine individual asa result of this development? pects of the energy supply with each other, in order to reduce hofer: There are manifold possibilities. We have been offering the level of overall investments which are required, and to feed several products and services for quite a long time, whereas decentrally produced renewable energy into the power grid. others are in the development phase. Examples include the This is an exciting topic which we are intensively focusing on. renovation service, the solar power plant, but also others such as the lighting service or thermographies and “blower door ____ How important is e-mobility for EVN? tests”, which measure the wind tightness of a house. We are hofer: We are doing extensive work in this field in cooperation Herbert Pöttschacher, Member of the EVN Executive Board n Additional focus placed results contributed by the Environment is highly important to EVN and continues to be a growth on the Environment Services mental Services segment should sector. The need and demand for technologically advanced business rise to one third on a medium-term facilities to supply drinking water or purify waste water re– Demand in the Environmental basis. Services segment remains at a high n Maintaining market mains strong and unbroken, particularly in Eastern and South level. At present, the total contract leadership in its core market East Europe. In the reporting year, we acquired several new volume amounts to about EUR 1.2 of Lower Austria projects, and we now boast an order volume of about EUR 1.2 billion. As a result of the high level n Safeguarding EVN’s financial billion as of September 2010. On a medium-term basis, the of orders, the share of EVN’s total stability Environmental Services segment should contribute one third of EVN’s total results. pöttschacher: From my point of view it is important to note that we offer special financing and operating models for these with our partners. Our approach is to exploit existing projects which are designed to minimize our overall risk and at possibilities. For this reason, we are focusing on single-track the same time ensure a long-term earnings contribution. The two-wheeled vehicles for the time being. The popularity of longstanding experience and excellent reputation of EVN are electric bicycles and scooters continues unabatedly, and really paying off in the true sense of the word. our concept of a Danube bike path in the Wachau region was very well received. In the initial phase, we want to offer ____ What is the current status of EVN’s efforts to integrate electromobility where it is feasible and makes sense. its subsidiaries in Bulgaria and Macedonia? layr: We are also planning to expand our services enabling layr: The integration process is proceeding on schedule. We tanking with renewable energy. Our main challenge is to have completed the restructuring in Bulgaria, and we are now make a functioning infrastructure available allowing for quick in the optimization phase. The restructuring in Macedonia has recharging. For this reason, we are investing considerable not yet been concluded but should be finished next year. I am amounts in the Lower Austrian network in order to be fit – for very gratified to report that the tensions characterizing our smart grids but for e-mobility as well. relationship with the Macedonia Government are easing. We have jointly defined a roadmap in order to finally overcome ____ How would you assess the future and the growth the outstanding issues. Accordingly, we optimistically look potential of the Environmental Services segment? ahead to the future. hofer: Strategically speaking, the Environmental Services seg____ How does the expansion of the gas network in three Peter Layr, Member of the EVN Executive Board Croatian municipalities fit into EVN’s overall strategy? layr: We are constructing a new gas network for Zadar, Sibenik-Knin and Split. Up until now, people are primarily heating with electricity, and in this sense gas is not available. For EVN, gas comprises a precisely calculable network operating business with regulated tariffs that we have a very good command of. Further potential exists in several urban areas in Dalmatia, where gas could be supplied under very profitable conditions. pöttschacher: It is also part and parcel of our strategy to expand the service portfolio offered in Lower Austria to foreign markets, in particular in the energy business. One example is the supply of heat, which we are now promoting in Bulgaria on the basis of our constructing a cogeneration facility in Plovdiv. This fits in with our other activities quite well, and enables synergies to be exploited with respect to the supply of electricity and heat. ____ A final question. How do you envision EVN to be like in the year 2020? hofer: I see EVN growing further, but also being more profitable. We will harvest the fruits of our current investments in the years to come. This also applies to our investments in South East Europe. In particular, we expect good earning possibilities in the Environmental Services segment. On balance, I see EVN with an unchanged portfolio, but in a different dimension. ____________________________________ 17 Investor Relations EVN The shares of EVN AG have been listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange since November 1989. The EVN share has performed well despite all the turbulences affecting internaon the tional capital markets since then. Investors who subscribed to EVN shares 20 years ago can be pleased with a return on their Investment of 355%. The Total Shareholder Return has totalled 8.86% annually, including the annual dividends. capital market Continuing dividends In using the financial resources at its disposal, EVN strives to achieve a balance between growth investments and attractive dividends. In recent years, the dividend payout ratio has been between 25% and 35% of the Group net profit. The Executive Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting on January 20, 2011 to pay a dividend of EUR 0.40 per share. The shares issued within the context of the 2010 capital increase are also entitled to dividends. The EVN share 2009/10 2008/09 Share price on 30.9. EUR 11.45 13.68 Highest price EUR 13.75 16.00 Lowest price Value of shares traded1) EUR mEUR 10.61 197 10.11 209 EVN – A sustainable Average daily turnover 1) Shares 63,724 69,031 investment Market capitalisation on 30.9. mEUR 1,872 2.237 EVN has been represented in the FTSE4Good Earnings/share3) EUR 1.27 1.09 Index since 2002 and in the Ethibel SustainDividend/share3) EUR 0.402) 0.37 ability Index Group (ESI) since 2005, as well as Cash flow/share 3)4) EUR 2.87 2.73 in VÖNIX, an Austrian sustainability index. Book value per share3) EUR 18.56 19.18 Price/earnings X 9.0 12.5 Price/cash flow4) X 4.0 5.0 Price/book value X 0.7 0.8 Shareholder structure Dividend yield % 3.5 2.7 1) Vienna Stock Exchange, counted once 2) Proposal to the Annual General Meeting 16.5 % 51.0% 3) Outstanding shares as at September 30, 2010 4) Gross cash flow Capital increase in October 2010 13.3% 51.0% EVN implemented a capital increase in October and November 2010. Originally, a As at partial pullout of Energie Baden-Württemberg AG (EnBW) was planned. Sept. 30, 2010 After EnBW decided against this, EVN succeeded in placing a capital increase 35.7% amounting to 10% of its share capital at a price of EUR 11.00 per share within just a few days. Due to constitutional regulations, the Province of Lower Austria continues to be the majority owner of EVN, holding 51% of the shares via NÖ Landes-Beteiligungsholding GmbH. The stake held by EnBW has 32.5% As at been diluted to 32.5%. The remaining shares are in free float. The EVN will use Nov. 15, 2010 the net proceeds of approximately EUR 173m to strengthen its balance sheet NÖ Landes-Beteiligungsholding GmbH 51.0% structure, invest in renewable energy projects in Lower Austria and expand EnBW 32.5% Free float 16.5% hydropower energy capacities in Austria and neighboring countries. 18 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Active investor Share price development of the EVN share relations 100 EVN maintains an active and regular dialogue with existing 90 and potential investors as well as analysts through numerous 80 investor relations activities. The basic principles underlying EVN’s investor relations 70 work are simultaneous, open and comprehensive communi60 cations with all capital market participants, a high degree of 50 transparency and pro-active reporting. Numerous op40 portunities were exploited in 01.1 01 08 .1 01 .08 .1 01 .08 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 01 09 .0 0. 1 2 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 01 09 the 2009/10 financial year to provide information about the .1 01 09 .1 01 09 .1 .0 .00. 1. 2. 01 09 1. 01 10 2. 01 10 .0 01 10 .0 01 10 .0 .0 .03. 4. 5. 01 10 6. 01 10 7. 01 10 .0 .18. 01 10 .09. 01 10 0.10 EVN ATX ATX Prime Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Utilities business development and strategy of EVN within the context of press conferences, Share price development of the EVN share: conference calls, roadshows A relative comparison and international conferences focusing on the utility sector. In the 2009/10 financial year, most international capital markets recovered from the The investor relations team of massive collapse in stock prices of the previous year related to the global economic EVN is available at any time to and financial crisis. The DAX, the most important German index, posted a 12% rise in respond to your inquiries. value, compared to a decline of close to 2.2% for the Euro Stoxx 50. The benchmark Contact: Investor Relations, index of the Vienna Stock Exchange, the ATX index, closed at 2,542 points at the end of Klára Székffy September 2010, or 1.4% below the prior-year level. The EVN share closed trading at Phone: +43 2236 200-12745 EUR 11.45 at the end of the year under review, a decrease of 16.3% year-on-year, and thus Fax: +43 2236 200-82745 developed identically to the DJ Euro Stoxx Utilities sector index, which is relevant to EVN. investor.relations@evn.at As at September 30, 2010, the market capitalisation of EVN amounted to EUR 1.872 bn. Service phone for investors: Average daily turnover of EVN shares weakened somewhat from the previous year, and 0800 800 200 (in Austria) totalled 63,724 shares (counted once). Accordingly, the value of EVN shares traded on the Vienna Stock Exchange was EUR 197m (counted once). Thus the EVN share accounted for 0.52% of the total value of shares traded on the Vienna Stock Exchange. The weighting of the EVN share in the ATX index was 1.05% at the end of September 2010. External 82nd Annual General Meeting January 20, 2011 credit ratings Ex-dividend day January 25, 2011 EVN AG is regularly rated by the two leading international Financial Dividend payment Results Q. 1 2010/11 January 28, 2011 February 24, 2011 credit agencies, Moody’s and calendar Results Hy. 1 2010/11 May 26, 2011 Standard & Poors. In the year Results Q. 1–3 2010/11 August 25, 2011 under review, the Standard Annual results 2010/11 December 15, 2011 & Poor’s rating remained unchanged at “negative”. Moody’s gave EVN an A3, “stable” rating in September EVN bonds 2010. EVN continues to have a very good credit rating EVN issued several bonds in previous years as part of its broad-based financing strategy. in comparison to other On balance, the market value of these outstanding bonds at the balance sheet date of companies in the European September 30, 2010 was EUR 902.5m, and the average effective nominal interest rate energy sector. was 4.3%. Detailed information on EVN’s bond programme is available on the EVN Website at www.evn.at/Investoren/Anleihen.aspx. EVN Full Report 2009/10 19 Highlights/ Photos Miriam Höhne Images of success EVN remains successful, also in times of change. But take a good look for yourself! A strong team in 19 countries! On average, EVN employed a workforce of 8,536 people in the 2009/10 financial year, primarily in Austria, Bulgaria and Macedonia. The focal point of all efforts promoting intercultural exchange is to create a common corporate culture and values without neglecting regional differences. Transnational project teams have already been overcoming key challenges for years, enabling the valuable internal transfer of know-how. The professional training and further education of employees is offered in the EVN academies on a regional basis, involving total investments of about EUR 2.7m in 2009/10. In addition to cooperating with universities of applied sciences and universities to ensure a sufficient future supply of skilled employees and executives, apprenticeship training also has a long tradition at EVN. On average, 64 apprentices were working for EVN in Lower Austria in the 2009/10 financial year. Austria: 2,546 employees Abroad: 5,990 employees 20 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Natural gas: 40% Hydropower: 23% Other renewable energies Wind power: 6% (e. g. photovoltaics, biogas): 4% Coal: Biomass: 2% 18% Thermal waste incineration: 7% Balanced energy mix at EVN – Expansion of renewable energy sources EVN has defined an ambitious goal of increasing the share of its total power general capacity attributed to renewable energy sources to 50% by the year 2020. In the 2009/10 financial year, EVN’s total electricity production amounted to 3.7 TWh, of which approximately 36% comprised renewable energy. The focus was on hydropower and wind power, but increasing importance is also being attached to biomass and photovoltaics. In particular, the implementation of new wind power facilities is planned on EVN’s domestic market of Lower Austria. The Weinviertel region and the Lower Austrian Central Region are especially suited for such projects due to their topographical conditions. Several hydropower projects are being pursued outside of Austria. The Ashta project is being realised on the Drin River in Albania in cooperation with VERBUND AG, and will be completed by 2012. Additional projects in Albania and Bulgaria are currently being evaluated. EVN Full Report 2009/10 21 Strategic Investments and Generation: Other Business: EUR 118.6m EUR 91.4m Environmental Services: EUR 285.4m Network Infrastructure Energy Supply Austria: South East Europe: EUR EUR 862.2m 488.9m Energy Trade and Supply: EUR 1,187.2m Stable revenue Despite lower contributions from the Energy Trade and Supply and Energy Supply South East Europe segments, EVN generated total revenue of EUR 2,752.1m (after consolidation), thus slightly surpassing the previous year’s figure. The development of the Environmental Services segment was particularly gratifying. Thanks to the completion of the third waste incineration line in Dürnrohr and the higher volume in the project business, segment revenue rose 15.4% to EUR 285.4m. Revenue of EVN’s largest segment, Energy Trade and Supply, was at about the same level as in the prior year, at EUR 1,187.2m. In contrast, the Network Infrastructure Austria segment profited from volume increases in the electricity and gas networks as well as higher gas network tariffs. Accordingly, a revenue increase of 4.5% to EUR 488.9m could be achieved. The Strategic Investments and Other Business segment also raised revenue by 5.0% to EUR 91.4m. 22 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Profit before income tax Significant earnings improvement The business development in the 2009/10 financial year was characterised by higher sales volumes in the light of a reduction in “Electricity purchases and primary energy expenses”. It was also impacted by an increase in the item “Cost of materials and services” as well as higher depreciation and amortisation. On balance, EBIT of the EVN Group improved by 6.9%, to EUR 187.3m. Supported by the higher income from investments in associates included at equity, and the improved interest result, the financial results of EVN rose 64.5%, to EUR 83.6m. The net profit after tax amounted to EUR 228.7m, or 15.5% above the prior-year level. The Group net profit of EUR 207.0m after minority interest represents a 16.3% rise from the previous year. Based on this success, the Executive Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting to distribute a dividend of EUR 0.40 per share for the 2009/10 financial year, compared to EUR 0.37 per share in 2008/09. Network Strategic Infrastructure Austria: Investments and EUR Other Business: 81.5m EUR 91.9m Energy Trade and Supply: EUR 51.4m Environmental Services: EUR 46.5m Generation: EUR 11.4m © Credits Blindtext Energy Supply South East Europe: EUR –10.5m EVN Full Report 2009/10 23 Interview/ Climate and Energy/ Photos Michael Kammeter The According to a hypothesis developed by Prof. Nebojsa Nakicenovic, one of the world’s leading energy economists, our society is about to experience one of the dramatic turning points in its history. Here is the interview about upcoming challenges, opportunities and threats. change is enormous! Prof. Nebojsa Nakicenovic in front of the park in Laxenburg, Lower Austria. The renowned International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), of which he is the Deputy Director, is located in Laxenburg Castle. 24 EVN Full Report 2009/10 O ur world is at the beginning of a far-reaching trans­ formation, according to a thesis promulgated by the world-famous energy economist Nebojsa Nakicenovic. ment cannot continue indefinitely. Exponential periods inevitably lead to saturation. Afterwards something completely new arises. For this reason, we are not only being forced to think and In an interview, he explains why the fossil fuel age must come act on a long-term basis but also globally for the very first time. to an end, and which challenges energy providers will face. ____ What exactly does this mean? ____ In your work you have often emphasized the fact The fossil fuel age must come to an end. We cannot afford that we are living in a period of change. What will we to continue working with the technologies and methods we really be confronted with in the years to come? currently have at our disposal. My hypothesis is that we are about to experience a dramatic turning point in our history. Our world is at the beginning of a ____ You are talking about global challenges... phenomenal transformation, which can only be compared with Yes I am. We have to divide mankind into two groups. One the change from a hunting and gathering people to a landed half of the population, or about 2.8 billion people, have not society. Or maybe even with the Industrial Revolution. even experienced the Industrial Revolution. They cook with agricultural waste materials, wood or charcoal on an open fire, ____ Will the energy issue play a decisive role in this scenario? which is very inefficient and unhealthy. There is no sewage Yes, because global energy consumption has been growing system or clean water. Two billion people do not have any exponentially for years. It is a law of nature that such a developaccess at all to modern technologies, or to electricity. > © Credits Blindtext EVN Full Report 2009/10 25 Climate and Energy ____ Which challenges do you think will arise because of ____ Can you be more specific? this? Energy consumption in housing could be cut by 90%. If energy It is our responsibility over the next 50 years to enable these providers could develop a corresponding business model on close to three billion people to take part in the process of this basis, the problem would be solved immediately. developing into a modern society. The other half of mankind, to which Austria belongs, has to make the changeover to ____ Do you have any other suggestions? a sustainable development path. And we have to begin One is carbon separation, capture and storage. It is not immediately. For example, we are already too late dealing realistic to imagine that we will be able to reduce our with climate change. consumption of fossil fuels to zero by 2050 and simultaneously boost the share of renewable energy to 100% . But, we still ____ What is the reason for this? do not know if carbon separation, capture and storage will Climate change is already taking place. Global temperatures really be able to function on such a large scale. have already risen by 0.6 to 0.7 degrees Celsius. There is little doubt that this development is largely related to our waste gas ____ Referring to the popular catchword “renewable emissions. In principle the solution is quite simple: in order to energies“, what is your assessment of the situation? stabilize global warming to a rise of only 2 degrees Celsius, Around the world we lack 1,000 to 10,000 times the we require emission benchmarks which must be adhered to, capacity for generating power from renewable energy sources i.e. reach their maximum level worldwide immediately, in any which we currently have. That is the bad news. The good case within this decade. We will have to reduce waste gas news is that the costs for renewable energies are declining. emissions to half the current amount in 20 years and by At some point in time the business with renewable energies 80% by 2050. And we know that Austria should be at the should become lucrative. In this scenario, the costs for cutting edge of this process. photovoltaics will have to decrease by a factor of ten, and wind energy by 50%. ____ However, international comparisons indicate that we actually rank among the latecomers… ____ Doesn’t this mean that energy will become more This is true, namely for political reasons. Great Britain, Sweden expensive? and California are much farther ahead of us, and have even established a legal basis for their climate protection targets. This is something we have not yet accomplished. “About 50% of harmful CO2 ____ So what must be done? emissions can be avoided The most important catchword here is “efficiency“. About by increasing efficiency.“ 50% of the decline in waste gas emissions can be achieved by raising efficiency, in particular on the part of the end users. This is a very important point for companies such as EVN, because utility companies will have to develop new business models. About Nebojsa n TU & IIASA. Nebojsa Nakicenovic is a full Professor of Nakicenovic: Energy Economics at the Vienna University of Technology (TU), current Deputy Director of the International Institute for Applies Systems Analysis (IIASA) and Director of the Global Energy Assessment (GEA). n Work. He is a co-publisher of the “International Journal on Technological Forecasting and Social Change“, the “International Journal on Climate Policy” and the “International Journal of Energy Sector Management”. 26 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Yes this is the conclusion to be drawn. Therefore we require We have gone much too far with this cowboy capitalism. We significant technological improvements to keep costs at a have to learn to think in a long-term manner. Unfortunately we tolerable level. did not take advantage of the crisis to question the direction our system is moving in. We simply pumped money into the ____ What hopes do you have for renewable energies? old system, and even strengthened it. We can clearly expand the use of wind energy. I hope we will be able to achieve a major breakthrough in the field of ____ As an energy expert, what advice do you have for a photovoltaics, which is still very expensive at the present time. company like EVN? Atomic energy is not being considered in Austria because EVN should do more with respect to consulting and increasing opposition is too intense. It is important that we have feasible efficiency of energy use on the part of its end customers. But feed-in tariffs, and clearly defined, long-term perspectives for how can companies post profits on the basis of this strategy? investments. We need a credible energy policy. We registered Clearly EVN will be selling less energy, for example if everyone a 40% drop in global investments in renewable energies. This lives in well insulated houses and apartments. The aim should should not be allowed to happen! be to sell less energy, but more know-how and services. But political decision-makers do not make it easy for managers ____ This accusation is directly aimed at utility companies… at present. It is difficult to develop a corporate strategy over a Yes. But what can a company do which is dependent on period of 20 years if the overall framework has not been clearstakeholder value? It has to act in a certain way. Otherwise ly defined. Nevertheless, it is a fact that too little is currently the management will be replaced. And this is one of the being invested in the energy sector. _______________________ fundamental problems facing us in this time of change. The future is uncertain, even more than just a few years ago. Our economic environment is definitely not conducive at EVN invited Mr. Nakicenovic to this interview to provide a well-foundpresent to promoting long-term investments. ed external assessment of key issues in the news. His opinions do not necessarily coincide with those of EVN. In return for this interview, ____ Is the logical consequence a change in our economic Prof. Nakicenovic requested an energy counseling session, which system? EVN was happy to do. EVN Full Report 2009/10 27 Report/ Lower Austrian Energy Concept/ Photos Michael Kammeter, EVN International showcase project in Dürnrohr EVN operates a thermal power station and waste incineration facility at its Dürnrohr site. 28 EVN Full Report 2009/10 The Dürnrohr facility not “only” generates electricity but also ecologically utilises waste. The steam which is produced provides district heat to thousands of households and is used as process steam in the nearby bioethanol plant. A report about this international showcase project. I nternational guests regularly visit the Zwentendorf/Dürnrohr site in the Tullnerfeld region. On the grounds near the Danube encompassing an area of about 115 hectares, EVN engineer on duty with responsibility for the smooth functioning of EVN’s thermal power plants. “Up until now, the partnership with Japan has often proved to be very worthwhile“, Gutscher operates a thermal power station as well as a thermal waste adds.“Japan is a high-tech country. On the basis of the good ties incineration plant. In particular, EVN has developed “a close and to Japan, we get the opportunity to cooperate on technical friendly relationship” with Japanese colleagues, Rudolf Gutscher matters with partners outside of Europe and the USA”. The fact explains. Gutscher works for the technical service and is the that Dürnrohr is considered to be a showcase project > EVN Full Report 2009/10 29 Lower Austrian Energy Concept Rudolf Gutscher explains how the steam power plant works. Secure n Power generation mix. A high share of electrical energy is generperiods of lower unfavourable water flow conditions in order not to be with peak levels being reached in the morning and evening. Therefore electricity supply ated in the spring and summer on so dependent on electricity imports electricity use is classified as base the basis of hydropower. However, and thus from prevailing market load, medium load and peak load. thermal power plants are indispenprices. Electricity consumption also The base load i.e. the electricity offersable in the colder seasons and in fluctuates in the course of the day, ing required consistently throughout 30 EVN Full Report 2009/10 “We offer a unique combination of power plant and environmental technology here.” is demonstrated by the considerable interest in the facility and the desire to learn from one another. Once a year Japanese technicians come to take part in a trainee programme in order to get a better idea of how the facility and the applied technologies work. In return, EVN benefits from an exchange of know-how and ideas with its Japanese counterparts. The catalyst technology used in Dürnrohr originated in Japan, and is still the best in the world at the present time. Energy and environmental technology. The Dürnrohr power plant ranks among the most modern in Europe. “We offer a unique combination of power plant and environmental technology here to minimize the impact on the environment”, Gutscher proudly reports. The power station plays a leading part in ensuring a secure electricity supply in Lower Austria. Moreover, the use of steam derived from the waste incineration plant provides district heat to thousands of households and industrial customers in St. Pölten. The power plant was put into operation in 1986 and the waste incineration plant in 2004. The decisive factors in favour of this site were the geographical proximity to the Danube as well as the atomic power station in Zwentendorf which had never come on stream. As a result, it was possible to make use of the electrical lines, control rooms and switching stations which had already been installed there. Moreover, the existing railroad connection was another advantage of the site. The inner workings of the thermal power station. The thermal power station can be driven either by hard coal or natural gas, which in turn prevents an overly high dependence on one particular raw material. In reality, coal from Russia and Poland is primarily used. The Dürnrohr facility is a steam power plant. This means that the generators are powered by steam turbines. The coal is very finely grounded in four coal mills, dried with pre-warmed fresh air and then burned in the boiler. Steam is produced from the radiation and the day can only be partially covered such as the ones operated by EVN contact with the hot flue gases and the steam generator. The by hydropower. Medium load periods on the Kamp and Erlauf Rivers. The steam flowing through the high pressure turbines performs already require electricity produced fluctuating electricity needs show that mechanical work which is then converted into electrical energy by thermal power stations to en­sure no one type of power plant can fully an adequate supply. At peak times, cover all re­quirements. Therefore a by the generators connected to the turbines. Transformers storage power stations are activated, reasonable combination is necessary. subsequently feed this electricity into the 110 kV power grid. > EVN Full Report 2009/10 31 The control room modernised in 2008 is the heart of the power plant. Low level of emissions. “On balance considerably explains, once again building a bridge to EVN’s Japanese more than 90% of the toxic substances are removed. This partners. “At the time the power plant was built, the decision means our performance is in the top ranks internationally“, was made to install a selective catalytic reduction process. The Gutscher says. The flue gas arising in burning the coal is filconcept for this catalytic convertor which was highly advanced tered in a multi-stage cleaning plant to such an extent that the at that point in time and still considered to be so today was remaining contaminates can partly no longer be detected by developed by Hitachi in Japan. In fact, Dürnrohr was the first measuring devices. The share of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen facility outside of Japan using this technology, thus attracting oxide amounts to about 0.1% of the entire volume of flue gas. interest from all over Europe”. The special thing about this The product of the flue gas desulphurisation plant (REA process is that by injecting ammonia the catalytic convertor product) is deposited in a mine (Preinsfeld) which is in danger converts nitrogen oxide into steam and nitrogen, two of collapsing. The filtered fly ash is used in producing cement. environmentally neutral substances. “79% of the air we EVN is also searching for viable industrial applications for breathe consists of nitrogen. Our catalytic convertor once the carbon dioxide. “We already voluntarily committed again changes the nitrogen oxide into the air components ourselves in 2008 to reduce nitorgen oxide emissions“, which had previously existed”, Gutscher adds. Gutscher continues. Numerous control points in the Tullnerfeld region continually This means that the Dürnrohr power plant is obliged to keep monitor the level of toxic substances in the air. In addition, NOx emissions below the legally stipulated level. Whereas the the trees surrounding the power plant have been scientifically maximum tolerated emissions are 200 mg nitrogen oxide/m3 examined for decades by means of analysing the foliage and flue gas, Dürnrohr emits a maximum of 150 mg/m3 flue gas. needles. The results are encouraging. The power plant has not This is primarily made possible by a special catalyst, Gutscher had any verifiably negative effects on the vegetation. Waste as n Waste to energy. EVN realises its unique worldwide concept stances contained in the waste materials are destroyed at residual materials under controlled conditions. The actual volume of a renewable called “Waste to energy” in its combustion temperatures of over waste is reduced to about 10%, energy source thermal waste incineration facilities. The focus is on achieving the 1,000 degrees Celsius, the indestructible substances are extracted which can be safely deposited at a waste dump. In addition to Dürnbest possible ecological treatment by a modern flue gas purification rohr, EVN also operates a waste of waste. This means the toxic subfacility and the disposal of the incineration plant in Moscow. 32 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Lower Austrian Energy Concept The carbon dioxide problem. Electricity derived gistic system underlying waste incineration are globally unique from fossil fuels is necessary to ensure a secure supply of as about 90% of the waste is delivered by rail in special conelectricity. A solution for harmful greenhouse gas emissions tainers and unloaded by an automatic crane system. Almost has not yet been discovered, but new technologies enabling a all residual materials are also transported away by train. “This sensible use of the CO2 are being tested. “Unfortunately, the saves some 40,000 freight truck trips annually” says Felicitas disadvantage in producing thermal energy is the CO2 emisGruber, head of communications at EVN Umweltholding. sions. However, the amounts we discharge are extremely low relatively speaking, due to the fact that our plants have a very Responsible employees. On balance, the employees high efficiency level enabling an optimal use of the fuel!”, Gutin the coal-fired power plant are responsible for ensuring that scher says. Moreover, due to the use of steam generated by every link in this chain functions smoothly. Most of these emthe neighbouring waste incineration plant, less fuel is required, ployees have received their master craftsman’s diploma as gas and thus less CO2 is discharged into the air. At the same time, turbine, boiler and steam boiler operators. The employees work the efficiency level of the power plant is increased. in three shifts. “The demands imposed on the employees are very high“, Gutscher admits. They must have an intimate basic Climate-friendly logistics. Ensuring the prudent use knowledge of the fundamental principles underlying power of natural resources is a top priority in all of EVN’s activities. plant technology, even if there are naturally specialists focusing Since March 2010, the coal has been transported from the on a specified aspect. Gutscher is a mechanical engineer himDanube port to the Dürnrohr power plant by means of a tubuself, and specialises in coal firing and combustion facilities. lar conveyor belt with a length of about 3 kilometres. About half of the required coal is transported to Zwentendorf by the Command centre of the power plant. The environmentally-friendly waterway and then brought from the control of the power plant takes place in the control room, Danube river bank to the power plant by means of a coated which was modernised in the year 2008. Numerous displays conveyor belt (“pipe conveyor”). In contrast to conventional are monitored round the clock to ensure that all components conveyor belts, the pipe form prevents carbon dust from esof the power plant and all measurements are functioning propcaping. “The new pipe conveyor not only reduces the number erly and are “green for go” in the true sense of the word. “I of trucks required but also cuts the level of CO2 emissions”, had to learn quite a lot within a very short time”, says the techGutscher states. The total investment volume for this project nical employee Jürgen Hoffmann about his six-month training amounted to EUR 16m. The technology deployed and the loperiod to become a “control desk driver” according to the > 90% of the waste is delivered by rail and unloaded by an automatic crane system. EVN Full Report 2009/10 33 Industrial power plant at Dürnrohr. The waste incineration process, steam turbines and different electrical lines are displayed on large monitors. The control room is responsible for managing and coordinating this complex system. “I do not know any comparable facility which is so complex and is equipped with so many links”, Gutscher says. “The Dürnrohr power plant is no longer just a power generating facility. It has increasingly evolved into a producer of heat and industrial power station”. In other words, it not only generates electricity, but uses the steam derived from waste incineration to supply district heat and process steam to nearby industrial companies such as the bioethanol facility of AGRANA. Gutscher points out the synergetic interaction with EVN’s thermal waste incineration plant in close proximity to the thermal power station. In the facility, which was expanded to include a third waste incineration line in April 2010, more than 500,000t of household residual waste and bulky waste as well as industrial and commercial waste materials are treated each year in the most ecologically-compatible manner technically possible at the present time. “There is garbage everywhere. We sensibly make use of it and thus replace fossil fuels”, Felicitas Gruber says. Since 2004, EVN has already been All the equipment is carefully checked during the daily tour of the plant. implementing its “Waste to energy” concept at the waste incineration facility in Dürnrohr. employee’s job description for managing the control room. Expressed in simple terms, valuable energy is generated from “One has to know everything about the entire technology rubbish, and all the toxic substances in the waste materials are of the power plant down to the very last detail, and assumes removed in the most ecologically-friendly manner possible. a big responsibility when working in the control room“, he adds. Hoffmann, who emanates an almost stoic serenity and Waste to energy. The close proximity to the thermal simultaneously the highest possible concentration, just like power plant makes it possible to exploit the energy contained his colleagues, monitors the more than 200 different measin the waste materials. The steam arising from the waste urements, data and parameters displayed on their screens incineration process is conveyed to the “EVZ 1“ and “EVZ 2“ (diagrams and surveillance images). In addition, everything is steam turbines in the generating unit by means of pipelines, meticulously checked and documented during a daily tour of or directly fed into the power plant boiler. There it can be the power plant, which can take up to eight hours. Any deviaoptimally exploited. “We can act very flexibly. In the first place tions and warnings, for example overly high temperatures of we use the steam for supplying St. Pölten and the Municipality the turbines, are immediately displayed on the screens. Every of Zwentendorf with district heat”, Gutscher explains. The component of the power plant, from the cables to the valves, steam can then be either used as a substitute for coal (or gas) has its own identification number. “We have to react quickly or directly converted into electricity, depending on prevailing if technical problems arise”, Hoffmann says. Real emergencies market prices for coal and electricity. The bioethanol plant of rarely occur thanks to the modernised control technology and AGRANA located near the power plant is directly supplied ongoing maintenance work, he adds. with process steam by means of a separate pipeline. Establishing n Participation. Information is a top priority. In particular, the local inhabitants of Zwentendorf taking part in a referendum held in the to groups of pupils and senior citizens come to Dürnrohr in order a dialogue population has been involved in year 1997 approved construction to tour the power plant and the all the projects long before the of a thermal waste incineration waste incineration facility. project begins. Thanks to this acfacility. In addition, visitors ranging “Each year we host numerous tive information policy, 74% of the from international delegations visitors”, says Felicitas Gruber, 34 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Lower Austrian Energy Concept Herbert n Herbert Pöttschacher: “With the Energy Concept for the of 31 kilometres, the longest in Austria. Our attempts to use bioPöttschacher Lower Austrian Central Region, mass in the form of biogas as an Member of the EVN we succeeded in implementing a alternative energy source were also unique concept. The interaction of successful. That is why we are startExecutive Board the facilities at the Dürnrohr site, ing a new project, and are testing namely the coal-fired power plant the utilisation of sludge as a source and the waste incineration plant, of energy. Based on the coming on have enabled us to significantly stream of the third waste incineraincrease efficiency. For example, tion line, we were able to come the heat derived from the waste close to doubling the capacities incineration plant, the thermal of the waste incineration facility. power station and the biomass 500,000t instead of 300,000t of facility are used to provide district waste are converted into valuable heat to St. Pölten. For this purpose energy each year. On balance, we constructed a district heating we have invested more than transmission pipeline with a length EUR 200m in this energy concept.” District heat for St. Pölten. Since October 1, 2009, EVN has been supplying two-thirds of the district heat requirements for the Lower Austrian capital city of St. Pölten via a 31 km long district heating transmission pipeline, which runs from Dürnrohr through the Perschling canal and the Traisental valley to St. Pölten. It is the largest of its kind in Austria, with an average diameter of 400mm. Despite its length, only a minimal amount of heat is lost thanks to a specially designed insulation. The water pumped into the pipeline boasts a temperature of 140 degrees and reaches the St. Pölten Nord district heating plant at a temperature of 138 degrees. St. Pölten’s Mayor Matthias Stadler is very proud of the project and calls the district heating pipeline “a milestone in St. Pölten’s energy supply”. He emphasizes the contribution to climate protection in addition to a greater independence and higher security of supply. The district heating transmission pipeline saves 21m m3 of natural gas, and reduces CO2 emissions by 40,000t. Ecology and economy. Considerable cost saving potential also exists at the Dürnrohr power station by linking the generation of team to the waste incineration plant. Each year, the power station saves 100,000t of coal and 10m m3 of natural gas. The thermal waste incineration facility is an international showcase example for ecologically and economically optimised waste disposal. “Delegations from all over the world come to visit us. In the near future we expect a visit from Ulan Bator (Mongolia). Chinese groups also paid a Every component of the power plant has its visit to us”, Gruber says. EVN develops customized concepts own identification number. on behalf of its customers which are tailored to meet the requirements and conditions at each location. The same technical solutions are not applied everywhere. “For example, communications manager of house and its three 40m high in Moscow we rely on dry flue gas purification, because the EVN Umweltholding. combustion boilers. facility is located in the city itself”, Gruber states. Furthermore, A separate visitor centre shows Parallel to the construction of the the heating value of waste varies and is higher in Austria “The Path Waste Takes“ and offers third waste incineration line, the fascinating views of the 40,000 m3 information centre was expanded (an average of 11 MJ/kg) due to widespread waste separation waste bunker as well as the boiler and redesigned. than the plant in Moscow (7.5 MJ/kg). > EVN Full Report 2009/10 35 Lower Austrian Energy Concept Successful tests. The attempt to utilise biomass in the The highest level of competence. The Dürnrohr form of gas in a thermal power station was successfully conpower plant has been transformed from an exclusive producer cluded. Different varieties of maize and wheat straw, elephant of electricity to a service provider for industry. In particular, grass and other biogenic wastes were analysed and if suitable the technologies deployed have changed. EVN played a major were burned as biological raw gas in the boiler of the Dürnrohr role in developing innovative concepts and technologies. power plant. The biological raw gas thus serves as a replaceWaste incineration is a showcase example – for the entire ment for coal and natural gas, further increasing the flexibility world! The focus is always on ensuring a secure energy supply of the power station’s production mix. “The experiments were and prudently using natural resources. “There is no comparable successful. We will also continue to use biomass”, Gutscher power plant site in all of Europe. The way the individual says. But this is not all. Within the framework of a new project, facilities are linked is unique”, Gutscher concludes, adding: the facility will be converted into a sludge utilisation plant in “We are operating at the highest possible level of competence, order to exploit the properties of sludge to generate heat in especially concerning the regulation ability of the entire plant, an ecologically friendly manner. in part at the very limits of what is possible.”________________ CO2: Resource instead of pollutant can be industrially used, so that it is not discharged into the atmosphere at all”, says Gerald Kinger, an EVN chemist Research. If people talk about carbon dioxide (CO2), then they specialising in power plant construction. A technology usually do it in connection with climate change. However, enabling CO2 to be separated from the flue gas is currently CO2 is an indispensable gas for our ecological system, and a being developed. However, according to Kinger it is still in a valuable raw material with a diverse range of applications. state of infancy. EVN is also carrying out research in this area, CO2 is often generated directly from fossil fuels for technical and put a pilot plant for CO2 separation into operation in applications. Soon a considerable share of this CO2 can be 2009 at the Dürnrohr site. The CO2 is separated from the directly derived from the flue gas in power plants. “Research is flue gas by means of a scrubbing solution and the carbon being conducted throughout the world on how carbon dioxide dioxide-enriched scrubbing solution is subsequently heated in a separate container. This releases CO2 which is very pure. The regenerated scrubbing solution is fed back into the process and the whole cycle begins again. The aim of the experiments is to identify suitable scrubbing solutions for CO2 separation and at the same time examine the potential interaction between the operation of the carbon dioxide separation and recovery plant and the power station. The pilot plant treats up to 20 Nm3 (standard cubic metres) of flue gas per hour, releasing up to 5 kg of CO2 on an hourly basis. Even if the discharged quantities of CO2 significantly exceed industry’s needs, carbon capture certainly makes a contribution to climate protection. Opportunities to commercially exploit the process are currently being explored. “We want to make carbon dioxide into a sought after raw Gerald Kinger is searching for a suitable scrubbing solution. material for industrial purposes”, Kinger concludes. CCS – a hotly n Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) is designed to enable CO2 and individual member states are working to establish the legal is mature enough to be commercially exploited on a large-scale debated topic to be separated from waste gas framework to allow for the applicabasis. EVN participates in research emissions in the future and stored tion of this technology. At the same projects in the field of carbon capin underground storage facilities. time, several pilot plants have ture and aims to use the generated At present, the European Union demonstrated that this technology CO2 for commercial purposes. CO2 as a n Microalgae used for medical purposes and cosmetics as well as in soft drinks, champagne or beer. n CO2 is the basic raw material acid, the main ingredient in aspirin®. raw material for food and supplying energy are used in producing fertilisers, and n CO2 is used in the fertiliser bred with the assistance of CO2. also serves as a raw material for and food industries. n The discharged CO2 serves as industrial applications, e.g. in n And the CO2 contained in fire carbonation ensuring the sparkling manufacturing plastics or salicylic extinguishers helps to save lives. 36 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Solar energy instead of atomic power Exploit the power of the sun. Since June 2009, EVN has been operating one of the biggest photovoltaic facilities in Austria at the site of the atomic power station in Zwentendorf which was never put into operation. 300 photovoltaic panels were mounted onto the façade and roof of the reactor building, and 700 photovoltaic elements were set up outdoors. In addition to firmly mounted solar generators, solar systems adjusted to track the sun are also deployed. The facility involving total investments of EUR 1.2m generates 180,000 kWh of solar electricity per year, thus covering the needs of several thousand households. Moreover, the photovoltaic research center in Zwentendorf was established in cooperation with the Vienna University of Technology. Eight employees have been dedicating their efforts to this form of energy since October 2010. EVNews Good news for and from Lower Austria. More wind and hydropower! Projects in Lower Austria. On a long-term basis, the share of renewable energy in the overall production mix should be increased to 50%. In this regard, considerable importance is attached to the expansion of EVN’s wind power and hydropower capabilities. The two optimally complement each other. Just at the time during the winter months when hydropower is reduced to a minimum, the wind turbines turn at full speed. EVN is currently exploiting this potential with 63 wind turbines operating at seven wind parks. And EVN is moving ahead to promote this expansion. At the current time, wind parks are being Biogas as a chance planned in the Weinviertel region for the future and in the Lower Austrian Central Innovative biogas processing. The largest biogas Region. A total of up to EUR 200m processing plant in Lower Austria located on the is being invested. In the field of grounds of the Wiener Neustadt-South Wastewaster hydropower, the Schütt an der Ybbs Association is expected to commence operations power plant which is close to at the end of 2010. In this project which EVN is car100 years old is being modernised, rying out in cooperation with the Wiener Neustadt and converted into a modern Wastewaster Association, biogas should be generpower station featuring an output ated as a cofermented substance and processed of 1,980 kW. Despite the raising to bio-methane suitable for being fed into the gas of the storage level, the ecological network after the hydrogen sulphide (H2S) and carconditions are being maintained bon dioxide have been removed. Various innovative by restoring the characteristics technologies are used to achieve this. More than similar to normal flowing waters. 1m m3 of processed biogas (bio-methane) should The power plant will once again e generated annually in this process, and fed into a come on stream in April 2011. 2.5 km long pipeline into the EVN gas network. EVN Full Report 2009/10 37 Interview/ Climate change/ Photos Michael Kammeter The dilemma of climate protection Prof. Majib Latif explains in an interview the scenarios awaiting mankind if no solution is found to stop global warming. Mojib Latif at Kiel Harbor. According to his calculations, the world’s sea level will rise by 80 meters in the long-term if global warming is not stopped. 38 EVN Full Report 2009/10 T he marine scientist Mojib Latif has been focusing his attention for years on climate change and its effects on our ecological system. In an interview he criticizes the failure of no nation has really changed its attitude since then. Above all, the Americans have not budged, which in turn provides India and China with a welcome pretext not to react as well. And the political decision-makers, but is confident that partnerships Europeans wonder why they should do something on their own. between regions as well as companies can serve as the basis for developing new approaches. ____ Do you see a way out of this dilemma? It is a surefire thing that no follow-up treaty to the Kyoto agree____ Almost a year has gone by since the UN Climate ment will be agreed upon at the next conference in Cancun. Conference took place in Copenhagen. What has happened And even the Kyoto accord, which expires in 2012 and is actually in the meantime? a treaty valid under international law, will not have long-lasting Conflicts are being openly carried out since the failure of consequences if it is not adhered to. Only a few countries such this climate conference. At that time, I already used the term as Germany can boast of a somewhat acceptable development. “Climate Mikado”, i.e. those who move first end up losing. This The USA did not ratify the Kyoto Protocol in the first place, is the erroneous belief held by the responsible players. In fact, and countries in Southern Europe such as Spain and Italy > © Credits Blindtext EVN Full Report 2009/10 39 “We must be intelligent enough to consider an alternative to fossil fuels at the right time.” EVN invited Mr. Latif to this interview to include the point of view of an external expert in its reporting. His opinions do not necessarily coincide with those of EVN. In return for this interview, Mr. Latif requested that EVN make a donation to UNICEF. 40 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Climate change have by far exceeded the concessions granted to them. For this About n Mojib Latif is a professor at the Lebnitz Institute of Marine reason, we should not wait for another global agreement to be concluded, but hammer out partnerships from now on. Mojib Latif Sciences IFM-GEOMAR at the University of Kiel. He has received numerous scientific ____ What kind of partnerships are you talking about? awards for his research work, I mean between individual regions, but also between companies. most recently the Deutsche Bank For example, a good approach could be the electricity from the IFM-GEOMAR Marine Research Prize. In addition, he contributes desert project Desertec, which aims at building solar power plants his expertise to national and inin North Africa. This would revolutionize the local energy supply as ternational organisations as well well as energy supplied to Europe. The biggest German industrial as the CAU Cluster of Excellence companies plan to invest up to EUR 400 billion in this over the “The Ocean of the Future”. next ten years. In order to supply the entire amount of energy In the years 2001 and 2007, Latif was the co-author of the needed by the people, solar power plants will have to cover about IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel 0.6% of the land area. And there is also wind power, geothermal on Climate Change) report. energy, etc. Completely new approaches are being developed. ____ And what will happen if mankind does not succeed in ____ So how would this impact the people living in Europe? limiting global warming to two degrees Celsius by 2050? If mountain ranges are not subject to frost, we will be faced In this case, the consequences have already been mapped out. with greater shifts, mudslides and avalanches. Higher We can already measure the effects of global warming today, temperatures also mean that more water will be in circulation even if the upward climb of 0.7 degrees Celsius during the last due to the higher level of evaporation. There will be increasing 100 years is only the beginning. If mankind continues its current periods characterized by heavy precipitation. However, it is path unabatedly, temperatures will be 4-6 degrees Celsius higher naturally hard to predict the extent to which these changes will at the end of this century than before the Industrial Revolution. influence the lives of people in Europe. This would be a level which mankind has never previously experienced. And the consequences would be fatal in every respect. ____ Some people are even talking about a temporary cooling. The climate is subject to natural fluctuations. But it does not ____ Can you give specific examples? make any sense to focus on short periods of time. The fact that Ultimately the Earth would be ice-free and the world sea there is a long-term trend towards global warming is no longer level would be 80 meters higher than it is today. This would being disputed. not happen overnight, but in the course of the subsequent millennium. The decisive thing to mention is that our influence ____ Are there opportunities for companies working in this on today’s climate is irreversible. If we do not manage to stop business environment? greenhouse gas emissions, the climate will reach the tipping Certainly, but especially for those companies which succeed point. In this case, it would no longer be possible to reverse this in decoupling growth from the environmental impact. The development. We do not know whether the threshold will be economic crisis has clearly demonstrated that a decline in GDP reached with a 2, 3 or 1.5 degree Celsius rise in temperatures. leads to a strong decrease in greenhouse gas emissions. In other words, we are driving into the dense fog at full speed, We have to change our way of doing business so that this and do not know if there is a wall there or not. The two degree correlation no longer applies. One good example is the field Celsius increase is only a way of expressing the hope that of renewable energies. It is also important for me to emphasize we will just manage to get off lightly by the skin of our teeth. the fact that there are ways of reducing CO2 emissions which are Behind this hope is a big helping of pragmatic thinking. For all regularly being avoided in public discussions. The continuous intents and purposes, it will hardly be possible to limit global clearing, cutting down and burning of rain forests alone account warming to less than two degrees by the year 2100. for 15% of all global emissions. Here I do not see the necessity for this at all. One cannot sympathize with the interests of a few ____ What will happen if the planet heats up by two degrees large corporations which are responsible for this madness. Celsius? In this case, the impact on people would be something ____ Will the end of the fossil fuel age help to reverse the completely unprecedented. During the last million years, the current trend? highest temperature was 16 degrees Celsius, and 10 degrees Even if we reached the expected peak oil i.e. the maximum rate Celsius during the Ice Age. Today the average temperature of global oil production , in about 20 years and prices catapulted on Earth is 15 degrees, and if we manage to curtail global to record highs, I think it would still be too late for a turn-around. warming, it will rise to 17 degrees Celsius in 2100. There will At the same time, this would be accompanied by a worldwide not be any more glaciers in Europe, and the Arctic will be recession. This cannot be our goal. We must be intelligent ice-free during the summer months. enough to consider an alternative at the right time. ___________ EVN Full Report 2009/10 41 Report/ South East Europe/ Photos Gerald Rücker (EVN) Let us take a closer look at the hydropower plant projects on the Devoll and Drin Rivers in Albania as well as on the Gorna Arda River in Bulgaria. Three international projects of EVN which have a common objective: the sustainable improvement of the energy supply for an entire region. Hydropower for South East Europe 42 EVN Full Report 2009/10 A gainst the impressive backdrop of the Accursed Mountains, also called the Albanian Alps, the Drin River meanders its way through the wild romantic countryside in the north of water will be used to generate energy before they reach the Adriatic Sea about 50 kilometres further south. The Vau-Deja, Koman and Fierza hydroelectric power plants have already Albania. An area of close to 12,000 km2 is drained by the Drin, been in operation for years. The last power station in this chain in the north and east of Albania, as well as regions in the west will be constructed by EVN in cooperation with Verbund AG. of Macedonia and Kosovo. However, these huge volumes of Not far from the village Ashta, located south of Shkoder, > Construction work in Ashta is making steady progress. Plans call for electricity to be fed into the power grid starting in 2012. EVN Full Report 2009/10 43 South East Europe “With Ashta EVN has set a strategic milestone“. Peter Layr, Member of the EVN Executive Board What is n Turbine solution. This concept is a leading-edge solution of the Austrian low pressure hydropower plants for existing dam and weir systems. The small installed in a matrix-type arrangement and will also be used in each of the Hydromatrix®? company ANDRITZ AG, developed for propeller turbine generator units are two stages of the Ashta power plant. the fourth biggest city in the country, a river power station with work began in March 2010. It is planned for electricity to be two barrages will be completed by the year 2012. fed into the 110 kV network in Albania starting in 2012. The Ashta power plant. After Verbund AG won World’s largest Hydromatrix power plant. the international tender in July 2008, the concession agreeBoth stages will not use conventional Kaplan turbines but ment was signed just a few months later in the presence of the 45 smaller so-called matrix turbines. They enable the power Albanian Prime Minister Sali Ram Berisha. The project company station to be operated even in the case of lower water flow Energji Ashta SHPK was founded. In April 2010 a syndicate speeds, and thus increase the efficiency and power generating agreement between EVN and Verbund AG was concluded, capacity of the facilities. The first stage of the power plant will stipulating that both firms would own a 50% stake in the Ashta exploit the difference in height of the Spathara reservoir, which power plant. From the very beginning the construction schedwas already constructed about 30 years ago with an effluent ule has been very ambitious. All necessary licenses and permits weir and smaller irrigation systems for agricultural purposes. were granted in the record time of only one year. Construction More than 500 m3 of water per second will drive the 45 matrix 44 EVN Full Report 2009/10 turbines. The second row of turbines will be installed after an Peter Layr n Dr. Layr: “EVN has been active in South East Europe for approximately five-kilometre-long and very deep bypass chanMember of the EVN several years, and has been nel not far from the village of Ashta. Executive Board responsible for supply energy to about 2.5m customers in Bulgaria Electricity for 100,000 households. The two and Macedonia. We will have turbine plants with an installed capacity of 50 MW will produce significant production capacities about 240m GWh of electricity annually, thus providing clean at our disposal for the first time in the region thanks to our stake electricity from hydropower for approximately 100,000 Albanian in the construction of the Ashta households. “We are using the hydropower of the Drin River hydropower plant in Albania. We in a very efficient manner”, says Peter Stelzer, EVN’s project continue to be convinced of the manager and manager of Energji Ashta. “The Ashta project not growth potential of this region. only makes an important contribution to the country’s energy The need to catch up in economic terms is enormous. Up until 2020 supply, but also brings important economic impetus to the electricity consumption in Albania region”, Stelzer adds. On balance, Verbund AG and EVN will is expected to expand at an invest about EUR 200m in the project. Following the expiration annual growth rate of 4%! of the concession agreement in 35 years, the Ashta power We want to participate in this plant will become the property of the Republic of Albania. growth and also contribute to the economic development of the country at the same time.” Hydropower plants on the Devoll River. Another EVN project in Albania has completely different dimensions. It will be realized in the upcoming years in the form of a 50-50 joint venture with the Norwegian partner hydropower potential on the Devoll River, and later emerged Statkraft, Europe’s largest electricity producer based on as the best bidder in an international tender process. renewable energy sources. In 2007, EVN presented the The concession agreement was signed in December 2008. Albanian government with the first feasibility studies to exploit Since then, preparatory work has been proceeding at full speed. Construction is expected to commence at the end of 2012. The total investment volume will range between EUR 735m and close to EUR 1 bn depending upon the stage of expansion. Three peak load storage power stations with a planned capacity between 255 MW and slightly more than 380 MW will be constructed over a period of four to six years. Hydropower for Bulgaria. The third hydropower project being pursued by EVN in South East European is in a comparatively early stage. In July 2010 a Memorandum of Understanding was signed to set up a joint venture with Bulgaria’s state-owned electricity group NEK. The objective of the new company will be to construct three hydropower plants on the Arda River in the southeast of Bulgaria. In several expansion phases the power stations will reach a total capacity of up to 170 MW and provide electricity to approximately 140,000 Bulgarian households. In the first phase, EVN intends to acquire a 30% stake in the project, which will be increased to 70% in a second phase. At present substantiated feasibility studies are being prepared. Cross-border energy supply. EVN is striving to provide a flexible energy mix consisting of hydropower and thermal power as well as alternative energy sources designed after the Lower Austrian model in order to ensure a reliable supply of energy to its customers in South East Europe. An important contribution to realizing this goal will be made by the hydropower plant projects in Albania and Bulgaria – for the benefit of the population, economic development as well as to Workers in Ashta in Northern Albania climate protection. ______________________________________ EVN Full Report 2009/10 45 Work, but safely! Responsible employer. EVN employs close to 5,600 people in Bulgaria and Macedonia, and is thus one of the most important providers of jobs in this region. Intercultural meetings and working groups ensure the cross-border exchange of know-how and experience. Thanks to comprehensive safety trainings and new protective equipment, the number of occupational accidents could be considerably reduced in the past few years. Despite all efforts, three deadly accidents at work took place in 2009. EVN deeply and sincerely regrets this disaster. In the future EVN will intensively continue its initiatives to improve occupational safety. EVNews The most important information and news from the Hydropower for Macedonia Production increase. In recent years EVN has massively invested in the modernization of 11 small hydropower plants in Macedonia, succeeding in considerably raising power generating capacities. In the years before 2009, these power stations produced about 100 GWh of electricity annually. In 2010, production climbed to 150 GWh in 2009. This level was already reached in the first six months of 2010. In particular, it is important to point out the application of new technologies enabling automated operations and the increased capacities at the Matka and Pena hydropower plants. Renewable energy in Bulgaria EVN’s high performance photovoltaic facility. The photovoltaic park in the Bulgarian village of Blatets put into operation in May 2010 achieves a total output of close to 840 kilowatt peak (kWp), and is thus EVN’s biggest photovoltaic power plant. This project will also make an important contribution to climate protection. In the future, wind power will be exploited in Kavarna in the northeast of Bulgaria, where EVN is building a wind park within the context of a joint venture. The wind park is expected to come on stream in 2012. 46 EVN Full Report 2009/10 South East Europe Croatia gives gas Short & good Gas networks for Croatia. n EVN in South East Europe. EVN EVN emerged as the best has been operating on the Bulgarian bidder in an international market since 2004 and in Macedonia tender process for three since 2006. Due to the economic concessions to construct catching-up process, there is considerable growth potential in this region. and operate the natural gas The rise in the standard of living will networks in the Croatian correspondingly lead to increased municipalities of Zadar, Sibenikenergy consumption. For this reason, Knin and Split. A distribution EVN is investing in building up its own network with a total length power generating capacities in South East Europe, focusing on hydropower of almost 1,4500 kilometres projects in Albania and Bulgaria. will be constructed by 2012, involving total investments of EUR 72–105m. As a result, some 130,000 households will be supplied with natural gas. markets of Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Macedonia. EVN’s electricity network customers 1,635,000 3.6m customers Bulgaria and Macedonia. EVN supplies around 807,000 customers 813,000 in Austria with electricity. In Bulgaria 807,000 and Macedonia, the number of customers is three times as high. The latest figure is about 2.4 million electricity network n Important investor. Since its installations. In Bulgaria, EVN also market entry in Bulgaria and EVN EVN EVN supplies district heat to some 35,000 Macedonia, EVN has invested about in Austria in Bulgaria in Macedonia customers. EUR 489.0m to improve the infra­ structure and customer services, EUR 100.7m in the reporting year Most modern cogeneration plant in the Balkans alone. The focus of investments was the modernization of the network Increasing the security of energy supplies. EVN is constructing a cogeneration plant on infrastructure and electricity metres. the grounds of an existing district heating plant in the Bulgarian city of Plovdiv enabling n Conflict with the Republic of the combined generation of electricity and heat. This modern technology has a big Macedonia. Against the backdrop of advantage. Whereas conventional methods of generating energy discharge the unutilised arbitration proceedings initiated by waste heat into the atmosphere in the form of condensed heat, the cogeneration EVN AG on May 8, 2009 against the technology uses this waste heat and Republic of Macedonia to protect generates heat and electricity in a its investments, the Government of Macedonia and EVN agreed to seek combined process. A highly efficient a step by step, joint solution to all uncombination of a gas and steam resolved issues and problems between turbine with an electricity output the two parties. By determining the of 55 MW will be driven with pure criteria and a timetable for implemennatural gas. TEZ Plovdiv Sever will tation, intensive bilateral negotiations between the two parties should create be the most modern cogeneration a win-win situation for the government facility in all of the Balkans, and as well as for Macedonian citizens and significantly improve the security of EVN in the next few months and thus energy supplies. increase mutual confidence. EVN Full Report 2009/10 47 Report/ Group HR-Day/ Photos Michael Kammeter Change as an In the last few years EVN has been transformed from a regional energy supplier to an international energy and environmental services company. The EVN team has become more international as a result of this change. opportunity Thanks to an ongoing, pro-active dialogue, employees and thus the entire company profit from this cultural diversity. 48 EVN Full Report 2009/10 EVN human resources managers from four countries meet to exchange views and experiences. I t involves culture, curiosity and the exchange of knowknow”, emphasized Stefan Szyszkowitz, Head of the strategic business unit South East Europe right at the beginning of individual wishes they expressed at the beginning of the meeting: “professional networking”, “exchange of ideas”, “learning from one another” and “getting to know different the first “Group HR Day 2010” (HR = human resources). On points of view”. Considerable interest was displayed in the October 21-22, 2010, the human resources managers of EVN’s event, and the atmosphere was excellent. In addition to subsidiaries in Austria, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Germany met speeches about the highlights of HR work in the respective at corporate headquarters in Maria Enzersdorf to take part in countries, the workshops discussed and developed solutions workshops and discussions designed to exchange views and relating to current issues in the field of human resource experiences and develop solutions to upcoming challenges. management. In order to be able to live, embody and practice In addition to the sharing of experiences and knowledge the EVN slogan “Always at your service” on a Group-wide transfer, the focus was primarily on promoting a dialogue with basis, “one needs the right and the best people for the and among the subsidiaries. This was in the best interests of company”, Szyszkowitz states. Finding them is one of the the 18 participants in the “Group HR Day”, as reflected by the main tasks facing modern-day human resource management. > EVN Full Report 2009/10 49 The lively intercultural exchange leads to a know-how transfer which benefits everyone. The vibrant intercultural exchange results in a know-how transfer which benefits everyone. Internationalisation. EVN has been operating in and Macedonia. In the Environmental Services segment, Germany and internationally since the acquisition of WTE in EVN operates in 15 countries and implements projects the year 2003. In 2004, EVN entered the Bulgarian market, such as drinking water purification and wastewater treatment and expanded to Macedonia as well in 2006. The number plants (Refer to page 72). of employees in the Group also increased as a result of this expansion drive. EVN as an attractive employer. Highly In the 2000/01 financial year, EVN still had only 2,204 qualified and dedicated employees are a key success factor, employees. In the meantime, the total workforce has climbed says EVN Human Resources Manager Wolfgang Maier. to 9,973 people as a consequence of the acquisitions. On “We have to attract the right people to work for our average, 8,536 employees were working for EVN during the company”. For this reason, establishing and maintaining year under review, including 5,990 abroad. In addition to contact to suitable applicants should not be left to chance 807,000 customers in its domestic market of Lower Austria, and is thus an important aspect of human resource EVN also supplies electricity to 2.4m customers in Bulgaria management. EVN is very active in this respect and is Focus on n Integration. One priority in integrating the Bulgarian and standardized personal protective equipment and insulation tools. This is the primary goal of the “Working Under Tension” prooccupational Macedonian subsidiaries is to The important thing is to improve gram which encompasses both safety improve occupational safety. In addition to trainings, all the attitude of employees towards occupational safety and theoretical and practical work on electricity poles, overhead lines employees received modern and to build awareness. and electricity distribution and 50 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Group HR-Day positioned as an attractive employer, cultivating close contacts about all changes and innovations at EVN as well as regularly to universities and regularly participating in career fairs in held international meetings of employees in the different Austria and abroad. business areas. Along with the “Group HR Day”, the At the beginning of 2009, EVN provided information about international conference of all personnel experts, regular apprenticeships and career opportunities at the company Group-wide information platforms are held, such as the within the context of the Career Day held at the Technical “Group Forum Legal/Insurance”, the ”Commercial Group University in Plovdiv. At the same time, Career Calling 09, an Forum” and the “Energy Group Forum”. These events event jointly organized by the Vienna University of Technology, result in a Group-wide exchange of know-how. the Vienna University of Economics and Business and the In addition to sharing expert knowledge, such events attach University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, took place considerable importance to maintaining and expanding at Austria Center Vienna, featuring 130 exhibitors and more intercultural contacts. than 5,000 visitors. Dynamic working environment. As we see it, Exchange beyond national boundaries. all these efforts have resulted in employees strongly A vibrant dialogue and know-how transfer have taken place identifying with the company. In some areas, this could since the acquisition of the Bulgarian and Macedonia already be confirmed by employee surveys. Werner Hengst, companies. The focus is on developing a shared corporate Member of the Executive Board of the EVN Bulgaria Group culture. Starting in Lower Austria, the principles of since 2005 and since 2010 also CEO in Macedonia, reports sustainability-oriented management have been introduced about his practical experience over the past few years. and implemented in the Bulgarian and Macedonian markets. “The working environment has considerably changed in In order to ensure a high quality level in its professional recent years, and has been significantly shaped by the development and further education activities, a so-called integration of EVN Bulgaria and EVN Macedonia in the “EVN Academy” was established in Bulgaria and Macedonia EVN Group. This integration process involves regular designed after the one in Lower Austria. The “EVN Bulgaria “foreign assignments”, i.e. Lower Austrian employees work Academy” and “EVN Macedonia Academy” offer a broad in South East Europe and vice-versa. spectrum of seminars and trainings. Wolfgang Schäffer, a colleague of Werner Hengst on the In addition to language and IT courses, the offering Executive Board of EVN Macedonia, states: “There is also encompasses specializing trainings and management no lack of junior employees. More than 30 trainees had development programs. EVN relies on an open information the opportunity to get to know EVN during the summer. policy to promote a dialogue with and among the various This is the way we can attract the best minds to join the subsidiaries. This includes an employee magazine reporting company”. > Employees per region 12,000 7,667 10,000 7,170 6,874 6,374 5,990 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 2,306 2,365 2,468 2,563 2,546 0 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 Austria Abroad measuring devices. In the 2008/09 This course was held 52 times financial year, a separate training during the reporting period, centre was opened in Makedonski involving 1,092 employees. On Brod, Macedonia, serving as the balance, a total of 6,120 employees location for the “Working Under took part in 436 courses involving Tension” training. occupational safety issues. EVN Full Report 2009/10 51 Topics such as talent management and employee motivation are treated in workshops. Training and further education. Jörg Sollfelner, potential in the foreign markets we operate in”, says Peter CEO of the EVN Bulgaria Group, believes the diverse range Layr, Member of the Executive Board of EVN. In addition to of professional development and further education measures language courses and presentation seminars, the professional certainly contribute to the successful process of integration. In development and further education efforts in Bulgaria mainly addition to language courses (German and English), seminars for concentrated on trainings for executives and a course entitled customer service employees and project management courses, “Working Under Tension” to improve occupational safety. the focal point in the past financial year was on instruction de“The reliability and quality of the energy supply as well signed to acquaint employees with the latest technologies. For as occupational safety could be significantly improved. example, employees were particularly trained to deal with the We can build upon a solid foundation, both in organizational new “SAP” software program. SAP, software for commercial and terms as well as with respect to human resources, and are business purposes, was implemented in the year under review. thus well-equipped for the future,” he adds. Exploiting potential. “The restructuring was Change as an opportunity. The changes which have successfully concluded, and we are now in the optimization taken place at EVN in recent years also comprise an opportunity. phase. Our goal is now to optimally exploit the extensive Accordingly, it is important to positively accept these changes. About cultural “In Bulgaria it is normal for women to work and assume responsithe decisive thing.” She was not the victim of discrimination in the differences and bility”, says Jeanette Stoitschewa, course of her career. “Up until successful women commenting on her rise to Group-wide Customer Relations now I have had the possibility to pursue my interests”. AcceptManager. “From my experience, ing a position in Austria meant I can say that qualifications are confronting cultural differences 52 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Group HR-Day For this reason, the ongoing development of employees is a Training as n EVN’s success is based on the dedication and qualifications of its 8,536 top priority on the agenda of the human resources managers. A person never reaches the point where he has learned all the key to employees. For this reason, it invested there is to know, even with longstanding professional experisuccess about EUR 2.7m alone in professional development and further education. ence. This was confirmed by Wolfgang Maier at the “Group HR Day”. “Times have changed, which is why managers also have The average training budget per employee to continually further develop their capabilities”. A special in Euro package of courses targeting executives and qualified junior 350 managers is available at every EVN Academy. 300 250 “EVN SUN 2010“. In addition to promoting the skills 200 314.9 324.5 314.1 150 of executives, an additional focal point of the company’s efforts 100 is talent management in order to ensure a sufficient supply 50 of junior managers. A tailor-made offering for promising high 0 potentials celebrated its premiere during the year under 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 review. For the first time, the EVN Summer University “EVN SUN 2010” took place from September 14-19, 2010. These summer courses were held in Ottenstein, Austria and targeted executives and managers from Austria, Bulgaria and Macedonia. A seminar program was developed in cooperation with the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business providing 20 participants with the opportunity to look far beyond their respective areas of responsibility by examining case studies and practical challenges. Promoting the advancement of talented employees and executives comprises an important strategic target of EVN, and took centre stage at “EVN SUN 2010”. Wolfgang Maier emphasized that “we have to identify talented individuals and promote them, so that they can qualify for higher positions”. Participation in the EVN Summer Academy was not based on a traditional selection process with employees being nominated by their superiors, but on a voluntary basis. This self-selection process ensured the required commitment on the part of all those involved to contribute their utmost to the seminars. The application process included writing a letter of motivation, doing preliminary research and fulfilling preparatory tasks. With their application to take part in the EVN Summer University, the participants already sent a clear signal demonstrating their interest in assuming future responsibilities and overcoming future challenges. The courses were held in English, which represented a challenge to all participants, considering the fact that not a single individual was a native speaker. The seminars featuring international lecturers highlighted topics Wolfgang Maier, EVN‘s Human Resources Manager, such as “strategy”, “change management”, “innovation” and Group HR Day “leadership”. Case studies were dealt with and discussed in order to ensure the practical relevance of the material. In addition, there was the possibility to discuss various issues with EVN’s top management. CEO Burkhard Hofer also responded to questions posed during an informal discussion. In addition to promoting talented executives, “EVN SUN” also attached head-on. “I was impressed by the financial reasons”. This explains the considerable importance to setting up an international, Groupfact that women, and in the meanlow number of part-time employees wide network. At the end of the scheduled program, the EVN time men as well, stay at home with at foreign subsidiaries. Stoitschewa Sun Alumni Association was established. Coordinated by Aneta their children. This is not customary praises the positive working enviPetrovska from Macedonia, this body is designed to ensure in Bulgaria. With the exception ronment. “People treat each other of parental leave, the desire is to in a very friendly manner, and deal that the employees stay in touch and that all participants will have a full-time job, but not only for respectfully with one another”. be enriched by this experience of cultural diversity. __________ EVN Full Report 2009/10 53 Outstanding ideas EVN idea management. There is considerable untapped creative potential in the minds of EVN’s employees. EVN has been exploiting this potential for more than ten years within the framework of its idea management system. Employees are more familiar with internal processes, products and services than anyone else, and know where potential improvements and cost savings can be realised. Their commitment has led them to continually submit ideas relating to all aspects of everyday business operation. Moreover, an idea contest is held each year featuring a specific motto. The motto of the 2009 competition was “Together for even more sustainability”. A total of 33 ideas were submitted, and two outstanding ideas were given awards, i.e. the remote control of transformer stations in the case of power failures, and an assembly kit for safer and simpler cable assembly. EVNews Motivated and highly skilled employees are a major Careers with apprenticeships Qualified trainees. The training of young people has a long tradition at EVN. On the one hand, apprenticeship training is designed to cover the future need for qualified specialists from within the company’s own ranks. On the other hand, it is also an expression of EVN’s sense of responsibility to society. On September 1, 2010, seven apprentices were able to commence training as electrical fitters at EVN. As a result, 64 young people on average were undergoing vocational training at EVN. The theoretical education at a vocational school and practical work in the company are supplemented by seminars. Moreover, EVN also promotes employees who obtain multiple qualifications, such as gas and heat engineer apprenticeships. Following the end of their training, experienced fellow employees support the young technicians and ensure that their know-how remains in the company’s hands. Time for reflection Employee motivation. The objective of the new feedback and orientation interviews is to have employees consciously reflect upon their own performance and cooperation. The aim of the newly-launched system is not a simple evaluation by superiors. In addition to assessing the conduct of employees and the quality of their work, the priority is to mutually agree upon specific development objectives and measures. The meetings are held with the employees’ direct superiors who are given special training for this purpose. Following a pilot phase, the feedback sessions have been held since February 2010 in all of the larger Group companies in Austria. Staff appraisals are also regularly held in Bulgaria. These talks have been positively received by employees. 54 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Employees Short & good Search for talent Starting a career at EVN. Luring young n EVN Service Star for employees. High quality standards and satisfied talents to work for EVN is one of the customers are particularly important most important tasks of human to EVN. Accordingly, employees resource management. For this were awarded the EVN Service Star reason, more than 200 pupils and in 2009 for the first time. This honor students in Austria are offered was bestowed on those employees who performed so extraordinarily well internships at EVN each year. EVN in taking care of their customers that placed fourth in the “place to they even received written letters of perform” competition which annually praise from them. The EVN Service Star ranks the best internships and was given directly to the respective practical training provided by Austrian employees by the satisfied customers. companies. EVN also offers students n Stay healthy and be in balance. In in Bulgaria and Macedonia the order to maintain an inner balance in possibility to gain practical experience a frequently stressful working environwithin the context of internships and ment, employees should not neglect trainee programmes. their health. For this reason, EVN relies asset in times of change. EVN is working to make the most of it. Career and family Flexible working models. In particular, EVN strives to facilitate the compatibility of career and family for employees with children, for example on the basis of flexible working time models (flexitime without core working time), individual part-time models and maintaining contact with employees while they are on parental leave. Informal meetings of mothers and fathers with human resources manon various initiatives within the context agers take place on a regular basis, of its occupational health efforts. The not only to discuss the re-entry into EVN Academy launched seminars on the topic of burnout prevention in the the job market after the period fall of 2010. of parental leave, but to provide information about the most recent n Proud and motivated. The results of developments at the company. an employee satisfaction survey at EVN Thanks to individually designed Macedonia carried out by the market research company were extremely solutions, the company retains the gratifying. More than 80% of employees know-how of its qualified employwere proud of being able to work for ees. The majority of mothers and EVN. In particular, they praised the top fathers return to the company after executives in the company as well as their parental leave is over. An the good teamwork. The survey was the first carried out by EVN in Macedonia. increasing number of men are tak86% of all employees participated, ing paternity leave. During the year thus making a valuable contribution under review, three men stayed at to the ongoing improvement of EVN’s home with their children. business operations. EVN Full Report 2009/10 55 Report/ Supply security/ Photos Gerald Rücker, EVN Electricity and gas, safely and securely! The new “Südschiene“ (southern section of the regional natural gas transport pipeline) featuring a length of 120 kilometres will enable EVN to ensure a secure supply of gas in Lower Austria and beyond the province’s borders. It’s the biggest gas pipeline project in the company’s history! 56 EVN Full Report 2009/10 O ne of EVN’s most important tasks is to ensure a secure, reliable and uninterrupted supply of electricity and gas for its customers. Ongoing investments in infrastructure of Lower Austria as well, EVN Netz GmbH is currently in the process of constructing ”Südschiene FL Süd3” i.e. the southern section of the trans-regional high-pressure natural gas pipeline. At modernization, excellent know-how and a high level of efficiency a length of 120 kilometres, the pipeline runs from Gänserndorf via are essential to achieve this target. Velm, Eggendorf and Peisching/Hohe Wand to the Semmering The example of the “Südschiene“ project shows the other mountain pass. Peter Layr, Member of EVN’s Management Board, positive effects which can be generated in addition to increasing emphasizes the importance of this project: “The “Südschiene“ the reliability of the energy supply. The local economy makes a major contribution to increasing the security of the is supported and archaeological finds discovered while energy supply of Lower Austria and far beyond the province’s construction is proceeding enrich Lower Austria’s cultural history. borders”. The ground-breaking ceremony in September 2009 Moreover, numerous supporting measures implemented by marked the official inauguration of work on the largest gas EVN are designed to minimize man’s interference with nature. pipeline project in EVN’s history, involving investment costs of about EUR 114m. The southern section of the trans-regional The “Südschiene“ project. In order to be able to pipeline (“Südschiene”) is expected to be completed by the end continue ensuring a secure supply of gas in the southern part of September 2011. Some 90 people are working to finish the > Some 90 people are working at full speed. In this way, the gas pipeline will be finished earlier than originally planned. EVN Full Report 2009/10 57 Supply security project on time, and they have been very successful in the out both the “Westschiene” and “Südschiene” projects was meantime. Peter Layr adds, “We assume that the final section the long-term planning for the Regulation Zone East (Austria of the pipeline comprising a length of about 30 kilometres except for Tyrol and Vorarlberg) approved by the regulatory to the Semmering will be completed and come on stream authority E-Control for the period 2008-2012 in the light of markedly ahead of the contractually stipulated deadline”. Due future perspectives for the gas year 2030. Without constructo the fact that EVN also attaches considerable importance to tion of two new natural gas pipelines, it would not be possible environmental protection and nature conservation in carrying to guarantee a secure, long-term supply for all the power out this project, an ecological construction supervision team plants, large-scale users and households in the region. has been overseeing work on the “Südschiene” project from its very inception. Fascinating archaeological finds have also Expansion of storage facilities. The company been uncovered in the course of the construction work, and Rohöl-Aufsuchungs AG, in short RAG, in which EVN indirectly have been preserved for the purpose of safeguarding the has a majority stake of 50.03%, makes a substantial contribuarea’s cultural treasures. tion to ensuring that Lower Austria as well as the entire country continues to benefit from a secure supply of gas. Secure energy supply. Even now, preliminary work is In addition to the exploration and production of natural gas being done on a new project focusing on a long distance natuand oil, RAG has been operating the natural gas storage ral gas pipeline, which is expected to begin at the beginning facility in Puchkirchen, Upper Austria since 1982, and has been of 2011. The western pipeline project at a length of 150 kiloable to accumulate valuable know-how since then. RAG metres, entitled “Westschiene FL West4”, will run from Auers­ now ranks among Europe’s leading gas storage operators, thal to Tulln and Loosdorf and on to Amstetten. Construction following the coming on stream of the natural gas storage is expected to be completed in 2014. Total investment costs facility in Haidach, Salzburg, one of the biggest in Europe, as will amount to about EUR 125m. The new pipeline will be laid well as the “7Fields” project. Further investments are planned. parallel to the existing West2 pipeline over long distances, Furthermore, the storage reservoirs in Haidach and in order to further enhance the security of the energy supply Puchkirchen will be expanded by 2017. Upon completion, in the western part of Lower Austria. The basis for carrying RAG will boast total storage capacities of about 6 bn m3. The 120 km long southern section (“Südschiene“) is the largest gas pipeline project in the company‘s history. 58 EVN preserves n Archaeological finds. During construction work on the southern Historical Monuments in order to ensure that excavation work Roman period were uncovered and salvaged. “The most significultural assets section of the gas pipeline, a total proceeded smoothly. cant find was a Lombardic inhumaof 35 archaeological finds were un100 items (e.g. fire pots, postholes, tion with a shield and sword as covered. EVN already established animal and human graves) from burial objects”, according to EVN contact with the State Office of the Bronze Age, Iron Age and the Press Spokesman Stefan Zach. EconGas, a joint venture of the EnergieAllianz Austria partners networks were subject to a market liberalization process in the operating in the natural gas business as well as EGBV Beteiliyears 2002 and 2003 respectively. This means other energy gung GmbH and OMV, handles the entire gas procurement providers must be provided with access to these networks. and trading activities of EVN. The aim is to conclude longPrices are determined by E-Control. In the past six years, term gas delivery contracts (extended beyond the year 2020) electricity network tariffs have been reduced by about 40% in to ensure the long-term availability of primary energy sources. order to promote the spirit of competition as well as to proThe dependence on just a few supplier countries, in particumote the efficiency of network operations. The calculation of lar Russia, entails risks as the experience of recent years has tariffs was changed in 2010 in the spirit of increasing planning clearly demonstrated. There was even a short stoppage of gas and investment reliability. The network regulatory authority deliveries by Russia at the beginning of 2009. However, at no now also takes the costs for new investments into account, time whatsoever was there a real threat to EVN’s own supplies. but only initially for a period of four years. Nevertheless, the prospect of a longer planning horizon is a necessary basis for Investments in the existing network. Mainensuring continuing, forward-looking investments. taining the existing network is a basic prerequisite for a high security of supply. Robert Essbüchl, Managing Director of EVN Increasing production capacities. EVN is Netz GmbH, says: “The quality of the network infrastructure investing in the expansion of its own power generating is an important guarantee safeguarding the security of the capacities in order to reduce its dependence on buying energy supply on behalf of our customers. The pre-requisite is electricity on the global marketplace. The Group-wide ongoing investments in modernizing, upgrading and expandcoverage ratio should be increased from 40% to 60% of total ing existing facilities.” At present, EVN operates a 51,205 km electricity sales volumes in the medium term. The current long electricity network, a gas network with a length of level in the 2009/10 financial year including Bulgaria and 13,540 km and a 434 km heating network. During the year Macedonia amounted to 18.2%, or 52.1% for Lower Austria under review, EVN invested a total of EUR 156.5m to mainalone. In expanding its power generation capacities, EVN aims tain, repair, renovate and expand Austria’s electricity, gas and to ensure a balanced ratio of energy generated by carbon telecommunications networks. This includes EUR 51.2m for based energy sources (natural gas, hard coal) to renewable the “Südschiene” gas network project. energy carriers (hydropower, photovoltaics, wind power and biomass). This flexible production mix will comprise the basis Development of network tariffs. EVN implements for a sustainable supply of electricity to Lower Austria. a long-term procurement strategy and purchases primary energy and electricity on the forwards market in order to enCritical area of tension: climate protection. sure a high security of supply. However, the gas and electricity In the future orientation of its power generation capacities, EVN is striving to achieve a well-rounded portfolio balancing the different primary energy sources. Moreover, it is moving What are the n Good for the environment. Natural gas is universally usable (e.g. ahead very sensitively to ensure the right balance between reducing climate-relevant greenhouse gas emissions, advantages of for heating, cooking and driving cars) interfering with nature and ensuring a secure supply of energy. natural gas? and is the most environmentallyfriendly of all fossil energy sources. The long-term target is to raise the share of power generated from renewable energy sources from the present level of 30–35% of total production to 50% in the future. (For details Average emission factors on current projects refer to pages 37 and 42–45.) (CO2 equivalents, g/kWh) 800 550 Secure future. Customers rank the high security of 440 supply and the quick troubleshooting ability to remedy problems as key strengths of EVN. To ensure that this con­ tinues in the future, EVN continues to invest in its network infrastructure and production facilities for the benefit of its Natural gas Crude oil Coal 3.6m customers in Austria, Bulgaria and Macedonia. _________ EVN Full Report 2009/10 59 EVNews Ensuring supply reliability for all customers Spanning the globe four times EVN electricity network 131,905 km EVN networks. All in all, EVN operates a network with Thereof Austria 51,205 km a length of close to 148,000 km for the electricity, gas, Thereof Bulgaria 55,500 km heating and water supply of its customers. The ongoing Thereof Macedonia 25,200 km inspection and maintenance of this dense network Gas network (Austria) 13,540 km requires ongoing investments so as not to endanger the security of supply. EVN fulfills its responsibility with Heat 586 km meticulousness and farsightedness. Thereof Austria 434 km Thereof Bulgaria 152 km Drinking water pipelines (Austria) 2,110 km Improved network infrastructure About EUR 489m for Bulgaria and Macedonia. Since the privatisation process of 2005 and 2006 respectively in the two countries, EVN Bulgaria and EVN Macedonia have invested massively to improve and expand the electricity networks and facilities located in EVN’s supply areas. As a result, it more than fulfilled the conditions laid out in the privatisation process. More than 1.6m electricity metres were replaced in recent years, and losses from the power grid could be reduced from 17% to about 13%. Similarly, network losses in Macedonia were cut from 24% to about 17%. Major inspection and maintenance work at Theiß Highly productive and environmentally-friendly. With an installed output of 790 MW, Theiß is one of EVN’s most productive power plants. At the same time, it is one of the most modern thermal power stations in Europe. In order to ensure its continuing high performance and maintain its high environmental standards, a major inspection and maintenance work of the facilities was carried out in the third quarter of 2010. In addition to comprehensive materials testing and examination of the security and control equipment for all parts of the power plant, the turbine insulation was dissembled to allow the steam turbine to be opened and the turbine components to be cleaned or replaced. Up to 100 specialists carried out this work over a period of eight weeks, thus ensuring an added value for the entire region. Since January 2008, Theiß has also been home to Europe’s largest district heating storage facility. With a holding capacity of 50,000 m3 of water, it utilises the heat generated by electricity production to provide heat to surrounding municipalities in an energy-efficient manner. 60 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Supply security requires numerous measures and investments. Short & good n 50th biomass heating plant. The ceremonial opening of the one of the largest municipal wood chip-fired district heating plants took place on Working against September 10, 2010. The facility will power failures! provide a total of 4,500 households in the Climate Alliance municipalities of Infrastructure. EVN invested Ternitz, Neunkirchen and Wimpassing a total of EUR 394m during the with natural heat. The use of 75,000 year under review to modernloose cubic metres of wood chips from the region will reduce CO2 emissions ise, upgrade and expand by about 14,000t per year. EVN currently its infrastructure as well as in operates 50 biomass facilities throughits power generation facilities out Lower Austria and is thus the bigto improve the security of gest provider of natural heat in Austria. supply. EVN is also working to further improve network quality in Bulgaria and Macedonia, in order to reduce losses from the power grid to just under 10% in Bulgaria and about 11% in Macedonia in the long term. State-of-the-art power plant technology Duisburg-Walsum. In addition to expanding its reliance on renewable energy sources, EVN is also focusing its efforts on new thermal power plants to ensure a sufficient supply of electricity. This is the only way to fulfill increasing energy demand on a medium-term basis. A milestone is the hard coal power plant in Duisburg-Walsum, Germany, which is being constructed in cooperation with Evonik Steag GmbH. EVN has a 49% stake in this project. The total investment volume for the 790 MW power station is about EUR 820m. It features an efficiency level of about 46%, making it one of the most modern hard coal-fired power stations in Europe. Its CO2 emissions will be about 35% lower than an average hard coal-fired power station. However, due to construction delays, the Duisburg-Walsum plant will likely first commence operations in the middle of 2011. n What do you do in case of a power failure? In case of an interruption in the power supply, you should have candles and matches or a flashlight available in a place you can find in the dark. Despite extensive precautionary measures, power cuts cannot be fully avoided, but occur relatively infrequently in Austria. For the most part, they are the result of extreme weather conditions. In case of emergency, EVN’s troubleshooting team is quickly on the spot to provide assistance. EVN Full Report 2009/10 61 Report/ Biodiversity/ Photos EVN Diversity The General Assembly of the United Nations declared 2010 to be the International Year of Biodiversity. EVN is also committed to mainof life taining biodiversity. The two power plant sites in Theiß and Zwentendorf are good examples of EVN’s successful efforts to protect plant and animal species as well as their natural habitats. Healthy ecosystem surrounding the Dürnrohr facility. A ccording to the “Red List“ published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), close to one quarter of all mammals, a third of amphibians and more than every eighth bird species are threatened with extinction. Many plant species are also in danger of disappearing forever. This trend has far-reaching consequences on our ecological as well as on our economic system. The extinction of species not only endangers the natural regulation of the climate and the water balance, but also hampers efforts to ensure a sufficient supply of (new) drugs and food (with respect to cultivating different varieties) in the future. The rich biodiversity of life is also very important for the field of biotechnology. All in all, biodiversity and a healthy ecosystem comprise the basis for the economic and social well-being of future generations The animal kingdom and flora and accordingly represent a valuable asset which must be at the Dürnrohr plant is unexpectedly sustainably preserved and protected. multifaceted. 389 different species have been identified. Year of Biodiversity. For this reason, considerable importance must be attached to preserving the diversity of animal and plant species, their genetic basis and different natural habitats. The International Year of Biodiversity 2010 Sheep in n Ecological. Sheep are wellsuited for use in the field of landis designed to raise awareness of this urgent problem. The landscape scape preservation. The traditional global community discussed potential measures to be taken conservation native breeds of sheep such as the Bent­heim land sheep are to stop the continuing destruction of nature at a conference considered to be particularly held in Nagoya, Japan from October 18–29, 2010. > suitable. Due to their low body 62 EVN Full Report 2009/10 weight, no damage is done to the At the same time, sheep feces kingdom. Numerous dung-eating vertebrates. The use of modern turf. That is why sheep are said to are evenly distributed, and thus insects such as dor and dung mowing equipment which kills have “golden hooves”. the entire area is fertilized. beetles as well as dung flies numerous animals can be Sheep continually move about There is no need to spread any depend on the excrements of prevented. Insects (e.g. ants) are on the pastures and thus evenly more fertilizer. Moreover, the grazing animals. thus spared from certain death. solidify the turf. The pastures piles of sheep manure comprise In turn, these insects are sources And they are also food for other remain in their original state. a valuable addition to the animal of food for birds and other animal species. EVN Full Report 2009/10 63 Biodiversity What is Biodiversity represents the diversity of life itself, and comprises the following three aspects: n Diversity of the ecosystem (living spaces such as water, forests, Alpine region) biodiversity? n Diversity of species (animals, plants, fungi, microorganisms) n Diversity of genes (species or types of wildlife and useful animals) The objective of the 10th meeting of the Conference of the namely the Bentheim land sheep, an old and endangered farm Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity is to define animal. The flock of sheep in the possession of the Fries family specific measures and targets in order to slow down the loss of is the only one of its kind in all of Austria. In 2011, the number biodiversity. At the Convention on Biological Diversity in 1992, of animal grazing on the green areas surrounding the power more than 180 countries signed the international agreement plant will be increased by 90. The farm is a recognized organic to stem the loss of biodiversity. Austria is also committed to farm and a member of the “BIO AUSTRIA” association. As a maintaining biological diversity. result, the pastures will be considered biologically recognized grassland starting in the beginning of 2011, a special distincEVN protects animals and living space. tion for a power plant site. EVN also makes an important contribution to preserving biodiversity in its sphere of action. Responsible project Biodiversitiy in Zwentendorf/Dürnrohr. planning not only involves carrying out a pro-active dialogue The animal and plant species in the area surrounding the with various interest groups, but also taking ecological aspects Zwentendorf/Dürnrohr power station have proven to be of the project into account above and beyond the legally unexpectedly diverse. “The grounds are a sanctuary for animals stipulated environmental impact assessment. In each project, and plants which are now a rarity in this region”, according to EVN strives to interfere with nature as little as possible, and the ecologist Alexander Mrkvicka, commenting on the naturally protect the animals and plants living in the surrounding areas. green areas near the coal-fired power plant. All in all, the area Additional initiatives were launched at the Theiß and Dürnrohr is teeming with 389 species of animals and plants, 35 of which power plants. are on Lower Austria’s own “Red List”, and four of which are endangered throughout Europe. This was the conclusion of a Sheep maintain green areas in Theiß. habitat study contracted by EVN. A research team consisting 65 sheep graze on the power plant grounds comprising an of botanists and zoologists observed the variety of species area of five hectares. The idea of using sheep for grassland for a period of one year. Amongst other species, one can find care was conceived three years ago by Mr. Fries, an EVN kestrels, rabbits, hedgehogs, toads, mountain flax, sallow thorn employee in Theiß. Within the context of an internal EVN idea and purple moor grass here. This rich diversity is protected by contest, people looked for ways to “conserve natural resourca double fence which completely encloses the site encompasses in the company”. Mr. Fries and his wife, who run an organic ing 115 hectares. The absence of traffic, hikers and dogs is a farm, saw the future potential in sheep grazing. And the key factor ensuring the protection of this habitat from harmful realization of this idea proved that he was right. It not only cuts and dangerous emissions. A further important aspect is that the the costs of grassland care by about 50%, but also reduces area is not used for agricultural purposes and is thus largely unthe waste gas emissions caused by lawn mowers. None of touched. “The natural environment can develop spontaneously, the sheep can get lost due to the fact that the entire grounds without having to be mowed five times a year”, Mrkvicka says. are fenced in. A fence has also been put up around smaller The kestrels are very practical to have around for the power pastures ranging in size from 500 m2 to 1.5 hectares in order station, as they limit the growth of the local pigeon population. to enable targeted grazing. The flocks of sheep owned by Otherwise the sensitive aluminum components would be the organic farmer Irene Fries represent a very special breed, defenseless against pigeon mature. ________________________ 64 EVN Full Report 2009/10 EVNews Safeguard biodiversity together. The best projects. Saving a species threatened with extinction Protecting wild birds in Austria. EVN is developing measures to protect this endangered bird in cooperation with the Austrian Society for the Protection of the Great Bustard. Within its own field of work, EVN contributed to this project by replacing 31 kilometres of medium-voltage overhead lines with underground cables in the western “Weinviertel” region of Austria, thus creating areas where the birds could fly freely without being disturbed by power lines. To ensure greater visibility, bird warning markers were put on about 22 km of 110 kV overhead lines. And the project has been a success: the population of great bustards in Austria and in the entire West Pannonian region has grown considerably in recent years. Nest platforms for storks Short & good n Hedgehog clinic at the atomic power Safe place for storks. EVN took station. The grounds of the atomic power precautionary measures to protect station in Zwentendorf, which was never put stork nests on overhead line masts in into operation, are being used for yet anboth Macedonia and Bulgaria. Metal other purpose. A “clinic” for sick and injured hedgehogs is being set up on the 24 hectare platforms were mounted onto the property. The specially designed boxes will masts as a safe haven for the nests. provide food and water to the animals. In this way, the birds are no longer in imminent danger, due to the fact that n Ecological approach to construction. contact with the overhead power lines EVN boasts ecological and technological showcase projects in revitalizing its small is avoided. This approach protects the hydropower plants. The projects are implebirds against electric shocks and also mented in strict accordance with ecological ensures fewer power failures for end aspects. For example, the Zwettl and Schütt customers. Storks colliding with masts power stations were equipped with modern have been known to cause power organism migration facilities. In modernizing eleven small hydropower plants, EVN outages. Together with local nature also implemented measures in Macedonia preservation associations, more than such as building filter stations and specially 800 protective insulations and some designed foundations to protect flora and 650 platforms have been put up. fauna in and around the bodies of water. Golden eagles and gyrfalcons Bird protection in Bulgaria. Overhead power lines pose a threat to flying birds. EVN and the Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds are working together to implement measures designed to protect rare bird species within the framework of the EU programme LIFE+. In order to protect the nests of golden eagles in the Natura 2000 sites, a total of 393 overhead line masts will be insulated by the year 2013. Overhead line masts within a radius of one kilometre are also being insulated in the Burgas Lakes region, where more than 300 species of birds live. Bird warning markers have also been hung on overhead power lines. In this way, the habitat of the Dalmatian pelican, pygmy cormorants, bitterns and other bird species is being preserved. EVN Full Report 2009/10 65 Report/ Social responsibility/ Photos Michael Kammeter, Gerald Rücker and Ronald Zak (EVN) EVN nah am kunden, Powerteam EVN powerteam 2010 2010 66 36 five-person teams from 33 Lower Austrian municipalities Blindvorspann championship. texte zum from the wurde finals fought St. Peter in erklärt. Jahr der Biodiversität held to win the “EVN Powerteam der Generalversammlung on emerged der Au Auch November 5, texte setzt sich dafür ein, die Blindtexte zu erhalten. blind 2010” 2010. victorious die Blind EVN Full Report 2009/10 The exciting finals match resulted in a victory for the St. Peter in der Au team. A ll Lower Austrian municipalities were given the opportunity to field teams in the period July to October 2010 to fight for the “EVN Powerteam 2010” championship title in a competition organized by EVN. Five members consisting of representatives from the municipality, business, gastronomy, fire department and youth formed a “power team” which had to solve tasks on the basis of skill, creativity and team spirit, and be awarded as many points as possible. On balance, a total of 36 teams competed for the title. The best eight municipalities all hoped to emerge victorious in the finals held at the EVN Forum in Maria Enzersdorf on November 5, 2010. > EVN Full Report 2009/10 67 After seven preliminary rounds, including a cart race, eight municipalities qualified for the finals at the EVN Forum. EVN n Use energy carefully. EVN is the competent and central EVN’s energy consultants offer their customers practical tips with respect pumps as the heating system of the future. You can reach EVN’s team energy point of contact, which has been to the efficient use of energy as of experts from Monday to Friday, consulting providing a broad service and information offering to households well as a comprehensive range of energy services. EVN also consults 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at no charge (in Austria) by calling the service and commercial customers for on the use of new technologies such hotline 0800 800 333 or by writing to many years. as photovoltaic facilities or heat energieberatung@evn.at. 68 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Social responsibility Powerteam n Web 2.0. Facebook was used as a communications platform for the book page invited fans to participated, posted tasks to be solved and due to the fact that the number of fans was counted twice during the on Facebook EVN Powerteam 2010 competition. published up to date rankings. competition enabling teams to win A separate EVN Powerteam FaceIt was important to motivate fans, important additional points. Seven preliminary rounds. The participating teams ergometer and build a closed electric system. The teams were given seven tasks to achieve, which could partly be displayed an enormous dedication and effort. The top solved on the Web and partly in the real world. The people favorite from the preliminary online rounds, the municipality involved had to be “street smart”, demonstrating their savvy of Rosenburg-Mold, just barely missed advancing to the final and energy, whether in a cart challenge, creating an EVN logo round. The grand finale between Großschönau and St. Peter or doing the EVN Energy Mobility Quiz. After an extremely in der Au ended in a victory for St. Peter in der Au. exciting competition, the eight municipalities of Großschönau, Moorbad Harbach, Raabs an der Thaya, Rosenburg-Mold, EVN Powerteam 2010. The winning municipality in Sieghartskirchen, St. Peter in der Au, St. Valentin and Viehdorf addition to the winner’s trophy, St. Peter in der Au was given reached the finals. a gift certificate for EUR 5,000 to purchase electric and natural gas driven vehicles, and an energy certificate worth EUR 1,000 Grand finale. A total of eight exciting and challenging for the five team members. However, the second and third rounds faced the participants at the finals held at the EVN place teams did not go away emptyhanded, and were given Forum in Maria Enzersdorf on November 5, 2010 before the gift certificates (solar energy potential assessment, weekend winning municipality was determined. Driven by the loud with a Tesla Roadster electric sports car. cheering of the enthusiastic fans, the eight teams had to hammer nails into tree trunks, guess objects despite being On balance, Lower Austria’s biggest municipal games were a blindfolded, demonstrate their athletic prowess on an major success! ___________________________________________ One of the challenges was to present the EVN logo in the most creative manner possible. An overview n Energy consulting for households Energy consulting hotline/Free performance/Air tightness measurements/Building thermography n Energy consulting for municipalities Municipal energy check/ Calculation of EVN‘s initial energy consulting/Building n Energy consulting for of energy performance/Building consulting and energy technology consulting/ Heat pumps/Consulting on sensible commercial/industrial customers Business energy check/Energy monithermography services possibilities for heating and hot water toring/Calculation of energy performgeneration/Calculation of energy ance/Plant and building thermography EVN Full Report 2009/10 69 Knowledge creates awareness Children draw ideas. In Bulgaria, children and youth as well as the improvement of their life situation are the focal points of EVN’s social involvement. In addition to the targeted support for kindergartens and children’s homes, the understanding of children for the need to consciously and safely use energy was promoted within the framework of the school project entitled “Energy Efficiency”. For example, children attending the primary school Hristo Botev in Plovdiv illustrated their ideas by making drawings. EVNews EVN takes its responsibility to society seriously – Energy savings begin in the kindergarten The project “Energiebündel Joulius”. EVN also wants to make the youngest among us aware of the need to save energy. In the fall of 2007, the kindergarten project “Energy Bundle Joulius” was already initiated. The second upgrading of the EVN “activities box” took place in the fall of 2010, featuring illustrative materials on the issue of saving Children get to energy. All 960 kinder­ know business gartens participatChildren’s Business Week 2010. Children ing in the project aged 8 to 14 had the opportunity to get receive a Joulius to know about 100 companies in different hand puppet, posters lines of business during the Children’s on saving energy as Business Week 2010. EVN CEO Burkhard well as background Hofer explained to children and young information and game people how a person could become an instructions, all designed expert in saving energy. Afterwards, they to playfully teach children took part in an idea workshop, displaying how to carefully use energy in great interest in focusing on various entheir everyday lives. ergy issues and holding lively discussions. 70 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Social responsibility Short & good Energy quiz School project in Macn EVN Social Fund – Euro 100,000 for selected projects. EVN estabedonia. EVN Macedonia lished a Social Fund to bundle its organised an energy quiz social sponsoring activities and make for pupils for the fourth them more transparent. The focus of time. In workshops held the fund with an annual endowment of during the school year, the EUR 100,000 is the sustained support provided to youth institutions in children learn valuable inLower Austria. Several projects were formation about the topic supported in 2009/10, three of which of energy. At the end of will be briefly described below. the school year, the pupils can demonstrate what n möwe Child Protection Centres. One of the most important responsithey have learned. The bilities of the möwe Child Protection winning class is invited to Centres is the prevention of violence, take a tour of one of EVN’s in particular the sexual abuse of chilhydropower plants. dren and young people. EVN supports prevention projects in selected classes of Lower Austrian schools, in which pupils develop measures for their own protection against sexual abuse. a targeted commitment to serve the weak! TRIGOS prize for Stolipinovo Award-winning social commitment. EVN mastered the challenges involving in introducing European standards for supplying electricity to the Bulgarian Roma settlement of Stolipinovo. The sensitive, consensus-oriented approach is now considered an outstanding international example for successful stakeholder dialogue, and was awarded the TRIGOS Prize. The infrastructure was modernized, energy consumption reduced and payment behaviour improved by carrying out talks with the local population and working in close cooperation with local NGOs. 187 kilometres of the electricity network were modernized, 17 transformer stations were refitted and 6,400 electricity metres were installed. At the same time, the payment rate of customers rose from 3% to 85%. n Caritas repair shop. The charity organisation Caritas looks after of about 190 people with learning or mental disabilities. EVN provided support to help construct a new repair shop for the organisation’s vehicles, where the people being taken care of are prepared for their integration into the labour market. n Grief counseling. Children and young people whose naturalness suddenly ended due to experiencing a major loss such as the death of a loved one require a helping hand and comforting assistance. The Caritas project “Children Grieve Differently – The Schwechat Initiative” serves as a contact point and meeting place for affected people, and aims to raise public awareness for the taboo topic of grieving and grief counseling. EVN Full Report 2009/10 71 Report/ Innovative environmental service/ Photos EVN Clear water for Istanbul Change for the benefit of people. The quality of life is improving in the Turkish metropolis of Istanbul thanks to the large wastewater purification plant in Ataköy constructed by EVN. Environmental n Business segment with a future. A high level of Services segment since the 1990s. Generally speaking, it covers the drinking water and the treatment of wastewater and waste Services business environmental compatibility drinking water, wastewater and comprise some of people’s most of EVN and sustainable behavior are the clearly defined targets of waste incineration activities of the EVN Group. Franz Mittermayer, elementary needs. EVN has been able to position EVN. The company has been Head of EVN’s Environmental itself in recent years as a building up its Environmental Services segment, says: “Clean competent partner in this 72 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Laboratory employees in Turkey‘s largest wastewater treatment plant I stanbul ranks among the biggest cities in the world. The problem of providing a sufficient supply of drinking water and disposing of wastewater is becoming increasingly acute thanks to the ongoing increase in the city’s population. More­ over, there is a shortage of water in Istanbul, not least due to the extremely polluted wastewater. EVN’s large Ataköy wastewater purification plant is fighting to deal with this problem, with the help of state-of-the-art technologies, even making the energy-independent operation of the facility possible. “We have to understand that water is a limited resource!” was the urgent appeal of the Turkish President Abdullah Gül at the 5th World Water Forum held in Istanbul from March 16–22, 2009. Ensuring a sufficient supply of drinking water was the focal point of the conference, which attracted prominent representatives from more than 100 countries. Water cannot be taken for granted. The concern voiced by the Turkish head of state is understandable. For decades Istanbul has been struggling with massive problems in providing water to city residents. Istanbul’s population has been steadily rising. At present, some 13 million people live in the Turkish metropolis, which means extensive contamination of wastewater and a shortage of drinking water. It is true that the source and headwaters of the Euphrates and Tigris, the two most water-rich rivers in the Middle East, are both located in Turkey. However, the wasteful use and false management of the available water have made it a resource in short supply. An unusually low level of precipitation in recent years have further aggravated the water shortage. Clean water. The increasing pollution, for example due to the numerous waste disposal sites, has had a negative effect on the quality of the groundwater. Moreover, due to its proximity responsible environmental a sustainable improvement in the to the sea, salt water is contaminating the groundwater. In business”. Numerous projects quality of life for EVN customers. addition, the water table in Istanbul has sunk to a dangerously implemented throughout Europe “Our commitment to environlow level in the past few years. For this reason, rainwater and (including drinking water purificamental protection ensures both river water are being used by the water treatment plants. Howtion and waste incineration plants) a modern infrastructure as well contribute to improving air and as the development of a modern ever, the rivers and the seas in and around Istanbul are heavily water quality. In turn, this results in society”, Mittermayer adds. polluted. Untreated wastewater continues to flow into the Sea > EVN Full Report 2009/10 73 Innovative environmental services WTE – Water. n WTE is a 100% subsidiary of EVN and is a full service provider responsibility for financing and operating such plants within tive services enables WTE to offer optimal solutions with respect Technology. offering the planning, construction the context of the BOOT model to energy consumption, use of Energy. of operation of water supply and wastewater disposal facilities. If (“Build. Own. Operate. Transfer.“). The application of stateresources and investment costs. Via WTE, EVN has branch required, WTE will also assume of-the-art technologies and creaoffices and project companies of Marmara and in the Bosporus. Even if these volumes have water purification plant was completed in only two years and is decreased in recent years, the water quality in both areas now responsible for dealing with the wastewater of about two continues to deteriorate, as a 2008 OECD report confirmed. million inhabitants of Istanbul. This corresponds to an average wastewater volume of 500,000 m3 per day. Thus Ataköy is Assistance thanks to a large modern already the largest wastewater treatment facility in Turkey. The purification plant. Within the framework of an intern­ total investment volume in the project amounted to EUR 108.5m. ational tender, the City of Istanbul awarded a contract in the year 2007 to build a modern wastewater purification facility in Extensive public interest. The new facility order to solve the massive problem posed by drinking water commenced operations in June 2010. There was enormous and wastewater disposal requirements. The EVN subsidiary WTE political and media interest in the project from its very (information above) won the tender to build, construct, finance inception. In addition to the Kadir Topbas, the Mayor of and operate the Ataköy wastewater treatment plant. Together Istanbul and numerous representatives of the media, the with the two Turkish construction firms Lidya and Kaylon (WTE Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was also present served as head of the consortium), a turn-key large-scale waste­ to attend the ceremonial opening of the Ataköy facility. The large-scale wastewater purification plant disposes of the wastewater produced by about 2 million inhabitants. 74 EVN Full Report 2009/10 in 15 European countries. according to the motto, Some 600 employees including “Sustainable economic numerous top experts supply manage­ment for the purpose drinking water and purify the of protecting the environment, wastewater of more than 15 milfor the well-being of people, lion European citizens, working for the well-being of nature”. State-of-the-art-technology. It is not surprising that the opening of the plant was celebrated as a major event. The Ataköy facility is making an important contribution to effectively dealing with Istanbul’s wastewater problem. “Ataköy is the key to preventing further pollution of the Mediterranean“, said an impressed Mayor Topbas during a tour of the facility. The wastewater from several districts of Istanbul is finally being subject to a “thorough cleansing”, as Mayor Topbas State-of-the-art technology is being used in Ataköy. added. Modern technology is the prerequisite to achieve this. Ataköy is an international showcase project for EVN, a serve as the basis for the biogas to produce energy used in convincing example from top to bottom, as project manager generating electricity and heat. Thus the energy supply of the Dirk Joormann from EVN proudly emphasized. “The Ataköy wastewater treatment installation can be fully covered by a plant ranks very high in an international comparison with cogeneration (combined cycle heat and power) plant, which is plants from other megacities. In particular, the controls and operated by the generated biogas together with natural gas. instruments, pumps and drive systems are state-of-theIn order to avoid odor emissions, the exhaust gas is treated art”. The Ataköy facility automatically and for the most part with ozone. The heat from the cogeneration plant is also used biologically cleans the polluted water. To be more specific, for the further thermal drying of sludge. the biological cleaning process is initiated after wastewater is pumped into the mechanical pre-cleaning plant, and freed of EVN positioned on the Turkish market. sand, stones, paper and other large items. At this point the EVN is responsible for operating the Ataköy facility until the facility imitates the natural self-cleaning process of bodies of year 2015. Afterwards the wastewater purification plant will water, and the organic compounds contained in the wastewater be transferred into the hands of the Istanbul Water and Waste­ are subject to decomposition. Microorganisms supplied with water Association, the contracting entity for the project. EVN enough oxygen subsequently decompose the organic subhas already completed 82 drinking water and wastewater stances of phosphor and nitrogen in the wastewater. Biogas treatment plants, and has been particularly successful in is generated in a conversion process. The sludge is separated Eastern Europe, in addition to Austria, Slovenia and Croatia. from the wastewater in secondary sedimentation tanks, and is Ataköy is a successful step on the part of EVN in the promising then transported to the six digester towers by pumps. Carbon Turkish environmental market, which has gained added is also decomposed in order to improve the quality of the air. impetus as the result of Turkey’s negotiations for EU membership. In the upcoming years Turkey plans to invest several Biogas is turned into electricity. The decisive billion euros in wastewater treatment in order to put an end arguments in choosing EVN as the winner of the international to the drinking water shortage in the country. tender were the energy efficiency and the low amount of energy required to operate the technologically advanced A step in the right direction. The Ataköy facility, facility, which can mostly cover its energy needs by utilizing Istanbul’s largest wastewater purification plant, is already a the biogas generated in the process. step in the right direction. Each day 400,000 m3 of wastewater How does this work? The sludge is decomposed by bacteria flows into the Sea of Marmora, but as purified wastewater. in the digester towers, in which case biogas escapes. Turbines Thanks to Ataköy. ______________________________________ Selection n In 2010 several wastewater purification facilities were opened the Montenegrin Adriatic coast is in the planning phase. The sludge treatment plant on the grounds of the of current in Austria and abroad (for n EVN was contracted to impleKlaipeda sewage purification WTE projects example in Tulln an der Donau in Austria or in Stettin, Poland). ment additional environmental projects on the island of Cyprus. plant was completed, and EVN was awarded a contract n A wastewater treatment plant n EVN is further expanding its to construct an additional facility for the municipality of Budva on market position in Lithuania. in Siauliai. EVN Full Report 2009/10 75 Water as soft as spring water Improved quality of life. For more than 15 years, EVN has been investing in the construction of new wells and connecting pipelines in order to further reduce the nitrate content and hardness of drinking water. A current example is the 12 km long transmission pipeline to the Municipality of Langau in the Horn district of Austria, including an elevated tank with a useful capacity of 2,000 m3. The results are making an important contribution to improving the population’s quality of life. The water hardness could be reduced from about 31 °dH to about 13 °dH. Moreover, the contamination of pipelines with iron and manganese are a relic of the past. Under the motto, “Water as soft as spring water”, EVN Wasser is working on further reducing water hardness. At present, a filtration facility is planned in Bisamberg which exclusively works on a physical basis to reduce nitrate content and hardness without using chemicals. EVNews EVN has positioned itself as an international partner Environmental Services segment: Key figures Drinking water/wastewater Drinking water in Austria Customer 493,000 Thereof directly supplied 58,800 Pipeline lengths 2,110 km Sales volumes 26.1m m3 Wastewater treatment in Central, Eastern and South East Europe 90 drinking water/wastewater projects Protecting the environment 82 completed projects Thereof installed drinking water is our business capacity in thousand 1,098 PE1) Internationally successful. Clean drinking water and the treatment of Thereof installed wastewater projects capacity in thousand 12,664 PE1) wastewater and waste comprise some of people’s most elementary needs. EVN has made a name for itself in this area as a competent point Thermal waste incineration of contact, and has implemented customized total package solutions Austria in the field of waste and water technology. With its subsidiaries EVN Facility in Zwentendorf/Dürnrohr offers the worldwide planning, financing, construction and operation Annual capacity 500,000 t of thermal waste incineration facilities as well as water and wastewater International purification plants. Numerous projects have already been carried out in Facility in Moscow 15 countries. Demand from Central and Eastern Europe has continually Annual capacity 360,000 t risen in recent years due to the region’s enhanced environmental aware1) Population equivalents: Industrial wastewater converted into household water ness and the need to catch up with respect to infrastructure investments. 76 EVN Full Report 2009/10 Innovative environmental services Meaningful use of waste Waste incineration facility in Moscow. Since 2007 EVN has been operating the MSZ 3 Short & good waste incineration plant in Moscow. Some 360,000t of waste annually are subject to thermal n EVN in Moscow. The expansion treatment in according with ecological principles. This not only reduces the waste volumes at and modernisation of the city’s the waste disposal sites in the City of Moscow, but also improves the quality of the air. In infrastructure is at the very top of the December 2009, EVN was also awarded a contract to construct a second waste treatment agenda of Moscow’s city government. facility in Moscow. Within the context of EVN has won eight major projects a BOOT model, EVN is responsible for from among the numerous international tenders for infrastructure projects. the financing, construction and operation These contracts included two waste inof the installation for a period of 12 years cineration facilities, one drinking water after completion. The total investment and two wastewater treatment plants. volume amounts to EUR 575m. The facility will apply the latest technologies and n Combined cycle heat and power plant for Moscow. After the combined boast a capacity of 700,000t per year, cycle heat and power plant was supplying several thousand households opened at the beginning of 2009 with electricity and district heat. on the grounds of the large-scale Kurjanovo wastewater treatment instalon all issues relating to clean drinking water and wastewater treatment. Fresh water for Moscow South-west Moscow drinking water facility. One of the most important infrastructure projects of the City of Moscow is the modernisation of its drinking water facilities for the more than 10 million inhabitants. EVN is the first foreign company to actively participate in supplying drinking water to the people of Moscow. Their drinking water purification plant ranks among the most sophisticated in all of Europe, functioning according to an innovative multiple barrier system. Surface water from the Moskva River is treated to produce high quality drinking water in a fivephased process. The use of chlorine has been lation, EVN began construction during significantly reduced, which in turn results in the year under review of another a considerable improvement in taste. Each combined cycle heat and power plant day one million people in Moscow are protogether with a sludge drying facility at the site of the big Ljuberzy wastewater vided with drinking water. Storage facilities purification facility. The new plant will are designed to compensate for fluctuations. already commence operations in 2011. n Modern drinking water purification. The official ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of a central facility for producing sodium hypochlorite took place in Moscow at the end of September 2009. In the future, 50,000 m3 of sodium hypochlorite will be produced annually by deploying state-of-the-art technologies in order to replace the harmful chlorine gas for drinking water purification. EVN considers this to be an important contribution to the sustainable supply of water on behalf of the inhabitants of Moscow. EVN Full Report 2009/10 77 Report/ E-mobility/ Photos Michael Kammeter The Wachau is e-mobile EVN’s e-mobility team: Ansgar Fosen, Gerald Rücker, Andrea Edelmann and Roman Lechner (l. to r.). 78 EVN Full Report 2009/10 EVN launched an e-mobility project in the Wachau region in 2010. Effective immediately, D o you want to pleasantly curve through one of Austria’s prettiest landscapes by bike? Or how about rolling through the dreamy towns and vineyards on a trendy Segway? everyone can comfortably bike through the And do it as ecologically compatible as possible? Since the UNESCO World Heritage Site in an ecologically spring of 2010, these prospects are now possible for the local compatible manner. population and tourists in the Wachau region on both sides of the Danube. Under the motto “E-Mobility in the Wachau”, EVN launched an e-mobility pilot project together with the Province of Lower Austria, Raiffeisen-Leasing and local partners. It will not take long to list the key facts about this initiative. EVN set up its own network of five public electricity charging stations in the towns of Melk, Emmersdorf, Aggsbach Dorf, Spitz and Krems, and a total of 15 electricity charging > EVN Full Report 2009/10 79 Gerald Rücker and Andrea Edelmann on an e-bike and Segway. Advantages n Eco-electricity instead of fossil fuels. E-mobility offers advantages lower energy consumption and higher level of efficiency than networking among different stakeholders and works on the overall of e-mobility from both an ecological and conventional vehicles. conditions and technical issues economic point of view: 3. Less dependence on oil. affecting e-mobility. EVN is also an 1. CO2 emissions are significantly 4. Considerable reduction in active dialogue partner here. reduced – by 70% at present! the noise burden. n More information: 2. Electric-powered vehicles boast n Offensive. E-connected promotes www.e-connected.at stations with partner firms in the tourism sector. This was Moreover, the prevailing weather in the summer of 2010 foiled done although considerable investments are required for each the hopes of the dedicated partner companies. Nevertheless, filling station, according to Roman Lechner, the responsible all those involved are working intensely to get ready for the manager for network engineering at EVN who is involved in 2011 season and expand their offering. For example, one of this pilot project. the business partners “Zum Schwarzen Bären” in Donauhof has leased new bicycles, Segways and even an e-Harley, an 100% green electricity. All tourists and local electric scooter which looks like a Harley-Davidson. inhabitants (close to 50,000 people live in the Wachau region) who lease an e-bike, e-scooter or Segway in order Higher quality of life. There is a good reason for to experience the fantastic scenery of this UNESCO World leasing the e-bikes and e-scooters. The project partner Heritage Site have two reasons to be happy. Not only can the Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH, which purchased the vehicles, has electricity from these charging stations be used free of charge, developed an attractive package deal including maintenance, but it is 100% green electricity. “The electricity is fully derived service and winter storage. Raiffeisen-Leasing Managing from renewable energy sources such as small hydropower Director Peter Engert says, “The promotion of mobility plants, solar or wind power facilities”, says Andrea Edelmann based on electric-powered vehicles is an important issue for of EVN. The 13 business partners in this project are highly Raiffeisen-Leasing, which has been intensively committed to motivated, even if the use and acceptance of the vehicles had promoting eco-energy for many years. In the future, we do not yet reached an optimal level in the first year of the project. not only want to lease cars but also mobility. E-mobility can 80 EVN Full Report 2009/10 E-mobility “We expect important findings from this pilot project.“ alternative electrical drive systems for the last 20 years, and is investing in the future of soft mobility by setting up electricity charging stations in Lower Austria.” The e-mobility project in the Wachau is a further building block in the efforts to expand modern and ecologically compatible ways of getting around. “We expect this pilot project to result in important findings about the behavior of users and usage patterns under real life conditions. This will benefit the target-oriented further development of the infrastructure offering in the E-scooters and e-bikes in the Wachau, the inner workings of an electricity charging station. field of e-mobility”, Burkhard Hofer adds. increase the quality of the air, reduce the noise burden and Innovative traffic project. The e-mobility project waste gas emissions and thus improve the overall quality of in the Wachau is an important step towards a better future, life”. If an e-biker has a problem with the vehicle, another according to Lower Austria’s Provincial Governor Erwin Pröll. competent partner is available to provide advice and practical “The Wachau is too beautiful to simply drive through it by car. assistance: the Austrian Automobile Association (ÖAMTC) There is so much to discover that we want to offer guests the offers a free breakdown service for the entire Wachau. opportunity to enjoy all the highlights of this unique cultural landscape without having to travel by car.” The future is already here. For EVN, this project comprises an ambitious step forward in its efforts to raise awareness of e-mobility in the population, but also to develop new business models. After all, EVN is now in the process of discussing new e-mobility concepts with other regions in Lower Austria, says Ansgar Fosen, a member of the EVN project team. It is obvious that such projects must be profitable in the medium-term. “We are talking to several regions. A decisive factor to ensure successful implementation is that an attractive offering is made to tourists. In addition, it is vital that the local population is committed to the project”, Fosen explains. Furthermore, the Province of Lower Austria is actively promoting the purchase of e-bikes. “Compared to normal bicycles, the e-bike offers a new perspective on mobility, particularly in rural areas outside of the more densely populated developed areas”, says Stephan Pernkopf, Lower Austria Provincial Councilor for Environmental Affairs, Agriculture and Energy. A public electricity filling station has also been set up in Aggsbach Dorf. Pilot project with considerable potential. There is no doubt that e-mobility will play a greater role in the Therefore extensive work is already being carried out on an future, for example to help countries achieve their climate proinnovative overall traffic concept for the Wachau region, which tection targets. German political decision makers have even should be implemented in the spring of 2011. At this point of clearly defined their goals. A total of 1m electric cars should time, it is planned to enable people to reach all popular destibe in operation on the roads of our neighboring country by nations in the region without their having to travel in their own the year 2020. For this reason, EVN CEO Burkhard Hofer is cars. E-mobility is an initial milestone in this direction. Thus all quite optimistic. “Electric mobility will significantly gain in those involved in the project anticipate a further “push” in favour importance in the years to come. EVN has been focusing on of e-bikes, e-scooters and Segways in the year 2011. _________ EVN Full Report 2009/10 81 E-mobility Personally experience energy Wind and sun. Renewable energy sources such as solar and wind power are subject to strong fluctuations, which is why storage systems are necessary to more effectively plan energy production. At its energy theme park in Lichtenegg, EVN is trying out new storage technologies and a diverse range of small wind power and photovoltaic facilities. Small wind turbines represent a relatively new technology which are of enormous interest to households and agricultural firms, and thus for EVN’s own product portfolio. Storage systems operate in a multi-functional manner, considering the fact that the potential goes far beyond simply supplying energy to an individual building. In this regard, EVN is cooperating with industrial and research partners as well as the firm Bucklige Welt Wind GmbH. The project, supported by the Climate and Energy Fund and the Province of Lower Austria, is expected to come on stream in the spring of 2011. Picture left: CEO Hofer with employees in Lichtenegg at the ground-breaking ceremony: Christian Reichel, Burkhard Hofer, Angelika Lackner and Andrea Edelmann, l. to r.). EVNews Changes requires innovations – the best projects. Short & good n Environmentally compatible mobility. Natural gas used as fuel in the form of CNG Holistic perspective (Compressed Natural Gas) makes an active contribution to climate protection by reducInnovations. In the future, energy will ing CO2, particulate and nitrogen oxide be increasingly supplied by regionally emissions. Erdgas Mobil GmbH, a subsidiary available renewable energy sources. EVN of EnergieAllianz, is promoting the expanded is involved in numerous projects designed use of natural gas as a fuel, and currently to test innovative technologies in practice. operates 31 public and six non-public CNG filling stations in Lower Austria. The focus is on a holistic approach. EVN is strongly committed to projects focusing n Consciously use electricity. EVN is on decentralized and renewable energy procurrently testing “smart meters“ with some duction. Suitable storage technologies are 300 customers. It enables these customers to essential to utilise these fluctuating energy identify their electricity consumption at any sources. It will also be up to customers to minimize their energy consumption. The future of the energy supply Energy-independent housing. Energy-independent housing is simulated within the context of the ADRES project (autonomous decentralised regenerative energy systems). The combination of renewable energy sources, intelligent network management and the highest level of efficiency along the entire energy Renewable chain is designed to enable regional time by looking at a display, and analysing it energy on the Internet based on an online energy energy needs to be fully filled whilst management system. . keeping emissions low. The efficient and autonomous consumer is adjusted n Green Home. Some household devices use to the stochastic production of energy energy, others generate or storage it. If these by means of a balancing tool as well appliances are managed intelligently, energy Efficient Intelligent as a new control algorithm, which can can be used more efficiently. The aim of the end use networks Green Home project is to exploit the potential thus prevent blackouts and reduce the derived from the interaction of information expense involved for energy storage and communication technologies, efficient facilities or a backup energy supply. devices and intelligent networks (smart grids). 82 EVN Full Report 2009/10 EVN AG EVN Platz 2344 Maria Enzersdorf Phone +43 2236 200-0 Fax +43 2236 200-2030 Service telephone 0800 800 100 (in Austria) Service telephone for investors 0800 800 200 (in Austria) Information on the Internet www.evn.at www.investor.evn.at www.verantwortung.evn.at This publication was printed on environmentally-compatible paper. The production took place using electricity from renewable energy sources in line with strict ecological guidelines. The CO2 emissions arising from the production of paper and this publication were neutralised by the acquisition of Gold Standard Certificates. The contribution is designed to assist a climate protection project in India selected by the WWF. This publication was printed in a climate-neutral manner. This is a Mensalia report. 83
