Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Company Corporate performance indicators ALTANA develops, manufactures, and distributes high-quality, innovative specialty chemical products. The company is a globally active corporation head2010 2009 quartered in Wesel, Germany, with an international Number of employees 4,937 4,789 revenue share of approximately 85 percent. Its four Divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Sales € 1.535 billion € 1.182 billion Effect Pigments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and EBITDA € 314.1 million € 208.4 million ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants, occupy a leading position in their target markets with respect to quality, EBITDA margin 20.5 % 17.6% product solution expertise, innovation and service. Research and development expenditures € 82 million € 70.6 million ALTANA offers innovative and environmentally Investments € 74 million € 54 million compatible solutions with the matching specialty Total production 489,230 to 404,612 to products for coatings manufacturers, paint and plastics processors, for the printing and cosmetics Gross value added € 568 million € 426 million industry, as well as for the electrical and electronics Final products 298,964 to 291,654 to industry. Our product portfolio includes additives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigments, WAI 1* 7.85 8.14 sealants and compounds, impregnating resins and WAI 3** 99 104 varnishes, and testing and measuring instruments. Total CO2 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) *** 136,632 to 117,449 to The ALTANA Group currently includes 41 production sites and 48 service and research laboratories Drinking water 596,998 m³ 737,237 m³ worldwide. Our approximately 5,000 employees Non-hazardous waste disposal 2,452 to 2,771 to posted Group sales exceeding € 1.5 billion in fiscal year 2010. Its impressive earning power and high Hazardous waste disposal 17,888 to 14,572 to growth rate make ALTANA one of the most suc* Work Accident Indicator 1 (Number of occupational accidents with lost work time of more than cessful and innovative chemical groups worldwide. one day per million working hours) ** Work Accident Indicator 3 (number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working hours) *** Scope 1: direct emissions / Scope 2: indirect emissions About this Report The Sustainability Report 2010 was written to provide the public, For further information on the topics presented in this report, please our employees, business partners and authorities, non-governmenvisit www.altana.com/sustainability. tal organizations, and all other stakeholders with information about In the future, this report will be published annually to underscore the sustainability strategy of ALTANA in terms of economy, ecology, the growing importance of sustainability. At the same time, it will and social responsibility. serve as the annually required communication on progress for The facts and figures presented in this report refer to the fiscal year the Global Compact (see page 72). The report is available in both 2010. Unless otherwise noted, our statements apply to all Divisions German and English. and subsidiaries worldwide. The report follows the international G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). At a glance 1 Europe 19 sites North America 7 sites Asia 10 sites Central America 2 sites Latin America 1 site 2010 sales: € 1,535 million EBITDA 2010: € 314 million Employees: approx. 5,000 EBITDA margin: 20.5% 2010 sales: € 541 million 2010 sales: € 357 million 2010 sales: € 377 million 2010 sales: € 260 million Business Lines Business Lines Business Lines Business Lines • Paint Additives • Coatings • Primary Insulation • Converting Specialties • Plastic Additives • Graphic Arts • Secondary Insulation • Graphic Arts • Industrial Applications • Cosmetics & Personal Care • Electronic & Engineering • Measuring and Testing Instruments • Plastics Materials • Functional Applications 2 Sustainability Report 2010 Contents 6 28 16 54 48 1 At a glance 4 Prefaces Management Products Safety Environment 8 Company 18 Green chemistry 30 Occupational health 38 Resource conservation 9 Corporate strategy 19 Life-cycle analysis 31 Interview with Dr. Reinhard 40 Energy efficiency 10 Corporate culture 20 Blueffects Salinger 42 Water 10 Vision 22 REACH 32 Occupational safety 43 Emissions 11 Culture of innovation 23 Interview with Dr. Gerald 33 Process safety 44 Wastewater / solid waste / 12 Global Compact Kirchner 35 Work of the fire department existing contamination 12 Responsible Care 24 Globally Harmonized System 45 Biodiversity 12 Compliance 25 Global product strategy 47 Transport 13 Management systems 26 Biotechnology 47 Supply chain management 14 Memberships, audits 27 Nanotechnology 15 Supplier relationships 15 Stakeholder dialog Contents 3 6 Management Innovation and customer orientation ALTANA has achieved a leading position in its markets and is continu36 ously working to expand it. These actions are guided by our values of responsibility for human lives and the environment and our self-imposed obligation to do business with fairness, tolerance, and transparency. 16 Products Green chemistry for quality and environmental protection Products have a wide range of impacts on our environment. ALTANA is aware of the resulting responsibility and is consistently looking for solutions to address existing and future challenges. 28 Safety Protecting employees is always our first priority Safety and health are top priorities at ALTANA. We pursue our vision of an accident-free company with comprehensive safety and risk analyses, consistent training of our employees, and state-of-the-art technology. 36 Environment Environmental protection remains a consistent goal ALTANA is committed to the Responsible Care self-obligation initiative of the chemical industry. To us, this means reducing our energy and water consumption as well as waste volumes, to conserve resources, and to avoid emissions. 48 Human Resources We are a reliable employer The success of our company is primarily the result of the dedication and qualification of our employees. In addition to training and advancement programs for all job descriptions and career levels, we also offer company Human Resources Social Responsibility health and retirement plans. 50 Training 56 Sponsoring 50 Professional development 58 Interview with Prof. Werner 54 Social Responsibility 51 Recruiting Wittkowski 51 Women in management 59 Sponsorship projects Stand up and be counted as a good positions 59 Donations corporate citizen 52 Work-life balance ALTANA sees social commitment as an investment in the future. That 52 Retirement 53 Demographics 60 Key performance indicators is why we provide special support for natural science and technology 53 Employee representation 68 Highlights and lowlights programs in schools and universities and work with social projects that 53 Diversity 70 Programs and objectives benefit children and adolescents in various countries. 72 Global Compact 4 Sustainability Report 2010 Dear Readers, Sustainability is a popular term of our times and Sustainable business is not a voluntary option, but there is hardly a company that doesn’t claim to act an indispensable prerequisite for corporate success. sustainably. When a term is used with such frequency, I am convinced that only those companies that there is a real risk that the underlying concept loses practice responsible management on the basis of its meaning and becomes nothing more than a fasha shared culture of values will have a chance in ionable buzzword. the market. Ultimately, they are the companies that qualified and motivated employees want to work for. To me, sustainability means doing business with a long-term perspective. It means more than proAccordingly, management with a long-term pertecting the environment, even though that aspect spective, protection of our natural resources, and continues to be a primary concern. Rather, sustainclear rules for working together are much more ability means responsible actions on the part of than a moral obligation of every company. They are managers and employees, modern products that indispensable for earning profits and for reinvesting conserve resources, safe working conditions, and them to make a contribution to social development. last but not least, support for social and humanitarian initiatives. I hope you will enjoy reading this sustainability report of ALTANA AG. As the sole shareholder, I am pleased to see ALTANA AG present its first comprehensive sustainability report after two environmental reports to account for its activities. Above all, I am impressed Susanne Klatten that this report also includes an honest assessment Sole shareholder and deputy chairwoman of the Superviof challenges and future goals in spite of the sory Board achieved successes. After all, sustainability always means honesty and not window-dressing. Prefaces 5 Dear Readers, As CEO of ALTANA AG, I welcome your interest in developments in the future and will comply with our Sustainability Report 2010. changes in reporting requirements. In recent years, the ALTANA Group has undergone In an independent effort, we consistently review and profound changes. The company sold its pharmaoptimize our sustainability profile in the company ceutical business in 2007 and has been operating as by analyzing processes, identifying weaknesses, a company with exclusive focus on specialty chemiand implementing improvements. The performance cals since then. evaluation of our employees increasingly reflects our adherence to the values and standards for working As a globally active chemical company, we have estogether we have developed. tablished a reputation for protecting the environment. After two environmental reports in 2007 and As a company with exclusive focus on specialty 2009 and the Global Compact Report 2010, we chemicals, ALTANA joined the Global Compact in have decided to provide updates of our ecological early 2010. We had previously been listed as a pharand social development in a sustainability report maceutical company because of our past structure. from now on. At the same time, we have reduced The objectives of the Global Compact are entirely the reporting interval to one calendar year. The consistent with the vision of ALTANA and the Mansustainability report supplements and enhances agement Board fully supports the goals of the Gloour Annual Report. In the future, both documents bal Compact. As a consequence, this sustainability will provide a joint perspective of our company report also serves as our annual communication on with comprehensive and authentic reporting. This progress for the Global Compact. concept is supported by the similar, yet individual design of the reports. I hope you will enjoy your reading. Our sustainability report will be published every fall. This publication date guarantees that the relevant previous-year figures and data of all global compaDr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber nies are available and reflected in the report. Projects Chief Executive Officer or developments that extend over more than one reporting year will generally be noted in the text. We will adjust our sustainability report to corporate 6 Sustainability Report 2010 ”We want to be leading in everything we do” Innovation and customer orientation ALTANA underwent dynamic developments in the recent past. Following the divestment of the ALTANA Pharma Division, the company was publicly traded as a corporation with focus on specialty chemicals until mid-2010. The shareholders' meeting resolved on June 30, 2010 to transfer all shares of the company to the majority shareholder SKion GmbH, a holding company of Susanne Klatten. This ended the public trading of ALTANA stock. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 7 The new ownership structure provides ALTANA with excellent conditions for responding to entrepreneurial opportunities swiftly and flexibly, while continuing to follow its successful pathway of profitable growth. 8 Sustainability Report 2010 Company ALTANA develops, produces, and distributes high-quality, innovative specialty products for coatings manufacturers, paints and plastics processors, for the printing and cosmetics industry, as well as for the electrical and electronics industry. Our product portfolio includes additives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigments, sealants and compounds, impregnating resins and varnishes, and testing and measuring instruments. These specialty products are sold in combination with customized problem solutions to provide added value for our customers and our company. The business seat of our globally active Group is Wesel, Germany Sealants, occupy a leading position in their target markets with reand the international revenue share is approximately 85 percent. spect to quality, product solution expertise, innovation and service. Our products and services are offered in the immediate proximity of our customers around the world. All sites of ALTANA are under The ALTANA Group currently comprises some 43 operative comlocal management. This ensures cultural understanding and panies with 41 production sites and 48 service and research closeness to markets as well as quick decision-making processes. laboratories worldwide. Our approximately 5,000 employees posted Group sales exceeding € 1.5 billion in 2010. Its impresOur four Divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Effect sive earning power and high growth rate make ALTANA one of Pigments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and ACTEGA Coatings & the most successful and innovative chemical groups worldwide. 2010 sales: € 1,535 million Employees: approx. 5,000 BYK-Chemie GmbH ECKART GmbH ELANTAS GmbH ACTEGA GmbH BYK Asia Pacific ECKART America ELANTAS Beck ACTEGA Artística BYK-Cera ECKART Asia ELANTAS Beck India ACTEGA DS BYK Chemie de Mexico ECKART Benelux ELANTAS Camattini ACTEGA Foshan BYK-Gardner ECKART Cosmetics ELANTAS Deatech ACTEGA Kelstar BYK Gardner USA ECKART France ELANTAS Isolantes ACTEGA Radcure BYK Japan ECKART Italia Elétricos do Brasil ACTEGA Rhenacoat BYK Kometra ECKART Mexico ELANTAS PDG ACTEGA Rhenania BYK Solutions ECKART Pigments ELANTAS Tongling ACTEGA Terra BYK Tongling ECKART Suisse ELANTAS UK ACTEGA WIT BYK USA ECKART UK ELANTAS Zhuhai ECKART Zhuhai 43 operative companies with 41 production sites and 48 laboratories worldwide Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 9 Corporate strategy The business of ALTANA stands out for its consistent, above-averThe decentralized business model of ALTANA with relatively inage growth. In addition to operative growth, some 40 acquisitions dependent local subsidiaries means maximum flexibility, speed, since 1988 have made a significant contribution to our success. and efficiency. In addition, we practice active portfolio manageTargeted acquisitions, large investments in research and development with selective acquisitions and divestments to operate all ment, and our concentration on growth-intensive specialty marDivisions profitably and with added value and to establish new kets have sustainably increased the value of our company. areas of business. Research and development (R&D) are a particularly high priority During the reporting period, we acquired three companies or at ALTANA. Our high R&D investments secure our innovative parts thereof and divested one business unit. Specifically, we power and technological edge. In 2010, our expenditures in this acquired parts of the U.S.-based Quadrant Chemicals Corporaarea were about € 82 million or five percent of our revenue, tion and the polyurethane casting resins business of the Swiss while the industry average is about three percent. In late 2010, company ABB Micafil for the ELANTAS Electrical Insulation some 800 employees – approximately 16 percent of ALTANA’s Division. We also acquired the coatings business of Aquaprint workforce – worked in research and development worldwide. GmbH in Oyten, Germany, as part of an asset deal and inteALTANA has filed over 200 patent families. grated this business into the ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants Division. The polyurethane foam stabilizer business of the BYK We generally perform our research and development projects Additives & Instruments Division has been sold. We also gave up an in-house with our own employees. The focus of our R&D activiECKART production facility in Italy in 2009 and instead expanded ties is currently on the consistent advancement of products and the capacity at the German headquarters in Güntersthal. technologies for existing markets, with sustainable optimization of products and manufacturing processes as the top objective. The environmentally sound products of the acquired companies Beyond that, it is our goal to open up new application markets contribute to the sustainability strategy of ALTANA. In addition, and to expand our business with existing and new customers. acquisitions always include specific measures to protect the We cooperate closely with universities, research institutes, and environment since the purchase of new companies is always suppliers in this area. preceded by the so-called environmental due diligence process, which includes a review of compliance with the law, such as the European chemicals law REACH (see also page 22) and physical checks for soil and groundwater contamination. Overall, ALTANA is aware of soil contamination at ten sites. In all cases, the restoration is either complete or in progress (see also page 44). 10 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate culture As a company with focus on research, ALTANA is aware of toward society, but also an important prerequisite for our its responsibility when it comes to the commercial use of new economic success and competitiveness. As a consequence, scientific insights. We try to weigh the opportunities and risks ALTANA promotes the environmental awareness of its emof applying new technologies in a dialog with scientists, our ployees and expects responsible use of resources. customers, and the public. The protection of natural resources takes an eminent role in these considerations. ALTANA works We want all of our actions to be based on long-term, fair partdiligently to produce sustainably, to conserve resources, and to nership. We are a fair competitor. ALTANA respects the laws, reduce environmental pollution. customs and cultural preferences of the countries in which we are active. We promote equal opportunity and oppose Our company is characterized by openness and a work atmosany form of discrimination, be it for sexual orientation, ethnic phere of mutual appreciation. Occupational safety and health origin, ideology, disability, or age. Our corporate culture is take precedence over economic considerations. We not only characterized by openness, honesty, mutual respect, the ability consider environmental awareness an entrepreneurial duty to accept criticism, tolerance, and a positive attitude. Project team ”Identity” (left), headquarters of ALTANA AG (right) ALTANA Identity In 2009, ALTANA decided to develop new guiding principles a decentralized structure to secure sustained success. The on the basis of the existing principles. The goal was to clearly employees of all subsidiaries are involved in the development formulate our joint identity, cooperation, and values, but also and implementation of the guiding principles to ensure that our strategies and understanding of the market. In a parallel all cultures within the company are reflected and that the effort, we also developed leadership guidelines. Both documents resulting document will be well received among employees. will guide our actions in the future. Our Sustainability Report 2011 will contain further details on The new guiding principles wich are to be introduced in the the ALTANA Identity. fall of 2011, are particularly essential for a company with Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 11 Culture of innovation Innovations are an essential element of our corporate strategy. Every year, the ALTANA Innovation Council organizes the They ensure the sustained growth of ALTANA and support ALTANA Innovation Conference, which brought together over the company's position as a technology and market leader. We 100 ALTANA researchers from many countries last year are a research-intensive company, which invests an average of to intensively discuss new applications, technologies, and five to six percent of its revenue in research and development ideas for new projects. Within the scope of the ALTANA Inno(R&D) – approximately double the industry average. Furthervation Conference, outstanding projects are honored with the more, ALTANA is a member of seven innovation networks. ALTANA Innovation Award (see figure). The innovation process at ALTANA is designed to bring toALTANA does not plan to pursue entirely different business gether knowledge while removing obstacles to efficient, multimodels in the foreseeable future, but will stay with its divisional knowledge transfer. We want to make sure that core competencies in the years to come. However, we have knowledge is available wherever it is needed. to invest in the expansion of these competencies to minimize risk, which means we have to acquire additional knowledge Our culture of innovation is supported by flat hierarchies, indeand further expertise. This will allow us to access additional pendent action and entrepreneurial spirit, as well attractive markets or market segments and to reach our as the recognition of success. Furthermore, we growth objectives. want to create an incentive system that promotes a balanced mix of creativity We intensively address new key (thinking outside the box) and discipline technologies such as nanotech(process) as well as the willingness nology, industrial biotechnolto take risks. At the same time, ogy or printed electronics to the culture of innovation at ALTANA remain viable and to meet is characterized by eagerness to the needs of our customers learn, a long-term perspective, and with the most efficient the ability to respond to market methods and technologies. developments. ALTANA is in an excellent ALTANA will continue to promote position to remain a global its culture of innovation in the leader with its products and Group. The establishment of the services in every important ALTANA Innovation Council in 2008 growth area of the future, inwas an important milestone in this cluding information and commueffort. This council of Division technolnication technologies, consumer ogy officers with responsibility for research goods, security technologies, mobility and development, which is chaired by the and transport, energy efficiency, and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of ALTANA, resource conservation. is designed to ensure the seamless function of the entire innovation process. To give an example of its activities, we have established an R&D fund to promote multidivisional research projects. 12 Sustainability Report 2010 Global Compact ALTANA joined the Global Compact as a specialty chemicals Bribery not only does direct financial damage to a company, company in 2010 after a previous listing as a pharmaceutical but can also destroy the reputation and credibility of a company corporation. The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative to as a trustworthy and reliable business partner in the long term. promote corporate social commitment, which was established Fighting corruption therefore is an important concern of the by former U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan. In addition to ALTANA Compliance Management System. numerous corporations from over 80 countries, the initiative includes international employee organizations and civic organizations from all over the world. The objectives of the Global Compliance Compact are entirely consistent with the values of ALTANA. Consequently, the initiative is an important issue to us and ALTANA fully complies with statutory regulations and confirmed also motivates us to systematically work on improvements. guidelines. More than ever, the added value, sustainability and The Global Compact is based on ten principles of human credibility of a globally operating company depend on the rights, occupational standards, environmental protection, and consistency of everyone's compliance with laws and regulations anti-corruption. along with voluntary codices. ALTANA protects and respects human rights. Responsibility ALTANA introduced a Group-wide Compliance Management toward humans and the environment as well as the obligation System (CMS) in 2008. The Compliance Management System is to act with fairness and tolerance are part of our core values. These designed to values are also reflected in the guiding principles of ALTANA. • Identify the substantial risks that may result from violating laws and regulations. • Ensure that employees receive training in the content and significance of laws and regulations relevant for their work Responsible Care • Take additional direct measures for preventing violations of Responsible Care is an initiative of the global chemical industry. laws and internal regulations Under the guidelines of the program, corporations enter into a voluntary self-obligation to meet their product stewardship The CMS covers areas such as antitrust law, bribery and fraud, responsibilities, to systematically improve plant and occupational foreign trade, taxation, environment and safety, discrimination, safety along with occupational health and environmental protecdata protection and information technology. A responsible tion, and to optimize transport safety and internal and external Compliance Manager has been appointed to each of these areas. dialog. The program also implements the environmental protecThe Compliance Managers and the Head of Internal Audit tion aspects of the United Nations' Global Compact in the chemical together form the Compliance Committee. industry. As a chemical company, ALTANA has been committed to the principles of Responsible Care since 2002. All managing directors of our production companies have affirmed their support The CMS of ALTANA has a decentralized structure to match of Responsible Care in writing. the structure of the ALTANA Group. ALTANA takes responsibility for ensuring compliance in its subsidiaries by establishing generally applicable policies and standards, providing competencies, creating platforms and forums for local managers, ALTANA respects and protects the rights of its employees to and of course by demanding compliance measures on the part form unions and to engage in collective bargaining. We are of the subsidiary management. The purpose of the CMS is to opposed to all forms of forced and child labor and reject disimplement the required control mechanisms to uncover and crimination in any form. This self-obligation is reflected in our address violations of laws and regulations. guiding principles and in our Code of Conduct. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 13 Ms. McCutcheon, has the EMS effort been worthwhile? ”Yes, we learned a lot. We now have more transparency and specific topics have been brought to the attention of management, such as release of chemicals, environmental benchmarks, or goals and measures.” The ALTANA Code of Conduct was written to provide employCorporate EH&S defines mandatory benchmarks for all proees with a practical guide to lawful conduct that is in line with duction sites and requires the corresponding reports at specific our objectives. It is a mandatory standard for management and times. It also promotes sharing of knowledge and expertise all employees. An e-Learning program was introduced in 2010 between the sites and monitors legislative activities to allow to familiarize employees with the content of the Code of ConALTANA to comment on political decision-making processes as duct. Every employee can independently access this audiovisual necessary. learning tool from any computer. The program communicates a basic understanding of compliance and its significance for The share of ALTANA companies that are certified in accordALTANA and presents the content of our company's Code of ance with the globally applicable standard ISO 14001 increased Conduct in practical terms. The program ends with a final quiz to 69 percent in 2010 from 59 percent in 2008 and conseas an acknowledgement of the content. A special compliance quently covers 75 percent of our production volume. Three hotline offers our employees the option to report unlawful more certifications were added in 2010 and another certificaconduct regardless of hierarchical levels, and reports may be tion was planned for early 2011. Five companies are currently made anonymously if necessary. completing their audits and expect to achieve certification by the end of 2012. Management systems One of the most recent certifications took place in the plant of BYK USA in Wallingford, where EHS manager Megan ALTANA uses externally certified environmental management McCutcheon had taken over responsibility as management systems (EMS) and its Corporate Environment, Health and representative to implement ISO 14001. Since the company Safety department (EH&S) to monitor measures for occupaalready had a certified quality management system, it was detional safety as well as occupational health and environmental cided to pursue an integrated management system. This decision protection. It is our goal to establish a certified EMS in all was based on the large overlap of standards, for instance in the production sites of ALTANA. The original intent was to reach areas of document control, management review, or audit planthis goal by the end of 2010. However, staffing capacities did ning. The Wallingford plant established a team in 2009 to analyze not allow for this in smaller companies and the certification the most significant environmental impacts and identified energy had to be delayed. The requirement for a certified environconsumption, release of chemicals, odor problems, and waste as mental management system for companies makes sense when the core concerns. These environmental impacts are mostly conwe consider that environmental impacts can reach ”beyond sistent with the benchmarks and objectives of ALTANA. In a next the fence” of a plant. step, sub-teams were established to improve the status quo of each of these concerns. The team assigned to the problem of Environmental management systems that are certified by indechemical releases received special root cause analysis training, pendent third parties ensure the determination of essential enand an external consultant is being hired in 2011 to train the vironmental concerns and advance continuous improvements. energy team and additional employees in energy efficiency. 14 Sustainability Report 2010 Memberships, awards and audits The German companies of the ALTANA Group are members of The award also cited joint quality optimization, consistently high the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), of CEPE, the product quality, and excellent logistical and sales support. umbrella organization of the 17 European professional associaA HACCP audit was performed at ACTEGA Terra in 2010. It contions for coatings, printing inks, and artists’ colors as well as the firmed that our coatings meet the requirements of international Association of the German Coatings Industry (VdL). Some of our hygiene and food standards. HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critiaffiliates also are members in the German Verband der Mineralcal Control Points) is designed to guarantee food and consumer farbenindustrie (association of producers of pigments, fillers, safety and applies to all companies that are engaged in the profunctional additives, food colorants and others, VdMi), the Gerduction, processing, or sale of food and food packaging. The man Association of Plastic Films (IVK) and TEGEWA (association certification has now been extended to ACTEGA Terra as a prorepresenting manufacturers of textile, paper, leather and fur auxducer of coatings for food packaging. The HACCP system analyiliaries and colorants, surfactants, complexing agents, antimicroses risks along the entire process chain, establishes limit values, bial agents, polymeric flocculants, cosmetic base materials, pharand monitors them consistently. maceutical excipients and allied products). ACTEGA Terra also qualified for the “Sony Green Partner” cerThe Indian coatings and paint manufacturer Kansai Nerolac hontificate. The Japanese electronics corporation uses this seal to ored BYK-Chemie as ”Best Vendor” during its fourth Vendor Conmark products that were manufactured without the involvement ference in 2010. This award is given to suppliers with outstanding of environmentally harmful materials, hazardous processes, or performance in logistics, technology, and distribution. BYK redamaging waste or byproducts. ACTEGA Terra has been a Green ceived the award together with its local representative, Aroma Partner of Sony since 2003. While the effort began with the cerChemical Agencies, for innovative product development, innovatification of two coatings, 20 products had earned the seal by tive customer training, and highly responsive technical support. 2010. EHS manager McCutcheon was able to rely on Best Practice We have established benchmarks and goals for occupational support from the ALTANA Group and studied the environsafety, share information about Best Practice measures, and mental management systems of other sites. A colleague are convinced that we can achieve continuous improvements from BYK-Chemie in Wesel traveled to Wallingford for in this manner. To date, five companies have established the audit, and a representative of ELANTAS PDG reviewed the a management system certified according to OHSAS 18001 legal compliance. (ECKART GmbH, ELANTAS Beck, ELANTAS Zhuhai, ELANTAS Tongling, ACTEGA Terra), while other sites are planning similar The production facilities of ECKART were audited by specialmeasures or have begun the certification process. ists of the Güntersthal site, for example in the Chinese Zhuhai plant from August to December 2010. It took the manageAdditionally, ECKART GmbH has established an energy manment team on site three months to prepare for the ISO agement system in parts of its company. This system is currently audit with the support of Dr. Lutz Berghold. ECKART Zhuhai being expanded to the entire site and plans are underway for received its certificate on January 10, 2011. The company a certification according to DIN 16001 in 2012. plans to stay with this support principle and may transfer it to other Divisions, depending on the evaluation of experiences. Some sites maintain separate management systems for occupational safety and health, which are audited on the basis of the British standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series). The structure of OHSAS is guided by ISO 14001 and is based on the British standard BS 8800:1996. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 15 Supplier relationships Stakeholder dialog The goal of permanently implementing the Global Compact ALTANA stays in close communication with the neighbors of principles into the ALTANA supply chain was explicitly added its sites. Especially in places where our production sites directly to the organizational manual of the ALTANA procurement adjoin residential areas, we distribute information by direct organization as a guiding principle. Thus, the principles of the mail or indirectly through the local media and engage in diaGlobal Compact have been communicated to the employees log. In Wesel, we organize neighborhood events to report on of the Group-wide procurement network. A separate supplier construction projects and to give the residents advance notice Code of Conduct version designed for external use is presentof construction activities. These events are supplemented with ed as part of the ALTANA company presentation during neighborhood hotlines and personal contact information. supplier visits and audits to ensure direct communication of these goals to suppliers. We also organize regular tours of our buildings and production facilities to strengthen public trust in the safety of our operations. In addition to individual tours, we also take part in nationwide campaigns such as ”Architecture Day” or ”Chemical Industry Open House Day.” We also maintain a highly constructive and harmonious dialog with local politicians and media. In places where ALTANA is a well-known and important employer, we also initiate local promotional campaigns to show the public how important we are as a large employer in terms of economic impact and jobs. The following measures were implemented in 2010: 1. Integration of the Global Compact principles into the ALTANA Corporate Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct 2. C ommunication of obligations by presenting the Supplier Code of Conduct during supplier visits and audits 3. R eview of compliance with principles during supplier visits and audits 4. Integration of Global Compact principles into the ALTANA Corporate Procurement Organizational Manual 5. C ommunication of the ALTANA Code of Conduct within the scope of the ALTANA Intranet section Corporate Procurement 16 Sustainability Report 2010 “We help our customers achieve their goals” Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 17 Green chemistry for quality and environmental protection “Green” has a positive sound with connotations of nature, health, and cleanliness and nowadays is particularly understood to mean “environmentally friendly.” However, there is no globally applicable industry standard that provides an accurate definition of environmental friendliness. The development of new chemical products is increasingly dominated by environmental concerns. To give an example, the solvent content of products and base materials is one of the key indicators when it comes to defining how “green” a product is. Manufacturers explore the requirements they have to meet for developing “green systems,” which raw materials are best suited for this purpose, and where they can ideally be purchased. Furthermore, they need to be certain that the use of eco-friendly raw materials will not impact the application properties of their final products. BYK has made it a principle to consider the issue within the scope of a complete system that it calls ”Greenability.” Customers can access the company’s BRIEF (BYK Regulatory Information Extensive Form) online at a dedicated website (www.byk.com / innovation / Greenability.html) to find out about the environmental compatibility of specific products. Together with REACH CEFIC questionnaires and other REACH documents (see also page 22), which can be downloaded from the website, the BRIEF documents provide answers to frequently asked questions. 18 Sustainability Report 2010 Green chemistry The share of solvents (volatile organic compounds or VOC) ultimately determines how environmentally sound the products of our customers are. The construction materials industry is a key cause of VOC emissions. Sealants, adhesives, coatings, and floor coverings release VOC into the atmosphere and solvents also have a strong influence on interior air quality. Our goal is to support coatings and plastics manufacturers with the increased use of solvent-free systems. BYK has successfully reduced the VOC content of its product portfolio over the past two years. Nevertheless, BYK only has limited influence on the environmental qualities of a product since additives just account for a small portion of a coating or plastic material. We are increasingly in a position to offer additives made from only uses a single additive, it offers better product safety. renewable resources such as modified fatty acid from tall oil. Furthermore, the product is less complex and warehouse Product examples with renewable raw materials include inventories can be reduced. BYK-1740, Viscobyk-5120 or BYK-1161. This employs a mostly CO2-neutral material and conserves fossil resources. Environmental compatibility of new pigments Labels and eco-balance ECKART is one of the leading global providers in the development and production of innovative pigments. The company Green quality seals are awarded to products with particular has recently developed a new generation of effect pigments ecological qualities. As part of this evaluation, not just the final on the basis of calcium sodium borosilicate, which are primaproducts, but also their source materials such as coatings and rily used in cosmetics. In contrast to conventional pigments, plastic systems have to meet stringent requirements. Many the new product called “Mirage” stands out for high gloss, BYK additives meet the specifications of the European EU Ecogood transparency, and pure interference colors. Thanks label for interior and exterior coatings and paint products. to their high transparency, the new “Luxan” pearlescent pigments made from borosilicate can be combined with any color shade without affecting the original characteristics New additives for aqueous coatings of the base color. These new pigments are an alternative to effect pigments that are made from a base material that is At ALTANA, product stewardship also means the continuous surface-mined in India. advancement and optimization of existing systems. BYK has effects demonstrated this with two new multifunctional additives for aqueous coatings, which not only are easy to process, but also environmentally compatible. This is further enhanced by benefits in the process and supply chain. Because the system What are CO2 equivalents? The CO2 footprint is a partial aspect of the lifecycle analysis. Climate Change (IPCC) are converted into CO2 equivalents It reflects the greenhouse gas emissions generated throughout with a specific factor. Thus, methane (CH4) has 25 times the a product lifecycle and is indicated as Global Warming Potential global warming potential of CO2. In practical terms, this means (GWP100), using kg CO2 equivalent per functional unit as that the emission of 1 kg CO2 and 1 kg CH4 results in a net the calculation unit. All substances that contribute to global global warming potential of 26 kg CO2 equivalents. warming potential according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 19 Lifecycle analysis options for the chemical industry Lifecycle analysis (LCA) provides an answer the “petro” foam inhibitor (BYK-012) was the “bio” version only accounted for 1,400 kg to the question of the environmental impact reduced from approx. 116,000 Mega joule per metric ton of product. caused by the manufacture of a product. (MJ) per metric ton of product to approx. The CO2 footprint, which reflects greenhouse 13,000 MJ. While the conventional product gas emissions throughout a product lifecycle, caused some 8,000 kg of CO2 equivalents, is an important aspect of the LCA (see box). ALTANA uses lifecycle analyses according to ISO 14040 and 14044 to evaluate the Life Cycle Analysis System Boundaries ecological aspects of its products across the entire product lifecycle, ranging from the extraction and processing of raw materials to necessary transport during the manufacture of the product, the utilization phase, and the Emissions subsequent disposal. This is an internationally standardized method that allows for a precise analysis of environmental aspects and potential impacts of product systems. Aspects such as resource efficiency and Disposal the effects on climate change are as imporUse tant in this regard as VOC emissions, smog, or excessive fertilization. Based on this eco-balance, we can make precise statements about the potential environmental impacts and the resulting ecological product requirements in the early stages of product development. This also assists with the effort to position Production ourselves in the market with environmentally Preparation friendly systems and to pursue our own enviExtraction ronmental policy goals within the company. At BYK, the number of customer inquiries for LCA-based product data rose from ten to over 60 between 2004 and 2009. Consequently, BYK performed an eco-balance of the foam inhibitors BYK-1740 and BYK-012 to demonstrate the changes in environmental Resources parameters with different carrier materials. The total energy consumption for the “bio” foam inhibitor (BYK-1740) compared to 20 Sustainability Report 2010 Aqueous protection coatings Safety is a top priority for manufacturers of food packaging, with known potential negative impacts, such as phthalates since systems that are in direct or indirect contact with food and PVC copolymers, but also melamine resin, bisphenol are subject to stringent safety standards, for example when A and bisphenol A diglycidyl ether. This allows us to provide it comes to using finishing coatings on food trays, yogurt our customers with solutions that follow the recommendalids, or blister packs in the pharmaceutical industry. ACTEGA tions of the German Ministry of the Environment to restrict Rhenania is engaged in intensive research in this field. As a the use of bisphenol A. We have also managed to lower specialty coatings manufacturer, the company has developed the share of organic solvents with VOC content to below an aqueous protective coating for flexible packages that ten percent. meets the demanding requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). We do not use any components ECKART “Blueffects” ECKART uses the term “Blueffects” to offers the highest values for infrared reflecThe demand for safe content materials designate products and processes that make tion among metals. ECKART has developed is also on the rise for cosmetic applications. the production process more ecologically an innovative series of pigment products This includes, e.g. natural substances or those sound. This can refer to the selection of raw on an aluminum basis that reflect up to with a specifically evaluated production materials, savings potential from recycling 50 percent of the process. ECKART has or reuse (for example with reference to water impinging thermal specialized in particconsumption), or to direct energy savings from radiation. This readyularly environmentally process improvements such as enhanced seals to-use water-based compatible raw maof energy-intensive compressed air systems. At pigment concenterials for a number the same time, Blueffects also refers to product trate is easy to pro­ of years. ECOCERT, properties. cess and is stirred into one of the leading While conventional wall paints absorb a conventional transglobal bio certificahigh share of heat and transfer it to the outparent wall paints. tion organizations, side, coatings with aluminum pigments can After application, it has certified 36 pearl­ achieve a tangible insulation effect. One of the provides insulation escent pigments of simplest ways to save energy in a house is to from unwanted heat from the outside or ECKART's Prestige series to document that insulate it with the right paint. Aluminum pigreduces heat loss. they are made of safe raw materials and ments lower heating costs and create a more manufactured with environmentally sound comfortable living environment. Aluminum procedures. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 21 ACTEGA Rhenacoat Dynamic growth of water-based coatings (in percent) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2 4 6 8 10 12 Sealants without plasticizers In the past, PVC was used to seal food packaging, for example in conjunction with screw-on tops. However, when plasticizers in the sealant came into contact with food, they affected the odor and flavor and could even be a health hazard. The fourth amendment of Commission Directive 2007 / 19 / EC of the Plastic Materials Directive 2002 / 72 / EC bans the use of specific phthalates as plasticizers in PVC-based seals. In response, ACTEGA has identified a solution called Provalin. This sealant was specifically designed for metallic screw-on caps and meets the requirements of the current EU directives. Provalin is free of PVC and plasticizers, holds up to sterilizing and pasteurizing, and cannot pass into food. Provalin-coated lids are already on Solvent-free products and renewable resources the market and have many successful applications. A growing number of customers are specifically asking for solvent-free adhesives. This caused ACTEGA Rhenania to develop a new series of polyurethane adhesives for packaging films that meet this specification – and are even more efficient. The laminating of composite films requires significantly less adhesive than with conventional polyurethane systems. The new adhesives are made of polyols. 80 percent of the resulting polyurethanes are based on renewable resources, for example a component of castor oil. 22 Sustainability Report 2010 REACH ALTANA supports the replacement of previous chemical legislacustomers have better information for the safe use of such tion with REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization substances. ALTANA affiliates that are subject to registration of Chemicals). However, ALTANA also criticized some parts requirements are already working to prepare data submissions of the law and expressed its opinion at the political level. that will be due in May 2013. We met all specified deadlines to pre-register the substances Time schedule for introducing REACH our company manufactures or imports. As a specialty manu06 / 2007 facturer that produces small quantities, we only were reData compilation, evaluation quired to register two manufactured and three imported 06 / 2008 substances by November 2010. Substance is not Pre-registration pre-registered Our cost estimates were approximately right, which upheld Production / import 11 / 2008 discontinued our complaint that the expense of the law is tolerable for those Registration Phase I > 1,000 t p.a. or >100 t p.a. + PBT or CMR producing substances in large volumes, while the expenses 11 / 2010 for registering smaller quantities (deadlines in 2013 and Registration Phase II 100 – 1,000 t p.a. 2018) will be exceedingly high. 05 / 2013 We have also noted that the communication within the Registration Phase III 1 100 t p.a. supply chain requires expanded material safety data sheets with 05 / 2018 page counts ranging from hundreds to thousands. The relevant information must be reviewed, evaluated, implemented, and forwarded within the supply chain Lawmakers in the United States are talking about reforming with additional expanded safety data sheets. This creates a lot of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). The local ALTANA red tape, but greater volumes of printed paper don’t automatically companies are trying to interpret the content and assess effects. translate into greater safety. We will therefore advocate improveWe also are taking part in a working group on the TSCA ments and practical solutions during the REACH Review 2012. reform within the American Chemistry Council (ACC). Since the reform appears to be similar to REACH in some aspects, However, the law certainly has positive aspects as well: More we will be pleased to share our experiences with the experts data will be available for evaluating existing substances and in the U.S. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 23 “The events are a good fit for our overall concept” Dr. Kirchner, how far has the implemostly European countries. The events 2. Obligations for downstream users, and mentation of REACH advanced at BYK? were held in Germany, France, Italy, and 3. Availability of source materials. What was accomplished in 2009 and Switzerland. Further seminars will be ofWe have already addressed many points 2010? fered as required in the future. for Item 1, including the identification of We successfully registered two compounds in 2009 and 2010. This involved a compilation of the required toxicology and ecotoxicology data by an external institute with a summary in a dossier. The data were submitted to the European Chemicals Agency (EChA) in Helsinki. We also registered all substances that meet the criteria for so-called transported isolated intermediates. We already have the results of the required studies in hand for five additional compounds so that further registration dossiers can be generated and submitted during the course of this year. This year, we plan to start three additional registration projects and three to five substances will be addressed annually in the future. By the end of 2016, we will Dr. Gerald Kirchner is the Head of Innovation Management at BYK-Chemie have completed the submissions for all substances that require registration. In this context, can you provide more What was the customer feedback and the affected substances and the selection information on the customer seminars what was the significance of these of the required tests. The next steps will be and Downstream User Days organized two types of events? to perform the examinations and to create by BYK? The customer response was consistently dossiers. Item 2 will require the revision We discovered in numerous conversations very positive. Attendees particularly liked of virtually all safety data sheets to adapt with customers that downstream users the focus on downstream users. Our them the new requirements. This requires did not have sufficient knowledge and documentation with “ready to use” forms structured communication along the understanding of the obligations of and checklists also won praise. This event supply chain and outstanding expertise the REACH Regulation. This caused BYK series is a good fit for our overall service in handling toxicology and ecotoxicology to develop our so-called “BYK Downconcept. It underscores that BYK and data. Regarding Item 3, BYK has identified stream User Days” to close these knowlALTANA offer more than just a product; all critical source materials and has edge gaps for our customers. The content our products always come with the correcontacted the suppliers. This is essential focuses on the needs of product users and sponding service. to make sure we recognize changes in we offered presentations to explain the classification and shifted or discontinued obligations and measures associated Which new challenges will BYK face production as early as possible to take with REACH, which included practical as a consequence of REACH in the proper countermeasures. examples and discussions for better uncoming years? derstanding. Overall, we organized six of There are three substantial issues: these seminars in the past two years with 1. Registration of new and imported suba total of about 250 participants from stances, 24 Sustainability Report 2010 Globally Harmonized System The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) provides a framework for improved hazard communication on the part of the chemical industry. This “world language” for chemicals developed by the United Nations not only changes classification and labeling systems, but also introduces globally standardized labeling elements and safety data sheets, an optimized global understanding of communication, and facilitated international trading. Unfortunately, the system has not yet been fully harmonized. This makes it all the more important for us as a globally active company to establish our own GHS network at the corporate level, which includes experts from Japan, China, India, Singapore, the U.S. and Europe. The challenge is primarily to monitor the implementation into national laws in order so we can respond quickly. The following development shows how far the implementation has advanced: All substances and mixtures at BYK have already been converted to the GHS regulation, although the conversion for mixtures will only become mandatory in the EU from 2015. Furthermore, all IT systems for environmental management, occupational health, and occupational safety have been successfully adjusted. This involved reclassifying over 350 BYK products, making new product labels, and adjusting 350 safety data sheets in 27 languages. The effort also included a report to the classification and labeling inventory, employee training, and advance information to our customers and global representations. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 25 Global Product Strategy Product stewardship and product safety are cornerstones of in chemicals safety between developing countries, emerging the ALTANA sustainability strategy. In addition to REACH and economies, and industrial countries. The effort will increase the GHS, this is also reflected in the Global Product Strategy product safety and sustainably improve the handling of (GPS), a voluntary self-regulation of the chemical industry initichemical products, while creating fair global competition. ated by the International Council of Chemical Associations This chemical management benefits the environment and (ICCA) that has the support of ALTANA. The system is to be occupational safety alike. GPS will be implemented in the EU fully implemented by 2018 and pertains to substances that along with the introduction of REACH, so that it will not cause are produced in volumes of more than one metric ton a year additional work for our company. or which are heavily toxic. The goal is to reduce differences 26 Sustainability Report 2010 Biotechnology Biotechnology is an interdisciplinary science that focuses the development of a new surface additive for use in aqueous on enzymes, cells, or organisms in technical applications. systems, while a second addresses intelligent coating systems, ALTANA has been involved in biotechnology research since in which additives to coatings are to prevent mussel growth on 2009 to optimize substance production processes, reduce the hulls of boats and ships. Organisms that grow on hulls energy consumption and waste, and to conserve resources. increase flow resistance, and therefore, fuel consumption. At the same time, we hope to reduce our dependency on After market introduction, these new additives have the fossil source materials by using renewable resources and potential to make a sustained contribution to resource and to advance new product and system solutions with a high climate protection. The third BYK project pertains to a biosynpotential for added value. Nevertheless, biotechnology is thesis product for a surface additive, which is close to market often seen in a negative light, for example in conjunction with introduction. This product is manufactured with live cells to gene technology and genetically modified organisms (GMO), make efficient use of resources and energy. which may affect naturally occurring species in case of release. A link between ALTANA and green biotechnology, or plant However, ALTANA is exclusively active in so-called “white” or biotechnology, could result from the procurement of resources industrial biotechnology. All of our work takes place in closed generated from genetically modified plants or animals. The laboratories and production facilities. Furthermore, we only biggest public concern in this regard is that the cultivation of operate such laboratories in Germany at this time, using stringenetically modified plants makes it difficult to rule out spread gent security measures. Enzymes and other biological products or influences on other wild species. Overall, the challenge that are released into the environment as a consequence will be to weigh risks and opportunities. This also requires of white biotech applications such as detergents are quickly a social discourse that will result in legislation, and ALTANA will biodegraded and cannot accumulate. This is active resource actively support this process. protection and makes a contribution to social responsibility. In the debate about green biotechnology, it is frequently To give an example, BYK is working to develop various additive argued that its application in agriculture helps fight food solutions with biotechnology methods. One project involves scarcity. As an aggravating factor, a large percentage of food in industrial countries goes to waste. In the United States, this applies to some 40 percent of food items. It is important to improve the shelf life of food items to reduce the quantity of food that goes to waste. The food packaging products of ACTEGA make a contribution to this effort. Since food production is also associated with significant greenhouse gas emissions, preserving food is also a contribution to climate protection. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 27 Nanotechnology For ALTANA, product stewardship is an essential component of responsible management, and nanotechnology is no exception. We are convinced that nanotechnology can contribute to the optimization of systems in the fields of energy, climate protection, environment, and medicine. However, new substances, materials, and technologies not only open up new opportunities, but can also involve potential risks for humans and the environment. Consequently, product stewardship also calls on us to safely assess potential risks and to implement effective measures for risk management before a product is introduced. In Germany, we follow the guidelines of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and the German Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (BAuA). Accordingly, our risk management always assumes the greatest possible hazard and is based on stringent standards. In final applications, the materials are then part of a coating or plastic matrix. ALTANA and BYK are taking part in studies of the German Coatings Association to investigate consequences of eventual release, for example from sanding or weather impact. Sanding results are already available and do not show any release of the integrated nanoparticles. It is of equal importance to us to point out the general consensus among experts that nanotechnology per se does not pose a risk, and that at most, specific substances may be hazardous in nano format. Until this has been fully studied, the corresponding risk management measures should assume a high level of hazard. Unfortunately, no agreement has been reached on testing methods yet. ALTANA promotes open dialog about nanotechnology. We provide our customers with information in the form of mateThe discussion of potential risks primarily focuses on “free” or rial safety data sheets that follow the corresponding VCI powdered nanomaterials, because they are most likely to enter guidelines. Nevertheless, ALTANA considers end-product labels the body through aspiration. When nanomaterials are bonded that state “contains nanomaterials” mostly unsuitable, since in a matrix, the risk of exposure is much smaller and can be the term “nanomaterials” provides no information about prevented with further measures. hazards or risks, as explained above. All nanomaterials supplied to customers by companies of the ALTANA Group are part of a matrix, which is at least a liquid. 28 Sustainability Report 2010 “Health and safety have no price tag” Protecting employees is always our first priority Safety and health protection have always been top priorities at ALTANA. We follow the guidelines of the chemical industry’s global Responsible Care initiative, which requires companies to continuously enhance their employee safety. This includes health services as well as occupational and process safety. At ALTANA, all three of these elements are closely integrated in a culture of safety. We implement risk management measures for handling chemicals in accordance with their hazard potential. We are continuously enhancing our comprehensive culture of safety throughout the entire company with a whole range of initiatives. The heart of this culture is safe employee work behavior, since human error is the most frequent cause of accidents. Of course, ALTANA prides itself on strict compliance with all occupational and health standards applicable in the many countries where we are located. Beyond such statutory requirements, however, we look to implement reasonable preventative measures that may not be mandatory. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 29 30 Sustainability Report 2010 Managing health Taking responsibility for the health of our employees is not just a statutory obligation at ALTANA; it’s in our own best interest. We believe our employees’ wellness is a fundamental precondition for their commitment, their performance, their creativity, and their agility. Three challenges are the primary drivers of a company’s active achieving a healthy organization of work and healthy behavior health policy: on the job. • Growing shortage of skilled and management personnel; • Demographic changes; and This includes ergonomics as well. Each employee’s well-being • High cost of lost time by sickness. is significantly impacted by workplace ergonomics, which has a major influence on muscular / skeletal problems such According to the Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health as back pain, one of the most widespread health problems Promotion (WHP), which ALTANA has signed, traditional in Europe. ALTANA strives consistently to educate all our occupational safety – such as wearing the right protective employees and provide comprehensive information about gear – contributes substantially to improving workplace health healthy living. by decreasing accidents and preventing occupational disease. But these types of measures are simply not enough. That’s why At ELANTAS Beck, influenza vaccinations and dermatological WHP aims to prevent occupational disease (which includes consultations are integral components of WHP, along with work-related illnesses and on-the-job accidents, occupational the treatment and prevention of addiction. In 2009, BYK disease and stress), to enhance the capacity for good health, set a goal of instituting company-wide health management. and improve wellness at work. A comparison clearly reveals why: In 2009, with 673 employees, 7,400 days were missed due to sickness, or 10.9 days It has been proven that companies that comprehensively proper employee, while absences due to accidents on the job mote health in the workplace not only reduce sickness-related accounted for only 307 days (0.4 days per employee). Clearly, costs and improve productivity. They also enjoy healthier health is a much more significant component in reducing employees with greater motivation, better morale, and a better absences. Today, promoting health at BYK includes yoga atmosphere on the job. classes, fitness programs, nutrition awareness, massage, qigong, and running clubs. And at BYK USA, workplace health Starting points for promoting workplace health or health management is known as iHealth. management include healthy working conditions (such as ergonomic workspaces), guidelines governing working hours, and career opportunities. At the same time, promoting Dependence and addiction prevention healthy personal habits such as healthy diet, workplace sports, and prevention of drug and alcohol abuse are also Workplace health management also addresses prevention of part of a comprehensive program. addictions. It’s not only nicotine, alcohol, and drugs that can fuel addiction. Prescription drugs and food, gambling and ALTANA has instituted a wide range of initiatives to promote shopping can all be culprits, setting off a vicious cycle that workplace health management. ECKART, for example, has few of us can break out of with sheer willpower or self-conconsolidated and improved health and social support within trol alone. In principle, anyone can develop an addiction. the company under the rubric of WHP. The focus here is on Since addiction or dependency is not limited to certain subreintegration support, drug and alcohol addiction counseling, stances, any form of human behavior can become addictive, and general promotion of healthy practices. WHP comprises including widespread eating disorders and workaholism. It is modules that are understood as a single process aimed at still too often the case, however, that issues of dependency Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 31 ”Management should respond with awareness and compassion” and addiction are treated like taboos. That’s why Dr. Reinhard Salinger directs the ECKART integrated them into its health manageworkplace medical service at ECKART ment program four years ago. in Güntersthal. He is a specialist in treating dependence and preventing Issues involving psychological and psychosomatic addiction. illnesses, such as burn-out, have also been integrated into the ECKART health management Dr. Salinger, does ECKART have a program. As in the case of addiction prevention, special workplace addiction counthe company starts with management training, seling service? which covers training to recognize symptoms in ECKART is fully cognizant of its responsibility both within the the workplace and analysis of the work situation workplace and to the larger society with regard to addiction. and risk factors. It was awareness of this responsibility to our employees that led to a special training course for more than 200 managers. They are trained to respond with awareness and compassion Occupational diseases toward employees who are susceptible to addiction, to offer them the help they need, and, when necessary, to involve Occupational diseases comprise those that are their workplace addiction / dependency representative in recognized by the relevant national organizations the discussion. and result in disability payments. These diseases have not been appeared to date at ALTANA. How many such representatives does ECKART employ? We are confident that, with constantly improving ECKART has seven of these volunteers, supported by the health protection initiatives, we will be able to works physician. These volunteers and the occupational maintain this outstanding record. Other occupahealth service are there for both management and the tionally-related illnesses are not as easy to identify, employees involved. They alert employees with human however, and often difficult to distinguish from resources responsibilities when problems become obvious non-occupational illnesses, with general analysis at the workplace, and they offer anonymous counseling that further barred by patient / doctor confidentiality. is strictly confidential. They cooperate with facilities that That’s why some of our companies have worked provide psychological and social treatment for addiction and with insurance providers to analyze causes of dependency, taking care that intervention guidelines are apdisease, and incorporated the results of this analysis plied when problems become apparent. Finally, they provide in their health promotion programs, since the emfollow-up support and workplace reintegration assistance. ployee absentee figures can’t distinguish between occupational and other diseases. And how are these representatives trained? The volunteers regularly attend external training every two years. The works physician receives regular advanced training at seminars organized by the Bavarian Medical Association in Munich. He also updates the volunteers in three month intervals. And since last year, we have also been sharing information about these issues with the City of Nuremburg. 32 Sustainability Report 2010 Occupational safety Occupational safety involves avoiding employee accidents. To measure our performance, we have defined key data, and stipulated that they are regularly collected. We have also defined goals to reach on the path to fulfilling our vision of an accident-free company. Enormous efforts have been underway since 2006 to achieve that vision. Since most of the technical options have now been implemented, these efforts focus primarily on employee behavior. company’s culture of safety that were implemented in Most (work-related) accidents are the result of human error, 2009 / 2010. And the key data show that safety performance referring to improper handling of machines or tools, failure to has improved significantly. wear protective clothing or wearing it incorrectly, too much haste, or stumbling. That makes constant reminders of correct There was also room for improving work safety at BYK, where behavior all the more important. One approach is known as the accident rate per WAI 1* increased noticeably between behavior-based safety, based on behavior analysis. Positive the first and third quarters of 2009. The causes included intervention should change employees’ unsafe behavior. superficial safety reviews, employee inattention on the job, and overwork. That led management to establish a working ELANTAS Deatech became the first ALTANA company to group in cooperation with the responsible departments. implement the behavior-based safety concept. According to statistics, 80 to 90 percent of work accidents can be traced The working group’s efforts included: to employee behavior. That can only be changed with timely • Public speech by management on the importance of workinfluence on that behavior. The accident pyramid documents place safety, supported by communication tools such as the statistical relationship between unsafe behavior, minor newsletter, brochures, and meetings; accidents, serious accidents, and fatal events. The theory • Articles in the employee newspaper; therefore is that the incidence of unsafe behavior must be • Posters warning about three accident scenarios (falling, addressed to prevent serious and even fatal accidents. crushing, and cutting); • Information about accident trends on BYK TV, the company Behavior-based safety holds that any given human behavior is Intranet and IMS portal; based on an estimation of utility / benefit, and that in turn • Three-day workshops to raise supervisor’s / manager’s derives from that person’s own experience. ELANTAS Deatech awareness, given by the liability insurance association, with applies the commonly used ABC model to explain this situalawyers and psychologists; and tion. The ABC model – antecedent, behavior, consequence – is • Updating risk evaluations and training requirements. based on praise for correct behavior and criticism of the incorrect. But to succeed, a behavior-based system must respond quickly and consistently to incorrect and correct behavior. Between February 2009 and February 2010, correct behavior was found in three-quarters of the 479 reviews that were performed. These positive results also solidified the trust between shift supervisors and safety officers. In another step toward accident prevention through correct behavior, ECKART held a safety workshop for executive management in 2009, * Work Accident Indicator 1 (number of on-the-job accidents resulting in which resulted in a number of initiatives to improve the absence of more than one day per million hours of work) Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 33 Process safety Three incidents occurred at ALTANA in 2010 that we classified as “significant” according to our internal definitions. At ELANTAS Deatech in Quattordio, leakage in an older type of pipe resulted in spillage of about 3,000 liters of liquid raw material during pumping from a tank into the reaction ALTANA is constantly making technical changes that will better vessel. We were able to collect the liquid in the safety pans protect our employees from workplace dangers. For instance, that were there for precisely this purpose. This spill did not safe handling of methylene dianiline (MDA) must be ensured. represent an environmental threat, no soil contamination MDA is a powdered precursor material that ELANTAS uses for occurred, and there was no other negative impact. To avoid further reactions. Because of its carcinogenic properties, MDA similar events in the future, the piping to all raw material is generally used in closed systems. In the past, the powder tanks was replaced and brought up to the latest standard, was measured out from containers at two ALTANA sites in at a cost of € 35,000. China. The employees wore appropriate protective clothing and breathing equipment to protect them from the dust that In June 2010, a hose burst at ACTEGA Terra, resulting in can be hazardous to their health. damage. The tank truck driver was contaminated while pumping a corrosive liquid. He required medical attention but When the operation was moved in Tongling, the process was fortunately did not suffer any lasting injuries. The cause was migrated to an automated closed measuring system. Now determined to be insufficient requirements for pressure MDA is delivered in insulated or heated containers and pumped checks of the hoses that were used. These requirements have through closed tubing into a tank. It is then diluted using a been revised since the incident. solvent so the melting point can be maintained below 80 ° C. The MDA can then be measured out from the heated tank At ACTEGA Rhenania, an electrostatic charge resulted in through closed tubing into the reaction container. This process an explosion in October 2010. Failure to use equipment is significantly safer for employees, who are no longer required designed to conduct electricity while filling a tank with to wear protective clothing and breathing equipment. powder was determined to be the cause. The tank contained solvent. One employee was injured and had to be taken to ELANTAS Zhuhai also began installation of similar tanks for the hospital. Property damage was minimal. In the aftermath, MDA in 2010. After that work will be completed, work safety employees were given intensive training and on-site superand employee health will improve here as well. visors now perform more careful monitoring. Additional personnel have been brought in to accomplish all this, and all powdered precursors are kept in grounded containers. 34 Sustainability Report 2010 What is a damage incident? For that reason, newer equipment ALTANA recognizes two levels when defining damage events such as fire, explosions, or uses either water or water and foam product leakage into the environment. These levels reflect the VCI definitions of damage to extinguish fire. The foam covers incidents. larger surfaces covered with solvent 1. Serious damage: as well, so it is very efficient for that internal damages exceeding € 500,000, or external damages of more than € 100,000. type of fire. 2. Significant damage: accidental release greater than the following quantities: In older locations, such equipment is • > 5 kg in the case of EU categories T and T+, toxic substances, and mixtures being retrofitted or installed for the • > 100 kg for GHS categories, all other hazardous substances and mixtures first time in new buildings. At BYK • > 2,000 kg of all other substances and mixtures USA, the raw materials storage has or damage incidents with injuries been retrofitted with automated wa• resulting in employee or contractor absence of > 1 day, or ter / foam extinguishing equipment. • hospitalization of an uninvolved person, A new storage facility for finished products has also been equipped with or fire or explosion resulting in direct costs of > € 20,000. new water / foam equipment that was designed with the required collection capacity for the water An explosion in the exhaust incinerator at ELANTAS PDG used to extinguish the fire. The warehouse doors also feature in August 2010 did not meet the definition of “significant barriers that can be shut so that no such water escapes into incident.” It was only luck, however, that the accident did the environment. not result in any injuries. The concentration of organic components in the equipment was too high, which led At ELANTAS PDG in the U.S., the CO2 fire-extinguishing to the explosion. The automatic cut-off did not react equipment in a production building was replaced with autoquickly enough. In the future, the employees involved will be matic water-based equipment that automatically notifies the warned automatically when a certain level of concentration fire department as well. The required detention volumes for is exceeded. water to extinguish fire have already been reached. The total investment was approximately € 850,000. At ELANTAS ALTANA companies regularly exchange information about Deatech in Ascoli, automated water / foam fire-extinguishing all damage incidents because constantly learning from each equipment was installed for the area where raw material other reduces the number of damage incidents and, with tanks are emptied from tank trucks because electrostatic them, the number of serious injuries to employees and charges could develop here as well that could lead to damage to the environment. explosions. A new warehouse that ELANTAS Deatech has established in Quattordio has also been furnished with Fire fighting automatic water / foam fire-extinguishing equipment with the appropriate detention capacity. When fire breaks out, it may be too late by the time the firemen arrive. The fire may already have spread so fast that Even more important than this equipment to fight fire is the the fire crew can only attempt to contain it and the burning avoidance of it in the first place. Here too our plants are property is lost. That’s why automatic fire-extinguishing equipequipped with the latest state of the art in explosion protecment at critical points – especially in a chemical company – is tion, ventilators with multiple ventilation and warning sensors. so important. Such equipment can immediately extinguish a fire when it’s still small. That means less danger for firemen Just as important as the right technology are the correct since they will face a much smaller fire when they arrive and work methods our employees follow, such as careful monidon’t have to get so close to the source of the fire. Automatic toring of electrostatic charges. Analysis of the causes of fire-extinguishing equipment is often set up to automatically explosions in years past has shown this to be the case. That alert the fire department as well. is why special training classes with experimental presentations on electrostatic charges and their impact were given by All production and storage facilities at BYK in Wesel outside experts at BYK-Chemie in Wesel and ACTEGA are furnished with fire-extinguishing equipment. The older Rhenania. These experts were able to give our staff graphic equipment floods the area involved in the fire with CO2 but demonstrations of the importance of avoiding electrostatic that means that all employees must have left the area beforecharges. These training sessions are to be given at other hand, since they will be denied oxygen just like the fire is. ALTANA companies with similar situations. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 35 Custom-tailored inferno Fire safety assistants must be counted with the transport of hazardous freight, the plosion, or a simple house fire – almost any among the most critical employees at any special knowledge required to extinguish disaster scenario can be enacted. chemical company. With their thorough them is an asset to the City of Wesel as well The RISC repertoire of exercises includes knowledge of the plant, they are able to supbecause the heavily-used freight train route ship fires and chemical accidents as well as port the local firefighters in an emergency from Rotterdam to the Ruhr industrial area particularly tricky events like flashovers and situation. That’s certainly the case at BYKruns through the city, a route that is used back drafts. When a fire is enclosed within a Chemie in Wesel. BYK doesn’t need its own to transport large amounts of hazardous space, smoke and gases can collect under plant firefighters because the municipal fire materials. the roof and temperatures can often exceed station is so close. In turn, BYK covers the Only one site in Europe provides the 800 ° C or more. When it gets simply too hot, cost of training firefighters, a win-win situameans to realistically practice fighting major the gases explode, creating what is called a tion for everyone involved, as Thomas Verbeet industrial fires: the 46,000 square meters flashover. Just as dangerous is a backdraft. of the Wesel fire department described it. dedicated to this at the RISC, a kind of mecca When there isn’t much oxygen, a fire can just Since 2002, BYK’s fire safety assistants for firefighters. No other place in Europe smolder – until a door or window is opened. have been practicing firefighting with the can offer better the drill opportunities than The incoming rush of air unleashes a powerprofessional rescue workers twice a year at this training center at the Port of Rotterdam, ful flash flame that can often result in death. the Rotterdam International Safety Center built in 1986 by two Dutch companies. All (RISC). As a result the Wesel fire department conceivable types of fires, even the most is very well trained in extinguishing solvent complex, can be simulated there. Here, fires and hazardous materials transport everyone gets a custom-tailored inferno. fires too. While BYK is not directly involved Whether it’s fire at a refinery, a tank car exFire fighting drills at the RISC (left), at ECKART (top), and at ELANTAS 36 Sustainability Report 2010 “We can consume less and still live better” Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 37 Environmental protection remains a consistent goal Compared to problems such as climate protection and secured energy supply, the issue of resource efficiency has faded from public eye awareness, although it continues to be of major significance and is becoming increasingly urgent. Numerous raw materials are only available in limited quantities and are not renewable. The scarcity of resources has become evident to ronment, and Energy, we would need almost everyone in the form of resource costs that have three-and-a-half earths if the entire world populaincreased heavily in many areas. While the economic tion were to adopt the lifestyle of Europeans in the crisis of 2008 and 2009 slowed this trend down future. That means that the per-capita consumpto some extent, the economic recovery has again tion of resources has to drop significantly if we caused resource prices to soar. want to leave more than just an exploited world to future generations. In view of the rising standard of living in highgrowth countries such as China, India, or Brazil, ALTANA is committed to the conservation of natural and the consistently high consumption of resourcresources. Overall, only five percent of raw matees in western industrialized nations, price increasrials used at ALTANA are not associated with es and resource shortages will drastically accelerate final products and we have lowered our specific in the years to come. In accordance with a calculaenergy consumption by approximately 14 percent tion by the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Envisince 2007. 38 Sustainability Report 2010 Resource conservation A more efficient handling of raw materials can be achieved in three different ways, namely reuse of materials (recycling), longer product lifecycles, or reduced material use. For the chemical industry, this means that a maximum percentage of the utilized precursor materials has to be converted into final products. The degree of conversion is also referred to as the yield, while ALTANA has set itself the goal of reducing its specific waste the rest usually becomes waste. Consequently, the amount of volume by a total of five percent in the period from 2007 waste is an expedient indicator of resource efficiency. ALTANA to 2012 and to cut landfill waste by at least ten percent. records this volume as an environmental benchmark and We achieved these goals already in 2010 and significantly establishes specific goals for improving it. The overall share exceeded our target for cutting down on landfill waste (see of waste at ALTANA is approximately 5 percent, which means page 64). that our degree of conversion to finished products is 95 percent. Influence through products The waste stream of ALTANA is subject to one of the ALTANA can also influence resource efficiency by way of its following processes: products, which consist mainly of coatings and source materi• Some 20 percent of the entire waste volume is reused als for coatings. No method has yet been found to recycle or recycled. coatings and none is likely to develop in the future. • 47 percent of waste is used in thermal processes. The ALTANA production uses large volumes of solvents in cleaning pro­ Consequently, our contribution to resource efficiency has to be cesses, which are highly suitable for generating energy. made through product properties: • Some 34 percent of waste is brought to landfills • Improved durability of coatings thanks to scratch resistance or UV protection • Anticorrosive agents increase the durability of final products, for example with the zinc pigments (for coatings and paints) made by ECKART. • Similar properties with less material, for example with coupling agents for cold-curing plastics, which lead to improved bonding of resins and fillers and can improve mechanical properties by up to 50 percent. This approach can save approx. 25 percent of the material used in pipes. A second BYK additive of this type was in development in 2010 and will come on the market in 2011. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 39 Renewable resources Another option for resource efficiency is the use of water Renewable resources are making increasing contributions to instead of organic solvents made from fuel oil. Since resource efficiency and will certainly be an expedient alternative solvents evaporate from coatings after application, their for the chemical industry in the future. Potential competition volatile organic compounds (VOC) lead to so-called summer with food products always is a concern, but applies mostly to smog and also contribute to climate deterioration. In contrast, plant fruits, not residual materials, wood, and grasses. water is more environmentally friendly. Furthermore, water transport through pipelines is significantly more energy efficient than transporting solvents by truck. 25,000 cubic meters of tap water save 1,250 truck deliveries. ALTANA waste volume (in percent by production volume) 2010 2009 2008 2007 1 2 3 4 5 6 Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Since ALTANA does not produce any base chemicals, we typically have to rely on the efforts of our suppliers to use renewable resources. We are currently doing in-house research for producing an important solvent, which we want to manufacture from a renewable resource without creating competition for food. 40 Sustainability Report 2010 Energy efficiency According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), improved for the restructuring was € 15,000, but annual savings will be energy efficiency of buildings, traffic and industry has the approximately € 80,000 a year. potential to lower global energy consumption by 17 to 33 percent until 2050. A study by the German Industry Initiative ELANTAS Zhuhai also installed a heat exchanger into the heatfor Energy Efficiency (DENEFF) documented that the efficiency ing system for heat transfer oil, which cools exhaust gases from measures taken until 2020 have the potential to reduce annual 330 to some 120 ° C. At the same time, the exhaust heat is used power consumption by more than 68 billion kilowatt hours. for hot water heating in the bathrooms, which had previously This is approximately the capacity equivalent of ten nuclear been based on electrically power plants. operated systems. A heating boiler at the site was upgradMany ALTANA sites have taken numerous large and small ed for operation with natural measures for improved efficiency. For instance, ELANTAS Beck gas. It is currently still fueled reduced the natural gas consumption of a thermal afterburner with oil, but there are plans that included a steam generator. Its maximum thermal capacity to build a gas pipeline to the is 2.1 megawatt (afterburner) or 3.5 megawatt (steam generaplant, which will reduce CO2 tor). However, the efficiency of the afterburner is comparaemissions by approximately tively low due to the time and quantity fluctuations in the 20 percent. The automatic heat demand of the production. To use the exhaust heat more control of the cooling tower consistently, a heat exchanger was installed into the afterburner, fan, which switches off auto­ which is connected to the steam generator. The automatically matically when it is not needed closing flaps in the outlet air pipes of the exhaust system also depending on the temperaprevent unnecessary combustion air input when production is ture of the cooling water, also idle over the weekend. This step reduced the natural gas concontributes to energy savings. sumption of the steam generator by an average of 45 percent and by an average of 25 percent in the afterburner. The cost At BYK USA, more than € 90,000 were invested in upgraded lighting until the end of 2009 (this sum included some ALTANA energy consumption € 30,000 of subsidies). The resulting energy cost savings are With reference to gross value added1 (KWh / Euro) € 24,000 per year. In terms of gross value added, power consumption dropped by 17 percent, although a new finished 2010 Power consumption at BYK USA Power consumption with reference to gross value added (KWh / Euro) 2009 2010 2008 2009 2007 2008 2007 0.350 0.375 0.400 0.425 0.450 0.475 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.18 0.20 Electricity Natural gas / oil 1 Gross value added (cost of labor plus EBITDA) Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 41 product warehouse became operational. BYK USA as well as systems) based on cooling water, as well as utilization of coolELANTAS PDG in St. Louis replaced old heating boilers for ing water in heat pumps and community heating networks. steam generation and thermal oil heating with more efficient Furthermore, the company is currently evaluating the feasibility boilers. ELANTAS also installed a heat exchanger and increased and profitability of using renewable energy sources such as its energy efficiency to approximately 95 percent with the photovoltaics and particularly wind-generated power. € 285,000 investment. The resulting energy savings amount to 600,000 kWh of natural gas a year. The measure was supMr. Kreuzer, the energy manager, has also performed fiveported by the local natural gas provider with a reimbursement day energy audits at other sites of ECKART. These led to the of approximately € 10,000. identification of several reduction potentials, including steam system optimization, reducing energy losses, use of energyefficient compressors and exhaust heat utilization, air-air and Small and large steps taken by the energy manager wastewater heat exchangers, exhaust heat use of atomizers and calcining furnaces for reducing heating needs, and At the ECKART plant in Güntersthal, in-house energy manthe building insulation or heating with compressor exhaust ager Siegfried Kreuzer implemented a number of optimization heat. Overall, this resulted in a savings potential of approx. measures in 2010. The exhaust heat of three compressors 1,500 metric tons of CO2 emissions. is now used for heating, the pressure level of compressed air systems was partly reduced, two major compressed air leaks were fixed, and a heat exchanger was optimized for the feedback of distillation heat. All of these measures save the equivalent of € 85,000 or 450 metric tons of CO2 a year. In a separate effort, the company is developing concepts for larger projects, evaluating their feasibility and profitability, and has assessed their CO2 reduction potential. However, these options have to be coordinated appropriately and combined into an overall concept. They include heating the building with wood chips or pellets, a higher milling temperature with low-temperature heating (e.g. floor heating Renewable energies under review Another renewable energy project became operational at ELANTAS Deatech in Ascoli. Since 2009, a photovoltaic CO2 emissions at ECKART system covers a roof area of 6,500 square meters at the site, With reference to gross value added (kg / Euro) consisting of 5,000 solar panels with a peak output of 785 kilowatt (kWp). The system is engineered to generate at 2010 least a million kilowatt hours per year and will cover a fifth of 2009 the current power needs of the plant. The purpose of the € 4.7 million system was not only to reduce power costs, 2008 but also to help fulfill the environmental protection goals 2007 of the ALTANA Group. 2010 was the first full year in which the system was operational. It produced 948,000 kWh 0.35 0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55 0.60 of power (five percent less than anticipated) and consequently saved some 377 metric tons of CO2 emissions with reference to the Italian power mix. 42 Sustainability Report 2010 Water Energy-efficient new construction According to Welthungerhilfe, the global consumption of The construction of a new research laboratory began at water has increased almost tenfold in the past 100 years. the Wesel site in early 2010. From the end of 2011, the threeToday, 31 countries have permanent water shortages, and story building with a utility area of 5,600 m2 will house the this number could rise to 50 countries with some three billion areas plastics, biotechnology, industrial applications, research inhabitants by the year 2025. Agriculture accounts for about and development, and analysis, with workplaces for up to two thirds of total global water use, while the industry 130 people. The € 18 million investment will offer the latest uses another twenty percent, and households, ten percent. In laboratory technology and an energy-optimized building contrast, industrial production in Germany accounts for over concept with an excellent eco-balance. The entire energy coneighty percent of water consumption. sumption will be approximately 30 to 40 percent lower than in a conventional laboratory. For example, some 60 percent of the heating and cooling systems are supplied through heat ALTANA drinking water consumption pumps and groundwater. The new structure meets all requireabsolute (thousands of m3) ments for a LEED certificate. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) of the American Green Building Council defines a number for standards for sustainable construction. 2010 2009 2008 2007 550 600 650 700 750 800 ALTANA consistently records its consumption of drinking water, surface water, and ground water. Overall, the Group not only reduced its use of drinking water in absolute terms from 770,000 m3 in 2007 to 596,000 m³ in 2010, but also in terms of the produced volume. In 2010, our drinking water consumption was 1.2 m³ / t (equivalent of 1,200 liters / ton). Our goal is to reduce our drinking water needs by five percent from 2007 to 2012. In 2010, approximately 650,000 m³ of groundwater and surface water were consumed, mostly for cooling. This water is either returned without contamination (once-through cooling) or it evaporates (cooling circuit with cooling towers). Saving water in spite of high availability ECKART Pigments in Finland is by far the largest water consumer in the Group and used as much as 383,000 m³ in 2007. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 43 (from 5,750 to 2,390 m³ or from 0.5 to 0.19 m³ / t) and at ACTEGA Artística (from 1,020 to 662 m³ or from 0.235 to 0.155 m³ / t) over three years. This is particularly important for ACTEGA Artística, which is located in Spain, where water is scarce. The same applies in Italy, where the drinking water consumption at ELANTAS Deatech in Ascoli was reduced from 9,600 to 2,100 m³ or from 0.26 to 0.06 m³ / t with a new water treatment system. Water for climate protection Thanks to optimized processes, this demand was decreased The total water consumption within our Group does not to 287,000 m³ by 2010. In terms of the produced volume, include the water volume of 25,000 m³ we use as solvent, consumption therefore was reduced from 255 to 216 m³ / t. since this represents an environmentally sound alternative In light of the ample water supply in Finland, this high to fossil fuel-based solvents (see page 38). The U.S. has consumption continues to be acceptable. However, ECKART the highest per-capita consumption of coatings with about plans to further reduce water consumption with the develop10 liters per year. Assuming that coatings consist of 50 percent ment of new effect pigments such as Mirage and Luxan (see water, this would amount to 5 liters a year. The following page 20) in the coming years. The installation of a closed coolcomparison highlights the comparatively low volume of this ing circuit also achieved water savings at ACTEGA Rhenania use: The per-capita consumption of drinking water in Germany is approximately 47,000 liters a year. ALTANA drinking water consumption absolute (thousands of m3) Emissions 2010 The principal emissions of ALTANA are solvents, dust, and noise. Solvents (volatile organic compounds or VOC) are at the focus of criticism because of the air pollution and summer 2009 smog (ozone formation) they cause. In addition, they contribute to climate change although their impact is relatively small compared to energy generation. VOC are broken down in the air 2008 by way of intermediates with varying longevity and climate impact. In the most favorable case, the climate effect corresponds 2007 to the combustion of the solvent. The incineration of a ton of solvent generates approximately three tons of CO2. The ACTEGA Division uses some 25,000 m³ of water instead 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 of solvents in its products. This prevents the release of 75,000 ACTEGA Rhenania tons of CO2 equivalent into the environment. For comparison, ACTEGA Artística the entire emissions from energy consumption are just 10,000 ELANTAS Deatech tons of CO2 at ACTEGA, and a total of approx. 140,000 tons 44 Sustainability Report 2010 Wastewater / Solid waste / Existing contamination in the entire ALTANA Group. Accordingly, replacing solA part of the waste stream at ELANTAS PDG consists of water vents with water represents a significant improvement of the with a 20-percent organic substance contamination. To address eco-balance. this, the company started the “Evaporative Thermal Oxidizer” project in 2009, which resulted in the corresponding structural In most cases, ALTANA measures emissions in the required investment in 2010. Today the water is cleaned with phase intervals and estimates the volume for the total reporting separation, pH adjustment, and filtration. Nevertheless, the period instead of continuous measurement. For the year 2010, organic substance content in part still exceeds the approved all ALTANA sites estimate a joint VOC emission volume of limits. We have initiated further optimization work and hope below 300 tons. Dust emissions, primarily from the pigment to successfully continue the work in 2011 to significantly production at ECKART, are calculated at below 40 tons. In the reduce the waste volume. Most ALTANA sites do not produce past years, new exhaust air filtering systems were installed any wastewater streams with chemical contaminations. Only to reduce VOC at ELANTAS PDG, ELANTAS Deatech in Ascoli, ELANTAS Beck India has noteworthy emissions, but operates a and in the ELANTAS Deatech plant that became operational wastewater treatment system. The transfer in chemical oxygen in Quattordio in 2010. demand (COD) was approximately 4.5 tons in 2010. Compared to the VOC emissions that we help our customers Some ALTANA sites are involved in soil and groundwater save by using water as a replacement for organic solvents (see restoration work. A groundwater restoration is being carried page 38), our own VOC emissions of 300 tons a year can be out on the former premises of Wiedeking GmbH at BYKconsidered reasonable. For example, ACTEGA Rhenacoat has Chemie in Kempen. This contamination had been known to increased the share of water-based coatings from one percent the authorities since 1981. Since then, a number of damage (2008) to approximately 10 percent (2010) with new product prevention measures have been implemented, including development and hopes to increase this share to 15 percent the closure of a tank farm for solvents, excavation of another in 2011. tank farm with soil removal and disposal, and vacuum extraction. The final restoration of the site will be accomplished ELANTAS Deatech in Quattordio has invested some € 400,000 with the construction of a hydraulic barrier. A number of in a new VOC incineration system to reduce its emissions. It incinerates up to 10,000 m³ of solvent-contaminated air at ALTANA waste disposal volume temperatures of 750 to 780 ° C. Two heat exchangers help With reference to gross value added (g / Euro) utilize 60 percent of the resulting thermal energy for other production processes. A flame-ionization detector continuously monitors the organic compound content of the exhaust air. 2010 ALTANA complies with statutory noise limits at all of its sites. 2009 Noise-reducing measures were taken in the laboratory exhaust system at ELANTAS Deatech (cost: € 15,000). This measure 2008 reduced the noise level by 3.5 decibels in the daytime and by 4.5 decibels at night. 2007 Most dust emissions are generated in the pigment production of ECKART. Filters have been installed at these sites to reduce 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0 dust and emissions are consistently below the statutory limits. Further reductions are currently not possible for technical Hazardous waste reasons due to the hazard of dust explosions. Non-hazardous waste Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 45 Biodiversity means service diversity Biodiversity refers to a variety of ecosystems, species, and genes. Natural ecosystems provide so-called system services, which include the supply with drinking water, raw materials, and food, but also regulatory functions such as climate and flood control. Further services include decomposition of toxins, cultural services such as tourism or bionics, and basic services such as soil, water, or biomass. All these services of Nature have an economic benefit of which we are not fully aware. To give an example, the value of insect pollination of agricultural plants in the EU is estimated at € 15 billion a year. restoration drillings have been performed for this purpose. The resulting water is cleaned with activated carbon. The spread of BTX aromatics (benzol, toluol, xylol) and phenols was significantly reduced in the time from 1996 to 2010. Nevertheless, the restoration goals have not yet been achieved in Kempen. Biodiversity The United Nations declared 2010 to be the International ALTANA uses the “Biodiversity Management Manual” by the Year of Biodiversity to call attention to the global threat of Federal German Ministry of Environmental Conservation and losing biological diversity of plants and animals. The greatest Reactor Safety as an indication. It provides many practical threats to biodiversity come from the increasing loss of habiexamples about the benefit of biodiversity for the industry and tat as a consequence of climate change, pollution, resource suggests hands-on activities for promoting biodiversity. exploitation, and the spread of invasive species. According to the manual, biodiversity is determined by the While many companies have long been aware of conventional following factors and the corresponding areas of action: topics of environmental protection and have made them part • Habitat change of their management systems, the issue of biodiversity has • Climate change not yet received the necessary level of attention, including at • Invasive species ALTANA. • Overuse • Emissions / Immissions 46 Sustainability Report 2010 The following six action areas affect biodiversity: 1. Site and real estate 2. Supply chain, operating and 5. Transport and logistics A prospering company such as ALTANA auxiliary materials The transport of mineral oil products needs new buildings, and thus occupies Until recently, ECKART produced effect and the resulting CO2 and dust open space with new construction, which pigments from natural minerals (glimemissions have a significant impact in turn reduces habitat. For example, mer), which was surface-mined in India. on biodiversity. The sites of ALTANA we constructed a new central adminisHowever, this mining method has a are located all over the globe. For tration building and finished-products negative impact on biodiversity. ECKART our own products, we prefer ships for warehouse in Wesel and moved into developed alternative effect pigments intercontinental transport to avoid air the new site of ECKART in Zhuhai and (see page 20) based on silicates (glass freight. Due to our low quantities, the new BYK site in Tongling. flakes) so that the minerals would no domestic transports generally rely on When it comes to new structures, longer be needed. road transport by truck (see page 66). ALTANA builds high. The height of the However, we have made first attempts administrative building is 23 m, while to use trains for transport in Germany 3. Products the new warehouse is 36 m tall, which (see page 47) and have initiated a project The products of ALTANA impact bio­ for the determination and optimization resulted in limited space consumption. diversity primarily by way of solvent of CO2 emissions in our finished product In addition, the administrative building (VOC) emissions. The manual cites the logistics in Germany (see page 47). was constructed on an almost fully conversion to water-based coatings at developed area. The parcel now has a manufacturer of colored pencils as 40 percent green spaces and we planted 6. Human Resources exemplary. We have made a significant 70 new trees. Older structures in Wesel contribution in this area by using The daily commuting and business and a production facility (seven floors, 25,000 m³ of water instead of organic travel of our employees has the largest 41 m), a parking garage with five levels, solvents, advancing the development of impact on biodiversity. We have accomand two additions were built as high water-based coatings as well as addiplished some unmeasured reduction as possible. tives and pigments for the production of travel with videoconferencing, for The new ECKART site in Zhuhai has reof water-based coatings or other lowwhich all sites are now fully equipped. duced the transport volume between VOC solutions (see page 39). WaterALTANA also promotes the use of enerGermany and China and the move based coatings also make an important gy-efficient Diesel cars (with particle in Tongling released the corresponding contribution to climate protection, since filters) for business travel and so-called space. ELANTAS Beck India uses its VOC affect climate change. SUVs are not approved for use as comroof area to grow trees and shrubs, pany vehicles. which are given to the employees for free. Of course, buildings cause climate4. Production and processing relevant CO2 emissions, but high energy The impact of ALTANA primarily conefficiency is a high priority for us in the sists of spatial needs for production construction of new buildings (see page facilities and warehouses (see Item 1), 42). ALTANA also donated money toward energy consumption, CO2 and VOC habitat preservation (Bislich Nature emissions as well as dust. We record Preserve) and is active in an industry key data on our energy consumption association to promote the restoration and CO2 output and have defined of contaminated sites in North-Rhine specific goals and measures (see page Westphalia (AAV) (see page 44). The 70). VOC and dust output are far below group focuses on restoring industrial the emissions of products during their locations for further use or replanting. usage and were further cut back in recent years with new exhaust filtration systems (see page 44). Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 47 Transport To ALTANA, safety is the highest priority, including when it Technical Universicomes to transporting chemicals. Consequently, we place high ty. We plan to ini­ demands on shipping companies we contract with, since tiate a sustainabiliALTANA does not use any vehicles of its own for transport. ty project with TU In addition to cost, our selection of logistics service providers Berlin on the basis is based on criteria such as accident statistics or the existence of the preliminary of an environmental management system certified according studies and the to ISO 14001 or similar standards. measurement of CO2 emissions from The hazardous goods transported on behalf of ALTANA include transport services is products that are classified as “dangerous” under the Ordischeduled to comnance for the Transport of Dangerous Goods. The specialty mence in 2012. coatings or precursor materials for coatings produced by ALTANA are primarily classified as “flammable” or “corrosive.” ALTANA typically ships its products by truck, and occasionally by tank truck. Goods intended for overseas delivery are sent by ship and only in rare exceptions as airfreight. Review of train transport Supply chain management ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg is working with a logistical comALTANA is committed to continuously improving its logistics pany that primarily uses trains. The quality of the service and and supply chain to make transport routes and processes more the price-performance ratio has substantially improved, which reliable, safer, and more efficient. This not only saves cost, but is why the train transport will be continued. However, this also benefits the environment. New suppliers need to be service provider is currently limited to the Hamburg site. approved by our procurement department before they are allowed to deliver goods, particularly if they are located in Although we did not measure the reduction of CO2 emissions countries with less stringent environmental requirements than generated by transport in the past, we began to look into furin the EU. Our supplier management follows the principles of ther solutions in 2010. The primary goal is to measure current the Global Compact (see page 72). emissions that result from the transport performed on behalf of ALTANA. The next step will then be to define specific key The goal of sustainable implementation of the Global Comindicators to achieve a measurable reduction of CO2 emissions. pact principles into the ALTANA supply chain was explicitly added to the organizational manual of the ALTANA procureALTANA participates in the taskforce “International Logistics – ment organization as a guiding principle in 2010. Based on Environmental and Resource Efficiency” of the German Logistics the Global Compact principles, a separate supplier Code Association to approach this project, which could be considof Conduct has been developed and communicated to our ered a sub-aspect of “green logistics.” This taskforce brings supplier. We verify compliance with this supplier Code of together a variety of companies from the consumer goods, Conduct during supplier visits. automotive, and chemical industry and various logistics service providers. Following the evaluation of the first results, our requirements were defined in consultation with Berlin 48 Sustainability Report 2010 “Our employees play an important role in corporate development” We are a reliable employer The success of a company is directly determined by its employees. Because ALTANA is a research-intensive company, our highly qualified and committed employees are our most important asset. They apply their knowledge of innovative technologies, global markets, and technical applications and processes for the benefit of the company. Around the world, about 5,000 employees work for the success of ALTANA. Their high commitment to our company is expressed in our low turnover rate of less than one percent and in their identification with the goals and values of our company. We take responsibility for our employees and contribute to their personal and professional development. Our company offers excellent entry-level and career advancement opportunities along with a corporate culture that is characterized by openness and honesty, mutual respect, and tolerance. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 49 50 Sustainability Report 2010 Apprenticeships ALTANA sees apprenticeships as more than a social obligation. They also represent a strategic tool to train junior talent and to counter the growing shortage of qualified employees. Our German sites alone provided apprenticeship opportunities for 138 young people in nineteen different professions in 2010. This number was 129 in the year before. The apprenticeship rate in Germany was 5.1 percent in late of interns. It was established in 2004 with 37 participating 2010. All apprentices receive an offer for at least temporary companies. Today, this number has grown to over 1,000 comemployment after completing their training. It is our declared panies and includes ALTANA. All employees are obligated to goal to offer additional apprenticeship opportunities and act in accordance with the initiative guidelines. not to fall under an apprenticeship rate of five percent in spite of growing employee numbers in order to ensure a pool of qualified junior talent for the future. Professional development To promote the dialog between companies and those searching Our employees are our most important assets. This creates for apprenticeships, ALTANA as one of the largest employers in an obligation for us to promote the qualification and compethe Wesel district supports the Wesel Job Training Initiative tency of our team. During our annual progress talks (in which 2010 / 2011. The objective of the campaign is to improve the supervisors and employees meet as equals), the professional training situation in the district by making young people aware development needs of every employee are defined and the of professional options and supporting them in their search corresponding continuing qualification agreed to. Internal for apprenticeships. development options range from professional training to project management and social qualification all the way to in-house internships and job rotation measures. In 2010, Number of persons employed for apprenticeship and professional training ALTANA invested approximately € 1.7 million in the continu(including apprentices, interns, and trainees) ing qualification of its employees (not counting operational training). On average, every employee took part in some 15 hours of external training. 2009 291 2010 336 We offer a variety of staff development programs for especially talented, capable, and committed employees to give 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 them an opportunity to prepare intensively for further, more complex tasks. The Management Development Program (MDP) was introduced in 2004. It prepares executives from all ALTANA In addition to apprenticeship options, we also offer internships companies who show management potential for further tasks for high school and university students and support student within the Group in the context of international training thesis work at various levels. Fifteen academic theses were sessions offered in English. This program was expanded by written in Germany with our support in 2010. ALTANA has five regional programs (Regional Development Programs) in voluntarily agreed to fair terms and compensation for our 2007, which are primarily offered in the local language. DP interns and is proud to bear the “Fair Company” quality Asia, DP China, DP Americas, DP Italy, and DP Germany have seal. “Fair Company” is an initiative sponsored by the German allowed even larger numbers of employees to participate in Ministry of Labor that fights the widespread exploitation a qualification measure. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 51 Our Cross-Divisional Development Program Innovation – or CDDP Women in management positions Innovation for short – primarily targets junior talent with a background in the natural sciences. In contrast to other programs, it is In late 2010, the share of women in ALTANA management associated with a change of workplace within the Group. The propositions was 16.5 percent. This share is expected to grow gram not only emphasizes professional skills, but also focuses on in the coming years, but we are not planning to introduce furthering personal factors, such as social skills. As part of the a corporate quota. All companies will be assessed at a local training, employees are given the opportunity to share experiences level and may be given targets if necessary. with coworkers from other Divisions, which has a positive effect on teambuilding. The networking within our company benefits At the same time, measures that are designed to increase the our employees and supports them with their daily tasks. share of women in management positions should not exclude male colleagues. We offer equal opportunities to all employees and want to consistently improve our general conditions, Employee recruitment for example to balance the demands of career and family. The principle that “the most qualified and suitable employee will The industry is competing hard for talented and qualified be selected or promoted to a position” continues to apply. Conemployees. As labor markets become increasingly more global sequently, we are discussing measures that will have a positive and transparent, turnover is on the rise and there is great comimpact on the professional development of all employees. This petitive pressure. Demographic changes (see below) and the includes the introduction of an internal mentoring program, the associated need for employees make it imperative for ALTANA further expansion of flexible employment models, and improved to position itself as an attractive employer in the entire job communication about existing options and services. market with even greater presence. In the past, ALTANA companies used to organize their own HR recruiting. To change this practice, the ALTANA Group plans to introduce a standardized global e-recruiting system Survey on promoting women in 2011. This cross-divisional recruitment management system Some 250 female employees, including 89 in management will simplify and accelerate the entire hiring process and positions, were surveyed in 2010 to analyze the situation of we expect tangible time and cost savings from fewer hardwomen at ALTANA and to develop suitable measures for copy and email applications and less data management for promoting female leadership. According to the results, ALTANA recording applications. Ultimately, Web-based recruiting will offers a work environment that is friendly to women and families, but will need to take further steps to contribute to the improve our communication with applicants, for example increase of women in leadership positions that the Group with faster responses, and will heighten our attractiveness as wants to see. an employer with a standardized professional presentation in an Internet application portal. 52 Sustainability Report 2010 Work-life-balance ALTANA sees work-life balance as the sum of all measures designed to allow for a healthy and sustainable balance of career and private life in a dynamically changing working world in order to secure the life quality of our employees. The compatibility of career and family is a central aspect of work-life balance. Family-friendly human resource policy is an important prerequisite for equal opportunities. To allow especially female professionals and executives options for professional (re)entry and career advancement, ALTANA offers flexible working hour models. However, women continue to choose part-time jobs in order to find a balance between their professional and private commitments. In Retirement late 2010, ALTANA had 355 part-time employees, of which 282 were women. ALTANA offers a number of employee programs for companysponsored and private retirement savings. These offers not only Of course, our flexible working hour models are also available increase the attractiveness of the company in the labor market, to our male employees. In addition to conventional partbut also prepare ALTANA for the work environment charactertime models, we also offer our employees the option to take ized by demographic challenges. We offer the so-called temporary contracts or to work partly from a home office. Lifelong Time Account (LAZ), an ALTANA retirement savings Although there are no official regulations yet, the HR departprogram (AVK) and the deferred compensation program ment, supervisors, and employees typically work to find an ”AltersvorsorgeAktiv mit ALTANA” (AAA). agreeable individual solution. This offer is of course also available to mothers and fathers on parental leave. In some cases, The Lifelong Time Account was established in 2010 to offer emwe have combined this approach with job sharing models, in ployees in Germany an individual solution for midto long-term which two employees share one workplace and work partially flexibility of managing their working hours. The purpose of the from home. This allows utmost flexibility for both the employees program is to fund a long-term paid release prior to reaching and their supervisors. The offer has been well accepted, but retirement age with continued employment and social security no exact evaluation is available yet, since these cases are statisprotection without sacrificing any statutory pension entitlements. tically recorded as part-time employment. Employees may choose to pay parts of their wages / salary as well as converted overtime or vacation days into the account Furthermore, we offer daycare / crèche placement our employees as a gross cash value. The company introduced the so-called at some sites within the scope of cooperating with local daydemography bonus in January 2010, which deposits € 300 per care centers. This makes it easier to balance career activities year into the account of union-scale employees. Employees can with individual lifestyle, different working hours, and family also choose to make monthly tax-deferred contributions to their needs. Particularly employees who commute a long distance Lifelong Time Account that are deducted from their paycheck. are glad to find daycare for their children in the immediate ALTANA also introduced a modern new concept of an employervicinity of the company. funded pension system in Germany in 2010. The ALTANA retirement savings program is a contribution system, in which the company invests the pension contributions for employees in the capital market. At the time of entering retirement, employees then have a certain capital to supplement their income. Employees who joined the company before January 1, 2010 are subject to a benchmark system, in which the company guarantees the employee a specific retirement benefit. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 53 Measures in response to demographic change: • Preparations for age-appropriate workplaces, for example with flexible working hour models or special ergonomic adjustments • Systematic health promotion Employee representation • Professional qualification and career development for all age groups ALTANA respects and protects the rights of its employees • Implementation of the collective agreement “Lifelong to be active in unions and collective bargaining. In principle, Work and Demography” in the form of a lifelong work all employees, including those at our international sites, have account that allows for early retirement the option to form unions. In Germany, the Corporate Works • Active recruitment of qualified staff, e.g. with university Council is the contact for all issues affecting the Group. marketing Constructive cooperation with employee representations and • Increasing the attractiveness of the company for employtheir early involvement in decision-making processes is of ees and applicants great importance to us. Many employee-related regulations, such as our Talent Evaluation Process, have been jointly developed by mixed project teams consisting of HR staff and works-council members. The amount of this pension is based on the applicable years of service, a defined pension benchmark value, and a personal Diversity allocation factor. As an international company, we are proud, and see it as one The “AltersvorsorgeAktiv mit ALTANA“ program is another of our strengths, to bring people of different cultures and retirement savings option based on employee-funded debackgrounds together in effective teams. This expands our ferred compensation. Employees initially invest in stocks and horizon and the valuable intercultural experiences become later convert their savings into less risky bonds and money part of our customer solutions. market funds (”lifecycle model”). For this purpose, we selected so-called target funds that are designed to pay out at a Equality is expressly mentioned in our Code of Conduct as well specific time. as in the ALTANA vision. In general, we follow the principle of “same work, same pay.” Demographics ALTANA makes efforts throughout the Group to increase the share of women at the executive level and to attract more The demographic development and reforms of statutory retireemployees from different national and cultural backgrounds. ment regulations have led to significant changes in the workThe more diverse the backgrounds and experiences, characing world and pose new challenges for us. To prepare ALTANA ters and biographies of our employees, the more a globally for demographic change, we conducted a number of analyses, operating company such as ALTANA can benefit from emincluding an assessment of the age structure of our employees ployee qualities that go beyond professional qualification. and managers. In late 2010, the average age of our employees In this regard, the short-term or long-term transfer of emwas 41.4 years. ployees to other sites is of great importance, since such assignments promote intercultural exchange. We plan to introduce a new guideline with standardized conditions and processes in 2011 that ensures the equal treatment of all employees for international assignments. 54 Sustainability Report 2010 “We give children and teenagers prospects for the future” Stand up and be counted – as a good corporate citizen Social commitment is an important part of the daily work reality at ALTANA. Our achievements are not limited to chemical expertise, but also include good corporate citizenship. ALTANA is involved in social initiatives in many different ways. While our focus is primarily on projects associated with education, research, and science, we also provide support to disadvantaged youth as well as to university-level research and science. We see this commitment as an investment in the future, since our society and ALTANA will benefit from investments in tomorrow's talent, for example by getting children and teenagers interested in the so-called MINT subjects of mathematics, information technology, natural sciences, and technology. As a globally active company, we are as dedicated to international education projects as to regional initiatives because they ultimately give children and teenagers real prospects for the future. The social commitment of ALTANA is rounded off with a number of cultural sponsorships. However, our social commitment does not end with our corporate activities. Many of our employees are active in a variety of social projects as well, donating and working for others in need around the world. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 55 56 Sustainability Report 2010 Sponsoring ALTANA supports sustained education campaigns. All of our projects are designed to give children and youths the education and training they need to take charge of their own lives as adults. As a sponsor of “Braille without Borders,” we support blind and visually impaired people in Tibet. The goal of the initiative is to enable these young people to lead independent lives with an income of their own in the future. While we were pleased to help the association with the purchase of special technical Braille equipment and funds for educational scholarships in 2007, we provided additional support to the project in 2010. Thus, ALTANA helped fund the renovation of the kitchen in the education center and continued the scholarships. In India, we took a leading role in building and setting up As one of the largest employers in the Wesel district, we are a vocational training center together with the organization also aware of our regional social responsibilities to provide “Hope e.V.” The center allowed some 30 students at the DOVE young people with future perspectives by offering hardCommunity College in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu to-find apprenticeship options. ALTANA therefore is the to complete one-year training in 2009. 32 more graduated main sponsor of the apprenticeship initiative in Wesel, which from the center last year. The project provides young people was begun to improve the vocational training situation in the with computer training and teaches vocational skills to work as region by encouraging young people and by motivating laboratory assistants or nursing assistants. regional companies to offer new or additional apprenticeship opportunities. Beyond that, ALTANA is active as a private In Brazil, ALTANA is involved with ”Passo Fundo” (see page 58), partner in Wesel Marketing to support the attractiveness which allows four scholarship recipients to pursue a full univerof the site. A 5,000 square meter exercise area for the sity degree in biology, mathematics, agriculture, or electrical CJD Vocational Center in Wesel was built with the support engineering. of ALTANA. National and regional commitment Illuminating the region Education and science also are clear priorities in our national The new Rhine Bridge in Wesel was officially opened to traffic sponsoring activities. Thus, we provide support to the Departin 2009. It replaced the previous structure that had been built ment of Chemistry at Technical University of Munich and as an interim solution in the 1950s and will be torn down. are members of the North-Rhine Westphalia chapter of the With a pylon height of 130 meters, the new bridge over Foundation for German Science. In addition to our corporate the Rhine is visible from far away in the daytime. ALTANA membership, our employees are active in select projects of sponsored an unusual architectural illumination concept for the Foundation. the new bridge, which will light up in the ALTANA colors blue and cyan at night to make it a new symbol of Wesel and the The newly established Foundation of the Technical University entire Lower Rhine region. The company has been working of Munich is an outstanding initiative that aims to further on this project with the city of Wesel and lighting engineers strengthen the global competitiveness of the university and since 2008. ALTANA has agreed to make a one-time investto retain the best scientific researchers in Germany to attract ment of approximately € 200,000 in the bridge illumination. outstanding students and doctoral candidates. As a conseThe completion of the project is scheduled for the end of quence, the Foundation is making a contribution to boost 2011 / start of 2012. the significance of Germany as an industry site. ALTANA has committed some € 500,000 to the university foundation over five years and our CEO, Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, is a member of the foundation board. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 57 58 Sustainability Report 2010 “A balance of give and take” The scholarship program Passo Fundo was established by Professor Werner Wittkowski in 1988. The goal of the association based in Münster, Germany, is to allow talented young Brazilians from disadvantaged backgrounds to pursue university studies. ALTANA supports this project. We spoke with Professor Wittkowski on the educational opportunities of needy young people. Professor Wittkowski, where did the scholarship recipients have created income to fund one more idea to support needy young Brazilians options for the inhabitants of a poor neighscholarship, which are originate? borhood by establishing a recycling coopspecifically earmarked The idea to support scholarships grew out erative, which is now receiving city support. for degrees in the natof the children’s support fund Passo Fundo With such qualified work, our scholarship ural sciences. We also in 1988. This organization funds schooling recipients become multipliers for sustained have been able to apfor children from poor neighborhoods change. They take their sensitivity for social prove subsidies for the through sponsorships. We took over the problems and the shared experience of country-wide meeting of scholarship retask to keep funding the education of esachieving lasting success with initiatives of cipients in 2010 and for travel expenses of pecially talented students in this group and their own into their professional lives. association board members. to allow them to pursue a university degree. In Brazil, only a well-heeled minority You mentioned that the acceptance for Are there any shared project ideas for has access to high-quality education. the scholarship program has a tempothe future? Parallel to its abysmal public schools and rary and a permanent phase. What is We are currently in the process of establisha small number of openings in state-run meant by that? ing another scholarship group in addition universities, the country has a booming The intensive work with the scholarship to the four existing ones in northeastern education market with expensive private students through our partner organizations Brazil, where poverty is much greater than schools and privately run universities. The includes supervision of social projects and in southern cities. We also hope to improve latter provide two thirds of all university monitoring of course grades. Typically, it is the national cooperation and coordination study opportunities. decided during the first year whether a of the organizations. An umbrella organiprobationary program acceptance becomes zation has already been established. We What is the exact purpose of the initiapermanent. proudly consider our project a model of tive? sustainable development, primarily for social Our project is based on a balance of give What is the importance of socially comjustice. Because of the model’s comparaand take, in which talented young Brazilmitted sponsors such as ALTANA? tively small use of funds and volunteer comians receive scholarships for university Although the subsidy guidelines for public mitment, it could be successful in many studies, but are expected to give back by funding in Europe allow for supporting developing countries. getting involved in social projects. school and vocational training projects, there is no provision for supporting indiHow many scholarship students are Passo Fundo sees the scholarship recipividual students. This overlooks that further currently part of the program? ents as multipliers for greater social jusfunding for socially committed young We currently support seventy students. tice. There is talk about balancing the people is an urgent prerequisite for the support given to scholarship recipients sustained development of a country. We What is the role of past program benwith the expectations placed on them. therefore have to rely on private donors. eficiaries? Can you explain that in more detail? Our donor campaigns require very personal We expect past beneficiaries to make Indeed, this issue is at the core of our initiainformation and convincing communication, a commitment to social justice in their tive. The students are expected to address since we are not looking at immediate job and in society, for example by actively the social problems of their country and city emergency assistance, but sustainable departicipating in the work of the partner and plan their own social projects. Typically, velopment. The donations of ALTANA are of and scholarship recipient groups, commuthis involves working in poor neighborgreat significance for us and have allowed nicating through the alumni network, prohoods with various target groups and for expanding the scholarship program. viding mutual support, and repaying the regional focus topics. However, helping scholarships. All of our past experiences children and teenagers is definitely the Which projects were the ALTANA donasupport the theory of Professor Klaus top priority. For instance, two groups offer tions used for in 2009 and 2010? Töpfer, who noted that the sustained free preparation courses for the university Thanks to the generosity of ALTANA, each development of a country is not the result entrance examination. In other cases, of our four partner organizations was able of charity, but of investment in people. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 59 Sponsorship projects Check-up for charity ALTANA wants to create enthusiasm for natural science and technology in young people. This prompted us to sponsor In August 2009, our Wesel site hosted a bicycle project offered the ”House of Little Researchers” foundation, which targets by the Psychiatric Initiative Xanten (Spix). For two days, the children aged three to six with its projects all over Germany. organization offered low-cost bicycle checkups and repair We also cooperate with schools to strengthen the teaching services to our employees. of MINT subjects. To give an example of successful cooperation, we have been supporting the booster club of the Böhlstrasse Lutheran Primary School since 2007 to help with Employees showing worldwide commitment the purchase of teaching materials for science classes and to build a new science classroom, where children can experiALTANA employees keep showing their compassion when ment with water, explore insects and plants, and learn about it comes to helping victims of natural disasters or people in the planet system. need. Many of our employees made donations to benefit the victims of the January 2010 earthquake in Haiti. ALTANA ALTANA also is a member of the booster club for the Rheinended up matching the donations and we were proud to Waal University of Applied Sciences. ALTANA CEO Dr. Matthias send € 70,000 to a combined German assistance network of L. Wolfgruber has taken over the chairmanship of this group charitable organizations. and supports the expansion of the international competitiveness of the institution as an economic and scientific location. We The employees of BYK also dedicated time to the “Internaalso support ten university students who are pursuing degrees tional Peace Village” in Oberhausen in chemistry at the Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences in 2010 by working to set up a in Krefeld for two semesters with a stipend of € 150 per month garden with plants and garden tools through the NRW scholarship program. donated by ALTANA. This commitment will be continued in 2011. The Peace Village is a private initiative Cultural sponsorships that provides therapy for injured and traumatized children from war zones To make further contributions to the quality of life at our in Afghanistan, Angola, or Sri Lanka. site in the Lower Rhine region, we have been supporting the Duisburg Philharmonic Orchestra for many years and officially Social commitment is part of the daily joined their support organization, Friends of the Duisburg agenda at our sites in other countries Philharmonic Orchestra, in 2009. In addition to a fixed annual as well. The employees of ELANTAS contribution of € 20,000, we also support special artistic PDG in St. Louis provided impressive evidence of this commitprojects or concert series. Examples include the violin concert ment with their participation in numerous social projects over series “Great Female Violin Performers,” which we were proud the past two years, including a blood drive for the Red Cross. to support with an additional € 15,000 in the 2009 / 2010 They also donated clothing and food to a local soup kitchen, concert season as well as the production of “The Carnival of gave financial and material support to the St. Louis North the Animals” in 2010, which we sponsored with a donation Business Association, and collected donations for the U.S. of € 10,000. BYK also supports the Prussia Museum in Wesel animal protection group Humane Society. with an annual donation of € 20,000. 60 Sustainability Report 2010 Key performance indicators The following pages provide an overview of our corporate activities in the period from 2007 to 2010 on the basis of various key performance indicators, which are grouped into the areas environment, production, safety, and human resources. We are currently reviewing whether to expand the recording of performance indicators in select areas. Key performance indicators 61 On the environmental indicators As in our past two environmental reports, this overview added relevant for our objectives and the corresponding again presents selected environmental data in aggregated degree of achievement. form for ALTANA and its Divisions. As a specialty chemicals company, we make a particular effort to compile The following sites or Group companies were not data on the areas of climate protection and energy conincluded: sumption, waste, resource efficiency, and water consump1. Company acquired during the reporting period tion. Data about emissions into water (chemical oxygen 2. Production sites of Instruments demand or heavy metals), emissions of ozone-depleting substances, or climate-relevant gases from production Furthermore, we did not include data of non-production processes play no or just a minor role. companies (e.g. administration, laboratories). They are not subject to the operational management of the proOur environmental data are recorded, reviewed, and reduction site or are non-production companies, which are leased at the individual production sites in accordance not part of the balancing scope. with internal specifications. Key environmental data are shown with reference to gross value added (cost of labor Please refer to Section Environment from page 36 for plus EBITDA). In their compressed form, the environmenmore information on the measures that led to changes tal indicators reflect tendencies in the development of the in our environmental performance indicators. Further entire environmental burden of the Group. We currently environmental data can be found at www.altana.com / collect environmental data at 30 sites (as of Dec 31, 2010). sustainability We only consider data that make reference to gross value www.altana.com / sustainability Energy consumption The rise of fuel and natural gas consumption is closely linked to period. However, the specific consumption – with reference to gross the continuous increase of our production during the reporting value added – as well as our power consumption have declined. Oil Oil (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.8 2007 MWh 73 26,703 13,626 717 41,119 0.7 2008 MWh 32 25,574 4,171 1,105 30,882 2009 MWh 330 22,942 3,756 807 27,834 0.6 2010 MWh 129 29,539 5,424 1,158 36,250 2007 2008 2009 2010 GVA stands for gross value added 62 Sustainability Report 2010 Natural gas Natural gas (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.40 2007 MWh 33,852 52,545 71,339 11,061 168,797 0.35 2008 MWh 47,148 52,604 70,194 10,701 180,647 2009 MWh 40,423 36,076 70,262 10,779 157,541 0.30 2010 MWh 46,288 45,270 79,272 10,672 181,503 2007 2008 2009 2010 Electricity Electricity (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.40 2007 MWh 22,732 131,848 28,077 15,759 198,416 0.35 2008 MWh 25,329 124,619 26,416 14,946 191,309 2009 MWh 23,293 109,514 25,353 14,977 173,137 0.30 2010 MWh 23,642 128,950 27,268 16,603 196,463 2007 2008 2009 2010 Emissions Our absolute CO2 emissions remained virtually constant during “Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard and the “Carbon Disclothe reporting period. However, energy-efficient technologies had sure Project” on the basis of total energy consumption. The a positive impact on CO2 emissions with reference to gross value comparison between direct emissions / Scope 1 (in-house energy added. We have already met our own goal of reducing these generation) and indirect emissions / Scope 2 (purchased energies, emissions by ten percent by 2012. ALTANA determines its CO2 power), shows that most of our savings potential was achieved emissions in accordance with the regulations of the international with electricity. Total CO2 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) Total CO2 (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.3 2007 to 17,558 76,426 33,153 9,679 136,815 0.2 2008 to 20,900 68,843 28,434 8,911 127,088 2009 to 18,727 59,234 30,628 8,860 117,449 0.1 2010 to 20,596 73,267 32,957 9,811 136,632 2007 2008 2009 2010 The orange line indicates the goal set for 2012. Key performance indicators 63 CO2 (Scope 1) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 6,857 17,738 17,441 2,426 44,463 2008 to 9,567 17,557 15,329 2,456 44,910 2009 to 8,276 13,408 17,132 2,393 41,210 2010 to 9,958 19,573 18,457 2,599 50,587 CO2 (Scope 2) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 10,701 58,687 15,712 7,253 92,353 2008 to 11,333 51,286 13,105 6,455 82,178 2009 to 10,451 45,826 13,496 6,467 76,239 2010 to 10,638 53,694 14,501 7,212 86,045 Water Absolute drinking water consumption was reducing with a variety of measures during the reporting period. Water consumption was reduced by 33 percent with reference to gross value added. Drinking water (not including use of raw materials) Drinking water (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2.25 2007 m 3 46,082 501,390 188,624 23,649 759,746 1.50 2008 m3 47,007 521,017 139,868 32,038 739,930 2009 m3 52,370 494,212 159,456 31,200 737,238 0.75 2010 m 3 54,392 384,613 134,498 23,495 596,998 2007 2008 2009 2010 Surface / groundwater Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 m3 30,486 352,016 30,937 0 413,439 2008 m3 27,024 343,181 42,523 0 412,728 2009 m3 25,948 409,800 26,477 0 462,225 2010 m3 26,017 593,361 25,307 0 644,685 64 Sustainability Report 2010 Waste While the hazardous waste volume remained nearly constant gross value added also declined considerably, especially with reduring the entire reporting period, the volume of non-hazardous gard to waste to be disposed. Again, we managed to meet our waste decreased significantly. Waste volumes with reference to goals for 2012 ahead of time. Hazardous waste Hazardous waste (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 45 2007 to 4,415 4,481 5,967 2,426 17,289 30 2008 to 5,229 3,978 5,004 2,426 16,637 2009 to 4,633 3,272 4,181 2,485 14,572 15 2010 to 5,780 4,274 4,945 2,890 17,888 2007 2008 2009 2010 Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 30 2007 to 1,120 5,329 1,196 1,539 9,184 20 2008 to 1,034 4,448 2,543 1,517 9,542 2009 to 636 3,823 1,091 872 6,422 10 2010 to 860 3,202 1,048 1,242 6,357 2007 2008 2009 2010 Hazardous waste for disposal Hazardous waste for disposal (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 15 2007 to 403 1,141 4,752 134 6,430 10 2008 to 201 1,072 3,500 250 5,022 2009 to 106 431 3,061 262 3,860 5 2010 to 140 540 3,274 328 4,281 2007 2008 2009 2010 Non-hazardous waste for disposal Non-hazardous waste for disposal (with reference to GVA) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 15 2007 to 31 3,601 503 742 4,877 10 2008 to 21 3,346 1,611 747 5,725 2009 to 36 2,371 496 256 3,159 5 2010 to 36 2,132 375 862 3,405 2007 2008 2009 2010 Key performance indicators 65 Recyclable hazardous waste Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 68 4 1,060 2,052 3,184 2008 to 208 6 1,163 2,065 3,441 2009 to 52 464 896 2,160 3,572 2010 to 55 625 945 850 2,475 Recyclable non-hazardous waste Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 935 1,223 693 754 3,605 2008 to 829 982 932 737 3,481 2009 to 380 1,347 595 449 2,771 2010 to 501 1,043 662 247 2,452 Hazardous waste for thermal processing Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 3,945 3,335 155 240 7,674 2008 to 4,820 2,900 341 112 8,173 2009 to 4,475 2,377 225 63 7,140 2010 to 5,585 3,110 726 1,711 11,132 Non-hazardous waste for thermal processing Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 154 504 0 43 701 2008 to 184 120 0 33 337 2009 to 220 105 0 167 492 2010 to 322 27 12 133 494 66 Sustainability Report 2010 On the economic performance indicators Gross value added (GVA) is calculated by deducting the value of prior performance from the total value of the goods and services generated in the production (production value). Gross value added Gross value added (in million € ) Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 600 2007 thsd € 175,659 158,630 86,988 60,537 481,814 400 2008 thsd € 165,812 149,064 83,431 57,314 455,621 2009 thsd € 165,590 107,021 88,324 65,618 426,553 200 2010 thsd € 218,179 158,229 109,689 82,223 568,320 2007 2008 2009 2010 Finished products Year BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 to 88,075 42,796 126,847 92,817 350,534 2008 to 81,703 41,499 101,201 83,187 307,590 2009 to 80,064 31,792 102,354 77,444 291,655 2010 to 31,188 36,277 139,694 91,806 298,964 Transport The absolute volume of good transported by truck rose slightly compared to 2007 because the overall production volume was larger. ALTANA distribution channels for finished products Year Water Road Air Rail 2007 to 83,560 288,573 9,687 2,723 2008 to 77,309 224,974 1,477 13 2009 to 72,668 221,226 2,663 3,684 2010 to 87,993 297,009 2,096 1,942 Key performance indicators 67 On the safety performance indicators The number of lost work days and occupational accidents index shows, the number of accidents has also dropped in the declined from 2006 to 2010 and we met our goal of staying years 2009 and 2010 compared to 2006. These improvements below 100. Furthermore, the severity of accidents in the Group are due to continuous sensitization and training for proper has consistently declined since 2007. As the accident frequency employee behavior. WAI 3 WAI 1 (Number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working hours) (Number of occupational accidents with lost work time of more than 1 day per million working hours) 181.52 7.45 187.08 9.73 BYK 72.03 BYK 6.10 119.28 6.28 93.08 5.69 243.41 19.23 101.47 13.73 ECKART 335.68 ECKART 19.03 132.49 12.62 105.56 8.77 91.04 8.98 143.69 12.41 ELANTAS 91.01 ELANTAS 10.95 53.37 4.21 64.39 5.85 234.99 28.14 480.12 16.63 ACTEGA 89.91 ACTEGA 12.34 108.27 9.42 156.61 13.05 185.82 15.21 176.29 12.13 ALTANA 153.67 ALTANA 11.31 103.89 8.15 98.56 7.73 0 100 200 300 400 500 0 10 20 30 2010 2008 2006 2010 2008 2006 2009 2007 2009 2007 On the human resource performance indicators As of the closing date of this report (Dec 31, 2010), the ALTANA also increased. The share of female employees at ALTANA payroll included 4,937 employees. This represents an increase of decreased from 27.2 percent to 26.7 percent in 2010 compared three percent compared to 2009, and is due to the positive to 2009. The number of women in executive positions has economic situation during the reporting period. Compared to increased slightly. the previous year, the number of apprentices in the Group has Share of employees with access to company retirement plans or company-funded pension Share of part-time employees (in %) Share of women in management positions (in %) plans (in %) 8.1 16 79 7.2 16.5 81.7 20 40 60 80 100 20 40 60 80 100 20 40 60 80 100 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 68 Sustainability Report 2010 Highlights • In fiscal year 2010, ALTANA posted earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation (EBITDA) of € 314.1 million. • Internal energy audits have confirmed further energy efficiency potential at ECKART. • By the end of 2010, ECKART had not reported any significant industrial incidents for 23 months, and BYK, for 20 months. • ALTANA achieved the goal of remaining below 100 lost work days due to occupational accidents per million annual work hours (WAI 3). • The goals projected for 2012 for environmental benchmarks with reference to gross value added were achieved early. • ACTEGA has developed an adhesive from renewable resources that are not in competition with food production. • ALTANA and its employees collected some € 70,000 for earthquake victims in Haiti. • BYK has already met its chemical labeling requirements according to the new EU regulation of the Globally Harmonized System, which is to take effect from 2015. • ELANTAS Beck invested € 15,000 in modernizing a thermal afterburning unit to save € 80,000 in energy costs a year. • BYK USA lowered it specific power consumption by 15 percent with efficient lighting. • The new photovoltaic plant of ELANTAS Deatech in Ascoli saved some 377 tons of CO2 emissions in 2010. • Compared to 2007 figures, ALTANA was able to reduce its specific drinking water consumption by 33 percent. Highlights and lowlights 69 Lowlights • N ot all sites of ALTANA have a certified environmental management system (ISO 14001) as planned. • E LANTAS and ACTEGA did not achieve the goal of zero significant industrial incidents. • W ith 7.5 accidents, ALTANA failed to achieve the goal of remaining below 5 occupational accidents per year with more than one lost work day per million annual work hours (WAI 1). • E CKART in Louisville had to pay a penalty of US$10,000 for failing to comply with specific air pollution limit values. • T he energy yield of the new photovoltaic plant of ELANTAS Deatech in Ascoli remained five percent below projection in 2010. • T he “E50” project for waste reduction at ELANTAS PDG has not produced the expected results yet. • ALTANA does not have enough women working in management positions. 70 Sustainability Report 2010 Programs / Objectives The managers in charge of sustainability consistently review the variable income components of executive managers. The our performance indicators to track the achievement of specified percentages may vary in individual Divisions. These specific objectives. The targets listed below applied primarily targets should also be reflected in the objectives to be deto the Divisions until 2010, but were established for every fined for environmental management systems, and measures single company as of 2011. This means that meeting these planned for management reviews are expected to include targets is part of the performance evaluations that determine suitable actions. Management Certification according to ISO 14001 or similar standards by the end of 2012 in companies that are not yet certified End of 2012 Energy management system at ECKART GmbH: Certification according to DIN 16001 End of 2012 Safety management system at BYK-Chemie: Certification by professional trade association (corresponds to ISO 18001) End of 2012 Legal Compliance policy: All companies obligated to report penalties to the corporate management End of 2011 VCI: Open House event at all German companies Sept. 2011 Global Product Strategy: Establishment of a website for information on all substances registered in 2010 End of 2011 Completion of three energy audits by third parties June 2011 Communication of voluntary self-obligation of the ALTANA procurement network End of 2011 Continued communication of ALTANA requirements for suppliers in the context of supplier visits and audits ongoing Products Expanded development of water-based coatings, especially at ACTEGA ongoing Use of renewable resources (without quantification) ongoing Additional life-cycle assessments ongoing Development of further additives and pigments for water-based coatings ongoing Safety WAI 1: below 3 by 2013 WAI 3 below 50 by 2013 Further reduction of significant incidents ongoing Programs and objectives 71 Environment Reduction of specific environmental impact (in terms of gross value added): CO2 emissions 2007 – 2012 -10 % CO2 emissions 2007 – 2020 -30 % Drinking water 2007 – 2012 -5 % Hazardous waste 2007 – 2012 -5 % Non-hazardous waste 2007 – 2012 -5 % Hazardous waste disposal 2007 – 2012 -10 % Non-hazardous waste disposal 2007 – 2012 -10 % India: Collection and utilization of rain water End of 2012 Various measures to conserve water ongoing Various measures to reduce waste, including at ELANTAS PDG ongoing Wastewater treatment End of 2011 Energy concept at ECKART GmbH End of 2012 Assessment of wind power use at ECKART GmbH End of 2013 Energy efficiency: New administrative building at ECKART GmbH End of 2013 Energy efficiency training at BYK USA End of 2011 Various measures for energy efficiency and using renewable energies ongoing Co-generation heat / power at ELANTAS Deatech in Ascoli End of 2011 Result of the finished-product logistics project in Germany End of 2011 Human Resources Implementation of a global e-recruitment system End of 2012 Plans for systematic recording of illnesses with details about affected areas and functions for occupational health End of 2012 Implementation of the new vision Early 2012 72 Sustainability Report 2010 Progress Notes on the Global Compact Declaration of Support 5 Preface by Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber Principle Page Measure taken Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 10, 30, 32, 67 Corporate management, occupational of internationally proclaimed human rights health management, occupational safety Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human 15, 47, 70 Supplier management, supply chain rights abuses management Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 12, 53 Self-obligations, employee representaand the effective recognition of the right to tions collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compuln.a. sory labor Principle 5 The abolition of child labor 46, 56 Selection of raw materials; support for education initiatives Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of 10, 12 / 13 Compliance management system, Code employment and occupation of Conduct Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach 13, 14, 60 67, 71 Environmental management systems to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environ36 47, 70 / 71 Changed production, technical updates, mental responsibility programs and goals Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 9, 11, 18 21, Management, product innovations, use environmentally friendly technologies 26 / 27, 39, 46 of renewable resources Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its 12 / 13, 70 Compliance management system, Code forms, including extortion and bribery of Conduct, legal compliance Imprint 73 Imprint Published by ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel Germany Tel + 49 281 670 -10900 Fax + 49 281 670 -10999 info@altana.com www.altana.com Responsible for the content: ALTANA AG Contact Corporate Communications Achim Struchholz Tel + 49 281 670 -10300 Fax + 49 281 670 -10999 Achim.Struchholz@altana.com Environment, Health & Safety Dr. Andreas Diez Tel + 49 281 670 -10600 Fax + 49 281 670 -10649 Andreas.Diez@altana.com Design, editing and layout: crossrelations GmbH, Düsseldorf Heike Dimkos, ALTANA AG Images ALTANA AG Gettyimages Corbis Fotolia iStockphoto Print Gebrüder Kopp, Köln Printed with products manufactured by ALTANA TerraGreen® matt coating, G5 / 75 matt by ACTEGA Terra / formulated with BYK additives Date of publication: October 2011 ALTANA AG Abelstrasse 43 46483 Wesel Germany Tel +49 281 670 -10900 Fax +49 281 670 -10999 info@altana.com www.altana.com
